Well it 's just that , you know , a pound , or a hundred pounds today , is not the same as a hundred pounds in a year 's time , or two , two years ' time .
Right .
So that would be opportunity cost ?
That 's right , yes , that 's right , so , in actual fact , this area here , right , is going to be the discounted sum of all future rural incomes .
Alright , now if we look at the , the rural instead of the urban wage rate , right , up here alright , now let 's just say that it takes that amount of time before this individual gets a job in the urban area , alright , now if we discount alright the erm , the rural , the urban wages right , that 's all this
Why have you just discounted it to there ?
Sorry ?
Why have you discounted it to W R ?
Well it 's , well , er , there 's no need why that should be the case , it could be , you know , it could look something like that .
But , up in the , there the migrant 's decision making process will be , is this area here right , is that area there , greater than that area there .
Alright , so this is the discounted sum in er , in non-agriculture , in the urban area , and this is the value , the discounted sum in agriculture .
Now , clearly on the , on the way I 've drawn this diagram it is .
Right , but that 's going to depend on right , not only the wage differential , now if the wage differential is very large it 's likely that this discounted sum is going to , you know , be larger than that .
But it also depends on the time it takes to get the job .
I mean if we got a job somewhere out here then it clearly wouldn't be .
So it 's this , it 's the time taken to get this erm , er , to get the job 's going to be important .
Now if we think of W U as being er , the expected value of the urban wage , and that equals the probability of getting a job , multiplied by the actual urban wages , alright then this probability of getting a job is going to be important as well .
And that 's it then , scruffy diagram , but what more have we got ?
An urban wage , a rural wage , right , we discount those wages over time , right and that area there , shading the area in the blue sort of box , then this it 's erm , it 's going to be rational for this er , migrant , this person to become a migrant .
Even though , I mean this doesn't say anything about unemployment levels , levels of unemployment .
Unem the level of unemployment is subsumed between , well , within the time it takes to get a job , and also the probability of , of getting a job .
Alright .
So this sort of , even that 's just what the Harrison model erm , tells us , right , so that 's , unemployment rates are , are virtually erm , unimportant in the migrant 's decision .
Unemployment rates now , it 's because they may well be , if they 're acting rationally , discount over a very large , long period of time .
Okay just er , just to ask , is this erm , migration , it , does it cause a problem ?
I mean I thought that migration was the er , would be the cure of all ills , in that , you know , we 've got wage differentials here in this , in this hypothetical economy .
Surely if you migrate that increases the supply of labour , it reduces the supply of labour in the rural sector , it increases the supply of labour in er , the urban sector , unless wage , wage rates should equalize ?
No .
What , what , why don't , why doesn't , why don't wage rates equalize ?
Because erm , the urban sector is normally considered to be capital intensive a sector , and the rural area in L D Cs are considered more labour intensive , and so erm , obviously when you get an influx of labour , and changes to the capital to labour ratio
Mhm
erm , and you would see er , a shift in capital to , to agriculture as the return on capital in urban falls ,
mhm
and this would , you would think , because there 's a shift back of capital to agriculture you 'd get a rise in agricultural wage rates because that changes the capital to labour ratio again and so this would counteract the movement .
However , there is a problem , capital is not perfectly mobile , like you can apply a new machine into , well maybe you could cos that 's .
Whatever , you can't apply the urban type of capital back onto the land , so it 's okay to say this would work if capital was completely and perfectly mobile , but it isn't so , you don't get that and you don't get balanced growth of that .
Because er , everything shifts in the wrong direction .
That 's right , I mean , in order to eq equalize wages between sector , labour and also capital has to be perfectly mobile .
Now , if it 's not , we know that labour isn't , isn't perfectly mobile , it appeared , migration would seem to suggest it 's , it 's pretty mobile geographically , but it may not be particularly mobile occupationally .
So that these people go to the urban areas to get the jobs , they 're not trained erm , for these jobs right and as a result , these wages rates still , may still be maintained despite the fact there are lots of people who are quite happy to take wages erm , in , take up jobs in the urban sectors , it 's the fact that sort of , employers don't want them , because they don't have the requisite skills .
Also , where , what are the erm , what 're the highest paid jobs in the urban sector ?
They are essentially in developing countries .
They are essentially government jobs .
Right .
Now , er , without wishing to generalize too much , bribery , corruption , you know , it 's not what you know , it 's who you know , are very important factors in er , in employment in developing countries .
And as a result they are
It 's much nicer to say patronage , you promise to say patronage .
Ah , patronage , okay , that 's er , a nice euphemism to see the
Then you don't like slander people .
That 's right , in that erm , you 're , the probability of you getting a well paid job is greatly enhanced , if not guaranteed if you know er , the people who are employing you .
And this sort of thing goes , is , is rife in developing countries .
I mean the old boy network is pretty bad in this country , but er , it 's similar sorts of things go on in developing countries , and because there 's much less of an industrial sector there , the government sector itself , erm , plays a very important role in , in employment .
Now , was it you Lyn who had some statistics some saying er , what proportion
Fine I 've got , I 've got to use stat statistics to
Well it works , erm , there were some
Yes .
I can't remember if it was you or somebody else , had er , some data as to how many of the er , jobs in urban areas where the government
I put erm , studies by Helen and Tate , nineteen eighty three , found public sector employment averaged forty four percent of non-agricultural employment in twenty L D Cs and in extreme cases were Tanzania and Zambia , were as high as seventy eight and eighty one percent respectively .
And I think he quote those , or they didn't quote them in much , as much detail as I did in the lectures .
I 'd got these figures down , but I hadn't really got anything against them , he just quickly went through the percentages so yes .
Okay , so
And developed countries averaged twenty four percent , so it 's twice as much as developed countries .
Right , so given sort of erm , public and semi-public institutions , right , represent a large proportion of the non- agricultural erm , employment opportunities , and as a result , alright , the rates of pay in the , in the civil service , essentially , are going to , going to determine erm , the urban , the urban wage rate .
Now if those , erm , wages in the civil service are set , not through sort of market process , but sort of through institutional er , constraints , you know , it 's unlikely there 's going to be sort of er , union power erm , in these sorts of jobs , but nevertheless , civil servants tend to do quite well at giving themselves pay increases
Conservative government .
and er , and as a result , you know , institutes , the wages in government bodies tend to be quite high , and because gov government bodies represent such a large proportion of er , non- agricultural employment they , they represent a much more sort of , a much more potent influence than they would do in a , in a developed country where the government sector is much , much smaller .
Erm okay what was the importance of implication of er , Harrison model ?
There was one policy implication .
That , what was it , that erm people still move .
Obviously , we that right , people will still move if unemployment 's high , but if you try , if the government tries and gets rid of unem urban unemployment , say people have moved because of it , so there 's unemployment there to start with because of the reasons we 've discussed earlier , so then the government said okay , well let 's get rid of the unemployment that has occurred already , by erm , either , at the same wage rate trying to well yes , the same , they 'll keep wage rates the same , but erm , increase , you know , make the public sector bigger or , or do something to create urban jobs , and basically all it will do is , encourage more migrants because they 'll see the probability of getting a job will increase so the expected wage will increase so you 'll get migration on top of what 's already occurring .
And , erm , you won't solve anything .
That 's right , so , if you want to try and erm , minimize urban unemployment , right , or it 's futile to try and minimize urban unemployment by erm , er , establishing employment er , job creation schemes in urban areas , because that will increase the probability of getting a job if you 're a migrant .
Right , so there are these government job creation schemes , alright .
Now , because it 's typically observed in the Harrison model shows this under certain circumstances to be the case , that , erm , a sort of erm , migration elasticity with respect to income differentials , right , is much greater than the erm ,
The rate of unemployment , the level of unemployment
That 's right , yes , yes , that 's right , because erm , there 's a gre there 's a higher elasticity of migration inelasticity in respect to income differentials than there is to unemployment , any job creation schemes will lead to more migration , rather than , rather than less , so how , how best to get round the problem ?
If job creation schemes aren't in urban areas , are the best way to get round them , isn't it , if we can show , quite simply , that job creation schemes lead to more migration , which lead to more unemployment .
The policy 's self repeating , what policies might ?
A policy of cross-training , for all areas .
Okay , yeah , so , what might those , what form might those policies take , what might they be ?
on it .
Yes , population controls , that 's right , that 's one , I mean , one reason , one way of getting rid of the migration is to , is to , is to limit population growth .
Where 's the population growth highest ?
It 's at its highest in rural areas , this is what 's being done .
Erm , population control is always focused out in the rural areas , the most difficult place to do it , because populations are dispersed , er , that 's where population growth , right , is the highest .
Any other ?
Making incentives to actually raise the wage rates in the , in the rural areas so , sort of to , to increase production or , and through , through farming .
To improve their situation ,
Right , yeah
improve their wages through farming and perhaps
That 's right ,
put more infrastructure in so that then the farmers can send their children to school rather than work on the land .
yeah , that 's right , what we want to try and do is to improve the erm , the returns to , to agriculture which is the main form of er , sort of income in rural areas .
I mean if you do things like that while improving infrastructure , erm , setting up credit , government credit facilities , er , so , so , so we can lend , we could lend money to small farms .
Increase in information about unem unemployment itself , that is a , that is a problem , people have this misapprehensions about the probability of getting a job
You could also erm , start to recognize the benefit of the rural sector , and one reason why they were discriminating , L D Cs tended to want to ignore that and sort of shun it , because it 's not sort of a glamorous image they were trying to hope for in the urban sector , and , so , if they did help them , say give them units , like the repair men , units to work in , and they put them in really totally crappy accommodation , and up not where you need it , and not where people pass by with their motors and things , they , they 'd put them somewhere up on a hill , overlooking a city , so erm , to encourage the informal sector by erm , sort of on a par with the formal sector because erm , their inter- reacting , inter-relating now , like they 're providing cheap inputs for the formal industries and , and the formal industries are pro providing clientele all for the informal sector , and so it 's all inter-linked and , and it 's there now .
It 's not going to disappear , cos it 's quite a large part of urban areas .
They could do that .
Yes , we want to try and improve resource allocation in the economy and one way of doing that is not necessarily subsidizing agricultural production , but remove the taxes on agricultural growth .
Alright , and effectively what 's , what 's happening is that the government sectors in erm , in developing countries are very highly subsidized .
Right , they 're overmanned , alright , they have very high wages , alright , er , that is one of the major courses of er , causes of resource mis-allocation , it 's this very large , very inefficient government sector .
And er , one way to , to get people to stay on the land is to introduce some sort of , what we might call market disciplines , if that wasn't such a dirty word , er , into the government , the government sector where there are clear inefficiencies .
Okay , right , erm it 's nearly time to go , but before we do , can I just give you some bits and pieces , you , you may well have copies of last year 's exam paper , but if you haven't , this is for development and integration of trade er , have a look at those sorts of essays you 're being asked to do .
But also , look as those er , those short answers , now it 's important that you answer the short answer questions well alright , because it 's , it 's a lot easier to get good marks on a short answer question , providing you do it well , than it is on a long answer question .
Alright , erm , but most people don't , don't ans don't answer short answer questions very well at all , and that 's why they get low , low marks for them .
Always re bear in mind , that whenever you do a short answer question , right , you 've only got fifteen minutes to do it in .
Right , there , there isn't a great deal that you can get in , in fifteen minutes .
But what , what you must have , right , is a definition of erm , the er , sort of thing that you 're asked to write about .
I mean , factor price equalization , intra-industry measuring intra-industry trade , optimal intervention , reciprocal dumping , they 're all jargon , bits of jargon effect effectively , so you must , you must have a definition .
Right now , although the determinals in industrial specialization within countries , alright , now although you can't really define that , you might be able to say something about industrial specialization .
You know it 's fairly obvious what it is , but with most of these will , will require , require a definition .
Right , so you must put a definition , a definition in there .
An example of it in use , and you must have ex what I'm saying , it 's very important to have empirical erm , examples in your essays , right , because they will also be required in the short answer questions as well .
Right , you know , what is an example of erm , reciprocal dumping ?
Right now you may , erm , don't know anything in particular , but I know that the European Community and the United , United States are always trying to out , erm , beat each other in terms of subsidies on food products , so put , put that in .
Reciprocal dumping , erm , you know , one very good example would be agricultural trade between European Community and erm , and America .
Alright , if it 's a , so you , you 've got to have a definition , alright , you must have a , an example of it in , in action .
Any form of empirical evidence is useful , alright , erm sometimes you know , you 're asked , you know , what is the effective protection , or define , or write brief a brief essay on effective protection , right you 'll , you 'll want to say something there about how it 's measured .
Now what essentially , what you 're doing , is that you 're writing an essay in very , very condensed form , so it 's just , I mean you still , still must have the same recipe in there when you write a short answer , right , but you just have to be very , very brief , so you know , para paragraph on definition , you know , paragraph of examples , right , erm , paragraph on some sort of explanation or erm , how it 's , how it 's measured erm , has it been a contentious issue erm , what are the problems with this er , with this concept erm , right , you 've got to get those sort of things in there , like you would in an essay , if you were asked to write an essay on reciprocal dumping you 'd , you 'd have all those things in there , right , but you only need to write a sentence , a sentence about them .
You know , nobody 's expecting three or four sides , right , you 've got quarter of an hour , not erm , you know , if , if you can write a side a half you , you 'll be doing much better than most people , alright , so you 're just thinking about a side really , depending on how big your handwriting is .
But you must have , you know , don't ramble on about the same thing , right , cos , for , for , for any more than a couple of sentences , cos then , you know , you c start entering into sort of diminishing marginal returns very , very quickly on these short answer questions , what you want to , do is sort of say a sentence about as much as you can rather than go into in depth discussion about erm , any particular aspect .
Alright , so it 's a bit of er , a sort of blunderbuss type of approach that you 've got , that you 've got to use .
Get a definition in , get an application in , get empirical evidence in , get measurement problems in erm , get sort of contentious issues type of , or criticisms in erm , don't draw , don't do diagrams as they 're probably , the only , the only principal difference between this and an essay , you just haven't got the time , right , so don't be tempted , unless you can do a very quick diagram that sum , sums it up .
Alright , I don't recommend doing diagrams cos you spend five , five ten minutes drawing the diagram and explaining you know , what the curves are on it , erm , so you don't really need to draw , draw diagrams in these short answer questions .
Again that 's only a general principle .
Occasionally you might be , but erm , if I can , if you look at er , the erm , the European Community 's erm , short answers , right , they 've actually given you an except there , a dia diagram , right .
Question , question one , question two , alright .
It 's a pretty complicated diagram , I wouldn't expect you to draw that in fifteen minutes , and explain the , the
If they give you a diagram like that , can you just talk about the lines , you don't have to say what they are ?
No , that 's right , yes .
Basically , you could say like with gains or something , gains are A , B , C .
Yes
That 's right ,
I reckon that 's , that 's the way that
it will be assu it will be assumed that , yes
everything on there is known about that , just specific areas .
Alright , but you know , you 've got so little time , you know , fifteen minutes is very , very short period of time , so whatever you say
Not wanting to induce panicking .
What I do recommend you do is er , you know , use these short answers in your , in your revision , and sort of , you know , revise on say interim district trade , and then just write a question in fifteen minutes , and you realize that you can't really write very much , and it 's good discipline , because once you 've made the mistake , you know , of writing , you know , two paragraphs on some aspect of it , you realize you haven't got any time to , to do anything else .
You won't , hopefully you won't make that mistake again , so , short , sweet , crisp answers to these erm , these short answer questions .
don't bother doing diagrams , get a sentence in on everything you know , right although it 's not
Well , that doesn't sound very sophisticated to say , these are the questions when you just write everything you know about a particular issue .
But they are , you do straight out what you can think up about it .
Yes , that 's essentially , essentially it .
Apart from the essays
write anyway for thirty minutes
Not quite the same approach there , but I mean , it 's not , not everything you know , but write something about everything you know about
Alright
the short answers .
A , a sentence on everything you can , think of that , that relates to it , but if you do , do practise them , it 's only just to , to talk about it , it 's difficult to know what you can write in fifteen minutes .
Right , I'm here vir virtually throughout the vacation , erm , I 'll be here until the beginning of next term , so if you are having problems of any sort , or want me to run through something with you , just er , feel free to disturb me .
Sorry , sorry
It 's alright , so come along and see me , if you have any problems , it 's much better you talk it over with me before the problem gets out of hand .
Alright , so , come and see me as soon as the problems start to emerge , and I can probably tell you that you 're , you 're wasting time and energy worrying about it , so
we 're going to sit and
so , er , come and see me before you know , if you are having any problems , just come along .
Okay , don't forget to have a few days break over Christmas , don't work all the time , have a jolly good time .
See you next year .
Yes , bye

You want me to start again ?
Yeah .
Right erm , could you tell me about how you left school please ?
I were let good .
Well it was nineteen thirteen , I know that because I was thirteen .
You see I were born in nineteen hundred so that means to say that when it 's nineteen ninety eight I 'll be ninety eight , I think they did that so I could er reckon me age up more easily .
But nineteen thirteen I went to this examination and it was called a Labour Examination , and if you were able to pass this examination you could leave school at thirteen .
Well it 'd probably be the June or July before I went in for this exam , which they didn't hold very frequently and er then I had to to pass this exam and that I could leave school in the August , Bank Holiday .
So I left in the Bank Holiday and er I went to work at er , the first job , me father worked there .
and on Street .
And er me job there was turning sock what you 'd call halfoes you know mens ' socks , from one side to the other on a piece of wood , you know you 'd pull the stocking onto this wood , put your finger on the back , turned it over and threw it down .
And er we used to get the work come to us all jumble up in waggons , and throw it onto a bench and then of course you 'd got to pick the top before you could turn it .
We did that and we counted it in bunches of five dozens , tied them up with two other stock socks tied together , and when we 'd done , I 'll know this figure 's right two thousand four hundred socks we got six pence .
That 's two and half pence in today 's money .
But but strange to relate er I can remember on you know a number of occasions earning a golden half sovereign , you know real gold it was then , the you know there was the gold coins .
Nineteen thirteen , fourteen , fifteen .
And so er it it was a a reasonably good wage but when I first started of course I wasn't on piece rate , you used to get a penny an hour , when we worked Saturday morning got about six and sixpence a week .
And er and that 's how I went on .
Now in nineteen er nineteen fifteen , the the of course the War 'd started and I can remember this so well because the day after me birthday er there was a raid , a Zeppelin raid on and I saw this Zeppelin and that day the thirty first of January nineteen fifteen when this raid was , I wen I went to work at six in the morning and I finished work at quarter to nine at night .
This wasn't regular , the real hour was half past six until six o'clock but when we were very busy you could stop you know as long as you like nobody 'd ever bother .
All all the boss used to say , Well if anybody comes round th that you don't know just go and hide in a hamper .
You know in case there was any inspector or anybody but er I don't remember anybody ever coming .
We just worked as long as we liked and it and it was hard work of course it was , turning these socks like that , two , well it was hundred dozen pays , that 's two thousand four hundred .
And you used to get sixpence for that .
So how much could you earn in a week ?
Well that 's well I cou I could earn a lo er a golden half sovereign .
That was it .
Did this go to your , did you live with your mother at the time , with your parents ?
Oh of course oh I I was only fourteen aye .
Of course and that w oh I and ti and so anyway I started er work in August nineteen thirteen and er when December came around er there was a strike .
And at that time the hosiery finishing union had perhaps got eight hundred er nine hundred members spread over perhaps eight factories .
And er there was a er er one of the prominent factories was at .
Now it er they said that this chap had g had gone to work after an illness and the boss said , Well er you 've been away six weeks , he said , There 's no job here for you now .
He 'd worked there years and years .
And he got the sack so the firm came on strike .
And er then they started blacklegs and when they started the rest of the firms all came as well then and I remember er going down on the picket lines and er they 'd be all the members there .
You know I don't know who wouldn't go .
Er with the addition of a lot of of members of the public who sympathized and knew what was happening .
Well they got these blacklegs and I could tell you a story about that as well .
Now a man as I used to visit , older than me now , er the blacklegs used to be escorted with police to their homes like from this factory .
They 'd sometimes er take them in vans depending where they lived and how many of them , but where there was a single one two police used to escort him , and they escorted him what , where we what they call the viaduct .
And it was a real big viaduct at , back of .
And er now this chap him a wan he he was about ninety and him and his pal , they said , Well we 'll lie in the , there were a lot of bull rushes , we 'll lie in these bull rushes , he says , And we 'll throw bricks at them as they go by , at these two police and er this blackleg .
And er he tells me he says , Well we night that we were going to do it , meeting them from work it w it was getting dark of course , December , he said that there was only me turned up .
He says er er and he says me pal didn't come , he said , Well , I thought well I 've come here to do it , and I'm going .
So I said I went and lay in the in these bull rushes and I got half a brick , yes , he says , and I saw them coming and he says and I threw it and hit him this er blackleg with this half brick .
He said of course I scampered through these bull rushes , they never saw me they never caught me and they never ever knew who it was who 'd done it , see .
And he always tells me , he said that er he had no sleep during the night he he thought he 'd killed this man , you see , he says , I seen him drop , and I seen blood .
So I thought I 've killed him .
And er so he never had any sleep that night , well that was the that 's a story about them days .
How how did you feel about trade unionism then ?
Well now everybody had to be in a union in our factory , it was er it it it was they were closed shops all of them .
And er y y and it 's surprising isn't it ?
There was you know little firms like that and yet everybody was in , nobody nobody would ever try and er and er and er and escape paying their contribution , but there was a law you could n't join a union till you were sixteen , that was the law then in then , but er when this strike came back and we came on strike in December , er we lads who was under age joined the union , they give us all six bob a week , the union did .
Un until they were broke you know , after a week or two they got broke .
And so th union er er issued er er a a leaflet affair and said that they 'd be pleased to receive loans from any of the members .
Would any of the members lend them any money ?
Now the Co-op allowed , of course there was individual Co-ops then , this was Co-op , it wasn't like what had a big Co-op .
But they allowed all strikers er to have er free credit , free credit , and er well of course this six bob was what we got o practically on an ordinary weeks work , was about as well off on strike then and we was going to work you see .
But what I was going to tell you about this loan and I was there on this Friday morning when we were drawing our money , and the men were bringing their their s life savings to lend to the union .
And I saw one man the fact that he was me uncle don't make any difference , but he was , and and he was very religious , very Christian man , S Sunday School superintendent .
But I saw him with his cap full of golden sovereigns and turned on the table and lent them all he 'd got .
And everyone were paid back , you know .
That that 's good , isn't it ?
Mm .
Now So anyway the strike er never reached a successful conclusion , this firm had it 's blacklegs and er eventually closed because it could n't carry on .
But every other factory agreed to take so many each of the men , so they 'd nobody be at , lose their job .
And they did .
And the factory where I work I should think we took about fourteen of the men at this factory .
But no man was unemployed .
Was it mainly male labour then ?
Well it were main i i no really there was er well pretty equally divided then .
And the general run of hosiery is that there is of course that there 's a lot more females than males but in our side pretty equal .
The finishing side , and so that was that .
Er you read a lot about women in the hosiery industry not being as willing to join the unions , was that true ?
Well in them days everybody used to be in anyway , there was no question .
All the women were , and that 's true of of the hosiery industry , of course you 've got a a there 's a big distinction between the hosiery industry as such and the hosiery finishing industry which was then the , they 're amalgamated now , but there were two entirely distinct unions , in tho Er as a matter of fact they n n they never met together .
Course the hosiery union was as it is now , was always right wing and the small finishing union was really er left wing you know .
But we was all in and they was er they wasn't fifty per cent organized anyway near .
Now of course that 's er er the story but I went to them afterwards you see .
So anyway I er the War came and went but before it went I was in , went int eh Army of course .
At eighteen , I was called up for the Army and I was three years there .
Came back in twenty one .
I don't think there 's anything really amazing about me Army career , I didn't .
I don't know whether I was a good soldier or not , but I went to Egypt and the Sudan .
I had a good look round you know .
Cairo .
Er right are you ?
We 're still going .
Switch er as switch it off a minute , while I er
Er i i nineteen eighteen in the Army , they er came round er asking for volunteers to relieve the British troops er on the Russian front , where there was fighting , the Russian Revolution .
And of course you know there are twenty odd fronts at where they were fighting , and er they made big paly of this because er the people who did volunteer knew , there was a few volunteered , they they gave them er white bands to wear round the arm to show that they was members of the relief force you know .
And so it were good propaganda this er this , people were saying , Well they 're prepared to go to Russia and fight the Russians to re re you know release our lads , they 're trying to capture .
And er but of course that didn't last long because of course you know the story of the Jolly George , when that really stopped England 's intervention , didn't it .
You know that ?
I don't know about the Jolly George .
don't you , you should do .
I well I could tell you the inside story of that but I'm not going to but I will tell the outside , the public story .
The the Jolly George er was a ship that was loaded with arms er to send to Russia , to for our the use of our troops in Russia , and the sailors refused to sail it , and there was quite a to do about this because they 'd got the steam up and it was ready to go but they never went .
And it never sailed .
And that was the real reason why it was stopped , because the the the the other dockers were going to refuse to allow ships to leave the ports with arms , and that 's where it really stopped , but you never heard , you don't hear about it now in history .
No .
But anyway er and then of course I , we went to To the East , well we went to Ireland first , there was trouble in Ireland you know .
I went to Ireland , but we was only there about three weeks .
The reason why we was there b it was because er there was so many deserters in our lot .
But they took what few they 'd got left on our regiment to Ireland so nobody else 'd desert , while they rounded the others up and took them to Ireland you see .
And then so we went from Ireland er to er to Egypt .
Come back through England and went to on the boat .
We 'd took incidentally which is not uninteresting it took us ten days to get to er Egypt , to get to Alexandria from er Plymouth , we went from Plymouth .
And er the date was December the fourth , now December the fourth , and that was the day which er you wouldn't know this but er that was the day when fought er Joe you know , for the European Championship .
I don't know of any boxing match that 's ever captured the interest of people and it was that night , course we never heard the result , not until we got to Egypt , you there was no wireless you see , you didn't know what was happening at all .
And er if you were interested in football you 'd never know till Tuesday morning what had happened on that Saturday , the previous Saturday .
I mean that 's how communications were in them days .
And anyway so we went to er over to Egypt and then it was when we came back and I I , the other morning on the radio they was talking about asking people to ring in about , I 've never rang in , I never bother ring , er how they spent their twenty first birthday .
Now my twenty first birthday I 'd never had a copper for weeks , w e hadn't got anything , anything at all , and all we got really was the old fashioned dog biscuits .
And I was in in Alexandria , and er and that was it , that was my twenty first birthday there you see .
And anyway when we got back to England er we went to Aldershot , and wasn't there long .
But while we were there they had several meetings because of course we were going to be demobbed anyway , and the Colonel er of the regiment he had us together and so did the officers , and warned us that when we got back to civilian life we must er beware of these agitators who tried to er create suspicion amongst the troops who were coming back , and telling them that they ought to join er these revolutionary parties .
Warning us all about this , so well I thought well if they warn us , something must be good here , if they 're warning us that it 's bad you know .
And so when I er I wen I went back to work .
And there was a a a a lad who was about a couple of years older than me , he 'd be about twenty three , he 'd been through the War and er he was a real revolutionary , he was re and and he was very intelligent .
So he started me on the on politics , and he was very good .
He 'd got the one of the quickest er turns of er of brain you know , he could switch from one thing to another , and he was most remarkable .
He he really was .
He died pretty but he 's got .
And he was a member of the Independent Labour Party .
So I used to go with him , and incidently he was a , he was very good on classical music , although we never went into this although I 'd got very close to him but I'm sure he were brought up in an orphanage you know , and never talked about this but I'm sure he was .
But he was a real first class tutor .
Well so we went to the I L P and er at this time we started getting er a class together in the , where I worked there was a hundred men and hundred lads , approximately .
Every man had a lad working for him you see .
So at this er time we decided we 'd start er a little class in this we did .
And we got the union to er all all they did was to help us , was to pay for the text books that we had .
If you see we 'd got about er twenty eight thirty in this class , and er they bought the text books and we joined a national college of labour colleges .
Now you 've heard about them of course , you must have heard about them .
And er I think er the retreat of the working class movement s i i is from the date when the N C L C was abolished , and opt into the General Council of the T U C .
You see the T U C education er department is er rises from the demise of the N C L C but of course the the N C L C was really really good , first class tutors .
We 'd got two in and they was really first class .
I could say a lot about ho , but anyway we started this and we used to go to the I L P , and we used to get packed meetings there on a Sunday night , and s then about nineteen , course we had the general strike , and through the general strike we was both in the I L P and we were doing everything we could you know , distributing the illegal leaflets , and er newspapers that we duplicated , on a hand duplicator .
And er so I spent several years in the I L P as a secretary and at that time met er the people who ran the place .
He , including Oswald Moseley , he was a big man in the I L P you know .
Till he formed his new party .
As a matter of fact I 've been I 've got a book now from the library we got last week that er about Moseley and er and his daughter , and it 's good .
Are you right ?
Yeah .
There was a a s an Indian student came to and he was a prospective Labour candidate , but the Labour Party prevented him from being a candidate er because er his main theme in life was to try and get India free from you know the British Empire .
And er he he was having a conference in , course with dropping out of the Labour Party , the Labour Party finished with him and didn't bother and anyw he he someone I don't know who it was , it wasn't him himself but someone told me that he was looking for somebody to organize this conference in , so I said , Well I I 'll do it .
And er so this student came to and I organized a conference and took the chair for him you know and er and helped him every possible way .
And he er and he was really delighted of course , so he said , Well I'm holiday and I 'll come round with the caravan , so I had my holiday which didn't make much difference because there was had to you know we were n't working really , and I went round with him for this week , all round and the villages everywhere .
On the theme that India must be free you see .
And I can remember having a rubber stamp made and every letter that went out I insisted every one should have this frank on India Must be Free .
And er now this chap was , you never hear of him .
Well his name was , a very brilliant man , well w he 'd be nearly as old as me of course .
And er I 've heard it mentioned about him on on on people who have interviewed him on television .
And they said he never said much to them , well he perhaps didn't , he wouldn't do because he was like that you see , but pra before interviewing him on television , er of course the War came and India was given freedom , and er there used to be you know the Sweet people who used to have a big factory on Road , was a very famous sweet in them days , I don't think they are now , but was a very good sweet firm , and they 'd got a daughter cos she was in the , during the War the Anglo-Soviet Friendship er she was one of the course they 'd got hundreds but she was one .
And er the years went by and al all I know is that he said ooh she 's she 's married a London doctor , you see .
So I was waling through the bus station one day and I met this girl and er Ooh , she said , I'm glad I 've seen you , she said .
She said er , I was at a reception in London at the Indian Embassy and when er I was introduced as coming from , she says , The High Commission said to me , You come from ?
She said , And and it were , of course .
He was the first High Commission for England in England , said , You come from , she says , Yes , he says , You don't happen to know Jack do you ?
She says , I do , know him well , he said , Well I 'll , I am pleased , he 's alright ?
Says , Yes .
He says , Well you tell him from me that I shall never forget .
You see that was nice wasn't it ?
Mm .
And then he went from England as being High Commission , he went to Russia , to be the first Indian Ambassador in the Soviet Union and that were .
Do you remember much about other members of the I L P at the time , particular names ?
Oh yes .
Oh yes I do .
turn the fire up cos it 's not very warm in here .
aren't you , he says he 's always warm .
I'm fine , thanks .
And I'm warm enough .
You 'll see
Are you warm enough in there ?
Can you find plenty to do ?
Yeah yeah , I can , looking after you .
.
And anyway er er switch it on .
Er I l I left it on I can cut that bit out when I
I do oh I don't know I 'd leave that , I mean what were
Talking about other people in the I L P
Oh other people in I L P .
Yeah .
Now in this little booklet that I 've got about the er er the potted history of the Cosmopolitan Debating Society , it mentions a very brilliant man by the name of W H , now I was very friendly with him because he was th President of the I L P and I was the secretary .
And he was a brilliant man .
I 've met a lot of brilliant people and and was one .
He was great .
He was a salesman for the Pencil Firm , you know a big pencil firm .
And I always remember he said said to me , he 'd placed the biggest orders for pencils , of course in them , there were no ball pens , er he he received that from the London County Council by accident .
It was di , he used to , he he he 'd got an office in London , and he went every day to London , catch the train about twelve o'clock , catch the train back about four .
He 'd only go for a couple of hours to his London office .
A b on on one day he he went earlier and he had his lunch in London , he said , and there was another man on the table and er the both reached for the salt together and upset it and there was apologies and talks and then he discovered that he was the buyer for the London County Council .
So he placed an order with him for all these , and he had to come back to the factory , reorganize the factory , to meet this terrific order he 'd got for pencils , you see .
That was .
And he s he said to me , he said er , at that time after the War , the Viennese , the Austrians , had er erected er working class flats in Vienna , something unheard of .
And we 'd seen photographs of these and they were marvellous , and he said to me , I should like to see these fl these flats , he said er , I'm gonna convince the Board that it 's necessary in the interests of the firm for me to go to Austria , you see .
So he said , But any road , before I go , he said er and my first nineteen twenty nine this was , and we went together on holiday , on the Continent which was unheard of , you know for working class people , but we went in nineteen twenty nine .
We went to er Ostend , and he went from Ostend at the end of this week 's holiday to Austria , for the firm you know .
And er I I don't know where they 've gone now but I had some lovely photographs of these flats .
An then a few months later he said , Well oh , he said , I'm I'm g I 'll go to Canada , he says , er I 'll tell them .
And he went and told them how necessary it was for him to go to Canada , in the interests of the firm .
He said , But , I said , Are you going ?
He said , I'm going , he said , But , he said , I 've got to , I 've got to take the s the , this millionaire ran this firm and his name was if I remember right .
He said , I 've got to take his stupid son with me .
So he had to go there to Canada you see and er and .
And it says in this booklet that W H was for one for a period , the prospective Labour candidate for er Central , as was then .
He said , but he never fought the election , well now I know he did , that 's a mistake cos he did .
Because he he told me about the chap who was his agent .
This was before I was associated with him , was his agent .
And he said but the way I 'd like to do it , he says I I 'd love to fight it again , with er with you as me agent , instead of , I'm sure I could win it .
And i I remember going to the Empire to a debate we took with .
And er I think the Liberal was Norman , you know the great barrister .
And er a Tory .
And he were a lot better than the Tory , and he held his own with which was saying something , saying something .
But anyway , he died in his forties of er diabetes , he said sugar diabetes , and he died , which is a pity .
But his son I I kept in touch with his son for years , he was an architect .
He was on the Trades Council .
And er he he always used to say of me , he say , Well you know er he was on the Executive , he said of the Trades Council .
He says You know go ho I go home , he says , And I could never make out wether you praise me or criticize me .
He said I I 'll I 'll I 'll never really know and I think now what was he was he praising me or blaming me , he said , And I 'll never know .
You know it was fun though .
Very nice lad .
What did you think about about the the Parliamentary Labour Party at the time ?
Well now the Parliamentary Labour Par , what what happened was that er oh I went to a conference at the the I L P in Carlisle , annual conference .
And er it was real great event , and of course Moseley was to speak in there .
On the committee of the I L P at that time , and John , and then er and then an MP from , er Birmingham , Fred .
One of one of one of the most charming speakers I ever heard , he was .
And er it was at that time that the Independent Labour Party left the I the Labour Party .
You see the majority er er at least half the er Labour MPs also was in membership with the I L P .
But when the I L P wanted to lay down more militant lines the Labour Party wanted to throw them out anyway , and so the I L P-ers all decided that er the best thing to do was to leave rather than get thrown out .
And which is different for today , but that that was what really happened .
Well and so it split the Labour Party and the from er at that time you know we got five hundred members in with the Labour Party .
And er we had our own hall in Street .
Own hall .
Where we had meetings , packed every Sunday night and dances , you know people more was er much more militant then , the people were , I don't know about the M P , but the people were much more militant .
I mean during the er , preceding the General Strike , I know that there were pubs in you know , ordinary working class pubs , and they used to close with the singing of the Red Flag .
You know amazing change .
My view of the General Strike is that if we 'd have had a Lenin we 'd have had a revolution .
The people were r they really were ready you know , I think so .
Mind you some people living through that , you know George ?
No .
don't you ?
I had a letter from him last week er er a lengthy letter .
Well George 's secretary at the Cosmopolitan Debating Society after er er Tom Moseley had er died , and er George takes an entirely different view of from me , of the you know .
He 's more right wing than me , he 's a very far , he 's a good socialist , he 's a very fair man .
But he we don't share opinions about the General Strike .
He don't think it was , but I I'm sure it was .
I remem remember being with with our newspaper being chased up up Road , and you know , the police were chasing me , of course I were only young I could run faster then .
But in any case I 'd chucked all me things in the cemetery , you know , and that 's so when they caught up with me I hadn't got any newspapers .
I 'd thrown them away .
How how did the newspapers at the time respond to the Ge General Strike ?
Well there were no newspapers .
The newspapers ?
er well of course they were opposed to everything , working class , there was some er some sympathy from the old Journal , and the Evening News was a lot better course course it was , it was a Liberal paper .
And it was pretty Liberal too .
Er but of course there was no newspapers er printed at all then , and I 've got , there was a Churchill 's Paper , what did they call that ?
And there was our paper , the British Worker .
What did he call his paper ?
I 've got one upstairs .
What ?
Bulldog was it ?
Was it Bulldog ?
No .
I 've got one of his papers upstairs somewhere .
Somewhere I 've got it .
You know that was i i issued during during the time .
The General Strike was a was a great time .
Was a great time .
They could have gone over the top you know , I think , I'm sure they could , I'm certain they could .
I mean you know what happened when , wh when th General Strike was on , there was er nothing entered unless it 'd got a permit from a Trades Council , and you know that don't you ?
didn't you know that ?
Oh yeah .
When they got to Bridge they , if they hadn't got a permit they they had to go back , the pickets 'd be there .
The Trades Council it would be .
And one of the craziest debates during that time there was whether to allow beer waggons over .
W who who you know they they allowed food waggons through , and the the the great debate was was beer food ?
You know , and they came down that it was food , and they allowed the the beer barrels to proceed over the bridge .
you know they were tipping buses and everything up then , you know .
So was much more militant then ?
was was good then .
Mm .
And the Tr how did the Trades Council organize
Trades Council was all for it .
It was well up , I w I wasn't a second at it .
They were a well organized Trades Council .
Very well organized .
And there was real real militant , they was good .
Aye , and there were very few people caught you know for when the the the particularly buses , which was a blackleg firm , they used to tip their buses over .
They 'd never let them run from to .
People had to get out and they 'd turn the bus over time and time .
I I 've got a paper somewhere that refers to this business , I don't know where .
Go on , are you , are you right ?
Yeah , I'm alright .
Right .
Well Of course came the War and and er like for about twelve years like before the War I 'd been president of the Hosiery Finishers Association .
And then in nineteen forty two the secretary , the very well known for a number of reasons secretary of the Hosiery Workers , his name was , he was the J P and he was er er I wouldn't say he 's a a pillar of the Tory Party but he were n't far off , you , well he died .
And er they advertised er for a a secretary .
Well I was very reluctant to to to put in for this job , I didn't want to really , but I was you know people said , Put in for it , you won't get it if you put in .
And er I thought well I won't really , and I probably didn't like losing anyway you know I I I was never a good loser I don't think , and I thought no I sha n't get many votes and I 'll look silly I'm not putting in for it .
But anyway there was so many people and one chap who he he was , as a matter of fact , he was organizer with Communist Party for whom I 've got the very greatest respect , the very greatest respect .
Because er his name was Les , and he got er er and the whole family was real militant Labour Supporters at .
And his brother he was in the er Spanish Civil War , he was an officer , he was a miner , but he left to join the the Spanish Brigade and er he came back and of course but after the General Strike they wouldn't neither set him nor his brother on the pits you know .
And he never got into the pits , so Les and he was er was a very fine Marxist that he he he could tell you anything you know about Marxism .
And and as a matter of fact he if er if ever you went to see him about anything and said , What about this , Les ?
And he 'd say , Well and he 'd got a whole string of Lenin 's books , and he 'd reach down and pick one and turn to the right page straight away , says , This is what Lenin said , and he said , I 'll stand by this , you know .
But Les was a great great bloke .
But he got down the pit , after you know whe after the War .
Er they had them all back like when the pits was nationalized , all these people who 'd been sacked you know got back on .
And so these two brothers , they both got back on , but unfortunately er Les , he was made a full time official of the miners , when he retired , full time official of the miners union .
Er but unfortunately Les died .
Very great loss to that was .
Very great loss .
And er but his brother 's still alive , and is a retired miner .
Aye .
Do you remember many people going off to the Red Brigade ?
To the International Brigade ?
Oh yes , quite a few , quite a few .
Now talking bout the Cosmo , I 'll come back to that again because there was a lad there and he was in the Independent Labour Party , and er his name was Eric and er this pamphlet will tell you said he answered more questions when he spoke , and at nineteen he was he spoke , he answered more questions than any other speaker had ever answered at the Cosmo you know he got a record for answering questions .
But he was a very fine lad .
And he were nineteen then , he went and he got killed .
Eric , his name should be remembered , but nobody now will know , but he was in the I L P .
I tell you he was a very good bloke .
And he got killed , oh aye .
Lionel , you know Lionel ?
In fact I 've got to I'm going to interview him .
When ?
Soon .
I 've not fixed up the date yet .
And where you going to interview him ?
I don't know yet , I 've
At his er at his work ?
Where he is independent tailor you know .
Mm .
Oh I was very , I haven't seen him for a while , being ill you don't , but er , he was always sending messages of good will when I was in hospital .
Lionel 's a very he he he , you 'll enjoy him , he 'll be good .
He 'll be your star turn , you you must see him when you can .
But , the best thing to do is to see him at his off where he works , he 's a tailor you know that , do you ?
Mm .
Good too .
I 've got lot 's of clothes he 's made me .
What about Fascism in ?
Do you remember Fascist meetings ?
They was never strong in , you 'd think it would be in a place like this but they were n't .
Er I remember a debate , they 'd two debates , there was one on the Market Square and there was one at the Cosmo , between the Black Shirts er and of course the Cosmo platform was open to anybody , didn't matter who they were , any shade of opinion .
Er no there was never never really active in .
The New Party made some members when they started , but when they turned themselves into the Fascist Party er they they rid of themselves of many of these er New Party peop , was in the New Party you know .
He was a very brilliant man you know .
His father was , editor of the Spectator , and there was a very you know , intelligent family really .
But he joined the New Party and so it er he spiked his guns for a long while .
Yes , now then , where are we going .
Talking about the the formation of the National Union .
Oh yes , aye , that 's right .
So anyway I put in for this job and and there were people who who ought to have got it before me , er for instance er there was a councillor at er at , Tom , did you know Tom ?
Well he was a councillor at and a leader of the labour group on the Council at for ooh about thirty forty years .
His father before him was a fine man too , he was a prominent member of the Co-op .
And anyway he he was one of the candidates , but what I didn't know at that time there was a real feud between the women and the men .
Anything the men wanted the women would oppose , and vice versa .
So of course when Tom was put up and er there was about five of us put up for this job , they was all members of that union and I wasn't .
I was a member of the other union like the Hosiery Finishers .
But because all the men were supporting Tom all the women was in a vast majority was opposed to him and they 'd vote for anybody , and it happened to be me you see .
They didn't know me .
And er I got , they 'd got about twelve hundred members , and I think I got about a thousand , of course there were n't two of the men that knew and they voted .
Er and so I got the job like dead easy you see .
I 've got an interesting point that I relate about this job that when I went to see them , about starting this job , they said , Well , they never told me before I got in , they said er , We 've er we 've got no money so we can't pay you a very good wage , but er we 'll start you off with five pound a week , that 's all we can afford , well I was earning more than that , during the War , nineteen forty two .
And so er I thought well I don't know , you know , I don't know
And so I said , saying to my wife , Well , I said er , I 've got , I'm going to get involved in bus fares to and from office , and I 'd got two kids at that time and I said er , I don't know when Anne said , Well no good , cos she was a good socialist and all , and says , Right , no good letting money stand in the road as it will get by .
Here , take it .
So I took it , for a drop you see .
But there were true to their word
Well we we formed the national union that comprised , have have you read any books on that , aye , formed that about nineteen forty forty five I should think , guess , that 'll be it , about forty five .
And er then I left them in forty six and went back to me first love , and er it was a little self contained union .
I think it was one of the best in the country , and I'm I'm serious about that .
Not because I was there , but it was .
And then we had a wage structure that was second to none really .
We we had a cost of living bonus when it was practically unknown to have a cost of liv , which we 'd had er er since er immediately after the First World War , nineteen nineteen time .
We had a cost of living bonus and er our wages rose with the cost of living er every month , not every year .
Every month , we got this cost of living , course it didn't er it didn't er fluctuate like it did in more recent years , but it was a safeguard and we always got increases on top of that like piece work increase and and er it it was a it was a good union , it you know .
With with we got innovations that no other union , not of it 's size , ever had .
There was two thousand , we er you know was more than a union , it was it was a first class Friendly Society as well and it was friendly .
As a matter of fact er as the years went by we got this benevolent fund and we used to give all the old w as a mat we got a pension fund I know it don't sound much now , but at that time like during and just after the War we paid twelve and sixpence a week pension to all everybody who 'd retired from the union after they 'd done time , and we also gave them extra grants and took them on er you know outings until a time I said , Well we 're spending all this money on outings , we could buy a bungalow at the seaside and let them all go you know pensioners go in their turn free .
And so we did this and we had this bungalow at Mablethorpe which is still running , we 've been down , we went down a few weeks ago .
And the pensioners go down to this bungalow free , and it 's in lovely spot and we gave something like two thousand pound for it .
And I was very friendly with the manager 's secretary of the Co-op , Cyril at that time who was a big noise in , and er he furnished it for us at wholesale price you know and everything , they furnished the bungalow .
Put the carpets , put everything in and er and we paid for it and they still go ad now course the national union 's taken it over but when we joined the national union there were two things that er I stipulated before we 'd join .
And one was that this bungalow should be retained completely er by members of the Hosiery Finishers in spite of being a national union which of course has still operated , and secondly , that er nobody should go to this union until er er at least when I 've finished that they should be voted for and they were n't going to impose anybody on this union , they 'd vote for somebody from among their own members , which of course operated and that 's operating now .
See .
And er I 'll show you a little booklet I 've got somewhere on that about the nation about his bungalow .
Which perhaps not revolutionary but to me it was er it was but of all these things that er we 've done lots of things you know , but the thing that I , that stands out in my memory is is that er it 'd be about nineteen forty eight , there was a a one of the old members who I worked with was , lived alone and he was very ill .
So I went to see him and the neighbour said to me , Well , I said , God it 's cold , I said , Why ai n't he got a fire ?
She said , Well , she said , The truth is you know we keep bringing sticks in and that , but he 's got no er he 's got no fire , he 's got no coal , he can't he can't make a fire .
You know there were only very few electrics , so I said , Well we 've got this money in the benevolent fund .
So I ordered him a load of coal .
I went down to the straight away to the coal dealer and said , Take him a load of coal , and he took him .
Well I told the committee and they were delighted and so was I .
Er and that 's one thing that stands out in my , of course he died , but the point is at least he died with a fire .
And er I think that 's good you know .
I'm sentimental enough to think that 's good , and er and er and lots of things like that you know but that th really stands out .
I remember the man very well and alone .
And I tell you one of my early recollections when I went to school , I'm going back now , was er across the way from where I lived , was a family and their name was , I remember the name although I 'd only be about nine .
I remember their name .
I 'd only be nine .
And er he and I know where he worked at Brass Foundry on Road , and he fell ill .
And he died .
And er of course there were no pension , no widow 's pension , no nothing at all .
And so there was er old age pension , state , there was nothing then you know nothing at all .
And so er they had to go to the workhouse you see and I can see it now in this er this cobbled street and this er cab er drawn by a horse of course , hansom cab .
And I can see this er this woman with her three children go off to the workhouse and er they was crying but they were waving and then all the neighbours was out waving to them .
Now that 's er er a recollection isn't it ?
Going to the workhouse , yeah , this family , mm .
Do you do you remember ever ever having long periods of illness yourself ?
At all ?
I I I only had one one illness in my life until last year .
And er I had er in nineteen sixteen I had er what they called typhoid fever which now they call enteric fever you know .
I had s that for sixteen weeks .
And I never went to hospital because me cousin was a nurse who 'd er you know got married and so she er proffered to nurse me which she did and er the then er health people in allowed me to stay at home because of this you see and I was at home and er that was in nineteen sixteen .
And that 's the only illness I that I ever had .
And did you find it difficult managing without without the money , your parents ?
Well me parents they got they was alright they , you know what I mean , they were n't wealthy but they they they were they 'd always got enough to live on .
Me dad had got a decent job for them times , you know he , I think he got thirty bob a week which was a lot of money .
But he was alright you know what I mean with the , I never never really knew want , there were lots of things that I wanted and never got of course but I never really , I could never say I wanted , and I never went hungry , not even at any time , you know .
Did your mother work at all ?
She worked at home , she used to make er bags , you know , er shopping bags , and she was a very good machinist and a remarkable cook and everything .
She could do anything , she was a wonderful woman .
And er a very devout Christian who never went to to er chapel like in her later years but she was , she was a good Christian lady .
Aye .
And she died of a cancer and er so did me father , and probably so shall I , but if a cancer don't kill me summat else will .
Erm you started work
at
yeah it 's on , you started work at in nineteen thirteen .
That 's right .
Er how did you go about getting the job ?
Well jobs were were n't particularly hard to get in nineteen thirteen and er well in any case me father worked there and he 'd worked there many years so i it was the normal thing that you usually followed your father like .
Although I wanted to go down the pit because you got more money you see .
In in those day
Nearly all my friends were down the pit .
Oh really ?
Oh aye
Cos I I thought the the pit was quite well known for being a poor poor payer .
Well i i it wasn't so bad as where I er as when I went .
And they didn't work so many hours , I worked er I don't know whether I told you this last time but er I worked , my normal week was sixty six hours , sixty six hours for five shilling .
Was this when you started ?
Ah , nineteen thirteen .
So when you started did you receive a wage , rather than piece rate ?
I I I received , it was , it was , yes that 's right , until you get into the job , yeah .
Five bob , and then you get on a piece rate .
I I must have told you before that what we got er we used to turn and bundle two thousand four hundred , I told you that didn't I ?
Mm .
Did I tell you that story ?
What did erm
For sixpence .
What did tu turning a sock actually involve ?
Why why did the socks have to be turned ?
Why , because they was dyed on the wrong side .
Erm , you see they were dyed on the wrong side you know they were of course it was easier to penetrate than it would be if they dyed them on the right side you see , it was technically i far far superior .
And so that 's what they did .
So how many departments would there be at at the time ?
Well there 'd be dying and scouring and tacking sorting , trimming , packing , drying , all kind , you know that that 's about total number of departments , brushing .
Would each department have it 's own foreman then ?
Oh yes , oh yes , even if it was a department of only ooh five or six people , there 'd be somebody in charge .
Always be a charge-hand , foreman .
Yeah , was a , is a , was a charge-hand different to a foreman then ?
We well a a foreman usually was over more workers than a charge- hand was .
You see you could have a charge-hand over er er two or three people really , he 'd be working with them but he he 'd be the charge-hand .
I mean the chap that the management would come to and say , Well has there 's this particular lot of work gone through yet ?
Or and he he 'd know this , that 'd be his job as well .
I see .
Th th er th did I tell you about er how I how I started at , how I left school ?
Taking the Labour Examination ?
That 's right , that 's right .
Yeah .
Er go on , glad I 've got that bit .
Yeah so how would the workers , presumably the er charge-hands and foremans were promoted from the the shop floor .
How did you feel ?
Usually pretty fairly .
How did you feel about pi your own people sort of being transferred into positions of authority , was there much resentment ?
Er well n not really because they had to be in the union .
Mm .
You see if they wanted to be a foreman he 'd still in the union .
So it didn't make a great deal of difference really , you know , you you 'd still got er some jurisdiction over them even though they were the foreman like .
Yeah and what was your father 's job at ?
Well he he was a a foreman of the sorting room .
You know and he was when I started there in nineteen thirteen .
And er th th that was it .
How much would he have received for that ?
Well er I I his wage round about er First World War s commencement fourteen , thirty bob a week , which was a good wage .
Mm .
And you you were earning about ten bob a week then ?
Well at that time I was getting as much as ten bob a week .
S and was that the the whole wage for the whole family or were there other members of the family working ?
Oh no , no other money coming in , oh no .
Did you have any brothers and sisters ?
I 've got one brother , but he was younger than me and at that time he were going to school anyway .
So was the s the family standard of of living reasonably high in those days ?
It were reasonable , quite re , er as a matter of fact we could afford to go on ho my father could afford to take us on a holiday every year .
Where about
To the seaside .
Whereabouts ?
Well we the the main place was Cleethorpes , although we was at Blackpool when , in fourteen , when the War started .
Went to Blackpool one or or on one or two occasions but me mother suffered with er with her heart and the doctor said , Well don't go to Blackpool again , the air 's too strong .
So we didn't you see after that .
Yeah .
Did your mother work at all ?
Not until er when was it , ooh , I think not until er me brother and I were married and her and me father were together and she used to do a bit of homework er making these er kind of leather bags ,
Mm .
you know , sewing the leather bags .
So as as a youth and a child she didn't take ,
No .
do any work to make end ends meet ?
Never done any work at all after being married no , never , no .
She was a lace mender .
She 'd been a lace mender before she married your father ?
She was a lace mender , yes , that 's right .
That 's right .
Yeah , you just mentioned the Wars , you remember much about the War in in ?
Well , th I I must have told you because it 's one of the things that er stand out that on on the day when they dropped the first bomb in I and I I and it was er it 'd be the thirty first of January , but I don't know whether it was er fifteen or sixteen , nineteen fifteen or nineteen sixteen .
On that particular day I I was coming home from work and it were quarter to nine , I 'd just finished work .
And I 'd started at six in the morning .
And I 'd been there from six in the morning till quarter to nine .
And there were two of us worked together a lad my age and myself .
And we was walking down Street when a soldier was coming and he said er , You want to er you want to make haste home me lads the Zeppelins are about , you see .
Well you know what kids , we kind of laughed at this you know , we didn't take it as serious .
So we sauntered home and by the time just when we got home perhaps by you know we 'd get home at nine , by quarter past nine er we saw the Zeppelin come over .
You could see this Zeppelin .
I remember this .
Was this the one that hit Woolworth 's , was that cos Woolworth 's was bombed wasn't it ?
Aye , that 's right .
Woolworth 's and er and the water fountain in Street .
Mm .
That 's right , that 's the one .
Did it drop any other bombs or ?
Er there was er I think there were thr I think there were three killed in Street , three people in a , killed in a house in Street .
Er but everybody in went down to see what had happened like , you know to see Woolworth 's .
They 'd never you know imagined that anything like that could quite happen so we ,
Mhm .
well I went down and had a look at it as a kid you know .
I remember seeing Woolworth 's .
With
Did
er a tear in it 's side .
Mm .
Did it upset people or ?
Not really , I don't think so .
It were a talking point but er it wasn't er n nobody seemed unduly perturbed about it .
Mm .
Go going back to before the War , erm last time you spoke you mentioned a s strike in nineteen thirteen .
That 's right .
Erm what how how how did that come about ?
Well it came about and I believe this man 's name was but I wouldn't be too certain , I think it was .
And er he worked at .
And er it was said that he he was he 'd been away ill .
Well when he went back to work er they didn't let him start .
And he hadn't been off long , perhaps been off three or four weeks , I I would say .
And the boss said , well you know he hadn't got the work for him and and he could n't start then .
And so what happened was everybody downed tools at and come out on strike you see .
And er it it got very serious .
So after a fortnight , thereabouts , the union had a meeting and decided that everybody in the industry like , which of course there was only about a thousand of us any way , everybody would s would stop until this man could start at work .
So that 's everybody came out .
Mm .
And er but this was a very determined man , everybody knew that , one of these , although he he 'd got probably er the the best factory in in the city .
Like for quality of workmanship .
The workers were good , his machinery was good .
But any way he decided to s to take blacklegs .
And er he advertised and got quite a few .
Not , they were n't members of ours and they were n't er skilled in the trade , but hey were just people who were prepared to work any way and and scrambled through as best they could .
Would they be local people ?
Oh aye .
And er the police used to take them in black marias some of them .
Some of them had to walk because you they they could n't take them in in in any conveyance at all because er it was over what they call the viaducts , you know and the big rushes and reeds , I told you about a chap hitting them didn't I ?
Mm .
Yeah
Hitting somebody on on the head with a brick .
Aye .
And there was quite a few court cases .
What court cases against the strikers ?
Yes , oh aye .
Because was there was there much violence ?
Well there there i they used to s you know invite everybody you said to you know everybody down on the picket line , well we were kids we used to go like re to be quite honest like we went because it were you know a bit of fun really .
But there were police on horseback charging them .
And I always remember , now whether this is true I wouldn't know , and I don't think I 've ever spoke about this before but I , thinking about it just now , it 's just struck me , I remember one chap saying , Well now if we put some barbed wire across the road about two foot high , he said , No horse will jump over barbed wire , now I don't know I don't suppose that 's true I don't think it is but this chap said that .
So they went and got some barbed wire and they strung it across this street you know , Street at .
I could remember it but I just could n't say now whether the police were stopped in their tracks .
But there was a lot of police there , there was a lot of of er pickets , you know , ooh aye , six or seven hundred pickets .
We and they used to go there when the blacklegs came out .
Yes , so what was
And there were three blacklegs lived in er in one house in Avenue .
And so every night when they got home there was all kinds of people , I mean you know say miners and anybody as well , they all surrounded this house and when the police brought him in , of course they were booing and all this business you see .
Well one night he got really rough and er they they broke these windows .
And at the court I can remember this as a kid , at the court , of course I wasn't in at at the court but I remember the story the blacklegs er picked out people and said they and they and they threw stones you see , through the window .
So of course these chaps well I don't wether they were youths and chaps and that denying it .
And er I always remember the lawyer who was acting on behalf of the union er said to these blacklegs , How would it be possible for you to see it though your window who was throwing the bricks seeing that the windows are so black and filthy you can't see the curtains that 's hanging up from the outside ?
So you could n't possibly see who was throwing , er the windows were too filthy .
And they got off .
Got off .
Was the was the lawyer paid for by the union ?
Oh aye , oh aye .
I I don't remember but he must have been .
And but any anyway we got er , I 've probably tell you this before , the Co- op allowed everybody to have er credit until it was over and there was a n there was a a preacher wh who er and I don't know whether a Baptist or a Wesleyan Preacher , I think he was a Wesleyan , he was a Welshman and his name was .
And er he was he he he you know came and spoke and he was very very good , aye .
Was your family religious ?
Aye , aye religious , aye .
What denomination ?
Baptist .
They they when when I was younger used to go regular but they didn't go regular you know as years advanced .
but er m anyone ask , I remember me mother was a great Christian really .
Although she didn't go to er but me dad did always you know believe in the Baptists .
Was the church very important in the community then ?
Oh yeah .
Particularly ?
Particularly the Non-conformist .
Mm .
Oh yes .
Oh yes .
How did you fell about the Church of England and the
Well they always er regarded the Church of England as er a little socially and erm politically they 'd er erm the Tories of course , m mainly the Church was Tories , and er like in Wales the Non-conformists was er more liberally inclined .
So was there strong connections between the Wesleyan and Baptist Churches and the trade unions ?
Yes , yes .
Well there was between this particular Wesleyan Chapel and er in our street it was , as it 's practically opposite the u present union office .
Yeah I think I know
You know up the side street but now it 's used as a as a store house but you can tell it 's a it 's an old establishme and and they used to get full you know .
The they used to the Non-conformists whether or not I could n't speak for the Church of England but er there 'd be a lot go you know i in the evening there 'd be several hundred at every one of these places , and there was , there 'd be , ooh four or five Non=conformist places in in .
Little place like that .
And they 'd all get full .
Oh yeah it was very strong .
Yeah , you said your your uncle was a religious man .
Me fath me grandfather .
Was it your grandfather ?
Now he was very religious .
He was er me mother 's chief objection to him , it was me father 's father , me mother 's chief objection was that he was always talking about revolutions and she could n't stand this you know .
And they said , He 's alw , ah your granddad 's always talking about there 's going to be a revolution .
But he he 'd got a little mission er on the side of the at , , I 've I went with him so I saw it .
But I I do you know I 've been back since but I just could n't find it now , but there it 'll be , but on the side of the er at , he used to preach at this mission , there was only him you know used to preach , and I don't know how many other people were at , it wouldn't hold above er wouldn't hold above thirty .
A little tiny place .
But he used to go there , he used to nearly live there and er you know .
He was always preaching there , he he he was the man who ran it .
Ah .
Was was politics important at at home in your childhood ?
Well it was for , well me dad was a l me dad was a liberal .
Course there wasn't no Labour pen men then you know .
But when the first Labour man put up for for in the area , West , 's constituency now as near as possible .
Er put up there , you wouldn't know of would you ?
No when would
No .
this be ?
Well , probably nineteen fourteen .
And er I think it was er in the election in er perhaps twenty two er got in .
Previously they 'd always been er very staunch liberal , well know intellectuals , Sir James , and he represented the teachers .
That was , that was in that union .
Very very er able , capable man , but anyway , and he was in for years , but er beat him .
were he he he was a an ex-West councillor .
I I don't know whether he went to jail over the job you know , in East and West .
And er I I think they they were , most of them went to jail and I think did , but when he came down here he , he beat .
One of his chief claims to fame was that he got about thirteen kids , you know , , but a very very capable bloke .
So did the Labour Party have staunch working class support in
They did yeah .
In then ?
Oh yeah , be in , and yeah .
N nobody strange well this is strange to relate .
Nobody ever stood a chance of getting in in unless they were Labour .
You know I mean after the after the the liberals had er lost the m main support er and the Labour Party came into prominence nobody w w you know you it 'd be almost impossible to put up in and .
But one one time one man put up and I don't know the reason why and I could n't tell you the year but his name was er the Honour somebody .
And he came he became a prominent Parliamentarian , perhaps in the thirties .
But he got in in this , you know they moved moved w w you know would
Mm .
He was a barrister
A barrister aye probably the greatest that 's ever lived you know .
Was he a liberal MP in then ?
He was a liberal yes .
I heard him a few times , he was very very entertaining , very entertaining , nice bloke really .
Ah .
Now going back to this this strike erm
Yes .
Presumably if if all the finishing companies erm
Supported us .
Had had to come out on strike , then er all the workers be on strike fund , er did you and your father receive strike money ?
Well no no member of the staff came of strike that was the understanding you see .
I mean they they stayed in to you know see the work through the processes rather than it all get ruined , because of course you know they were n't er they were n't great er individual capitalists and er capitalistic companies .
I mean the bosses hadn't got all that much really , you know , they were n't like they are today .
I mean they got a lot better living what we got and and and they was alright but the the you know you 'd never call them bloated capitalists because they were n't bloated really .
Mm .
Er about this strike and er but time went on and it became obvious that er nobody were going to win only the boss like this boss , course he was he was scratching through , and so they called the strike off and every person who worked at er every firm had a meeting and they all decided to take so many and every firm took so many of the workers and so nobody was ever unemployed as a consequence of the strike which was very very good .
Was this a a management decision or a union decision ?
Union decision .
And the union had the meeting and the union went and told the boss that we 're having so many more men here and that was it you see .
Mm .
And that that 's what operated .
A very fine thing , and you know until er until the day I left in nineteen forty two they always referred to these chaps in the forties like say I was , er a as being er , Ooh he 's a man .
You know or f or or you know always it was that they were men cos they came from during the strike .
Mm there 's very
After the War , well I know you did military service
Aha .
after you came back from military service did you carry on working art ?
Yes , oh aye .
Did you
Yes
Was it easy to get your job back ?
Er ye yes and n no really .
Everybody coming from military service er was er got the job back there were no question about that at all , you got your job back .
But I 'll have to tell you a bit of my history .
Nineteen er nineteen eighteen I joined the the Army , compulsory you see .
And I joined up on March the fourth nineteen eighteen .
And er the War ended as you know in November eighteen and er when the War came to an end the the Government introduced a form of service whereas if er we youngsters volunteered say if you volunteered for two year they gave you twenty pound and two months leave you see , if you volunteered for three year they gave you forty pound or was it thirty , thirty forty , and er three months leave .
And if you volunteered for five years I know you got fifty pound for that which was a hell of a lot of money , a year 's wage in some peoples ' eyes that was you know .
And er so er er I said to my friend , like me pals I said , Well look we we haven't been in the Army a year , so we 've got to be in two more years before it comes our turn our turn to be demobilized , so we just might as well sign up for a couple year , get two months leave and twenty quid , because we shall do that if we don't .
So we did this you see .
As a consequence of which well we went to Egypt and the Sudan this business , we came back and er the b the the foreman 's brother he ne he never liked me ever this forema when I were a kid you know , he never liked me at all , I never got on with him and and er mind you there 's a long story about that but it 's a silly little thing that er that I really upset him with .
It 'd it 'd be no interest to this but er
Go on , go on
you see We was working together and you know a a few benches from each other and of course as I told you the the lads worked with a man .
And in the Football Post er cos everybody used to have the Football Post then , not like now , and so everybody knew what was in it and er there was like a Who and Why column in the Football Post and one of these was , Who will stop County now , you see because they was at top of the second division or something like that , and the team that was next to them was City in them days you see .
And so er and somebody wrote back and said to them , A Yorkshire team with the same ambitions you see .
Well this bloke this boss 's brother er his his his brother was the mayor of for several years , the only one that 's been during the War , the First World War , .
And he said er , Well ha it isn't in Yorkshire , says , Well er it is , he said , It isn't it 's in Lincolnshire .
And so we had a proper argument about this , of course he was a grown up man , I were only a kid you know .
And er so one bloke brought a map the next day to prove as it was in , he says , He 's right it 's in Yorkshire .
And he never forgive me for this you see because he were a big noise you know , he he 'd got a big business in .
And er so when I came back after the War he says er , I object to him starting , he 's not come f direct from conscription , he volunteered for the Army .
So you can't volunteer and then come back like that and Well that was that .
But of course he he was the only one who thought this , everybody else said , Ah how ridiculous , have him back .
So that was the end to it you see .
Mm .
So
Yeah and so had wages increased in ?
Ooh aye was wages increased .
You know I would think we 'd be the first er industry to my knowledge to have a cost of living bonus .
And as the cost of living wen went up our wages went up .
A but seeing that the official figures were published every month our wages went up or down every month .
And and or or remained stationary but they mostly went up a copper or so every and this was er a real thorn in the side of the employers you know , they wanted to get rid of this and they could n't .
And er when I left , about seventy two , they were still every year they come to try and get rid of this cost of living , but we did er er concede that we 'd only move annually .
And so the wages went up and down annually like as distinct from monthly , which was a bit of a job for the employers to adjust every month .
When so when was this introduced ,
when was the cost of living intro
Oh nin i during the First World War .
Was this did this occur for the whole hosiery industry not just
Oh yes .
the finishing ?
Oh finishing .
Finishing er finishing only .
Finishing only .
Finishing only , and er then after a few years the manufacturing side of the industry adopted the cost of living different from ours but they adopted a cost of living bonus in in a degree rather different from our .
How were the employers persuaded to introduce this through threatened
Well
action or or negotiation ?
Well they never threatened any action on the manufacturing side , they you know the manufacturing side didn't .
Mm .
But anyway seeing that we got it and all this business and and er eventually they got it , but they didn't get it in nowhere near a a as good as ours and you know .
Well how did the finishers get it
Oh well they got it during the War .
When things were pretty easy .
I should think at that time the employers thought , Well we don't want to be arguing about wages every five minutes during this War business you know and they all got b you know they got bags of work you know that of course , don't you ?
No end of work during Wartime , no end of work .
Yeah was this when utility clothing , was was that
Pardon ?
Was there utility clothing during the First World War ?
No .
No , there were n't , Second World War yeah , but not First World War .
Er
So was a lot , was a lot of lot of stuff made for the Army then ?
Oh yeah , lots of stuff made for the Army and and and they didn't know , I mean the manufacturers s sent the work to the hosiery dye- yards they they didn't know what they were sending or what they got , they just churned it all out and and that was it you know it were I could a lot of things about that .
What were the what were the main major products at the time ?
Was it mainly just socks and stockings ?
Well ours was mai ours was was footwear .
Ours was footwear .
What about other local companies ?
Well er the the majority was footwear er but there was shirts and pants and as a matter of fact there was one small section of gloves , made gloves .
And there was a lot of fabric , quite a lot of webbing fabric you know .
You know to be made up into underwear and garments .
And would a all these companies be included under one finishing union ?
Er all those that finished was in the finishing union , yeah .
How come , how did you get to be involved in the union after the War ?
Oh well I b , it were , we all had to be in the union anyway and so we used to er we used to go to the meetings a a a you know as youngsters and then when we came back from the Army we 'd got to the union meeting as well .
And er when it come to the election of a shop steward about in ni nineteen er I think it were nineteen twenty seven , it were nineteen twenty seven er I there were two hundred in our shop and I got elected shop steward , mainly I think because a lot more , most didn't didn't want to be bothered you know but anyway I I and so that 's what I retained .
And it was , were you shop steward for the whole factory or just part of the factory ?
Oh no only , nobody was shop steward for the factory .
but he person who was shop steward for the finishing department more or less assumed responsibility for the other shop stewards because the other shop stewards would perhaps only have fifteen or twenty , you know members er under them .
So what areas would
I 'd got two hundred see .
What other areas would there , would be involved in then ?
Well th th the auxiliaries would have one shop steward like for brushing and tacking , mending you know there 's perhaps only be fifty altogether .
And we 'd got two hundred and then the dyers they were in their own union er at er at that time they 'd perhaps got er er thirty in the dye-house .
And we I tell you we 'd got a couple of hundred in ours .
So this , you becoming a sop shop steward was was after the general strike .
How were you involved in
Yes just after the general strike .
Were you involved in the general strike itself much ?
Er aye but not er not industrially , you know not through the union .
Er because of by this time I 'd er joined the Independent Labour Party and er we used to run news-sheets off you see .
I 'd been to work all day and I 'd been and been running sheets off all night .
And then gone back to work next morning .
So the hosiery industry didn't come out
No .
during the strike ?
No .
And er and although it nobody could ever say that the union was politically motivated er it it 's strange to relate that at union meeting when the general strike started and we of course we were n't in the T U C we were too small anyway , although I know that there 's been unions with twenty eight members in the T U C now .
And er anyway we eventually er ah but er the questions used to asked at every meeting , when are we going to come out and er so much so that er they made the secretary who was a J P and a Tory write to the T U C and er say that we prepared to come out when ever they ask us .
And they sent back and now this is what they said to us in this letter I remember this distinctly that er if we want you to come out we 'll tell you but we regard your factories as our second line of defence .
That 's what the T U C said .
Course they were worried because they they 'd bit off more than they could chew , same as you say about this like you see .
S so how was the str do you remember how the strike was organized in ?
Was it organized ?
Oh organized yes , through the through the trades council no doubt about it , trades council organized it .
As I 've probably told you before the they used they used to meet and meet daily , trades council .
And er they used to determine what came through , they used to really , you know what came over the Bridge , all picketed and er they 'd want to know what was in the van and everything and if the er trades council said , No it 's not coming , it didn't come .
Was there much trouble over over blackleg firms in ?
Well the not not re not really , the chief er the chief trouble er arose from the bus people , you know that .
They was t that tried to be the strike breakers and there was several of their buses turned over you 've probably read that have you in the
Mhm , yes .
in the news-sheets .
Heard about that .
Oh aye .
particularly on the road from to .
What was the role of the police during the strike ?
Oh well the role of the police , well of course they were opposed to the strikers but there were n't er quite so many police you see and and the strike movement was strong and so the the the they didn't have a great deal of affect .
I mean wh where they , anybody was arrested they mainly got off you know .

Is this on yet ?
Yeah .
Oh .
Okay well , good morning .
Erm I have a er an important administrative message which came from the Biology Department office , before we begin .
Erm concerns the following .
David , David and James would you erm please report to the Head of Department 's office straight away following this lecture .
.
Okay well erm I hope that you 'll remember from last week er what we er our discussion centred around the general way in which carriers and channels worked .
And I 'd like to extend that discussion this week concerning channels to look at the biological properties of channels , that is viewing th their activities in a physio in a physiological role .
And what I hope that I can do before the end of the lecture is convince you that channels pay play an important role , not just in conventional excitable tissues such as nerve and muscle , but also in a wide variety of cells and membranes .
For those of you who erm get a little er flustered at the at electrophysiological concepts , let me just erm begin the lecture by erm reminding you that when we talk about the current through a channel , all we 're talking about is a flux .
That is we can express the flux simply by dividing by the Faraday constant .
That 's all the current is , and the reason that we talk in terms of currents is because those are the because the major methods that are used to analyze channel activity are electrophysiological ones .
But in principle , there 's no reason why we can not discuss the flux through a channel , that is its activity , in terms of moles per second .
And we saw that in the calculation that I gave you at the end of last week 's lecture .
So let me begin this discussion then of of channels by er pointing out the methods that have been used for studying channels , and for some of you who 've done the er neurophysiology course this will er be revision but nevertheless it will be pertinent to today 's discussion .
Okay so let 's look at the methods for studying channels .
Until around nineteen eighty the methods generally involved impalement of cells with glass micro electrodes .
So er a a micro electrode was er fabricated and then put inside a cell and connected up with an amplifier .
And then the measurement of currents , electrical currents flowing across the membrane , could be analyzed using voltage clamp techniques .
This is known , for reasons that I 'll point out in a second , as a macroscopic technique , and the currents were usually identified through replacement of ions selectively , and of course this can generally be done only in the external medium , because you don't have control over the internal medium .
Secondly by the response of the reversal potential of th of the current to a change in ion concentration .
The reversal potential of that current should shift as the ion concentration shifts , if the current is carrying is being carried by tha by that ion .
So that simply that statement simply comes from the Nernst equation .
And in conjunction with that , generally it 's conventional to er s selectively apply antagonists to block the currents not being studied .
That is if you know one particular current is antagonized by a particular toxin for example , and you 're not interested in that current , then you block it .
Okay , what are the disadvantages of this technique ?
Well first of all , as I 've just mentioned , you can't control the internal medium , unless you 're dealing with er some very special er large types of cells , and therefore you can't address all the interesting questions which er concern intracellular regulation of channel currents .
Secondly , it 's obviously impossible to look at endomembrane channels using this technique .
You 're you you 're restricted to looking at plasma membrane channels and their properties .
And thirdly , if you find that a current for a particular ion is stimulated , it 's becomes difficult to describe what 's happening at the level of transport , at the level of channel activity .
And let me show you what I mean by that .
If we 're measuring the m membrane current , which here I 've called a macroscopic current because we 're we 're integrating over a whole area of membrane , this , with respect with any given channel will comprise can be expressed in terms of the number of channels which are present , the probability that each one of those channels is open , the open state probability , and in terms of the unitary current of each channel , that is the single channel current .
Thanks .
Okay so this macroscopic current can be expressed in terms of the simply in terms of these three parameters which relate to the single channel properties .
It therefore becomes imperative that if we see an activation of the macroscopic current , that we are able to express that activation in terms of a change in one or the other of those so-called microscopic parameters .
And it therefore becomes important to study the properties of single channels .
And Meas in other words measure the currents through , and study their open state probabilities .
There are two important microscopic techniqu techniques which enable such studies to be undertaken .
And the first one I referred to fleetingly er last week , and it 's known as patch clamp , which most of you have come across before .
And let me just remind you of the principles of this technique .
The idea here is that you take a rather blunt er fire-polished glass pipette , and press it against a membrane .
These these black blobs are supposed to be proteins and and I 've tried to er illustrate the orientation of the protein by showing these er these supposedly er glyco er substi substituents on the outside of the cell .
The carbohydrate constituents of the protein .
Okay so th here 's the pipette pressed against a cell , a high resistance seal is formed , electrically very resistant , between the membrane and the glass pipette , and you can then , if you 're lucky , if you 've got a s a single channel molecule under that er bit of pipette , record the currents flowing through that single protein molecule .
The technique is very versatile because you can er then er go further and if you pull the pipette away from the from the cell you can , if y again if you 're lucky , be left with the membrane the patch of membrane firmly sealed to the glass pipette , and you can now record in so-called inside-out mode , in which the a er physiological inside of the membrane is exposed to the bathing medium , the the the in which the pipette is bathed .
Alternatively you can record in so-called wholesale mode , that is by either sucking away this patch of membrane or by applying a whole er a large voltage pulse which essentially fries it , so it burns it away , and you then gain electrical access to the interior of the cell .
And having done that , you can then pull the pipette away , as shown here , and you 're left with a bleb of membrane in which you 're now recording in the so-called outside-out mode , which is the exact converse of the inside-out mode .
Okay .
So this then , all o a th these techniques when applied erm er er as an ensemble then all allow you to look at the single channel currents , the currents flowing through any given channel , and as well as the effects of external and internal regulators .
However of course it 's not readily applicable to most endomembranes , because most endomembranes are er not large enough most endomembrane compartments are lo not large enough to facilitate the application of this pipette .
Now in fact , before patch clamp came along in in a in around nineteen eighty there were there was another technique which was available for looking at single channel currents .
It wasn't er very widely used , but it nevertheless er had some important applications , and this concer this technique is known as the planarlipid bilayer technique .
And the idea of this technique is you take er a erm a chamber which is split into two compartments by a teflon partition , shown here , you fill the two compartments with an aqueous solution , okay , and you can then paint across a small hole in this Teflon partition a solution of phospholipids in a solvent , for example endecaine and when these phospholipids are painted across the er solv the er the small hole in the Teflon partition the solvent collects , here I 've magnified it , collects around er the the edges of the hole , and leaves you with a what turns out to be a simple bilayer , a phospholipid bilayer .
So the membrane thins down , the solvent collects rounds the around the outside and er you 're left with a pure bilayer of phospholipid .
You can then take vesicles which you would have prepared erm biochemically , either through first purifying your protein or , more crudely , a er a s a partially purified membrane fraction , and fuse those with the artificial bilayer .
And vesicles will fuse under the influence of an osmotic gradient .
So you apply an osmo you in introduce the vesicles into into one chamber , apply an osmotic gradient , and those vesicles then fuse with the artificial bilayer , and again if you 're lucky you see a single channel erm appear in the bilayer and you can then stop the fusion process to stop more er channels appearing .
Okay .
And once you 've got er the channel in there , you can then record its activity simply by putting micro electrodes into these two er compartments A and B here .
So then this technique enables you to look at single channel currents , and moreover , if you 've got a partially er purified preparation of endomembranes it enable to to look at channels in endomembranes too .
However a disadvantage of this technique in comparison with patch clamp is that you can't always guarantee the orientation of your channels , so that if you see some kind of rectifying characteristic in the bilayer er you have no way a prior of knowing whether that rectifying er characteristic is associated with an influx or an afflux from the cytoplasm .
So that 's a a partial er disadvantage that you can't establish the orientation .
But it nevertheless enables you to look at er potentially at single channel currents from endomembranes .
Okay so having established then that you can look at the er er you can look at single channel currents , let 's look at what those erm er currents can tell us .
Erm on the overhead before last I I gave you a little equation which demonstrated the importance of measuring single channel currents and it ga and it had implicit in it an open state probability which reflects gating .
So let 's just look at gating for a second .
And you 'll remember that that the definition of gating is simply that channels switch between open and closed states , they gate open or closed .
Okay .
What the results from these single channel techniques demonstrate , that is the patch clamp or the bilayer techniques , what these results demonstrate is that the factors enhancing macroscopic channel currents invariably act at the level of gating .
That is either voltage or ligands , in the cases respectively of voltage activated channels or ligand activated channels , both of those factors will act at the level of gating .
In other words they increase the open state probability , they don't increase the number of channels , or very very rarely do they increase the number of channels , or the unitary current through each channel once it is open .
They don't increase the single channel current once it 's open .
And just to remind you the open the open state probability can be defined as the time that the channel spends in its in the open state divided by the total time of the recording .
So for example , here 's a case of a calcium-activated potassium channel from a cultured rat muscle cell .
And it 's a patch clamp recording which has been done in an inside-out patch , that is with the physiological inside of the membrane facing the bathing medium , so we have experimental control over what the er physiological inside of the membrane is seeing here .
And here is a recording then of the channel activity in the presence of ten to the minus eight molar calcium , that is ten nanomolar calcium .
And you 'll see er for this er little section of recording the channel opens very infrequently , in fact it only opens once , to a level of three picoamps .
When the calcium is raised to five times ten to the minus seven molar , fifty nanomolar , then what we see here Sorry , five hundred nanomolar .
What we see here then is that the channel is markedly stimulated to open , its open state probability increases , but once it is open , the level the current level which it passes , the amount of the number ions flowing through per unit time , is not significantly different from that er case in which the calcium was lower .
So that demonstrates , that 's an example then , demonstrating the effect of an activator on a on the open state probability rather than on the single channel current .
Yeah ?
.
Where what 's the same as the other one ?
.
Okay , the single channel current is the same in both cases .
Right , it 's three picoamps in each case .
So you 've activated the channel but you 've activated it by increasing the frequency with which it resides in its open state , compared a to its closed state .
Okay before we go on then and look at the roles of channels in biology , let 's look at how channels are classified briefly .
They 're normally char er classified according to their gating properties rather th initially , rather than according to their ionic specificity .
And this general approach has been supported by recent sequencing studies , so the the channels have been er the C D N A for the channels has been sequenced , and that indicates that the evolutionary relationships between channels have been based er have arisen er pri primarily on the basis of their gating properties rather than on the basis of their ionic selectivity .
Within any major class characterized on the basis of its gating properties subclasses can be defined according to their ionic selectivity , but also according to their er pharmacological properties , and especially as we 'll see in a second , according to their single channel conductance .
And again just before we start this overview , let 's just remind you what the single channel conductance of a channel is .
Let 's take this example which I showed you up here of the calcium-activated potassium channel .
We can plot the current flowing through the channel , which is here shown on the ordinate , as a function of the holding voltage , which is shown on the abscissa here , and when we do that we get a so-called current voltage relationship .
We 've got current on this axis , voltage on this axis , we 've got equal in this case equal potassium on each side of the membrane , so the reversal potential , here shown as the zero current intercept , that is the point at which the channel 's not passing any current , is zero millivolts , because we 've got equal potassium on each side , and we can simply draw a line through those data points .
Okay so we measure ei th the single channel current , up here it was er three picoamps , at a holding potential I guess of around plus twenty millivolts , we measure the slope of that line , and the slope of that line is the current divided by the voltage , and from Ohm 's Law that 's equal to conductance .
And it 's commonly written as gamma .
So in this particular example we 've got a single channel conductance of six picoamps , six times ten to the minus twelve amps , divided by forty millivolts , four times ten to the minus three volts , and just dividing one by the other we get a value of a hundred and fifty times ten to the minus twelve siemens which is the us unit of er conductance , note it has an I in it .
In other words a hundred and fifty picosiemens .
So that 's what the single cha channel conductance is , and that 's how it 's measured .
It 's simply the slope of the er of the current voltage relationship .
Okay so for the rest of the lecture let 's take a look at er what channels do .
And let 's begin our discussion with a consideration of voltage gated channels , and start with a well known example , that of sodium channels within this class .
Sodium channels are uniquely found in animal cells , they 're not present in plants or fungi or bacteria , and they 're found on the plasma membrane , and their role is to carry out the depolarizing phase of an action potential .
They can be specifically blocked by several toxins , for example tetrodotoxin , commonly written T T X , which comes from a Japanese Puffer Fish .
It 's actually a er erm Japanese delicacy .
You have to make sure you 've removed the er tetrodotoxin gland before you start eating , and in fact each year there are deaths in Japan from er inexpert preparation of the Puffer Fish .
Another one is er saxitoxin , commonly written S T X. And both of these compou =pounds act from the outside to block sodium channels .
Nu a number of other well known toxins , strychnine and er local anaesthetics which you encounter when you go to your dentists , procaine and lidocaine , both of those block sodium channels , so they inhibit the action potentials coming from sodium channels .
Calcium channels by contrast with er sodium channels are very widespread in animal and plant cell membranes .
Their role is invariably calcium uptake into the cell , that is the prevail when they open they will admit calcium into the cytosol , and this plays a crucial role during signal transduction processes , where elevation of cytosolic free calcium mediates in stimulus response coupling .
I 'll sa I 'll have a bit more to say about stimulus response coupling in a second .
But for the moment let 's just make the point that there are at least three classes of calcium channel , and they can coexist in the same membranes , and can be distinguished by several different criteria , and this is an example of how you can use the criteria that I 've discussed er previously er to to characterize different classes of channel .
They can be dis distinguished on the basis of their single channel conductance with respect to barium , which they pass barium a al as well as they pass calcium .
So in pi in terms of the number of picosiemens er single channel conductance for each of these channels , er each has a distinct single channel conductance of eight , twenty-five and fifteen picosiemens respectively .
They can be distinguished in terms of their the voltage at which they exhibit peak activation of their inward current .
Remember we 're dealing with voltage activated channels here .
So respectively here we have values of minus twenty , plus ten and plus twenty .
They can be distinguished on the basis of their sensitivity to catecholamines , like adrenaline .
So er one of the channel types is activated here , the other one is inhibited by catecholamine .
They can be distinguished by their inhibitor sensitivity , specific er inhibitor dihydropyradines .
Er only one of the channel classes is inhibited .
And they can also be distinguished on the basis of their sensitivity to another toxin , known as omega conortoxin , er which more or less specifically inhibits just one class of channel .
They 've been given er labels of T L and N where the T er colloquially stands for tiny , L stands for large in terms of the single channel condu respective single channel conductances and er I'm not sure what the origin of N is .
In the middle somewhere .
Okay so those three discrete ch calcium channels can coexist within a single membrane .
At present their s their precise physiological roles , precisely why a single membrane needs three different classes of calcium channel , has n't been erm def defined , but at least it serves to show you that er that a wide variety of channel types can er can exist .
Let 's finish this discussion then of voltage gated channels by looking at potassium channels .
Er these are found in the plasma membranes again of animal and plant cells and their role , and we 'll er see a lot more of this next week when we try and integrate er this discussion into into into er the er principles by which epithelium work , their role is principally in the stabilization of membrane potential .
And it 's involved in the stabilization of membrane potential at relatively negative levels , and the reason that this works is because the internal potassium concentration is invariably held higher than the external potassium concentration .
So that if the potassium channels open and therefore dominate the membrane conductance , the membrane potential will approach the equilibrium potential for potassium , that is with all the pota with a lot of potassium channels open .
And we can s see this typically in animal cells , the internal potassium is of the order of a hundred and fifty millimolar , the external potassium in plasma is of the order of five millimolar .
So if we calculate the Nernst potential for potassium , the equilibrium potential for potassium in other words , simply by applying the Nernst equation , fifty- nine times the log of the external over the internal potassium concentration , we can calculate a value there of minus eighty-seven millivolts .
So the equilibrium potential then in a typ for potassium in a typical animal cell is of the order of minus eighty-seven millivolts , which when the potassium channels are open serves to keep the membrane in a relatively hyperpolarized state .
The voltage gated potassium channels form a diverse class , as with the er voltage gated calcium channels .
Er one potassium channel which is commonly worked on is known as the delayed rectifier .
And the reason for the importance of this ch ch channel is that it opens when axons depolarize .
So when th axons depolarize , under the influence of the opening of sodium channels , the opening of the deray delayed rectifier then leads to a repolarizing phase which occurs precisely because the equilibrium potential for potassium is held relatively negative .
So that 's just summarized on this diagram here , which is shown er for a squid axon , and I 've plotted here the equilibrium potential for sodium , which is relatively positive , here at mi at plus fifty millivolts , and the equilibrium potential for potassium which is held relatively negative .
And at this point the axon is stimulated , a depolarization occurs which is associated with the opening of sodium channels , which then close .
And the repolarization is associated here with the opening of potassium channels .
So we can express then the overall form of the action potential in terms of the differential activity , first of sodium channels and then of potassium ac channels .
And of course the the rationale for its label of delayed rectifier is now apparent , it shows some delay before it 's open before it opens .
As indeed it has to if the action potential is to occur .
An example of a potassium channel inhibitor is tetraethylammonium .
There are no very highly specific organic inhibitors for potassium channels .
Evolution seems to have er devised a large number of specific inhibitors for sodium channels but not for potassium channels .
Now if you look at that er figure you 'll see that er the sodium channels during the action potential of course are closing , and that 's allowing er partially allowing the repolarizing phase to occur .
And that phenomenon , is known as inactivation , and it 's a property shown by most by the vast majority of voltage gated channels .
What inactivation is , is it means in the presence of a continuing depolarizing stimulus , the channels will close , they switch off .
So here 's an example .
The depolarizing stimulus is given here , moving the membrane potential from minus seventy-five to minus fifteen millivolts , so there 's the there 's the command pulse .
And we 're now measuring the sodium current flowing through the membrane , here given in terms of nanoamps .
And it 's an inward current so by convention it 's shown as as downward and negative .
So in the presence of a sustained stimulus , here , which is lasting around two milliseconds , the channels are switching off with a time constant of what around half a millisecond .
Furthermore , if you give a second pulse , a short period after the first pulse , you fail to elicit a large sodium current .
So the second pulse then , is mu it evokes a much weaker current than the first pulse did .
And that 's also because the channels have inactivated .
Now both of these responses distinguish inactivation from gating .
We 're not simply talking about opening and closing in response to a stimulus then , this first stimulus has left the channels in a state in which they 're relatively unable to gate open .
So we have two phenomena here , one of which is gating , the opening and closing in a simple on a simple er in simple response to a stimulus , but also we have a phenomenon of inactivation , in which the channel is left in a state where it 's unable to respond .
And of course the function of inactivation is to allow the membrane potential to recover after the channel 's open .
You can't allow membranes to exist permanently in a depolarized state .
We 've got it 's in other words it 's a sort of negative feedback .
So to summarize that in terms of a of of a kinetic diagram , we can basically write that channels exist in closed and open states .
Typically the closed state can comprises c com more than one type of closed state can be kinetically distinguished but let 's not worry about that right now .
Er we can we 've at least distinguished that channels can exist between closed and open states , and the transition between the closed and open states is known as gating .
But in addition once they 're open they can also inactivate to the extent that they 're no longer respon responsive to the stimulus that opens them , to the voltage stimulus which opens them .
So we can distinguish then a third state in w which we can call an inactivated state and which will leave the channel closed , but also unable to respond as it would be able to do if it resided in a simple closed in a simple closed state which were responsive to gating .
So this summarizes then the two processes of gating , here , and inactivation , here .
As I alluded to earlier on , voltage gated channels have been cloned and sequenced and they show first of all homology between all three classes , sodium , er calcium and potassium .
And you can also determine from the sequence that the common evolutionary origin er was er centred around potassium channels .
Potassium channels formed the probably formed the evolutionary prototypes for all of the for the calcium and sodium channels which came later on .
Okay that 's all I wanted to say about voltage gated channels then , let 's erm turn our attention to so-called ligand gated channels which form rather a discrete class .
Ligand gated channels are erm specific to er excitable tissues , their found in synapses , neuromuscular junctions , and of they 're involved in intercellular communication with the communication being achieved by neurotransmitters .
So the neurotransmitters then bind to receptors which are which are the same as the channels , the channel is both the receptor , the ligan binder , and er and an ion channel , and it 's located at the postsynaptic membrane or at the surface of the muss muscle fibre if we 're dealing with a neuromuscular junction .
So it 's on the on the down side of the of the s of the signal .
In general , this is a general point , the ionic selectivity of such channels is much less than for voltage gated channels .
It 's they show a rather a broad specificity and can generally are generally rather non-selective either for cations or for anions .
So we can't we don't usually talk about ligand gated channels being sodium channels , they 'll normally pass more than one type of cation fairly non-selectively , they don't really mind .
Let 's just consider a few important examples , probably the most famous of which is the acetylcholine receptor .
Known as the also known as the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor er cos it will respond to nicotine .
It 's found at the junction between motor neurones and skeletal muscle .
It is gated open when it binds to molecules of acetylcholine , and in accord with what I 've just said about its selectivity , it 's a non-selective cation channel .
Its function its physiological function is simply to depolarize the membrane when it binds acetylcholine .
So physiologically what happens is that the principal flux through the channel is that of sodium , and that 's simply , although although the er channel is non-selective it 's simply because the sodium is at high activity outside , low activity inside and potassium is reasonably close to equilibrium .
This then , this depolarization then allows the opening of voltage gated calcium channels , the calcium inside rises and contraction occurs .
Muscle contraction .
So the aim when th when the acetylcholine binds is to depolarize the membrane facili which facilitates the rise in internal calcium and that leads to muscle contraction .
The channel itself is a complicated one , it comprises five subunits , in the stoichiometry alpha two , beta , gamma , and delta .
They 've all been sequenced .
They are all homologous and membrane spanning .
So you need these these five different subunits to er to form the acetylcholine receptor and channel .
The channels are antagonized by a compound known as alphabungarotoxin which is obtained from sna snake velom , venom .
Two er other channels that I 'd like to consider which have rather different functions are both er chloride channels .
One is known as the G A B A , A receptor , where G A B A is standing for gamma amino butyric acid , this is the G A B A receptor .
It 's found in brain and the equilibrium potential for chloride is around minus ninety milliVolts , that is more negative than the normal membrane potential which is which would be of the order of minus sixty minus seventy .
So when this channel opens then , the membrane potential will tend to move towards the equilibrium potential for chloride , in other words the membrane will tend to hyperpolarize , when these channels are open .
So opening of these channels will hyperpolarize the membrane , and as a result of that opening what we see is an inhibition of action potentials .
The membrane 's maintained in a in a hyperpolarized state and that inhibits action potentials , and that enables coordination of pathways which either fire or don't fire in response to a depolarizing stimulus .
So these channels sh show significant although not er sig al although not extensive sequence homology with the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor which enables you to place them in the same class of being er a ligand er binding channel .
Had similar evolutionary origins .
It binds barbiturates .
Similarly the glycine receptor is also an inhibitory chloride channel , also found in brain and closely related to the G A B A , A receptor .
So both G A B A and glycine are er physiological neurotransmitters er and it has a s the glycine receptor have a has a similar function of hyperpolarizing the membrane when open , inhibits action potential .
It 's er like sodium channels , inhibited by strychnine .
Okay finally , a third m major er class of ion channel i which has been extensively worked on over the last few years , since the advent of patch clamping er has been second messenger gated channels , so-called second messenger gated channels .
Let 's just remind you what second messengers are , because they ply play a vital role in cellular homeostasis .
They are second messengers are intracellular compounds , for example cyclic A M P , or ions , for example calcium , and what they do is they couple stimuli to responses , they couple a specific stimulus , each one a specific stimulus to a specific cellular response .
So in other words we can write the general scheme , a stimulus leads to an increase in the se level of the second messenger , and that increase in the level of the second messenger leads to a response .
Second messenger gated channels are very widely distributed , they 're certainly not limited to excitable tissues .
One very extensive class is er is a calcium activated potassium channel , where calcium 's now activating from the inside as we 've already seen in that example I showed you early on .
Commonly written as a k brackets C A channel .
They are found at the plasma membrane , they have a for a for a channels , a very large single channel conductance of the order of fifty to two hundred picosiemens .
They are generally inhibited by a compound known as apiamin which is the main ingredient in bee venom .
And they have rather distinct roles depending on where they 're found .
One role is as a link between internal calcium intracellular calcium and the membrane potential .
And one very well worked on example here concerns that of er pancreatic beta cells which secrete insulin in response to glucose .
These are the er these are the cells which will raise the insulin in your blood in response to elevated blood glucose .
And the way in which er these calcium activated K channels pla play a role in this response is that when these beta cells see glucose , they depolarize , and this depolarization leads to the opening of voltage dependent voltage gated calcium channels .
The opening of those channels leads to an elevation of intracellular free calcium and that elevation of intracellular free calcium is required it 's the signal the stimulus for insulin secretion .
So the elevation of calcium will secrete insulin .
Now if the stimulus is not sustained , if the if the glucose stimulus is not sustained , the calcium load can be cleared , the elevated free calcium inside the cell can be cleared for example by a calcium A T P ase , since the calcium channels were shut .
Okay so if the stimulus isn't there the membrane doesn't depolarize any more , the calcium channels shut and the calcium load gets cleared from the cytosol by a calcium A T P ase .
However if the glucose is maintained high , in other words if the stimulus is sustained , what we see is a succession of depolarizing spikes , and the reason we see it is because this elevation of free calcium , not only leads to a insulin secretion , it also leads to the opening of calcium activated K channels which tend to hyperpolarize the membrane .
Okay the so as I said earlier opening K channels will hyperpolarize the membrane .
So the membrane then hyperpolarizes , but the stimulus is still present , and that 's tending to lead to a depolarization , so we get then this circle of membrane depolarization followed by hyperpolarization , but it 's the calcium activated K channels which are tending to restore the membrane potential to negative values .
A second function which I don't want to dwell on now because I'm gonna deal with it in a lot more detail next week , is o o this is a second function of calcium activated K channels , is to release potassium from epith epithelial cells during fluid and electrolyte secretion .
Er for example secretagolgs such as acetylcholin acetylcholine lead to an elevation of intracellular calcium as we 've just seen , and that can then lead to K release potassium release through calcium activated K channels .
But we 'll deal with that phenomenon in a lot more detail next week in the context of epithelial cells .
And finally just before we leave second messenger gated channels , I 'd like to consider two more which have been worked on er extensively and one of which we 'll er deal with er next week .
The one we 'll deal with next week is the case of cyclic A M P activated chloride channels , these are found in secretory epithelia .
Betaadrenergic agonists elevate the er stimulate chloride secretion into the lumen , and the way they do this is they raise cyclic A M P levels obviously and activate the chloride channels .
And we 'll see how the chlor the opening of chloride channels leads to secretion , next week .
Importantly the chloride channels are not directly activated by the elevation of cyclic A M P , what they are activated by a is by a protein kinase A meded phos mediated phosphorylation .
So it 's the cyclic A M P then which activates the protein kinase A and that phosphorylates the channel to activate it .
The last class of erm second messenger activated channels that I 'd like to deal with is are those calcium channels which are found in the in endomembranes , especially in the endoplasmic reticulum which are gated open by a compound known as inositol one four five trisphosphate .
Some agonists , for example acetylcholine , in pancreatic islets activate a specific phospholipase in the plasma membrane .
This is a phospholipase C and what the phospholipase C does , when it 's activated by the agonist , is it splits a membrane phospholipid phosphotadylinositol four five bisphosphate into two components , a water soluble component inositol and a lipidic component the lipidic residue diacylglycerol .
The water soluble component , the I P three , the product of this , diffuses to the endoplasmic reticulum where it gates open a calcium channel .
So having diffused to the endoplasmic reticulum it can gate open the calcium channel , and this leads to an elevation of internal calcium , not from the external medium now , but from internal stores .
The channel is specifically inhibited by heparin albeit not physiologically , heparin 's not a physiological ihibit inhibitor of this channel , it 's not found inside cells , but it can be ex experimentally potently inhibited by heparin .
Curiously the channel when it 's cloned and sequenced , exhibits around fifty percent homology with a calcium channel which is found not in the endoplasmic reticulum but in the sarcoplasmic reticulum of muscle cells .
And it 's this sarcoplasmic calcium sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium channel which mediates calcium release for muscle contraction .
Physiologically this channel though , rather than being activated by inositol one four five trisphosphate this channel is probably primarily activated by voltage by in other words by membrane depolarization .
And one can show that it has a discrete inhibitor specificity compared with the inositol trisphosphate gated calcium channel in that this one is specifically inhibited by a plant alkaloid known as rhinadin .
Okay let me just summarize what we 've erm covered today then .
We began by considering that channels can be studied by conventional or macroscopic techniques , or alternatively by so-called microscopic methods , which enable us to look at single channel currents .
And the two microscopic methods that we discussed were patch clamp and planarlipid bilayers .
We decided that the the otential the action potential of course are on Editor A look at control , we can look at single channel currents .
We looked at channel activation , either by voltage or by ligands , and decided that activation is almost invariably achieved by effects on the gating mechanism .
Rather than on the single channel current or the number of channels .
So that lead to an increase in the open state probability .
We then went on to look at several classes of er ion channels , voltage gated channels which form a superfamily of sodium and calcium and potassium channels .
And those voltage gated channels predominate predominate in excitable tissues .
We decided that most voltage gated channels exhibit a phenomenon known as inactivation .
That is they switch off spontaneously even in the presence of the stimulus .
We went on to look at ligand gated channels , and in particular three different classes , acetylcholine gated , glycine gated , G A B A gated .
And decided that these channels occur predominantly at post-synaptic or on the muscle surface .

Come in , good morning .
Hello , well what 's your mum been doing to you this morning ?
.
Well she 's just after the
Freeze her , freeze her tongue .
having the flu , near a fortnight ago now , she 's on these pills and she 's as bad as ever , and not sleeping again .
She 's finished them now , she
She 's finished those .
Let 's have a look and see what you 've one to your your poor old inside .
Dearie me .
Driving your mother up the wall ?
Are you ?
Has your mum been bad to you ?
No ?
Have a wee look at your nose first .
better .
Throat now .
stick your tongue right the way out now .
Yes .
Have you got any swollen glands in your neck ?
Yes , they 're up .
Okay ?
Mm
It 's
It 's taking awful long Doctor , .
Oh well it 's , she 's got sinus after this flu .
It 's er just what 's been happening to a lot of folk , sinus trouble .
Do you like nice medicine or do you prefer those ?
don't know .
You 're not bothered ?
She 'll say that and then give you the
horrible stuff .
in a bottle .
Er I can put it in , in a bottle or I can give you tablets .
In tablets .
You prefer tablets alright then .
Now this is this quite a common thing after the flu to get a problem .
Most times it 's both but it 's mainly the the left hand side with Jenny .
The skin from here 's swollen right
Mhm .
across and it 's touching that hole in the middle and she 's getting all blocked up and the stuff 's running all the way down the back of your throat , that right ?
And you 're coughing all night , keeping everybody awake ?
Aye , she doesn't bother but us in the next room , ah , bother us .
Oh right , right , just so it 's just mum and dad we 're .
Oh I need some money .
I want to believe it .
Now one of these in the morning and one at tea time .
Twice a day , for the next week .
One , two , three , four .
Tell your mum she could be kinder to you , she 's got to for
even though she 's already .
Right oh , okay , bye Mrs ,
Right
cheerio now .

Order .
Er , just a couple of announcements colleagues , if er , those delegates who actually smoke , if you 've got any Embassy cigarette coupons , could you pass them to any members of the Northern Region .
They 're used by the South , Tyneside Local Authority Branch to help buy a camcorder for the Sullivan member who 's recently undergone surgery to remove a tumour from his brain .
So don't throw them away colleagues , hand them to any delegate from the Northern Region .
Colleagues , just to try and let you know what , er I 've got in my mind concerning the business that 's fell off the agenda yesterday and today so far .
You 'll recall that the er , Regional reports in the Regional , in the General Secretary 's , er report fell off the agenda yesterday and there are a number of resolutions which have fell off , at this morning .
What I'm planning to do is to put them back in the order , colleagues could you settle down please , I'm planning to put them back on the agenda in the order that they fell off , and er , hopefully , the first opportunity in that connection may be Wednesday afternoon , but I need to have a discussion with colleagues about that , but I 'll certainly let you know at the first available opportunity .
Colleagues , standing orders commission report number two , John .
President and Congress .
Standing Orders Committee report number two .
Composite three , contributions earnings related scale , due for debate on Wednesday afternoon will now be moved by Liverpool , North Wales and Irish Region and seconded by Southwestern Region .
Two further composite reports have been agreed .
Composite thirty two , toxic shock syndrome , comprising motion two five nine , Lancashire Region and motion two six O , Southwestern Region , both due for debate on Tuesday afternoon , Lancashire Region to move , Southwestern Region to second .
Composite thirty three , age discrimination , comprising motion three five seven , G M B Scotland and motion three five eight and three five nine , both Lancashire Region .
All due for debate on Thursday morning .
Lancashire Region to move , G M B Scotland to second .
The committee has ruled that an emergency motion from the Midland and East Coast Region , pit review and closures , is in order and will be emergency motion number two .
The committee has been informed that the following motions have been withdrawn .
Motion one two two , from London Region due for debate on Tuesday morning and motion four two O from Birmingham and West Midlands Region due for debate on Thursday afternoon .
The committee has given permission for the bucket collection to be taken on behalf of our colleagues at at the end of the Tuesday morning session .
The committee has given permission for a bucket collection to be taken on behalf of the Matthew trust fund at the end of the Wednesday morning session .
Will the Regional Officers responsible for all these collections , please contact the Congress Office to make the appropriate arrangements .
President , I move .
Thanks very much indeed .
Conference accepts Standing Orders Commission report number two .
Thanks very much , that 's being circulated colleagues .
Colleagues , I now call er , motion three , rule six , appeals procedure for members , that 's for the South Western Region to move .
President , Congress and our inclusive visitors as well , because nobody 's mentioned them yet .
Denise from the Southwestern Region .
I'm here to talk about the rule which applies to appeals procedures for members .
I don't suppose many have read it in depth , cos to be honest , when do we read a rule when we don't have to , unless we absolutely need it .
I understand the C E C asked us to withdraw this motion because they say it is not necessary .
Well , my region didn't agree with that , we feel it is very necessary .
For those not familiar what happens is , a member puts their case to their branch .
If they 're overruled he or she can then appeal to the Regional Committee .
If overruled there they can appeal to the Central Executive Committee and if overruled there , there 's the appeals tribunal .
The rulebook states that a member has the right to appeal but it doesn't say that they have the right to be told why they 've lost .
What this meal means in real terms is a member doesn't necessarily know for sure why they have lost .
They would obviously have some idea from the appeal hearing it itself but since they have to put all of their reasons for their request in writing the very least I believe they should be able to have is a reasoned reply .
I 'd like to demonstrate this by reading a little bit from a letter that was sent to one of our members in this position .
It 's from the Regional Secretary , I write with reference to your appeal to the Regional Committee of today 's date and I have to inform you that your appeal was unsuccessful .
That 's easy enough to understand .
I would therefore advise you that you have the right to appeal to C E C within one month against this decision .
Again that 's easy enough to understand , it 's in the rulebook .
The final paragraph , if this is the course of action you wish to take , in the first instance you should write to me requesting that your appeal be heard by the Central Executive Committee .
I will then forward your request to the General Secretary .
Again , that 's fine , but the member had no idea as to exactly why he 'd lost the appeal .
It doesn't tell you a great deal in that letter .
As trade unionists representing our members in the workplace , this is something we would be unhappy with , to go through a procedure with one of our members and know that that member has lost but not exactly know why .
I don't think it is something that we would accept .
When our member then appealed to the Regional Secretary and said , well , I think I do wanna appeal and go further than this because I feel I'm right , what letter did we then get in reply .
Again this is another one from our region .
I quote word for word , on the question of wanting details as to why the appeal was overturned , it is not a practice of the organization to give the reasons for such decisions and I would add that I 've spoken to the National Executive Officer on this matter and he 's confirmed that we are not required to do so .
Well , I'm sorry , if I was in my workplace I wouldn't be happy representing a member and then be told by the employer , I'm not required to tell you why you 've lost your appeal and I don't think this is something we should do within our own organization on our own members .
The C E C I believe are gonna say this isn't necessary .
What we need is for every single appeal stage , for the member to at least have the right to know why he or she has lost .
Please support this motion .
Thank you .
Is there a seconder ?
Is there a seconder for the motion ?
Formally seconded , thank you .
Motion six , rule amendment , to be moved by South Western Motion six .
Sorry , I was dozing off over there .
Again this is about the procedure that we 're following , but we 're talking now about rules procedures for branches and I have to say that I'm up here without the support of my region on this one .
I understand again the C E C is asking you to oppose it because they say it 's not necessary .
I would like to ask a question , that if this particular rule isn't necessary , then how does a branch go about appealing a decision made elsewhere in the union 's hierarchy ?
I 've just talked about what happens when a branch member wants to appeal but this is a branch as a whole that 's made a decision at a meeting that it doesn't agree with something that 's happened .
Again I 've got a letter to quote from , cos we 're good at keeping correspondence in my branch .
It 's a letter from the Executive Services Officer that states , rule six , which is the one I 've just been talking about on the previous motion , is quite clear in saying that only individual members can pursue appeals and not a branch .
This is the basis on which my branch believes that we need a new rule which covers branches .
Because we need that new rule what is happening at the moment ?
If a branch doesn't like something what does it get the chance to do ?
Well , it has to borrow rule six , that we were talking about just now .
You might say to yourself , well is this a very rare occurrence , so that really this branch is making a fuss about nothing , branches don't have to go through appeals procedures , cos it never happens .
That isn't the case .
I 've got another letter here from the General Secretary .
You may appeal under rule six , my branch was told , this is the appeal procedures that refers to members not branches , but it will be well understood you are making the appeal on behalf of the branch , which obviously means we 've got ta borrow one to do something else .
It 's not a rare occurrence because the General Secretary himself says , we 've followed this procedure on many occasions in the past .
If it 's happening so often then should we not be having our own procedure for that to happen ?
If we look at rule six , and we 've all been given rulebooks , if people have brought them with us , what we have to do is bend that rule so that it applies to branches , not members .
What I 'll do is I 'll read you the first paragraph of rule six and actually bend the rule and put those words in and it really doesn't make any sense at all , so listen carefully on this one and don't be surprised if you don't understand me .
Should any branch have any complaint to make they must do so to their branch secretary who must submit the matter to the branch , it 's talking to yourself .
If any branch is not satisfied with the decision of the branch they may appeal to the Regional Committee .
Obviously you need to appeal to the Regional Committee if as a branch you 're not happy , but this rule should n't need to be bent , we should have one that is ours to be used for branches , the General Secretary himself says that it 's happened on several occasions so let 's be a real trade union , not one that borrows from Peter to pay Paul , let 's have a proper rule for branches .
Thank you .
Is that seconded ?
Formally seconded .
Thanks very much .
I call Frank to put the C E C position .
President , Congress , Frank replying on behalf of the C E C .
Er , as the last speaker said , everybody has received a copy of the rules in their wallet and I would them to take a lo take , take that copy out and have a look at it .
Take it out a have a look at it .
Have a look at rule six .
You 've all got it , I hope .
Page ten .
We 're all comrades here so the formalities should go out the window , for starters .
The first speaker who was here at this rostrum made the point about er , the right of individuals and it 's not in the rulebook .
Have a look at the rule , the right of individuals is , is there .
Have a look at it .
I 'll tell you what , there 's not a lot of unions with that type of rule in their rulebook .
The G M B is one of the only unions in my opinion , unless somebody can contradict me , who use that type of rule .
You can take it to your branch , you can take it to your Regional Committee , you can take it as far as the C E C and that costs a lot of money .
For one individual , but we 're not complaining about that , we accept that .
What they 're asking for is already in the rule , already in the rule what the speaker spoke about , about er , motion number three on rule amendment , and have a look at it , what the motion states is not what she spoke about , not what she spoke about .
Because if you read the motion she is just looking for the rights of an individual and rule , rule six in the rule book applies the laws of natural justice , which we 're all for , the C E C agree , we 're all for it .
So , we are asking the Bristol and branch to withdraw the motion .
We 're doing yous a favour , our lads speaks plain to you , we 're doing yous a favour .
We asking you , withdraw the motion .
And if you don't withdraw it , the C E C is completely and totally opposed to it because we already have what it 's asking for in the rule .
Have a look at it , read it for yourselves .
Look , I don't want to insult your intelligence , I'm an Irishman right , we don't have a pile of that according to everybody , like ya know .
But have a look at the rule and you 'll find that it bloody well states exactly what they 're asking for in that motion .
I 'll move onto the next one .
We 're totally opposed to the next one .
Totally .
Now , I was gonna tell you a story but I 'll not .
You see the next one right , the reason we 're totally opposed to it , as yous have been bloody debating it all morning , with the Labour Party , and I can't even bloody join it , cos I live in Northern Ireland .
Now if lived in the Republic of Ireland I could join the Labour Party , but I can't join it because I live in Northern Ireland , right , but have a look at that motion , what you 're talking about .
Frank , could you wind up please .
Er , sorry President , worthy President and all the rest of it , what I'm saying is that we 're totally opposed to it because what you 're going to have here is , you 're gonna have a situation where branches , branches , you gonna have them fighting between branches and the C E C
Thanks Frank .
and we don't need that .
Thank you very much .
Thank you very much .
Thank you , back again .
We 're not going to withdraw either of these .
Thank you .
As has just been suggested , and I also mentioned in my speech , yes please , read the rule , it doesn't say at every stage and that is all we 're asking for , that at every stage in the procedure a member knows why he or she has n't won the appeal .
I really don't think that 's an awful lot to ask for .
He mentioned cost , well one letter 's ever so expensive isn't it , just to let someone know where they stand .
I'm sorry if that 's causing people a problem but that is basic human right .
He talked of natural justice .
Well , I consider that letting someone know why they 've lost is natural justice .
In terms of the rule that we need for branches , I 've already said the General Secretary agrees with me , that this happens often .
What it 's got to do with the comrade 's ability to join the Labour Party I'm not absolutely sure , perhaps someone can tell me afterwards .
But branches need a facility , it 's not about in-fighting , it 's about something that actually happened within my branch , I 'd like to add that we won the appeal , when the branch went through it raised two questions , we won one , we lost one .
But we actually needed a procedure , that procedure was followed as best we could by borrowing another rule and it was achieved at the end of the day .
There 's no animosity within my region on the fact that one person felt one thing and one felt another and as democratic trade unionists there should n't be any in-fighting or animosity just because we need to discuss something on which we disagree .
The whole purpose of a conference is about disagreeing with each other and then agreeing a statement as a compromise for whatever is reached at the end of the day .
It 's not in-fighting and I urge you to support both of these please .
Colleagues , as , as conference will have heard from the mover of motion three , motion six , not prepared to withdraw and the C E C is therefore asking you to oppose both .
Put motion three to the vote .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's lost .
Ooh .
Motion six , yes it was , yes it was .
No need for a card vote , clearly lost , put motion six to the vote .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's lost .
Oh yes .
Clearly lost colleagues , I can assure you .
Colleagues , can I just make a point as well while we 're progressing .
Erm , obviously , the right of reply er , is not an automatic right .
It 's where the mover chooses to exercise that particular right , but in so doing the mover can not , or should not introduce new material and make another speech .
He or she should respond to the er , the points that are being made on behalf of the C E C .
I mean that 's the rules of debate , but I thought I 'd make that particular point because it has a little bit of poetic licence er in that .
Colleagues .
Sections , special report , Section and Industrial Conferences .
Can I advise your planning to take this particular debate .
We 'll ask for the General Secretary to move the C E C special report , that will be seconded by Robert , member of the Central Executive Council .
We 'll then take motion One one A , one one one A , er motion one one O , motion one five three , motion one five six , motion one six three .
Those will be moved and seconded .
We 'll then come back and I will invite speakers from all the regions in respect of the special report .
Call the General Secretary to move the special report , Section and Industrial Conferences .
John , General Secretary .
Moving the special report , Section and Industrial Conferences and also President if I may , at the same time , moving motion one one one A on behalf of the C E C , rather than returning to the rostrum a second time .
First of all , the report .
Colleagues , last year as you know er , the C E C put a report before you called Wider Democracy .
You 'll also remember it was quite a lively debate , history lessons , buckets and spades presented to the platform and a good deal of passion .
Er , but that of course was all about the most controversial aspect of the report , which was the frequency of Congress .
The rest of the report , which was the role of section conferences and industrial conferences , which have been the subject of fairly detailed consultations throughout regions over the previous two years and appeared to be widely accepted was hardly debated at all .
But of course , when the whole report went down , when wider democracy was defeated , we also lost the guidelines for section and industrial Conferences .
And that 's left us in some er , difficulties frankly , because one of the things that er , the C E C was recommending , that work of a strategic nature , which at the moment is undertaken by industrial conferences should be moved over to be dealt with by section conferences and that meant that a number of industrial conferences need not meet any longer , so we would avoid the duplication , the overlap and the waste .
The solution of course is obvious , this year the C E C , no doubt suitably chastened by the vote last year , is resubmitting the section and industrial conference proposals on their own , without any other issues attached .
The logic is obvious , we have seven sections now , seven sectional conferences , these conferences must have proper terms of reference , proper guidelines for debate and clear rules as to who can attend , who can speak and who can vote , and that 's the most important part of our report .
To fill this obvious gap in our constitutional arrangements .
The report goes on to recommend changes in industrial conferences , and I 've already mentioned that , to ensure that there is no wasteful overlap between the two , and Robert in seconding the motion will go into some of the details of the er , way the new conferences will operate erm , following me .
I now if I may President , turn to motion one one one A which amul er , amends rule A five .
This is a more difficult issue .
The rulebook and the Special Report spell out the nature and function of the sections .
They are industrial sections concerned with what is happening in a particular industry , or a group of industries .
That 's of course why section conferences can not debate matters reserved to Congress and why national committees can not cons consider issues within the remit of the C E C .
They are concerned with the industry and the section of industry alone , but of course the issue that we then have to deal with is , we must make sure that those section committees , those national section committees , carry credibility with the members working in that section .
They must been seen , their decisions must be seen to reflect the interest and wishes of members currently employed in the section , and as we have always believed industrial and negotiating policy is best made by members at work in the sector who feel the day to day pressures , know what is going on , motion one one one A seeks to ensure that this will happen .
So this , with some restrictions , confines the membership of the committee to people who are at work .
But then of course the difficulty arises because these are difficult times , there is a recession , people are losing their jobs day by day and we didn't think it was appropriate to start applying some guillotine on people 's election rights and their membership of the committee .
So , of course , we 've stretched things a bit .
The amendment will of course not remove anyone during their period of office if they lose their job .
Of course not , they 've been elected for a period , they serve to the end of that period , whether they 're made redundant or not , so they go on for the four year term .
And also , of course , we 've so worded the er , amendment to rule to ensure that anybody who does any work in the sector in the eighteen months before the election period , even of a temporary nature , will be eligible to stand as a member of the section committee .
Now , of course , when you put restrictions on that seem to deny any group of members any rights , you must be very careful .
So lest any misunderstandings arrive that this is some thin end of some wedge , I should also add that the restriction we 're proposing only applies to national committees , doesn't apply to any other office anywhere in the union and to reinforce that point the C E C will be recommending support for a general motion underlining the rights of people who are unemployed or retired to hold office throughout the G M B .
Colleagues er , the defeat of Wider Democracy last year left us with a bit of a hole in our constitution .
I hope you will accept this report , you 'll pass the amendment and complete the constitutional framework of our sections .
I move .
Could I have motion one one one A formally seconded ?
Thank you Mary .
Robert to second the special report .
President , Congress .
I have been introduced but there is only one small point and .
I am from the Scottish Region and a member of the Technical Crafts Section .
President Congress .
On behalf of the Central Executive Council I second the special report on sectional and industrial conferences .
We need a coherent guideline for the relationship between Congress , sectional national conferences and what up until now we have called national and regional conferences .
This is provided in the report .
The aim of the guidelines is to set out a clear role for each conference within a coherent , sensible framework .
The sectional conferences will decide strategic issues affecting industrial groups within the section .
They will be responsible for the overall strategy of the section .
The newly named national negotiating conferences will decide bargaining issues affecting members covered by the particular national negotiating councils .
But if there is no national negotiating councils then there is no delegates , national delegates ' conference .
Regional delegates ' conference will be held where the regional nat the regional negotiating councils or where there is a need for a regional sounding board for the effective operation of the national negotiating council .
They will feed the national negotiating council .
So , we have a coherent democratic system for developing industrial and policies within the union .
The inevitability of that Congress should pull back , excuse me , the inevitability means that Congress should pull back from indus industrial strategies and negotiating deals , but should be left to the members concerned .
Indeed Congress will concentrate on debating and deciding issues of a wide spread and common concern to all our members , such as finance , the rulebook including the structure and organization of the union , our political , economical , economic and social policies .
Our relations with the T U C and the Labour Party .
Nevertheless , you 'll have a great deal to talk about within Congress and you 'll have a lot more time to do so .
The C E C believe that the report will provide a vibrant , democratic and sensible system for policy making of our union .
It will involve more members with decision making taken by those who are responsible for reporting back to the members and for carrying out the effects of such responsibilities .
It will enhance the accountability within the G M B and hereby improve the quality of the decisions we make .
I therefore second the motion and hope you will support .
Motion one one O , Midland Region to move .
On one one , one one A , okay .
Sit there colleague , would ya ?
And whilst Alan 's coming to the rostrum colleagues , can the , the movers from London of motion one five three , one five six er , London again , one six three , Birmingham , if they would come down to the front and also it would be very helpful colleagues , if regions , if regions have indicated a speaker on the special report , if those colleagues could come down as well it would be helpful .
Alan .
Thanks Mr Chairman .
Colleagues , Alan , Lancashire Region , opposing motion one one A on behalf of Lancashire Region .
Colleagues , I must oppose this rule amendment .
If passed anyone not in employment for eighteen months prior to nomination will not be eligible to attend any sectional conference .
Colleagues , I have members in my branches who are unemployed but still pay full contributions not because they have to cos they want to ,
they show their commitment to this union , where is this commitment , union 's commitment to them ?
I 'll tell you what it is colleagues , it 's a case of no pay , no play .
Colleagues , it 's a good job this rule was not out when Will Thorn was about , eh ?
He wouldn't have had enough members to attend a meeting , never mind form a trade union .
For this union to say only employed members can represent them is disgraceful .
Utterly disgraceful .
The C E C should be ashamed of theirselves .
In our branches , we believe the best person for the job should represent the members , not the best employed person .
Oppose motion one one A .
Barbara , are you on one one one A ?
Yes .
I had feeling you might be .
Er , Barbara , Birmingham Region , speaking against one one one , one one A , the amendment to rule A five with the support of the Birmingham Region .
Congress , rule A five seeks to debar the unemployed from taking an active role in this organization .
There are calls to retain members , they wanna keep you , they want your money but if you 're unemployed you take , can't take an active part in the G M B .
They say this to the very people who have been the bedrock of this organization , the very people that built the organization .
They who have kept the membership going under the Tory regime and they that have suffered the effects of recession and job , job losses and brought , brought about by the Tories .
And now President , colleagues , this organization seeks to ostracize those very people .
Rule A five was brought to us by the amalgamation of the boilermakers , who themselves have tried to get rid of this bloody rule .
G M B mem G M D , B members are sick of having rules imposed on them brought about by amalgamation .
It 's high time we kept some of the old G M W rules .
Colleagues , I would say , and if you 'll excuse the expression , I don't think this C E C knows its arse from its elbow .
Barbara , the lights
For
Barbara , the lights are very strong in here .
Pardon .
For in supporting rule A five at the C E C by a very slim majority they also supported resolution one five three by an overwhelming majority , which says exactly the opposite to rule A five .
Colleagues , the Birmingham Region says , reject this amendment and support resolution one five three .
Er , Billy , are you on one one A as well ?
Opposing .
You 're opposing .
Is , are there any other colleagues , Alan please don't come down any more , please .
What you waving at me for John .
Right , you 're there .
Are you , any of you colleagues on one one A ?
No , right .
Last two .
Okay Bill .
Billy , Northern Region , opposing the C E C rule , what we 've just heard about .
Congress , as a life-long trade unionist and I might add , it 's me golden wedding next year .
Because my good lady 's always said , you married that bloody union the day you started work .
As a life-long trade unionist , colleagues , I have held one firm principle .
That principle colleagues , is equality .
If this rule change is agreed , we accept that one member has more rights than another .
It places member against member , it causes division , it destroys our solidarity and it weakens our movement .
Congress , it 's against this background , against a lifetime of commitment to equality that I firmly oppose the change .
It stands against , it stands against every principle of trade unionism .
To hold that one G M B member should have more rights than another , to say that one member can stand for an election , but not another .
Congress , our principles have stood for a hundred and three years .
By working together we have built a strong and powerful organization .
By holding equality as a central principle of our union we have maximized solidarity between our members .
That regardless of background , education , race , sex , occupation or age every single trade unionist is an individual member with the same rights and responsibilities as his or her colleagues .
Now , let 's take the young activist , who starts off in the trade union movement .
He starts off in his factory , in his workplace or what have ya .
He organizes the place , he recruits members , he 's run off his feet and the employer turns round and says , we can not have this here , this lad 's too good , get him out , sack him .
Aye , they do .
They do sack 'em , because it happened when there was full employment , never mind about three million on the dole .
And let 's face it brothers , sisters , some of our members have more chance of seeing Lord Lucan riding as they have of finding a job .
Colleagues , colleagues .
I am not going to insult your intelligence and beg you to vote or oppose this vote .
I'm not going to insult your intelligence .
But what I 'll do if I may , applaud your commonsense when it comes to the vote .
Thank you .
Mr President , Congress , brothers and sisters and I hope you 're comrades and all after this .
One lady speaker was right , the sister , the boilermakers brought this rule in .
I wasn't at the conference , what a pity .
It wouldn't have been on the books if I ever seen blatant sectarianism at its worst it 's in that bloody motion .
Here were people through no fault of their own , government policy , mismanagement and lo and behold , our union kick us in the bloody face because you 're unemployed .
Well , I 'll tell you this , you oppose this motion with all your might and don't let 'em get away with it .
President , Congress .
Ivy , Midland and East Coast Region , moving amendment to rule A three .
The rule as it now stands is a contradiction .
It provides for an annual Apex Conference , it stipulates that the conference shall be advisory to the C E C and all decisions shall be subject to C E C congress policy .
It then lays down that no matter shall be discussed that is within the remit of Congress .
But all matters are in the remit of Congress .
This effectively disallows any subject being discussed at an Apex conference .
My branch submitted a motion to the Apex conference two years ago that sought to draw attention to unemployment amongst the white collar workers .
It was ruled out of order by the Standing Orders Committee as it fell foul of rule A three , the subject was within the remit of Congress .
Last year Manchester Central Apex branch submitted a motion highlighting the dangers of tampon related shock syndrome , arising out of the death of an Apex member .
The Standing Orders Committee ruled it out of order under rule A three , within the remit of Congress .
I'm pleased to see it on this year 's Congress Agenda .
Why are the C E C fearful of matters being discussed at the Apex conference ?
They are the final arbiters , as to where the motions passed at the Apex Conference are acceptable under the advisory element of the rule , my branch are only too aware of this .
Four years ago , the Apex conference carried a motion from my branch seeking the continuation of the old Apex rule , providing for Gold badgers at retirement , for members with twenty five years continuous membership .
What happened , the C E C refused to accept the decision .
The Apex conference is finding itself severely restricted on matters it can discuss by this rule .
It needs to be laid down what can and what can not be discussed by an Apex Conference , my branch wish to remove the present restriction and ask for your support .
I move .
Is there a seconder for one one O ?
President , Congress , visitors .
Jed , Midlands and East Coast Region , seconding motion one one O .
What this motion quite clearly seeks to do is to widen debate at our Apex section conference .
It 's my firm belief that if we continue to stifle debate on general issues at our section conferences then we also restrict the flow of knowledge within the union .
At present , there 's no denying that sectional conferences need some guidelines , I mean you only need one experience like last year 's Apex conference to realize that .
Admittedly the confusion wasn't entirely the fault of the SOC , the mood of the delegates didn't particularly help but the situation was something like this .
We were allowed to debate a motion on homelessness but a motion as a previous speaker has said , on toxic shock syndrome , was ruled out of order , as it fell within the remit of Congress .
Confused ?
So was I .
Was I therefore to assume that homelessness was an issue peculiar only to Apex members within the G M B or was I to reach the alternative , and I might say equally ridiculous conclusion , that despite its majority of women membership , toxic sock , shock syndrome was not of particular interest to Apex members ?
Of course not , well let 's look a little further into the issue .
Section conferences are composed of delegates , who in the main will never get to Congress .
If we limit the forum for debate on important issues , such as T S S or for instance , racist attacks , to Congress , then many section delegates may never be exposed to those debates .
So , as I 've already said , we need some guidelines but are the existing ones the right ones ?
I would suggest not .
I personally would prefer us to be looking at some way of allowing greater scope for debate at section conferences , and where necessary to have decisions on general issues deferred to Congress for ratification or withdrawal .
Remember Wider Democracy ?
Well , if we 're really into wider democracy we ought to be promoting wider debate , please support .
One five three , London Region to move .
John , London Regional Committee .
Moving motion one five three , unemployed members qualification for office .
Now there should n't be any terrible complexity about these series of motions that we 're considering now .
The motion that we are proposing is fundamentally straightforward .
It simply recognizes the importance of retaining the experience of G M B activists in a situation like now where thousands upon thousands are being made redundant and in many cases victimized for trade union activity .
So , what are we saying ?
That as they 've been made redundant , as they 've been victimized for trade union activity possibly , we then as a union decide that they can not stand for office ?
That is what the section report says in certain aspects of it .
Rule amendment treble one A , which the General Secretary also took the opportunity to move , does not fully address that situation .
It makes it far more complex than it should be .
It introduces , as has been pointed out by numerous speakers , the famous eighteen month rule .
So it effectively disenfranchises unemployed , long term unemployed people from being active in that section .
It 's clear to me and I think it 's clear to the vast majority in Congress that it 's a matter for branches to decide who represents them in the various forums of the union .
It 's not a matter for ruling people out because they 've become unemployed , through no fault of their own , absolutely not .
So I 've got ta say , that in terms of credibility it 's , and the Regional Sec er , the General Secretary made the point about credibility within those sections , and within that , those elections , it 's for the branches to , to actually decide who represents them credibly or not and for this , for any attempt to change rule in this particular way .
We therefore have got to oppose rule amendment one one one A as well as oppose the Sectional and Industrial Conference Report for the same reason .
Both of them in their own separate ways seek to disenfranchise unemployed members .
It 's very simple Congress , if you support motion one five three this probably will never happen again and we won't have the situation where there 's an attempt to disenfranchise unemployed members .
I move .
Is there a seconder for one five three ?
One five three seconded .
Formally seconded .
One five six , London Region to move .
President , Congress .
Dave , London Region .
Public Services Section , moving motion one five six , section conferences .
Congress , as we are all aware , since nineteen eighty eight , this union has moved to sectionalization of its membership according to their trade .
For example , local authority workers , like myself , to the public services section to the energies and utilities section .
A very good concept and is probably working .
The difficulty seems to arise within the membership in knowing exactly what areas of responsibility each section has , what are the rules of debate for sectional conferences , are decisions taken at sectional conferences binding on the union rulebook relating to that section and within all of this sectionalization , what role does the Apex conference now play , as those members , like myself , are presumably within one of the other sections too .
Therefore Congress , we must call on the C E C to answer the confusion in plain English , so that I , and I'm sure many other of our members , can understand in the form of a document circulated to the branches so that we can go forward into the future at least understanding where we fit into our own union .
And then with that understanding I am sure many more members will want to become delegates to sectional conferences , armed with a clear and concise guidelines .
Congress , I move .
Seconder for one five six .
Thank you .
Motion one six three , Birmingham Region to move .
Rose , Birmingham Region .
President , Congress .
Motion one six three seeks to ensure that no pre-conference delegates ' meetings are held prior to sections , regional and national conferences .
I believe the C E C are accepting this motion and therefore the principle that 's contained therein .
In view of this and after many years of being in the movement and being active in the movement , I know when to quit when I'm winning , so I move motion one six three .
Thank you , Rose .
Is one six three seconded ?
Formally seconded ?
Thanks very much indeed .
Colleagues , I now invite er , delegates from the regions who may wish to make a contribution on the special report .
Birmingham Region first of all , do you wish to put a speaker in ?
It would be helpful again colleagues if er , potential speakers er , will come down to the front .
Sorry , are you speaking on this colleague ?
Yes , well you 'd need to come , oh you 're going round that way .
Okay .
Er , Jim , Birmingham , West er , Midlands er , supporting er , the sectionalization of the union because erm , we were told a few months ago it was passed for nineteen ninety one .
Now I heard John speaking about sections a minute ago and he said we need guidelines .
The reasons that we need guidelines now is we hadn't time to study them at the time and up to the present moment , as far as I'm aware there 's one section that 's just been formed a couple of months ago .
So , we didn't have time to study them to see exactly where they are , to see what relationship between congress , the C E C and the sections .
Now , up to now we 've met , it 's probably a step forward but it will need careful monitoring because there is utter confusion as far as I'm concerned with , I don't know whether Apex is a sister union with us or a section and I don't think Apex know the difference themselves .
The other problem we 've got , and I will call it a problem , is the relationship to beat with , with the sections and elections to regional councils , in the union , where there 's not enough people or just barely enough people to stand for a section and they 're automatically elected .
Now that can create problems between one person who 's elected and a person who is not elected .
Now that would need looking at , otherwise Birmingham and West Midlands er , accept the sectionalization .
Thanks very much indeed , Lancashire Region
John , Lancashire Region .
President , Congress .
My experience of the new sections are working , doesn't fill me with any enthusiasm .
I accept that they are a new concept and they may be an , an improvement in time .
Nevertheless , I am concerned in three areas .
The first and the most important is accountability of this Congress .
All the national officers are held to account , they have to give a report of their activities and delegates can challenge them .
Motions can be put forward and ones carried become the mandate for those officers .
The section conferences are a merely advisory body .
Motions debated , even if they are carried , do not become a mandate .
The officers just take their advice , this is not accountability .
If a motion about a particular industry can not be placed on the agenda , that of our congress then we lose the accountability .
It is essential that this right is not lost .
The second is the expense .
As the number of sections grow , another one is planned with the then the cost of having these section conferences will , I believe , become astronomical .
We 've had the debate over whether or not we want our annual conference and that argument was won .
Despite the cost we voted for our annual conference and I have a feeling the argument will be back again some time in the future , based on the fact of having sectional conferences and an annual congress , the cost is too high .
The General Secretary and the C E C have to be quite clear , the cost will have to met by other means than altering our annual congress .
The third is the condition imposed on who can attend as a full voting delegate .
The present rule denies any delegate who 's been out of the industry for eighteen months is discarded .
What right has anybody , other than the members in that section deciding for themselves who represents them ?
We may have members who been unemployed longer than eighteen months .
What right has the C E C to say they can't ?
If the members of a section want to vote for a full-time branch secretary , there was a member of that section , who 's been a full time branch secretary for longer than eighteen months , what right has anyone got to say they can't ?
It 's disgraceful .
The next thing is that when the vote comes to the General Secretary for the union , anyone who 's been out of the particular industry for longer than eighteen months won't be able to vote .
We wouldn't accept that and why should we accept this for this section ?
If the General Secretary and the C E C are prepared to take the regions ' concerns into account and adjust or alter the way the new sections are organized then we will support .
If he can't give that assurance in his summing up , then we will be opposing .
Thank you .
Thank you John , Southwestern Region .
Chair , Conference .
Sheila , Southwestern Region .
As John has already told you I'm sure you will all remember the debate last year , the wider democracy and I s I'm sure you remember you overturned it .
Well colleagues , I hope that the guidelines for section document this year is supported .
Colleagues , this document is surely the way forward for a progressive union which represents so many , many members spread over all aspects of industry .
And in the scope and authority section of the document it gives the right for section conferences to have the authority to discuss and decide strategic issues affecting their industries .
Surely this must be the way forward for the G M B and a much fairer and democratic way for our grass root members , who after all are the backbone of this industry , it 's their we discuss at our section conferences , it 's their wages , it 's their terms .
They have a right , they have an import .
The Southwestern Region supports the document .
Yorkshire Region .
Ron , Yorkshire , North Derbyshire Region , speaking in support of the special report on sections and industrial conferences .
President , Congress .
Yorkshire and Yor North Derbyshire Region welcomes this report which will standardize the structures of all the sections of the union .
It will also ensure that decisions which affect our members are made by the activists employed by within the appropriate sections and industries .
This will lead to greater accountability which I am sure will be welcomed by Congress .
Sections are the best way forward for the union .
Following the est the establishment of the public services section , I was lucky enough to be a delegate at the conference held in April .
At that conference the number of delegates allowed for more lay activists to be involved .
We achieved a better profile and there was more positive debate about recruitment and retention .
All delegates were in attendance at all times throughout the conference .
Structures that increase participation , encourage debate and widens representation and gives responsibility to activists to develop policies that affect the future of their industries will strengthen the , the sections of the union .
Yorkshire , North Derbyshire Region commend the report to Congress .
Northern Region .
President , Congress .
Peter , Northern Region , supporting the special report .
Congress , last year the Northern Region voted against the special report titled Wider Democracy , which is very similar to this report .
Similar , colleagues , but not the same .
The Wider Democracy , as we all remember had one important difference .
It called for an end to our tradition of holding an annual conference .
Well , Congress , on two separate occasions the Northern Region informed the C E C that without the attack on an annual conference we will be pleased to support secal sectionalization .
Well , colleagues , eventually two years on , finally the C E C has listened .
They have removed the attack on our conference and at last we can now get on together to build a better union .
Congress , on that basis , the Northern Region supports the report .
Conference , I move .
Southern Region .
Orelia , Southern Region , speaking in support of the special reports .
President , Congress .
There is a need for consistent approach in regard to sectional conferences .
To avoid to sectional conferences , to avoid the current confusion as a result of the changes within the union .
The proposer provides the opportunity for conferences to deal with the industrial and political issues in a more rational way .
Regional and national conferences will deal with industrial based issues , leaving the sectional conferences to decide .
This structure will also show that our members ' contributions are spent in an acceptive and efficient manner .
This proposers will give the sections credibility and affirm the G M B as an amalgamation , friendly union .
Southern Region supports the report and urges Congress to do likewise .
Support .
Thank you very much Orelia .
Scotland .
G M B Scotland No Scotland , G M B Scotland .
I need it this time .
Conference , chair .
Mary , G M B Scotland .
Congress , Scotland supports the report for industrial conferences .
It 's the way forward to attract and meet the needs of other unions and possible amalgamations and merges .
I am speaking from my own personal situation .
We came to the G M B from the workers .
Many in our branch recognize the need for the strength , the baddening , the experience , the equal rights , health and safety , training opportunities within a large union , but they were also very worried about losing our own identity .
Within a union as large , as diverse , as it is , the sectional conference has , in our case , helped allay many of these fears and concerns and our own clothing and textile industry is still as active as ever .
I support .
Midland Region I say you aye .
You 're not from the Midland Region .
Transfer you if you want .
Er Steve , Midlands and East Coast .
Er , colleagues , Congress ninety two defeated the special report on Wider Democracy as is mentioned in this report and as John has previously mentioned .
Er , and it was plainly obvious why .
But as with most documents that come as packages er , we either have to accept the good with the bad or say no , and enough 's enough .
Now , last year in defeating Wider Democracy we did leave ourselves er , in limbo somewhat , with regard to the sectional , industrial conferences .
Er , I'm personally glad to see the appearance of this document so that we can clarify the situation with regards to these conferences .
The recently formed energy and utility section held its conferences , regional and national , earlier this year , and from the report-backs I received er , they were a great success .
The conferences were held actually , shall we say according to these guidelines that you have before you erm , and it was felt that the remit of these conferences has already and will in the future erm , increase democracy , accountability and the efficiency in decision making processes in our union .
The Midland and East Coast are supporting the document based on our region 's successful experience of our sectional conferences and the need for these guidelines to be adopted along with the rule amendment , so as to enable future sectional conferences and delegate conferences to know exactly where they stand .
Now , we did have a , a very heated discussion and concern was expressed regarding the rules governing eligibility , section and conferences for delegates which excludes those who have not worked in the industry or craft or trade for eighteen months prior to their nomination .
Now , we could be denying a lot of very experienced noble colleagues the opportunity to contribute to debates , quite probably through no fault of their own , as we all realize .
But it was felt though , that it was necessary to support the document in order to clear up a rather unsatisfactory situation er , where we 're holding sectional and delegate conferences that don't have remits and guidelines er , which can clarify their position .
I 've been asked to ask er , a question also on appendix three , procedures for regional delegate conferences where it states that copies of the reports of regional delegate conferences shall be forwarded , forwarded to the regional secretary .
Erm , the appropriate national industrial officers branch secretaries and the main workplaces in the industry .
We would ask , because it 's not actually clear erm , what that means , that the report from regional delegate conferences could be forwarded to all the G M B representatives at the main workplaces so as to keep all our members fully informed of the proceedings er , say again , the er , Midland and East Coast are supporting the document .
Thanks very much colleagues .
Well , I lasted .
Right , , London Region .
Speaking on a proposed section conferences guidelines and of course , rule A five .
President , Congress .
I 'll speak on behalf of the London Region against the sectional conferences report and also , of course , rule A five .
And our main concern is that it is victimization , the unemployed , in some cases , it will also victimize the sick and the disabled .
Hang on , where am I ?
That no member of the union should be prevented from holding office or be active in any part of this union simply because they are unemployed , sick or disabled .
But most of all , it 's an attack .
But most of it 's an attack by our own union against what has been in the past the most active members of this union .
It 's important that when a member is made redundant that he keep in contact with his industry , so that he 's in a position to be able to regain employment and also regain employment for his , for his or her fellow unemployed .
And what a better place to achieve this , industrial conferences in our own union .
Come on John , think again .
And what is long term unemployment in this day and age ?
I can assure you , it 's nearer to five years than eighteen months .
The eighteen months out of Trade Rule made some sense when this great nation of ours had something resembling full-time employment .
And that was twenty five to thirty five , forty years ago .
But today , with highest unemployment levels for many years , it 's not the highest ever in some of our own regions , it 's a lot of nonsense .
John , all this will do is make , is make re is make it , hang on , I lost it .
Hang on John , all this will do is make at least a quarter of our own members , in this union , to be inactive in their own industries .
I say it 's a vicious attack , that 's been set upon them , by this vicious Tory government , over the last fourteen years is not enough .
John , two years ago we invited you to and introduced you to the Chamber of Commons , among other places , as a modern trade union leader .
But this victimization against some members of this union is not an act it 's not an act of a modern trade union leader .
It is an act of lunacy .
Congress , both I and the London Region urge you to oppose this new rule A five and all the boilermakers as well .
We know that in this day and age it 's unworkable .
Congress , please , careful on how you vote .
Mould this lot of nonsense down , because me as a boilermaker had to live forty four years and there ai n't enough people are still working to be able to run the sections .
Thank you .
Liverpool Region .
Ian , Liverpool , North Wales and Irish Region .
Our region 's got a free vote on this document so in that sense I'm not necessarily expressing the views of the region .
People 'll have to come to their own conclusions .
In relation to the Special Document , whilst I support the document er , as far as it goes with one exception , and that 's in relation to the unemployed members , but whilst I support it as far as it goes , I don't believe it goes far enough .
I don't believed it has addressed a number of issues .
It does not address the question of the establishments of regional committees of sections .
It does not address the question of establishing regional conferences within the section in order that delegates can be elected to the national conferences .
And also , it doesn't address the problems of the anomalies which exist between the various sections .
I am a member of the largest section of this union , that 's the public services section , yet we are only entitled to a hundred and fifty delegates when we have two hundred and twenty thousand members nationally .
Those anomalies need to be addressed with the er , establishment of another section , when amalgamate with our trade union .
No doubt they will have their own terms .
One of the ideas of the C E C setting out guidelines is in order to bring some consistency to proceedings .
Well , we 've not got consistency when you 've got different rules for Apex , different rules for CAT , different rules for , different rules for the public services .
I think the C E C need to carefully think out er , the way they wanna go forward .
Last year the document was defeated .
I think the reason for the defeat was mainly due to the , the biannual conference issue .
The C E C have had twelve months , the sections have been up and running , they should have learnt from the experiences over the last twelve months because all that they 've done is presented us with the same document with the exclusion of the one issue of the two year conference .
The final point I wanna make , we in Liverpool , more than anywhere else , understand the consequences of unemployment .
But we also understand the consequences of political unemployment .
We 've seen activists sacked , we 've seen activists been unable to , to get a job .
They go on a list and they can not get work simply because they 've been activists .
Let not our union discriminate against the activists like the bosses do .
Colleagues , I call upon the General Secretary to respond to the debate .
Well colleagues , John er , General Secretary speaking on behalf of the C E C .
First of all , the section guidelines .
There was , I'm glad to er , note widespread support for the section guidelines , as one colleague says , we were left in something of a limbo and we 've got ta fill that gap .
Taking some of the questions that were raised I think we can deal with them quite easily .
It 's certainly the case that we need more publicity for the sectional structure and you have a broadsheet which is being circulated , which starts the process of publicizing the structure of the union , how the regional and industrial structure works together .
Accountability was raised by John .
Well , the national secretary 's national officers are of course accountable to the C E C , they are accountable to congress , the introduction of section conferences means that they have another , an additional level of accountability , which doesn't replace the accountability to the C E C or to Congress , but supplements it and subjects them of course to a closer scrutiny and a closer contact with the major activists in a whole sector of employment .
That seems to me to be a major step forward and a number of delegates accepted that .
The cost , there is no doubt the section conferences will cost money .
That was a point made very strongly last year .
The intention , however , as is clear from the document , is to cut back on the number of industrial conferences as that work is being swallowed up by the section conferences and as Robert in seconding the report made perfectly clear , industrial conferences , now called delegate conferences will only be held if there is a negotiating body for which the delegate conference has to frame policy , or in a number of other very limited situations .
The role of the whole time branch secretary was raised and we , what we 've done here , is to continue the practice that operated in respect of national industrial conferences , and it says on page four , as is currently the case for national industrial conferences full-time officials and branch secretaries not working in the industry may attend by arrangement between the region and the section secretary with the right to speak but not to vote .
We 've just rolled over exactly the same rule , exactly the same provision .
Er , Ian , Ian made the point about some inconsistency and there is some inconsistency between the section conferences .
This is an attempt to bring a greater level of uniformity than we have achieved so far , but we are bound by agreements made at the time of amalgamation and we can not undermine or contradict those particular decisions , and that 's why in a few cases , particularly in relation to the size of conference , there is some slight imbalance .
That 's not something we can address immediately , while the ink on the amalgamation document is still wet .
Regional delegate conferences .
Well , we 're going to try to provide the first steps towards uniformity .
We may have to follow up with other arrangements in the future .
But we need to fill the gap , and by the way colleagues , I think it is appropriate , just to end this particular section of my reply with the comment that at the public services section conference from our count forty percent of the delegates there had never been to a G M B conference before .
The argument about the establishment of sections was about industrial identity and it was also about widening the democracy within the organization , bringing in more activists , giving them a say in their own conditions of service and in the strategic issues affecting their industry .
Forty percent additional delegates brought into the decision making structure seems to me to be a fine tribute to the establishment of the sectional structure .
Motion one one O colleagues , we have asked you to oppose .
This is the motion that says that the Apex conference would be able to debate issues of a general nature which are appropriate for this Congress , the decision making body of the union and for no other conference in the union .
There 's no point in trying to fudge this , you can only have one governing body and this is it .
If you try and fudge it and set up three or four , say they can all discuss the same thing , you are building in the ability for major conflicts .
If people want to discuss matters of general concern , they must get themselves elected to this Congress .
If they want to establish questions of industrial concern , they should get themselves elected to the section conferences .
I know there 's some unhappiness in the Apex conference about the way things went in the past , I give this small amount of advice .
The Apex conference must come to terms with the nature of that amalgamation and that said that the Apex conference would concern itself with matters of interest to white collar workers .
Matters of general interest have always been reserved here .
We can't compromise on that principle , we have to ask you to oppose motion one one O .
And now we come to the difficult issue of the amendment to A five , one one one A .
Many of the points that were made , in fact I think all of them , were made in the discussion within the C E C .
Is it unfair to ex er , isn't it unfair to exclude unemployed members from any part of the union structure , isn't this a kick in the teeth , isn't this a way of undermining the position of unemployed workers ?
All of those points were made .
On the other , just wait a moment and we 'll come to the other side of the argument because the argument is carefully and evenly balanced .
The other side of the argument is this .
From time to time national committees will have to take hard decisions about the strategy for that particular sector , that 's what they 're there for .
And from time to time because they will take those hard decisions , those decisions may not be popular .
And they will then be asked to demonstrate their credibility .
And if , and this is not a theoretical point , it 's happened in another union , if the majority or a large number of people in that sector , on that committee are not working or have not recently worked in the sector , then tensions will begin to arise , concerning those members who are working at the moment , and say hey , hold on a minute , perhaps people working in the industry should make these hard decisions .
The question doesn't apply in respect of the conferences .
We 've said people can go to the conferences with the right to speak , not the right to vote , because that principle applies , but the right to speak .
They can go there as they did with the industrial conferences , but we have to make this careful balance between parts of our membership .
We 're not making the thin end of the wedge , we 're going to support the motion from London Region .
The general statement of commitment for unemployed workers , the unemployed people , the general statement of commitment to ensure that they are not excluded from parts of the union .
But this is the industrial decision making body of the union .
That 's what the section committee is there for and the C E C after balancing these arguments decided that with all of the limitations , with all of the stretching of points and so on , on that basis , we should come down and recommend to you that only people who work in the section should be eligible for election .
That 's my reply to the debate on that point and colleagues , thank you .
I move one one one A , reply to the debate on the other issues .
Right colleagues , I propose to take the vote now .
On the special report , section and industrial conferences you 've been recommended to accept by the C E C .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Motion one one one A , rule amendment , rule A five , the C E C motion , being recommended to accept .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's lost .
It 's going to be terribly demoralizing this , for the C E C colleagues .
don't make a habit of it , please .
Motion one one O , rule amendment , rule A three .
Will the Midland Region withdraw ?
No , okay .
C E C are recommending you to oppose that particular motion , motion one one O .
All those in favour of the motion ?
Against ?
That 's lost .
Motion one five three , you 're being recommended to accept .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Motion one five six .
Again you 're being recommended to accept .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Motion one six three , you 're being recommended to accept .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Colleagues , I now call Mick to deliver his report on public services section .
That will be followed by er , a very lengthy debate on the public services .
Mick colleagues .
Mick , just before you start .
Colleagues , I know that people are starting to move out , and I'm sure that it 's got nothing to do with Mick 's appearance at the rostrum , but colleagues seriously , seriously for the last couple of days we 've had a great deal of disciplines so please try and be as quiet as possible .
Mick .
I wouldn't bank on it .
Thank you President .
Congress , Mick , National Office .
It 's now fifteen months since the Tories were elected for a fourth term and what 've we seen since that election ?
More of the same .
More attacks on public services , more attacks on workers rights , more privatization .
Attacks affecting the old , the sick , the young , the homeless .
Those members of our society most needing and most deserving of our quality public services .
In local government alone , between now and April nineteen ninety four , it 's been estimated that anything between thirty three thousand and a hundred thousand jobs will be lost .
Our own , jointly commissioned with the T & G ke community , showed a loss of seventy thousand jobs and a deficit of seventy one million pounds .
Since nineteen eighty eight , again local government alone has shed over five percent of its workforce .
The new round of compulsory , the reorganization of local government will threaten many more jobs .
Many of those jobs will be white collar workers .
The figures for the health service are no different .
Our union , Congress , can not stand back and witness thousands of public servants , many of them our members , become yet another statistic in the unemployment figures .
As a union we need to build a broad coalition with the providers and the users of public services and if necessary , with the employers .
We have got to protect not only our members ' rights , but our public services , and from this conference today we 've got to make it quite clear , to central government , that we demand investment in our public services .
We demand investment in the infrastructure .
We must demand investment in training , in education , in order that we can provide those quality services .
At a time when across Europe governments have been devolving power downwards , in Britain we now have a system of central control , unparalleled outside of the former Soviet Union .
But we should not be surprised by the Tories ' attack on public services .
We all know their attitude , public is bad , private is good .
As long ago as nineteen eighty six , the treasury stated in a supposed confidential document and I quote , most of the savings from contracting out are because contractors can offer poorer conditions of employment , contractors can eliminate costly bonus schemes , overtime pay and provide little , if any , sick pay and also avoid National Insurance contributions by means of part-time work .
All of those that we have fought to build up through national and local bargaining over many years .
And we 've got an example here today , colleagues , of the Tory dogma on public services .
Within the balcony we 've got representatives from Tylers at Crawley , representatives of twenty three of our colleagues , who have been on strike for twenty weeks in defence of jobs , in defence of pay and equally important , in defence of safety standards
and I applaud our colleagues from Crawley .
We 've got ta expand upon the magnificent work that the Southern Region and our colleagues have done , and if necessary we 've got ta take our campaign against Tylers to national level .
Our ongoing successes with and the acquired rights directive will eventually put a halt to the attacks on public workers ' rights .
However colleagues , let 's be quite clear , that is not the end of competitive tendering .
It is not the panacea to all our ills and also we 've got ta make it quite clear to the Labour Party that they can not use and the acquired rights directive to include compulsion in competitive tendering .
Competition , yes , compulsion , no .
But the attacks upon services is not the full story .
In addition to the attacks on jobs , public sector workers , many of them who are poorly paid , part-time , many of them women workers now face an effective cut as the government attempts to restrict pay increases this year to less than one point five percent .
Even by the Tories own , this pay policy will remove some one point five billion pounds from the pay packets of over eight point six million public sector workers .
I would suggest to this conference and more importantly to this government , that that is no way to lift this country out of the recession and it 's no way for us to run an economy .
And now we hear rumours that Lamont 's successor is now actually talking about extending that pay restraint into nineteen ninety four .
The message from our Congress must be quite clear .
You 're not on , we will not be made the scapegoats , with public sector workers will not pay for the Tories ' mismanagement of the economy .
I 've spoken about jobs , I 've spoken about services , I 've spoken about pay .
But the other evil part of the government 's attack on public services is that it is an attack upon democracy .
In the past the electorate had had their say by holding accountable , either centrally elected or locally elected officials .
We had deb democratically elected representatives on our health authorities , on our schools and on our planning authorities .
That 's not the case now colleagues .
Government appointees , over forty thousand a lot of them Tory grandees or supporters of the Tory Party , now populate unelected quangos which control many of our public services .
Our commitment to quality public services , they 're efficiently run , publicly accountable and operated without exploiting workers , must be and will be our main goal .
Quality public services provided by public sector workers , funded by public money , responsible and responsive to the public .
Our union with its long and its proud history in the public sector does not seek confrontation .
We seek cooperation .
But the message must be quite clear .
We will fight to protect our members , our services and our democracy .
I commend my report .
Colleagues , we are gonna deal with that section of Mick 's report that deals with the public services and that commences on page thirty four , thirty five , yes .
Er , , East London region .
Where is it , oh yeah .
It sounded good Mick , I mean it 's your first year and I wasn't gonna come up here , but I thought I might as well start as I mean to go on .
When I read your page I felt like I was listening to a Party Political Broadcast of the Labour Party .
You know , telling us everything about the Tories , what they 've done wrong and to go on from that , not telling us anything about how you 're gonna put it right .
Well , you know , Donald came up here year after year and took a real tongue lashing and you didn't really put anything down there that could be criticized this year but you said we 're gonna fight .
Are we gonna fight , how we gonna fight , because the local authority people are fed up with doing all the giving .
Local negotiators like me take a lot of stick and I'm just gonna pass that stick straight on to you , because my members tell me all the time , I pay one thirty five a week , well so do I .
So I want a service and I want the service from you .
And I'm looking for you to satisfy me because I haven't found a man to do it yet .
Er , thirty five
Follow that .
Er Liz , Midlands and East Coast Region .
Mick , you your report rightly identifies community care as a services our members ' job security and working conditions .
I will be grateful for any information you may have on private home care cooperative .
With the systems from the local authority and the cooperative development agency , a pilot scheme has been set up in my area .
Is this peculiar to Leicestershire or is it the shape of things to come , because my members are concerned .
They really believe , and I also believe that this is a back door entry to privatization .
Thirty six , thirty seven , thirty eight .
Yes .
Dave , London Region .
Erm , under compulsory competitive tendering , Mick .
I 'd like to know why it 's taken so long for this union to work again er , with the regulations in public services .
At a recent training course that I 've been on apparently public services could have been protected since nineteen eighty one .
Why is it only recently that we have started taking cases up ?
It 's all very well earning compensation for our members but what we want in public services is our jobs , not compensation .
to Fulham One branch , London Region .
Mick , what I 'd like to know is and this links in with our other discussions this morning and also something that Mary er , mentioned yesterday .
Jack wrote an article in Tribune saying that C C T was a good thing in some respects .
Now I know that many people out there are absolutely appalled by this .
Now , I 'd like to know Mick , does Jack talk to you , does he talk to your counterpart in the T & G ?
If s if he doesn't why not and would , would you please tell us what possessed him to come out with such a , a remarkable statement and I think this goes to the what we 're talking about this morning .
People like Jack are supposed to represent us in Parliament and he comes out with nonsense like that .
Thirty nine Yes , Duncan .
Duncan , Lancashire Region .
I wanted to base some comments about the UNISON 's er , section of the report because er , I think it 's

Okay Ron there are , thanks for coming over for a start , there are you 've got all the er the brochure and the er obviously the application form .
The first time I 've had a chance to have a look through this so could I erm
Yes by all
ask you to while I read this the the six companies where we market our brochures or product
Okay
are represented there .
Er for your background there 's a there 's obviously a a ha an obvious group but er those are the six companies .
If I can just er read through this .
That company we bought erm in June last year so it 's er a fairly newish launch for us but they 're
I 've an idea myself for the golf er
Mhm .
and that was erm supplying them with a complete mar tee marker board with a plan of the hole and an advert on that particular hole .
Oh you oh you mean up on the board or
On the board .
Yes okay .
Advertise sell that hole and er just basically supply the tee markers free of charge .
Yes all the er tees on our my own my own course are er sponsored by local businesses .
Well that 's what I was going to personally
that 's individual eighteen holes mind you know .
Yeah .
What I was going to do was erm just get a good quality joiner have he gives me a price for doing that and then I basically sell the advertising .
Okay .
Yeah that he we 've just completed up here and one or two others er so we 're we 're getting some big boys in now .
But you 've not you 've not done that particular idea , tees ?
No no we 've we 're we are er publishers printers that 's where our background is .
That 's where we 've been for the last twenty years so erm this company er that was already doing it and we bought it into the er into the fold .
Okay .
Er can I just pick up on one or two points er Ron .
Erm at present you are employed by and you you 've got own you 've got a company car .
Have you got your own car ?
Er no but that 's no problem to buy a car .
Well if you think it 's no problem fine .
So rather than have er two cars plus a company car I just sold my car .
Well I understand that I mean a lot of people do that .
Erm however erm a company er a car is needed to do this job so I I home in on that .
Er when we have erm when you come down for , you know if if if we decide that this is for you , er when you come down for a training course they expect to see a car .
You know in other words
will help me driving .
In other words erm they won't allocate an assignment unless you have er have a car .
It 's as simple as that cos we could send you off to St Andrews or something like that to er to well I'm just I'm homing in on the erm on the golf on the basis that I you you 're er you 're representative for a a company that does is involved with golf equipment .
Yep ?
Erm sports or just golf industry .
Mhm .
Oh I 've seen there in fact my wife 's got a set of Howsons so
Has she ?
Is that the
Yes .
Yeah .
Erm you 've been with them since August .
Er what why are you er ?
Well quite simply er my reason is that erm I 'll read the letter to you that I dictated to the Sales Manager a week ago .
Right .
It says , To Mr Sales and Marketing Direct .
Dear Graham , Further to our recent conversation by telephone I now wish to put on paper my complaints regarding you and the company .
You employed me in August nineteen ninety three at to join Sports U K on their behalf .
Your offer of employment was accepted on the terms of the contract agreed that if my figures attained would reach your targets I could earn twenty five thousand per annum minimum .
The salary would base as my basic salary plus commission plus bonuses on a monthly basis and most importantly the promise that because the basic wage was so low , the lowest in the golf industry by your own words , er that there was to be a rise of approximately four thousand in January nineteen ninety four .
Which you repeated many times to the sales reps and that you also would be have er would get us new cars .
The cars were honoured as agreed .
I also took on the position knowingly of the bad reputation in Scotland of Sports to the trade regarding hotel sales of your equipment , but was promised that this practice would be cut out .
It never did and you continued to supply a person who to this date continues to do these hotel sales .
I have also complained to you continually about the loss of orders I have taken from my customers , ie back orders which get lost on the computer or they are not delivered due to the lack of stock .
The customer gives up after a few months waiting .
In the past few months the complaints from my area from my customers that they are disgusted with the service they have received from Sports .
Er at least thirty percent of my business erm have either stopped their accounts or reached the limit of their patience .
With regards to my salary increase of January ninety four , recently you have now stated my increase with be take place in April ninety four .
Another promise broken .
Even though I have reached my monthly target I still receive no bonuses but you tell me I am on target for the large bonus in April .
Er and I have put in brackets , What a month this could be .
I have also found that rep the reps are all on different basic wages .
When challenged about this you replied , Yes , but you have the least experience in the golf industry .
And I have replied er , Who in the past six months has reached their targets percentage targets above mine in the last six months ?
Yeah okay .
I think I 've got your drift .
Basically what I'm doing is
Can I can I just go back hotel sales , is that where they supply er
They are they er are doing a practice which is the only golf company in industry who are supplying a friend of a friend who is going round Scotland doing hotel sales cheap .
Oh yeah all right .
There are so many clubs they should
I think I think I 've been to one or two in York .
Well they 're selling them cheaper than I can supply my customers .
Are your customers mainly
Pro professionals .
On clubs or
Yes .
And shops golf shops ?
Yes .
So basically they 've broken their contract with me and he 's not even responded to that letter .
So
But his response is likely to be well part company , is that it ?
I anticipating that is what response will be because I have er basically called him and er
Okay .
If that 's his case then I 'll take him for breach of contract .
Okay .
On the basis of that you 're actively looking around ?
Yes .
Okay .
Now my colleague John spoke with you and he he outlined as much as he possibly can on the on the space on the telephone .
Erm and his interests in you was twofold .
First of all he heard the voice was okay .
Yes .
Because he would have told you I hope that er we sell advertising space into , well you 've seen some samples over there .
Er I'm going to step , sorry before I go into a bit more detail in your C on your er application form , three things will be decided here today Ron and that 's first of all whether you and I think that er is a lau a launch pad for you to earn erm er some good money
Yes .
and er I'm sure John will have told you how good the money can be if if we
We didn't get to depth and and
All right .
I I we 're only talking ever averages and on target earnings .
We don't promise or guarantee anything .
What we do say is that we will give you an opportunity erm er if you like a platform for er for earning good money
Yes .
and er it is all down to the graft er an individual puts into it .
The only reason er top earners are top earners in our company is they don't sit back and take one deal a day
That 's right
they feel comfortable
Er er if there if there 's a part there I 've dis I think I 've answered that question in er personal at the end
Over over here ?
Yep .
Erm I think just I 've answered that just probably the way you put it .
Yep .
I er in fact you 've wrapped it up in one sentence .
That 's the only way that any I believe anybody even when they 're on a salary .
Because salary company car BUPA and all that is only commission in another form and they can take it away and and not give it to you just the same as any other company .
Erm well okay so we 'll decide today er you and me whether we feel 's the right er er space for you to be .
Erm and you realize of course that it 's self employed commission only hence the need for the car .
Er secondly if we get a if we if we get round that that er corner then the other two are fairly easily decidable and that is er where you and I also think erm your talents and your even your desire to be environmentally , that 's the environment you work in erm most er suitable .
There are six companies there er five of which erm I can recruit for .
I'm in the luxurious position of not just saying that one person comes in here for one job .
Yes .
Erm I have four or five people I can take on for any one of those companies so nobody 's in competition with
Yes .
each other today .
And secondly erm because we 're rather keen for people to er carry on the momentum we actually say to you when can you start and if it 's next week wonderful .
If it 's the week after fine .
The further out of course it 's a bit a bit messy .
And so we are we look for that sort of commitment before people leave er the room today .
And I would tell you ninety nine percent of the time we get it and you know we s we s we do agree a date .
Er that depends entirely on which company you go in because erm er some of the courses start at different er times .
If we 've agreed all those three things er we also erm er recognize the need to to erm advise people or guide people on how advertising 's sold .
I see from your application form that you 've sold space er for three or four years which
Well I have been er involved in various projects .
Erm I had a company called and Advertising erm where I went along to a company and would conceive promotion for them .
Was that your own company ?
Yes .
Yes .
And I would build a package to suit their company .
Er if it was a double glazing company or a kitchen company I would conceive a promotion .
Er there 's one thing I was involved which er unfortunately turned out er was quite national , it was a promotion
What the the disastrous one ?
Yes .
Er well the one I got involved with er was the free flights to er Europe
All right .
which was very successful and er I was one of the instigators of that promotion .
Er but
So everybody else can blame you for this
Well not really .
The the pen to paper I put the con er the package basically together with another two or three people
Aha .
and erm it was then up to to decide what company was going to handle the promotion .
Er their mistake was that they chose a company which was down market and basically didn't go into er depth of that company .
Well that was their fault .
The the concept of the promotion was absolutely brilliant and it could be handled from Europe
Mm .
erm and it was so successful that they asked us again to do one from the United States
Right .
which we says no because it could n't be possibly done .
We believed .
Becau we thought that the should may be too high .
What are you saying that you were the ori the company who were originally asked to do the
My company was involved with er the people who put the promotion together .
Right .
And er quite simply that if they 'd left it alone on a European side because obviously you can get flight from London Gatwick for approximately forty nine pounds
Yeah right .
and we presumed that the redemption would be no more than twenty percent which was pretty high for a promotion .
Right .
Erm as long as as long as the customer went through the channels and the procedures there 'd no more than twenty percent .
So much so that we took out insurance er if it went over twenty percent we were covered .
But then what happened it was so successful for and I think got so greedy on it they decided to go an American
Mm .
er promotion .
But there were two separate companies who set up the the both promotions .
So as you know the American one collapsed and of course were thirty million pounds .
Yeah and there are some people are still fighting to get their er flights right
Yes .
now aren't they ?
And I erm I had various er promotions .
I had er put a promotion together with a few travel agents in Scotland where I gave out holiday spending money .
It was quite simply we we were taking the business away from the high street erm glossy type travel agents and giving it to the back street travel agents .
And as long as he was prepared to give the spending money , ie in the form of a voucher , er we were taking away the market share away from etcetera of this world .
Right .
And that worked very successfully .
Okay this is all part of the promotion and advertising
Yes
time ?
Yes .
Okay .
Because the rest of your er er your application form I mean er gives us a span of er twelve thirteen years in sales
particularly in direct sales .
Vacuums is that vacuum
Yes
cleaners ?
Yes .
cleaning machine was an American machine .
Right , yes I think I 've heard of them .
Yes .
Erm very successful priced basically out of the price the market eventually .
Erm they 're still in the market today but er you 're talking about
Are we talking VAX type things or
No no .
You 're talking about a home care system .
That is a vacuum cleaner , that 's one of the functions it does
Yeah .
but it done approximately thirty odd diff different
Oh well shampoo carpets okay and I suppose er er suites of furniture and things
I had the sales force who called in and done a demonstration in a person 's home .
All right .
So I had to take it from the telesales side to get the appointment to get in the door to do a demonstration and then to do the after sales .
Right okay .
Erm
You cut your teeth there didn't you ?
I erm I was
If not before .
I was a European top salesman with er that company and then moved on as a franchise .
Right .
You seem to erm er you you leapfrog into erm after into electrical appliances again ?
Er yes because obviously I was in that type of field .
Er I was in the market and we came out with a machine that produced lager from top tap worker .
That 's still going isn't it ?
Yes .
And you just poured the water in top press a button and you get draught lager and they have now produced I believe , er it was network marketing , and I wasn't involved I didn't want involved in network marketing and it now produces gin and tonic vodka lemonade .
Well it 's been on er consumer selling
Yes .
Very good product .
Excellent product but er the f the network marketing is not my side and you could not direct selling .
All right .
It 's all done okay .
You had to bring someone into the business and they brought someone into the business and that was their form of selling .
Well that 's that 's big business nowadays .
Yes .
In fact in the State I think twenty percent of er all products are sold through network marketing now
That 's right
In fact the Institute of Directors of which I'm a member er said er that network marketing 's a thing of the future .
Yes definitely .
I mean it started
Yeah if if you 're if you 're happy to get into that .
Can cost you some money but it 's er it 's it 's it 's prefer it 's preferable to er pyramid selling which of course is outlawed now .
The reason I went to erm Sports
Mhm ?
erm which quite simply I had some money of my own and I wasn't that hungry er to jump in to any job at all .
So I wanted to get into something I enjoyed doing .
And I'm a very keen golfer and I had built up a reputation erm by playing in open tour open tournaments and meeting professionals and
Yea .
so I had a lot of contacts and I enjoyed it .
Erm but it unfortunately things have not worked out with er this particular company .
Well no it doesn't sound by that er letter you wrote .
I think you f you felt
I I have done my job .
My targets er have been broken every month .
I had a hundred and twenty seven percent er sorry twenty seven percent above target er for the quarter and most of my other com my sales reps er the other sales reps in the business didn't even reach a hundred percent .
Well how do you feel I mean a lot of a lot if not all of your work here has been done face to face .
Now
Yes .
John will have told you the way we operate er we we we er we
Telephone
only sell on the telephone .
That 's what people .
Well erm you know we 've had a lot of people come to us and say we 've qualified sales by telephone , I don't present that a problem with that , but we have discovered people have not listened to what we 've been saying , even on the training course , when they go out there to sell the space they keep making appointments to go and see people to talk about advertising .
That is not the game .
And as long as somebody realizes that that 's our top people erm do that .
They don't make appointments to go and see people .
What what I mean where do you see yourself fitting into that after
If I if it was sat trying to make an appointment with you for example er and I don't know too much about the product we 're just getting
No fine .
Well there I mean there 's the product there 's
Well give me I 'll give you an example .
If I was phoning you from Publishing and I phoned up G A
Aha .
and I says , Good afternoon could I speak to the person that does advertising etcetera , and I get through to that particular person , and I said , How would you like to save money by us printing all your portfolios free of charge high quality er portfolios it wouldn't cost you a penny .
Right let me stop you there because I think you 've got maybe the wrong end of the stick .
All right .
We don't sell that product to anybody .
No no you give that product away free .
Okay but we don't your the responsibility of the sales consultant here is not to approach the estate agent or the golf to sell that , somebody else does that .
Oh I thought I had to get the estate agent first and then get the space .
No no no no we the the the assignments that are , that 's why I stopped you there
Oh I see
just in case there 's any confusion .
Right okay .
That product there already either exists or we 're going to do it for the first time for an estate agent
Right okay .
and that has been done by a marketing exec who goes round the country contracting with those clients .
Oh right .
This is our client .
So that 's the job there .
That 's the job for our consultant
So okay .
Now let 's let 's say Mr Mr Plumber
So you 're you 're talking to Mr Plumber and you don't even mention our company name
Okay .
you are representing G A
G A
at that er so and so
Okay .
Er good afternoon Mr Smith I'm phoning er from G A General Property Services in such and such
Okay .
Now you you live in the catchment area of that particular company , how would you like to er , how would you like to participating in that particular company 's brochure which is handed out to all the people in your catchment area ?
Whereas if a house is being sold your name is going to be seen on that particular product .
All right .
Now I 'll I 'll stop you there Ron because you 've got the you 've got the drift of it because when we get down to deciding people come on a course then they have
Training .
we we we speak for two days at least in compiling a script .
And that script has been built up over twenty years experience .
But you 've certainly the idea of what it is .
Telesales er telephone erm I have sold products obviously without the customer even seeing me , I 've sold them over the phone .
I am confident on the phone
Mhm .
and
I don't think you 'd have any problem doing this job , I 'll be quite frank with you .
Er I
Not with this background here .
I mean it 's such a variety and it 's involved both face to face and direct sales that er er I know I stopped you right in the middle of your spiel there .
Now what you would say to Mr Plumber , This is this is the whole deal this is what it would cost you .
You see in traditional sales we don't tell people the price until the last minute .
At that particular time I wouldn't tell them anything , all my all at that particular time is waiting for an appointment to see them .
Now that 's what we don't do Ron .
Oh you don't go out and see them .
Absolutely that 's what exactly I'm asking you to listen about .
The reason I'm asking you about that is erm I had er I had when I had my own business I was approached and we 've got an estate agent in the Hamilton called
Oh oh yes big one .
And I had a phone call
Big one in Paisley here too .
I had a phone call from somebody who was obviously be doing exactly the same thing , and he actually just was booking an appointment to come in and see me .
Yeah .
Well in fact it I would be very surprised A if he was one of ours and B if he was successful .
Because quite honestly we tell them absolutely everything on the phone before we we go .
We don't make appointments and chase our tail .
Mhm .
And I 'll tell you from experience .
My first week our there I did that and I didn't earn anything .
Right .
I got to the appoint yes come round Rod I 'd like to talk to about it have a cup of coffee .
And I just spent three quarters of an hour to an hour with him and he said , Well I 've had a look at this erm , no thanks not for me .
Mm .
I had wasted
So you phoned
my journey there .
Oh yes all of those people would have committed on the phone to taking that advertising space .
Okay .
See why I want I wanted to be
Yes yes
absolutely certain .
Because that 's exactly what traditional sales people would do including
Yes .
this boy who 'd been doing it a few years .
Okay .
So and they will te they will tell you that .
Now that 's what the company preaches .
There are going to be one or two occasions of course when it is likely
come come round I want to I 'll I want to see the product .
In the main we tell them exactly
Okay .
what what 's going on .
But you you 've got the drift and as long as I I persuade people to listen to the people who 've been doing it for so long
Obviously .
They know it 's successful .
They know that you don't make appointments and chase your tail .
Because one of the commitments I hope John er may have told you on the phone , one of the parts of the contract we have with G A is that they provide a list of businesses .
Yes .
That 's obviously that 's I would
Yeah now that I 'll come on to that in a minute .
But er that is is half the battle .
Okay .
On the basis that I don't think you 've got any problem doing this and nor do you , you 're confident enough to do this job especially with your background .
Erm if I was to give you an option a choice of which market area you think you would be most happy with , where do you think ?
Where is the market areas , what is the choices ?
Well the choices are estate agents and there are two companies there , that 's one you 're holding there and then the folders at the top .
There 's medical practice areas , that 's working in medical centres and surgeries .
Er schools universities and colleges .
Area health authorities up here which we 're not looking for at the moment and er because the Government is hashing them around and we 're a bit uncertain in that area .
And of course golf clubs .
Well golf clubs erm I mean it 's a bit limited advertising in a in a market er on this particular thing to look at .
You 've got five you 've got probably somewhere in the region of four thousand pounds worth of advertising there .
What in this ?
Mhm .
Okay so they 're paying approximately what
Nine hundred pound for a nine hundred pound for a full page .
Per annum .
Per annum for two years .
Okay .
Er and you 're only needing approximately two or three , you only need two or three
Well the fact that we 've got three there , there there that 's how many we got on that card and we were quite happy about that .
But the card and the planner 's sold together .
Right can I ask you then .
So you 're s you 're saying the plan of the course er when
We call it planners that the yardage chart in fact .
There 's also another thing that a golf course has is a where you want a distance marker .
If you go along to a good quality golf course they have the score card a planner but they also have a little script that tells you about the hole .
Well no we don't go into that .
That 's fi quite expensive to produce .
Right okay so
That 's a stro that would be what you would call a stroke saver .
We would call that , there 's that and the ca and the score card .
So if I had if I had one course to go along and find approximately how many adverts for it ?
Well we 're talking about ten .
Ten adverts ?
That 's five five on each .
Er and of course nine hundred pounds to advertise .
Well that 's if they che if they all took full pages .
Because there 're there are facilities to split the pages and there are small strips .
If you where your hand is now if you look down the bottom , no no on the on the other side there , there are two strips .
Okay .
Two hundred and fifty pound each those are .
Now the question is how much can I earn for doing that
Right well I will go into that if if that
If I were to make my decision obviously
No
because
Well the the same earning ability is across all those products .
The same earning
doesn't doesn't matter which company you go into you have the same er percentage , you have the same thirty percent or thirty five percent depending on how far away it is and you have the same bonus structures .
They all come into being at the same time .
So whichever company or environment we agree is suitable for you .
Well I mean
The natural place would be of course golf clubs .
But you said you were a keen golfer .
Where do you think I see the dangers in that ?
I'm captain of my club this year right ?
I wouldn't trust me on the golf club scene .
You wouldn't trust yourself ?
Why why ?
I could kill the advertising simple .
Probably because you would want to go and play .
Aha .
Erm
So I 'll tell you what , if we put a keen golfer out , and we have we 've we 've put one or two golfers ,
If I
if we put a keen golfer on that it 's even bigger er position of trust .
Well can I say something to you in that case then ?
Yes sure .
I I I visit approximately about thirty golf clubs on a weekly basis
Yeah .
I have never played golf time .
You haven't got time have you .
You haven't got time .
Here we 're talking about basing yourself for three weeks on that same golf course .
Aha .
Doing erm two or three dozen phone calls
Yes .
and getting nowhere and you 're saying I think I'm thor thoroughly annoyed about all this
And I'm going to get nowhere if I get on the golf course .
Yeah that 's right .
No I don't think that worry would be there .
I I have to say that we we I I we just we just see that we point out to people it 's an even bigger po position of trust .
But it would be natural for me to put you in the golf club area .
Er well I don't think I 'd be I don't think I 'd be going out to play golf if I hadn't earned any money .
That 's right .
Er
Well
I 'd go hungrier .
So are we are we talking er do you see this as a as a as a launch pad ?
How well have you done on the golf courses ?
Well the one those since since June we 're doing quite well .
Mhm .
We did we 've just completed we 've done three or four others .
But I don't I have to keep in touch of course with all companies how we 're doing .
So I don't go specifically into that .
Yeah .
Next question is
Aha ?
The golf course is no problem because you 're getting it done free of charge .
That that 's easy for you to get a golf course .
Yeah we we have no problem with that .
Is that an up market golf or is it just
No .
Any type of golf course
Any golf course that wants those providing they can tell us that there 's erm there 's going to be a useful amount of sponsorship you know er advertising available for us to approach .
Mhm .
But it would be no good to them and say well you know right in the middle of nowhere , cow er sheep or cow country , there are a number of courses we wouldn't touch because we wouldn't be able to get enough sus er you know even with five erm major businesses .
There there I have to say there 'd be very few .
Right .
Can I approach my own golf clubs or is that going to be done through you ?
No you must not do that yourself .
It 's got to be done by you .
Yeah if if you know of one because we we have cir you know we have circulated and we have a sales exec that goes out
Yes .
to the courses .
Erm that doesn't mean to say that you can't mention it .
Mhm .
But you see you will be so busy
Just I know the topography probably better than erm
Oh sure .
the person that 's doing it , just er no disrespect but he 's probably coming from over the border
No no they 're all Scots people up here .
Ah right .
Okay .
We 're only having two or three up here anyway for the for the .
And you 're saying that one golf course I could be there for two or three weeks ?
Two to three weeks .
We have to get off after three weeks .
What is my earning potential in that golf course for that two or three weeks ?
Right well I 'll go through that in detail so we 're talking about that .
Okay I 'll show you the details .
Well looking at that I wouldn't I 'd like to leave it a wee while my options open because in the in the
Sorry how d'ya how d'ya mean ?
Because I feel there 's also a possibility that in erm private private er homes etcetera there 's a big market erm for producing your private .
And in Scotland just now there 's an awful lot of erm private homes open now .
Private residential you mean nursing
Yes yes
Well that that comes under the medical side .
Yes well that again is a
But you can not do one you only do one you can't do both .
Right okay .
Erm so I think I would be between the golf and and erm the medical side .
Right the medical side erm we are producing medical practice booklets all right .
The only the only approach to residential homes and nursing homes is as advertisers in those medical books .
Mhm .
What do you think in your opinion or in your experience would the best avenue be for me to follow ?
I I I think you have an option in both .
I mean the advertising 's more expensive in that but er erm it depends on how good you think you are .
Well it 's
You you know the golf
Nine hundred pounds to me erm if it 's an up market company anyway , erm nine hundred pounds for a year 's advertising isn't that expensive .
Well it 's not really .
Not when you compare it with what they might advertise in Golf Monthly or something like that where
That 's right .
where they will be seen once and it 's dumped .
That 's right I mean this card is carried with them and looked at all every every basically everybody will look at that erm because the good quality
If I was to tell you that given a perfect world that has the highest earning potential of all our companies
Well let 's decide and look at that then .
Yeah .
Because er there are two there are two products .
Yes .
And remember we we resell every two years .
Okay .
And I take it erm the commission structure is just the same if I am continuing a contract on for the following year .
Let me let me just let me get this pack out for you to take away .
Is this is this an area where you think you might earn some money ?
Yes .
All right we can give you the we can give you the platform .
Yes .
What we have to decide here is that you think is a is a
I think is a very blue chip company .
I 've look at er your own presentations .
It 's a blue chip brochure that .
And it 's a blue chip brochure and I think obviously what I needing now after by the experience I 've had with is to get behind a company who will give me the backing .
Right .
Well there 's er one thing I can tell you right now that I would not personally be involved with a company that did not have erm a backing .
There are
All right .
plenty of companies that er er this these er these can be printed by most printing companies what they don't have is the infrastructure and the backup er
Yes .
back in head office to do that with .
Yes .
And when we when we ask people to go out we it is er a total trust self employed but they are quote employed unquote .
Because one things we one thing we don't have is people running other businesses alongside what we give them .
So in other words if you 're there for two to three weeks you 're solidly for .
There isn't er er there is no , people have gone because they 've been doing other things other than er .
But it 's a full time commitment .
As long as the earning capacity 's there then get a hundred percent .
Right .
And that 's all we ask because we 'll give it a hundred percent .
These are some samples for you to take away okay ?
But let me show you exactly what we I 'll I 'll bring in to being the list of businesses which we invite the golf club to forward to us .
When the sales er marketing exec goes round to the golf club to sign them up in the contract with the contract we will print one or other or both .
The contract will state whether they have both or not .
All right ?
That means that if they only take the score card then you 're in there fairly quickly do the advertising sales and come out and on to another site .
So you don't expect there to be two to three weeks work there .
If you 're doing both then of course you 're you 're looking to offer the options to er
Yeah if you can do it in a week all the better .
Some advertisers go on both by the way .
They want to be on both .
Rod can I ask you a question ?
Yes sure .
How many contracts you 're basing them on two to three weeks .
Let 's say that erm I was these contracts within the first ten days .
How many contracts am I going to get in a year ?
Well you work it out .
It depends on how much time you want off .
No how many contracts can I physically get if I want ?
You can have as many as you want .
The the way the company operates is that we will assign you to a golf course .
Mhm .
We have in our contract that more or less we will get out after three weeks .
You know what whatever the situation is we we done it by then , but er we we do they they are guaranteeing to supply us with an office and telephone facility for up to three weeks .
Okay maximum .
Maximum .
Right .
Erm or fifteen working days .
I mean if there are two or three days off during that or one day off you take for instance , as long as it 's fifteen working days .
Erm and that is to do er one or the other or both .
They might extend it if we have to do both .
So will you will you
So so you can if you took if you took one week off every three assignments
Aha .
all right ?
You can work out that over a period of time you would have somewhere in the region of fifteen assignments during the year guaranteed .
We guarantee continuity of assignment .
How many erm are already signed up at this present day for someone to follow on to now ?
I suppose I could only use the word tons .
Tons of them right .
So there there are basically a waiting list ?
Oh yes .
Okay .
On all of our products .
We have six hundred assignments alone on the medical side .
Because we 're reselling .
We haven't got to the reselling stage with these yet because we 've been going about six months so the first resale is eighteen months away .
Okay .
But we 've got so many new courses so worry about that er that doesn't present a problem .
Erm the timing for golf courses .
Obviously these cards
Mhm .
have got to be ready for the season starting ?
Not always .
Er we we go in and sell the advertising if they er we 'll take over as soon as the current supply runs out we we 'll start offering er and supply it for them .
That that doesn't present a problem to us .
Okay .
More so on schools because they 're closed for
Yeah that 's right .
the summer holidays , sometimes .
But even that we 're we have special arrangements for .
We don't worry about the seasonal er aspects .
Okay .
They ju er you know people hear er the sales consultants doing courses right now erm you know find that that we 'll print them and we 'll probably print them in in by May although they 'll have needed some cards .
So that
Do you give the customer unlimited supplies of these ?
Er it 's agreed by the er
Executive that 's doing it .
by the by the er s the sa sales the marketing executive and the golf club agreed a number .
Okay .
All right ?
We will know somewhere how much we need definitely
To print
to make sure of the print .
Okay .
Because the second year where no costs come out of the second year 's er payment that 's our that 's where we make our money .
Yes .
The first year we
Because the plates have already been set up etcetera etcetera .
Absolutely yes .
All the costs your commissions marketing executive 's commission right .
Now we ask er the club to supply er in between us signing them up for to to do the cards to them to the consultant erm er getting there getting there to do the assignment could be five or six months .
We don't you know we 've got clubs still waiting that we signed up last year .
Mhm .
Er we we make that quite plain to them all right that there might be a delay .
Okay .
All right until their number comes up as it were .
Er in the meantime we we leave them erm er a list or a a sheet like or something similar to this , I haven't got one for at the moment , erm asking them to list out all those business with which they have some er may be some link up .
You just have to look round a lot of trophy cabinets and you can see a lot of locally sponsored cups and trophies in there .
Plus a lot a members have their own business .
Plus plus yes and especially if if I went , we went to and I think it was er from the membership .
Yes .
I would imagine a lot of it could be .
And these are very typical er advertisers and erm , whether you agree with it or not , these are .
Whoever supplies the bar .
Mhm .
It may be this any of the suppliers .
So there 's a lot of scope a lot more scope on these to be more direct because they 're quality ads and they 're quality product .
My particular er my particular club has about approximately thirty businessmen in various varying from double glazing kitchens
Yes .
What what a what prestige .
who would love to be involved in their own club .
Absolutely yes .
Absolutely .
So we 've you know that 's why I believe that this is this is gonna be our real launch pad for the future .
This will be easy for me .
Aha .
Put that in quotes will you ? .
I I mean
I well if you 've got that confidence fine .
And and when that when the when the assignment comes up when Ron is assigned to X club wherever that is erm that will be the sheet the sheet will be provided
For me ?
for you to work on .
Now one of the most important things that we 've established erm is that er you need to sit down still with the secretary of the club and say right now you 've got this list of businesses tell me more about them .
Yes .
It 's not simple
You should not just say , oh there 's good I 'll phone him now because you need some valuable information .
So we make , but all that is is tau is is is
Yes .
directed on the course .
So that 's going to be very useful and you will get information about all these firms it could be that member has already been advised and he 's willing .
Could be little notes here already notified us that he 's happy to go on
He wants to go ahead with it .
He wants to go ahead .
Wonderful .
That 's how quickly you can you can speed up the operation .
Erm now to to give you and there would be other details by the way er other er information concerning that assignment like how many cards we 're printing like what the target is .
The average target across all of our products is somewhere in the region of six thousand .
But I'm going to show you a bit more detail for .
First of all let 's give you an idea of what the the prices are , we 've talked about prices .
Now we talk full pages most of the time .
If we can get full pages fine but sometimes it 's better for us to get these .
It could be that there 's more money avail
Yes .
Okay .
You can you can work that out for yourself .
But erm a full cover is nine hundred pounds full front cover .
Now what happens there some some , particularly motor companies , will ask permission if they can put some cars in front of the club house if there 's a photograph of the clubhouse and have them photographed .
Mhm .
That 's considered to be a full page .
Mhm .
Full front cover .
Now some clubs are quite happy for an ad to be there and for the golf club name to be there .
It
Yes .
really depends on the choice of
Yes .
the individual .
That and then front cover strip down the bottom here that one there is six hundred pounds .
So that you can you can see there 's a a some options here .
My mention on the planner that the strips oops those strips , all these prices are identified here and when you take this away you can have a look at it .
Okay ?
Erm and er there you will see how the the volume is made up .
If you have filled all the spaces available those are the two totals .
You 're looking for five thousand three hundred and eighty
And four thousand seven hundred and sixty .
Let 's have a look which is more important to you .
Let 's have a look at how your money is made up .
Okay .
Score card has always a target of four thousand pound .
Now that 's an internal target for us to work on and for you to to have fixed in your mind because everything above four thousand pound you will get forty five percent commission instead of thirty .
Mhm .
Yes .
And that 's made up of thirty percent and tha that 's the total revenue you can get on , sell all that card and that 's the total revenue you can get .
Thirty percent of that equals that
Mhm .
the bonuses will be or the bonus will be that and your total on the card therefore is eighteen twenty one .
Mhm .
If you 're doing the planner at the same time thirty percent and that 's the that 's the total amount you can get on a planner , but the target there is thirty two hundred .
That target is really star is for the the bonus purposes .
In other words after that we start paying another fifteen percent .
What 's the percentage for er both doing the score card and the course planner for a cou er a golf course ?
Well you would treat them as a separate entity .
You you mean in terms of bonus or ?
No what is the percentage-wise of taking both er the the golf course when both done ?
I I I can't answer that I really don't know .
Because it 's there 's if I'm there for three weeks and they only want a score card done then my potential earnings er total earnings are that but I'm there anyway so if I'm getting both of them done then I can earn a lot more money .
Oh you can earn a lot more money certainly .
But you 'll you 'll if you 're only doing the card you 'll do that much quicker .
Yes and then
And then you 're straight on to the next job .
I 'd be out of the door quicker .
You 'd be out of the door quicker .
So it 's it is swings and roundabouts there .
Yes .
If you 're doing both then that 's your total income and if you did that in three weeks I would think you 'd be very happy with that .
Oh yes .
Er
That 's a thousand pound or plus a week .
Yep .
Erm
And I believe that with with your background and knowledge then sure that that 's achievable .
I wouldn't I would like to think I could .
Because if that if you had if you had a perfect year it is that .
Mhm .
Then of course if you want to take time off and things like that .
I'm being honest er Rod if I can earn myself twenty five thirty thousand I'm not I'm not looking for you know fortunes .
I'm looking for a decent income with the right company .
Right well you twenty five thousand a year is about the minimum the company er you wouldn't be doing the job if you were below that .
I mean net I mean net .
I tax
Okay right .
In that case you 're looking for thirty five thirty six thousand which would be mister average in our company .
Right okay .
I don't want to be mister average so we 'll go for the fifty five .
We 'll go for the fifty five .
Well if you have that attitude then you 'll do it .
We 'll go for it .
All right .
Okay well that 's erm every assignment to you you always have and this is being this had been updated we haven't got the new one yet but you will have what we call a blank .
And you will go around er using this to show people well I 've sold that and that 's mister so and so or that 's such and such business that 's gone so that you can show people that you 've actually sold these .
In other words that 's your work horse .
Can I can I honestly make a suggestion ?
I mean there 's
Well if it 's to do with anything you 've seen here please make it in the right quarters not at me .
No the suggestion is we 're in the golf club and we 're doing a planner we 're not doing a score card
Yes .
and I know it 's not erm your business to be doing tee markers
Plea please can I ask you if you bring in any other ideas of business you 'll be considered to be
No I'm talking about the company doing it .
Yeah yeah but forget it for now .
Right okay .
They are not of any interest to us .
They are they do not they 're not printed .
Mhm .
But they would be printed .
Yeah but they 're not they 're not part of our range now .
Because if you start getting if you get bogged down with discussing people about other products they 'll think you 're either gonna be doing them
Okay .
as a side
It 's some once as a customer you can do it later stage .
All right .
Because you start talking too many other businesses , and this is a bit of advice for you
Mhm .
if you start talking any other business about wha except what you 're doing there then they 'll think that you 're doing that as an as a side .
And they 'll take they 'll take everything away from you no messing around .
are very strict on that .
Oh no no no no there are no intentions whatsoever the only thought was that er if you 're into that type of advertising there 's another eighteen spaces for the company .
Yeah .
We 're not into that advertising .
There are plenty of other companies doing that .
Is there ?
But we are only interested in this particular product .
Right okay .
Okay .
This is this is fairly new to us we bought the company because it was doing exactly what we were doing on other products .
Yes .
But we are not interested at this stage in tee markers and if you keep mentioning them Ron they 'll think hello
Well could could you tell me er how many
Sorry that 's just a bit of advice
That 's that 's no problem I thought it was just erm a thought for yourself maybe you could give out .
Oh oh they they will have in fact the guy who 's who owned this company who 's now general manager of the company within the group
Mhm .
erm has been has had his erm er his feelers out for all sorts of advertising .
Because even tee markers is not the end of the story .
Where is the golf company based ?
There 're all based at head office .
Okay .
But you work from the clients premises at all at all times .
Will that be in Scotland ?
Well it 's in it it we have enough assignments up here to consider that that 's probably right .
But we 've just had somebody from Glasgow go down to do my own course in Humberside .
Aha .
Now that was er er more or less a favour to me .
Aha .
But er what we say is that we will pay thirty percent up to a hundred miles away from home
Aha .
okay above that we will pay thirty five percent .
And that 's one way by the way not a fifty mile round trip and all we say to everybody whichever company they go into , we say to everybody who sits in your position there
Can I refuse an assignment then ?
You can discuss an assignment .
Okay .
But if that 's your only opportunity to earn money that week
Obviously then I'm going to take that
or that time , you 'll take it .
Yes .
Erm the guy down who 's just done my my club earned himself eighteen hundred pound in one week and he paid about a hundred a twenty quid out for bed and breakfast .
And probably forty pounds worth of of petrol there and back .
So his expenses are his own .
Aha .
Yes .
But if we were to send people consistently Glasgow to Humberside I don't think we 'd have them very long .
And there are enough golf courses up in Scotland .
Yes .
And that that guy has just been transferred to another group so you know we 're now one short well in fact we 're three or four short up in Scotland so .
How many people er in this particular erm assignment would you have in Scotland , just the one off ?
Aha .
At the moment .
That 's why I'm very keen about to get about four up here because that means at the moment we 've got several several golf clubs waiting .
Okay .
Quite a number in fact .
Okay .
Because this is a the hive of the golf club industry .
So those are the if you like the financial details and any any questions you have about that then er
No I'm I'm very happy with
In terms of paying commissions we pay them all the following week .
I think John will have told you that .
And certainly we have kept the amou the amount of administration down to a bear minimum if I can show you .
We have the same contract for all of our products whichever company the only difference is that they 're slightly colour coded .
If you 're colour blind tough .
Yes .
All right they 're colour coded .
Er there 's not a one there yet .
And what we in fact the the reason we tell people everything on the phone Ron is that there are some things that pen I did have one here ,
Here you go .
that 's all right no I 've got one over here somewhere
It 's some day it 's turned out .
Wow I think we 'll get that on the tape recorder .
The things that we make sure people know before we get there is the price all right , I 've already mentioned that .
The fact that we need a thirty five percent deposit cheque .
The fact that er we take the balance of the first year 's payment through a banker 's order .
Mhm .
If you don't tell them about the deposit cheque if you don't tell them about the banker 's order they will say , Well just a minute Ron you didn't tell me that on the phone .
I don't deal with
I like the idea of thirty five percent up front and
Well well that 's the only way we can pay you your money then the following week .
Mhm .
Because in fact when you go to a client you 're picking up your own deposit cheque .
It will be made out to us and we pay you the following week .
Is this a two year contract ?
It is and wherever you quote nine hundred pound you quote them nine hundred pound per year
Per annum .
for a minimum of two years .
Okay .
Even though the cards are reprinted every year it 's it 's still
So you really need some sound businesses you don't need your
You don't need your penny
No .
You will not get your local er plumber er on these .
You 're looking for high fliers and even car firms can go bust the second year .
track record
So you have to tell people all about .
Hello I wonder if you 'd mind asking him to wait and I 'll er be with him in about ten minutes .
Oh can you offer him a coffee ?
Please thank you .
Right .
Yep you need some sound businesses
Yes .
there 's no doubt about it .
Erm and they will want the prestige of being on the golf club and quite honestly , the golf club card , and quite honestly so does the golf club want
Yes .
prestigious .
That 's why their list will be erm if you like pre-vetoed you know .
They have they have the right of veto on whoever goes on there .
However it 's in their interests of course to allow you to get on and do your job .
Mhm .
But if you don't tell them about things like banker 's order about the signature , particularly if two s two erm signatures are wanted on the cheque and the banker 's order , if the other guy 's not there you don't go round until he 's available .
Of course .
If you 've left that contract with them you 'd never see it again .
The other aspects of erm that 's the contract you 've already got the contract and the cheque .
The other thing that we want from the client advertising client to make it a full deal so that we can pay you the thirty thirty percent commission is copy .
Now this is the only product we have where it 's full four colour .
Mhm .
So it 's very important to know before you go round if if they 've got copy .
You say that I need to discuss copy when I 've got there if you 've got copy if they 've had full colour before then they will have bromides and separations and things like
Yes .
that .
They will probably be using an agency .
Mhm .
And at the training school Ron they will tell you exactly how we deal with those .
Yes okay .
There is a form which once again will exp be explained at the er on the training course .
Yes .
But that 's the form .
If they 've never advertised before which is unlikely if we 're going for high fli you know high flier
Yes .
companies , that 's the space down there .
But I'm not going to er sit here teach you or show you how to do that because that 's the training course responsibility .
This is probably the most important form .
And that is the commission form .
All right .
We c there once again all of these forms are colour coded , there 's your one .
All right so you can see that they 're the same form .
Advertising position the advertiser this will be the golf club that will be the town full and approved contract of what I 've just described .
There are a number of companies that we have across our erm all of our products which are what we call approved .
Mhm .
And in fact you will have seen on those cards over there a BUPA hospital .
Mhm .
Those are covered by a special arrangement where we don't have to collect a cheque we don't have a banker 's order but it 's done through a erm a company invoice
Yes .
All right .
The difference there is instead of the cheque and the banker 's order you have to pick up an official order from the BUPA hospital .
Yes .
And BUPA hospitals , although they 're very common of course on the medical side are are going to be obviously popular on the golf club side .
Mm .
They 're going to be popular on the golf club ?
Oh yes .
There 's one if you pick up one there I think one of those cards there has got one on the planner and one on the erm
Oh yes I see yes yes .
One thing about advertising Ron is er is the danger of prejudging who will and who will not come into our product .
And we 've we 've proven that er some people have said , Oh well he won't come on he can't either afford it or he doesn't want to .
And we 've turned it round .
I 've found that many times in sales .
Okay now erm the only question mark we have at the moment Ron is the car .
Question mark for me or the car ?
Well if you can give me some reassurance
Oh no no problem .
Okay .
I mean
Right because I have to put that on my notes you see and I
I the car I had before I gave up the company car was a Mercedes Sports S L
Oh right .
But I'm not to obviously going to buy a Mercedes Sports S L necessarily at this stage .
Yes .
All we all we say we need
Is a reasonable
I a bit worried about my pen .
Okay yeah .
Erm right well when you 've got on your form here on your er you need to give a couple of week 's notice .
Well what what I'm looking for there Rod obviously is a response to this letter I have sent to .
If they don't respond to me in the next forty eight hours I'm going to send them a second letter er tel .
Basically what I am doing is I want them to reply .
I have only written the truth in my letter to them .
They have got to respond to it .
All right .
Er and if
I mean what happens if they they give you everything you want and er
No .
No I will not want for this company again .
All right .
I am out of .
doesn't matter what
Well the way you 've approached it there I guess you 're not going to be er sales director
It 's not it 's not the point of the money it 's the fact is that they 've lied to me erm and really I want =em .
What actually happened was my a friend of mine or really was a friend of mine for a short time , he he was in the company when I joined , and er after two months he told me he was leaving .
And I said why are you leaving ?
Because I hadn't experienced all this
Mhm .
and he 's Ron you 're going to experience a lot of things that you 're not going be happy about he says but I 'll let you find out for yourself .
Well may be you should n't have done if he was a friend .
So he left .
Suddenly he got another job in the golf industry and he left .
And when he he was told to bring in his car the next day and his company stock .
He says no problem .
He went down to his car and down to his company stock and he says now what the money 's due to me you 'll get them in the post .
And he says they told him to get out the building
Mhm .
and give him a rough time and he was the longest serving rep with .
Well of course I mean the the point there is
you get you get your money first before you hand over your car and the stock .
Right .
Now this is what happened .
They sent him away and he 's waited four months and he has not had a penny .
He 's written to them numerous times and they say what money .
All right .
So he is now in a position he can either take them to court or he 's forgetting it .
Because he 's still in the golf industry he 's forgetting it .
Now it 's something like eighteen hundred pounds .
Now what I want to do is I want them to respond first .
If they don't respond I will say the next letter will be , okay I am now resigning and your car and your stock won't be returned to you er but I'm holding them in lieu .
Yes okay
towards money due to me .
What but what what we 're talking about timing here because we won't we won't er we won't for ever and ever you see .
Okay .
Can I say definite I 'd be quite happy to start within the next four weeks .
Er four weeks from now .
Or
Well
is that too far away ?
Well let me just er just check on when the
the course is .
the course is .
Well let 's say I 'd be ready for your for your next course if it 's not till .
Okay well there 's a course running next week so we know that 's out .
The next one is the fourteenth of February .
Right .
I 'd be happy going the fourteenth of February .
Okay but that if you delay it 's two weeks .
Because they 're held every two weeks here , whereas the rest of the companies are every week .
So you get the fourteenth and then the following one is the twenty eighth February ?
Yes .
And this is now well .
Well can I say can I say definitely Rod I will I will go on if accepted on the twenty eighth of February .
Can I say that for definite ?
All right .
Now
Just in case they hold me to a four week
I can't see it .
I can't see it myself .
I would be happier to do twenty eighth and bring you back
Yes .
rather than the fourteenth .
Can I say
We 'll give you the fourteenth and the twenty eighth the company would be concerned .
Well let 's say the twenty eighth and if I can get into fourteenth
Now we provide all this information on trust .
I can tell you right now that there are plenty of indi I I'm I'm going to say this up front , there are plenty of individuals who 've taken the information away and tried to do it themselves .
I I say it to all whoever comes in here and they 're
Erm
there 're in there 're in there 're in
Can I say something to that question .
Er a person 's always as good as the team behind him
Right .
and you need a team .
To do this properly you need a team .
Oh absolutely .
And I'm quite happy to earn the money that you offered or which is
Okay
earnable .
Oh very earnable .
Yes .
Well I'm I'm happy with that .
Right well let 's er let me get this out of the way so I don't hand back , that 's all yours to take away all right ?
Okay now there 's some information for you to just er I really do need a pen and I don't know where I 've left it .
Today 's date is the
Twenty fifth .
twenty fifth .
Now the Monday the twenty eighth of February now on Friday Friday the twenty fifth you will need to phone in okay .
If you read this end to end Ron I 'd be very grateful but let me just point out to you we 've agreed twenty eighth , if you bring it forward great .
Okay .
Erm if you you will not be able to put it back after that date .
They they 'll they 'll er consider that you 're not interested .
On the twenty fifth please phone in just to firm up everything .
Your training programme if you just er look at read this okay .
Okay .
Read right the way through all this and it will tell you exactly what will be needed .
And er the Fern or the hotel is there .
Okay .
I take it you book me into that hotel .
Well if you read that it 'll tell you exactly what will happen .
Erm we will pay we will pick up the tab for your hotel .
Okay .
All right ?
And we will pay all your travel costs there and back .
Okay .
I just need you to sign there 's a copy here for your info just need you to sign to say that you understand that .
Want your pen back now don't you ?
I 'll have to go and get a pen .
I 'll leave you this one .
No no it 's all right .
I know now where I 've got one .
Now I am my birth is Ronald but I am know
As Ron .
and always has been by Ron .
Okay .
We 've got Ron down here you see .
I don't like the name Ronald .
Okay that 's your copy .
Right Rod thank you for the opportunity .
Okay well I 've got one other thing to do and that is to take a photograph .
Okay you moved out of my
I can only do four feet on this one so er
Right okay .
Right .
You 're allowed to smile .
Great thank you .
Can you send me a copy of that ?
Er all this will be confirmed in writing .
No you won't want a copy of that photograph let me tell you .
Er it 'll all be confirmed in writing and if come forward to the fourteenth they 'll love that .
Erm right so what you 're saying to me then basically is that er as long as my references are acceptable
Yep
and etcetera er I can be on that course ?
Yes .
We 've we we put that in writing , subject to satisfactory references erm er we will look forward to seeing you on the twenty eighth .
What 's your position Rod ?
What 's your position in
I'm recruitment officer .
For the the group ?
Yep .
Well it was a pleasure meeting you .
And you .
Okay .
Enjoyed er our discussions and er we 'll take it from there .
Okay thanks Rod .
Thanks very much .
Okay good bye .
Ta sorry I had to drag you out here on this weather .

I actually wanted to that I didn't really want to go as far as for example deciding that the chair what they are voting would be within the resources available to the .
The other area we that we explored in some depth was er whether the the library room could be combined to library or to library , but we 've left it to them to make a decision but they appear to have so decided that there is a mixed pattern emerged .
Some libraries want their own library group others are quite happy to be joined in with one or more libraries within the adjoining group and the constitution does in fact provide that investment wish what we haven't said what those who should be at maximum membership membership and to their claim will common sense not to make it too large otherwise it might turn out to be more than than sensible discussion among a reasonable amount of people but this but then to decide that equally to encourage them to ah find ways and means of the public other than library users who will be represented on the committee and to that .
I vote that this a good point other activities for the County Council in a few years that you that you will find er people anxious to support , thank you gentlemen
thank you is there a seconder to that
I 'll second that
seconded by do you wish to speak now
yes I would Mr. Chairman erm I concur with every word that and confirm that support er mostly er
I 've I 've have been given notice that there is one proposed amendment which I intend to call now because then we can vote on the whole thing
No actually
sorry
sorry I saw it yes I beg your pardon , I'm sorry
I would like to speak
you wish to speak
sorry , right
ladies and gentlemen I would like to move a very small amendment to do a the second a membership on on item four on where it says up to three represent the area etcetera erm now the which I am currently a member of includes three libraries erm which are and and there are in fact five County Councils involved in the area of those three libraries when in fact Bushey has its own Bushey and there was a but I would like to see

L E A T L E A T our local Environment Action Teams , initiative proved to be so outstanding .
L E A T was designed to encourage employees and their families to undertake voluntary work to improve the environment .
Employees were awarded sums of money between a hundred pounds and fifteen thousand pounds to tackle projects in partnership with national or local voluntary organisations .
When the scheme was announced the need for individual as well as corporate action was underlined by Tony .
In this area , and others we support , it 's the individuals which make a company 's role in the community so well received .
Individual contact much more than organisation to organisation is a way barriers between the sectors are broken down , and a way we can understand each other 's motives and ideals .
So these are just some of the ways we 're working to empower the voluntary sector as I myself s as I said earlier , this is one of the key focus areas for the nineties .
The other three focus areas , to complete my story , are education , the environment and information technology for people with disabilities .
All of these areas enable us to create long term partnerships with the groups and organisations we 're committed to help , and all of them enrich I B M 's own long term aims .
For instance by encouraging an active interest in the environment in which we live , and by supporting groups or promoting cleaner technology , less pollution and less waste , we 're ensuring the quality of life for future generations , and also the potential for future business opportunities .
And by offering management skills training courses to heads and deputy heads of schools , we 're helping schools become more adept at self management .
These initiatives also enable I B M to offer the voluntary sector as an alternative to cash , one of our most valuable assets , our people and their time .
Groups who 've got to know I B M over the er , years , will know that one further advantage of our concentration on specific areas for investment , is that we 're able to measure degrees of success rather more easily .
Surveys are a way of life with an I B M. as they are in many companies today .
Annual surveys , opinion surveys , satisfaction surveys , meetings assessments , canteen questionnaires , we 're obsessed with measurement .
If you can't measure it , you can't manage it .
I B M employees rarely go to a conference , attend a meeting or take part in a course without being asked whether it meant their expectations , whether it was too long , too short , too dull , or ju or just too much .
The reason for this is simple .
How do you know whether anything has been a success , or whether you 're doing anything right , unless you ask , and we expect this rationale to follow through into our community investment programme .
We like to see how a project is progressing , find out what use er , what groups makes of our support , discover how a training course helped their staff .
I recognise that the voluntary sector is increasingly being asked to evaluate its work for its funders , and equally we want to know how we , in I B M , measure up to your expectations .
If we 're not doing it right , we need to know .
This is one of the reasons we took part in a pilot evaluation scheme , funded by I B M Corporation .
To measure the expectations of the various communities and see what impact we were having through our investment programme .
The pilot was carried out at two of our locations , Greenock in Scotland , where we have a manufacturing and development site , and Bristol .
In both locations about a third of employees were involved in some sort of voluntary activity .
Employees local business people , opinion leaders and the general public were questioned .
The survey found that everyone , expected I B M to be involved in corporate social responsibility programmes , but not everyone knew what our programmes were .
They agreed with our four focus areas , and agreed that our strategy of offering our employees and their skills , rather than just money was the right one .
And these views were very encouraging and will help us plan our programme into the nineties .
We 're also taking part in the Rountree Foundation Survey which will ask voluntary sector groups about their experiences with I B M. So we will be able to find out what you really think about us .
Now my remarks so far have concentrated on the relationships between our three sectors .
There 's one other point that 's important to make about the contribution that companies can make about having their own house in order , and it rather echoes some of the questions which are coming up in a , in a question session .
For instance , I think it 's , I think it 's rather pointless to be preaching er values outside an organisation , if ones not following those values within the organisation .
For instance , by employing people from minority ethnic groups , by employing disabled people , by following equal opportunity of principles , by providing adequate child-care facilities , the impact on the community , of course , can be , can be quite profound .
Employers with pay policy enables mothers to return to work and pay for quality child-care , can be of great benefit in an area where there 's a high proportion of single parent families or families where the mother is the major the breadwinner At a company offers equal opportunity regardless of race , colour or sex , heightens the feeling of self-esteem and potential of individuals within minority groups and this self- esteem can be catching .
By enriching the lives of its employees , a business can have a dramatic follow-on effect within the community .
It was certainly a source of great pride to me in the nineteen sixties to be Personnel Manager of the Greenock plant , in an area which is noted to it 's erm , insecurity , to see the effects on the living standards and conditions and morale of the general community of having a manufacturing plant which had stability of labour , as well as it 's er , objectives .
I consider that I B M strives to be a good employer and that it 's long established belief in respect for the individual has shaped our personal policies to reflect these needs within our community , and for example , our equal opportunity principles prevent us from considering race , colour or sex , when offering someone employment or promotion .
Our support for businesses in the communities , Opportunity Two Thousand , and the setting of targets , which are public targets , confirms our commitment to encourage high level job opportunities for women .
So having looked at the relationship between business and the voluntary sector today , let 's take a brief look at the future .
At the time when the income of many of the top charities is said to be either static , or to have fallen , it 's essential for public in the private sector , do not forsake their supporting role .
I read only last week , for instance , that the N S P C C is suffering severely from the recession and higher running costs , and I'm sure they 're not alone .
The perceived decrease in the public 's generosity means that it is even more important for businesses , and I mean all business , not just the larger ones that have traditionally provided the pool of resource , to realise that their businesses would only succeed within a healthy society , and a healthy society means the support of business men and business women .
It 's not good just to occasionally buy a flag , or to sponsor some friends mor marathon , one needs more than good intentions .
It was heartening in fact to hear that W H Smith is to celebrate is bi-centenary next year , by providing the Samaritans with a special telephone link line .
Calls will be linked automatically to the first available Samaritan volunteer , whatever part of the country they happen to be in .
That reminds me that it was Margaret Thatcher who said , Nobody would remember the Good Samaritan , if all he had was good intentions .
He had money as well .
Likewise both business and government must have more than good intentions in order to turn the well meaning idealism into practical support , funding and long term dialogue , and the publication of a Charities Bill , in trying to increase public confidence in the sector , is a step in the right direction .
Well , when I was asked to speak to you today , I decided to look at the Oxford Dictionary 's definition of Community , which is joint ownership or liability .
This is , I think , what we should all be aiming for in the future .
The public sector , the private sector and the voluntary sector , all have joint ownership of the future health of the community .
Joint ownership of the future prosperity of the community and joint ownership of the future skills of the community .
Ladies and gentlemen , it was a privilege to speak to you today .
I hope I 've demonstrated that corporate support , individual support , government support , must go hand in hand .
It 's not a question of what a company can do for a day centre , or what an environmental group can do for a business , it 's a question what we can all do together , for the community .
Thank you very much .
Thank you very much , Sir Leonard for that , in th in the beginning of your address you posed the question , what does a company like I B M have to do with a community and then proceeded to answer your question , I think in a most , er , comprehensive way , and I I speak as someone who lives in a county , Hampshire , where I B M has a strong er , base , and I know from personal experience as a volunteer in that county , how much we value the contacts that we have with I B M and the way in which we work together with them in the way that you have described .
Erm , I understand that you are willing to answer questions from the floor for a few minutes .
Well , I'm delighted to , I feel a bit like the er , that story about the professor and the chauffeur , though , which I must tell .
Which is of course , the er , the professor and the chauffeur are , erm , on their way to the professor 's engagement .
Like most professor 's , he only gives one lecture .
He gives it very well , and he 's on on his way to an evening engagement , and the professor , says I'm feeling very tired tonight , and I don't think I want to give er , th the talk , but I don't know , I I obviously I have to go , the chauffeur said , no problem , he said , all we need is to change hats , I 've heard you give that same talk so many times , I would actually give it .
And so er , they changed hats , when they get there , and the chauffeur 's introduced a as the professor , goes on the platform , and of course the professor sits at the back of the room with the chauffeur 's hat .
Erm , what happens of course , is th that the lecture is brilliantly delivered , er , but , but , what happens is he , the chauffeur finishes two minutes early and the chairman , being excellent as a Chairperson , actually says , we have time for just one question , and er , someone stands up and asks the most dreadful question from the audience , and er , the chauffeur listens to the question , thinks , and th then says , that 's questions very easy , very easy indeed , that question is so easy , I'm going to ask my chauffeur who is sitting at the back of the room
to answer it .
Now sitting at the back of the room is Sandra , who does much of the work .
Where are you Sandra ,
have you got your chauffeur 's hat on .
Over to you .
I think Sir Leonard , that was a very well rehearsed ploy .
It was .
To occupy two minutes .
But , but , certainly a at the back , please .
I want to give you some positive feedback , you asked for it , from the National Alliance of Women 's Organisations , er , which represents two hundred and six organisations , in , all in all about five million women .
You don't yet give us money , although I hope may , one day you will be persuaded to do so , but you have given us time , and particularly in the person of your colleague Sandra who is here , and her time to us has been enormously valuable and I want to thank you for that .
I also , er , we are also putting in for your community computing scheme , erm , realising that it will not only , if we get it , increase our own expertise and make us more efficient , which heaven knows , all organisations need to be , but will also be ab enable us to give advice to all the organisations we represent , and thus have an enormous ripple effect .
So I want to give you that positive feed-back .
Please do not take it as an example that you may all leap to your feed to make your bids .
No , San Sandra , make a note of that er ,
that bid will you .
We have to look upon it with interest .
Good , there , you see .
Erm sorry .
Gentleman
energy council , I'm not make a bid , we 've just , er we 've just heard , what I think is a , is an example of enlightened and model practice , so praise is on the superfluous , but I think we 're probably not typical of of the business sector in being so enlightened , and my question is only a wide one , and it is this .
What sort of , erm , pressure or involvement or leadership ought to be given , or wh , yeah , what pressure ought to be put on the business sector , in order that it should sort of , conform conform is not a very good word , in order , it 's ability to to contribute to the voluntary sector , and engage with it , should not be based upon individual and enlightened examples , such as I B M 's , but should pull upwards the rest of the business sector , in other words , should N C V O actually says to the business sector as a whole , look , we think globally this is what you ought to be doing .
It would be impertinent to say that to N C V er , to I B M , but it might be appropriate to say it to some of the less enlightened firms , or , should John be taking a similar line , in other words , how interventionist would you like either government or N C V O speaking on behalf of the vol voluntary sector to be , in pressing the business sector to have an overall and agreed strategy rather than the individual and enlightened strategy you put forward .
Thank you .
Well , thank you for the kind remarks .
I think they 're perhaps , if anything too generous because er , I will remind you as I said of the , at least three hundred companies who are doing pretty effective work in this area .
They tend to be the larger companies , I have to be fair , er , but er , one of the encouraging things from my point of view , and I , we started rather early , maybe fifteen , twenty years ago has been to see the growth of this particular sector , where people have moved progressively into , I think a much more enlightened posture in the last ten or fifteen years , and B I C , Business in the Community of course , have to take , I think much credit for that .
The leadership of B I C , involvement of the Prince of Wales , and indeed the involvement of the senior executives in their councils , I think has been very helpful .
So er , kind words to us , thank you very much , but there are bodies which are working very effectively to spread the net , er , my view , by the way , is of course erm , I'm a great believer in , er pressures being exercised by every mechanism .
If you want er , the pressures have to be carefully thought out , er , and I think you have to be able to demonstrate that it is , it is self interest , and I think one continues to actually use these words .
Not pure altruism , it is self interest , which , in fact , is your lever .
And you have to use , and I'm sure you do it already , you use the networks which are available to you , you have contacts , you have employees of companies working for you .
You can exercise upwards pressure , er , no no organisation can stand alone .
I think the government , and John by the way has been superb to us , in terms of being willing to come along , and help us do the work we 're doing , and I'm , I believe the government has a great interest in this field .
Erm , in the same way , your own organisations must produce , I think , good quality pressure mechanisms , including ve very clear objectives , what you 're trying to achieve , and how you 're trying to achieve it , and the sort of resource you need , the sort of resource you need .
You may well find it easier to obtain people again , particularly with a new climate on employed volunteering , there 's no doubt about that , that there is a new attitude where companies are willing to encourage employees to spend their time and to help o to help them give minimum resources , to organise them .
So it 's not , it 's not a question of any one government , or the voluntary organisations or the companies putting pressure , it 's a question of all of them working out mechanisms by which they can persuade more and more people to join this particular movement .
Erm , could I just follow that on , Sir Leonard , you said earlier , there should be more fora , to bring people together .
That 's right .
W would you like to just , adding that on to what you 've already said , how you think this might be initiated .
Well , erm , I I give a very small example of that , er , we 're very privileged er , in having four distinguished leaders of the voluntary sector , who meet with us every four months , and they , er , we only meet for two two and a half hours , and we talk through what we think we 're trying to do , as a company .
They give us their advice on what they know about the voluntary sector , and they give us guidance and help , in fact , the meeting took place er , only two days ago , and absolutely invaluable to be able to sit and listen to people who 've spent their life in the voluntary sector working with some of the difficulties we don't appreciate .
So , that 's for in a very small way , which is individual companies building up their own relationships , getting together people from the voluntary sector , nationally or locally , and talking through the nature of the problems , and how they can help .
Th there , there 's a minu a minute example , erm , in fact it 's probably more effective in some ways , than the great fora , forum , in which you have larger assemblies of people who enjoy th the hours , during the course of the day , but often don't go away and do anything .
I mean , I'm a bit cynical about great conferences , they 're important if you 're trying to set a tone , and they 're important if you want the press and the media involved , but actually it 's a smaller fora on the local basis , which actually produces much better results , in my opinion , but that 's the sort of thing I have in mind .
Yes , thank you very much , erm , question at the back , please .
Thank you , Jill Carers sorry , Carers National Association .
I 'd like to ask you very specifically about your policy , I B M 's policy on carers in the workforce .
It 's estimated that one in seven of the part-time workforce has some kind of caring responsibilities , and many of them are attempting to maintain a full-time or at least a part-time job , while carrying those responsibilities .
Thus far there 's very little evidence that employers are taking this on board .
Though one of the best thing we can do for carers is enable t them to keep on with part-time work as long as possible .
What is I B M 's policy on that ?
Well , erm , the answer there is that , I think we 've done a lot of things for carers who are concerned with children .
We have done very little fo for carers who are concerned with aged parents .
And I think that , really is the essence of of your question .
Er , what we have done , of course , is change our whole attitude er over ten or fifteen years , to part-time employment .
Had you asked me that question ten or fifteen years ago , I 'd be mildly embarrassed , because I would have said that we took a very rigid attitude , where we insisted that people work full-time .
Er , I can assure you that we have ser , we have several hundred people now , who are working on a part-time basis , because they choose to work part-time , whatever their commitments may be .
So I think we 've taken a more enlightened attitude in that sense .
In terms of erm , return to work , er , we also er have been very good , I think , in the sense that we now offer the twenty-five per cent bonus er , after pregnancy , don't get me wrong on that , er , what happens is , people are actually recompensed , given back the money which they 've sacrificed because they 've been away from work for six months , and they get is back over the next two years .
So we give them a twenty five per cent mark-up , and we reckon that this helps with the whole business of child-care , since we 're not ungenerous in the salaries we pay , fo for the start , adding , by adding twenty five per cent of that , we 're helping .
The other thing of course , is leave of absence , an and part-time work .
We would actually guarantee that , jobs for numbers of years , so the people can actually take time off and then return , er , we also have arrangements to keep people in touch the business so , I'm very proud of that record .
I then become rather more hesitant , when I have to face up to the problems particularly of er , women looking after elderly parents , because the burden does seem to fall , as you would know , on the women .
And er , although I think we encourage managers to be generous in terms of again part-time working and time off , I think our corporation , and now I go to the United States , has probably taken a more enlightened attitude than we have so far .
What we have done recently , as a point of interest to you , and I 'd be interested in , perhaps informal feedback , rather than direct feedback .
We have been running an experiment in our laboratories , which erm , employs about eighteen hundred people , and I 've been paying a sum of money , so that they can have anybody with a problem in the laboratories , can have independent counselling , er , and it seems to me , I 've been lo reviewing it , measurement again , we 've just been running it for a year , and I 've been interested to see the types of problem they 've been taking outside .
W w we can't identify the people , of course , the the thing is anonymous .
But th , we go get a er , report from the counselling agency on the type of , of er , question that 's been posed , and I would expect that that agency would be providing help and guidance , er , along the lines of suggesting and working with the individual on problems of the type , which I'm sure you have at the front of your mind .
But at the moment , I can not speak with the same feeling of achievement about caring for er , elderly , the elderly relative , whereas I think I can say with conviction we 've done quite a lot for those with small children .
Thank you very much .
Another at the back Leslie .
I wonder whether I may ask a question relating to your personal experience rather than I B M per se .
We work in the Health arena , you yourself have had considerable experience , and you referred to the changing roles between public and private agencies , and you mentioned trusts and so on in the health arena , I just wondered whether you 'd like to explore with us a little , your own personal thinking about the nature of these changing roles , and perhaps a little bit of crystal ball gazing ahead ,
as to how you personally , we won't hold it against you , but how you personally might like to see that going .
Yes , well I was , I was erm , I must put myself in historical context .
Erm , I was with the N H S between nineteen eighty-five and January the thirty-first , nineteen eighty-nine .
Indeed , had you seen Ken white paper statement on television that night , you would see me sitting in the audience , smiling gently at the thought that I was about to leave the N H S .
My job essentially was to introduce general management , and therefore I er , I was able to use many of the skills which I had acquired in I B M , but of course , I was also part of the Griffiths debate , here I'm talking about Griffiths Two , not Griffiths One , I was implementing Griffiths One , which was general management , Griffiths Two was a community , the community debate , so I saw something , which I'm certainly not allowed to quote , of the great debates that went on over the period of eighteen months before the eventual decision was made about community care .
So it it 's quite clear that the government and er , industry , the community , will put enormous burden , inevitably on the voluntary worker in the health sector .
Er , I see no answer to that , other than the fact that they will be a continuing relationship with the voluntary sector , er , and the problem is , how to organise it .
Er , that 's one of the , one of the debates about the fora , the forum .
Er , I'm a little bit out of touch , so , i if I sound hesitant it 's because I simply don't know how much debate has been taking place , and how , systematised the relationships are going to be in the future .
I mean , quite clearly there is an entirely new relationship developing between government and the voluntary sector , it seems to me , which is a contractual relationship in a sense .
Now I don't know how that will develop .
I do need , er , I do know that that the conflict between government , local government , the voluntary sector and all others who have an interest , can be quite prodigious , and the ways to resource can be also , quite considerable , and the whole thing does need to be debated and sorted out .
Some people might argue at a local level rather than a central level , you 're much more likely to get effectiveness at a local level , than of by central dictate .
On the other hand , you do need guidelines to work to .
I'm afraid that 's very general .
Er , you may be glad to know , or unhappy to know , that I'm actually still on contact with the health service because I'm a non-executive director of the Royal London Trust , which works of course , in Whitechapel , one of the poorer areas of London , and it 's not quite so glamorous as Guys , but actually it 's doing quite a good job .
Thank you very much .
Very last question , because time is running , please .
Erm , I 'd just like to ask Sir Leonard whether the nature of the issues that are dealt with by environmental organisations , erm , indeed arguments such as pays etc. erm , introduces a difference in the nature of the relationship between the private sector and environmental N G Os , particularly when the issues that we promote , such as su the sustainable use of the world resources and the reduction of environmental degradation can have a direct impact on a companies bottom line .
Well , you see , it 's easier for me to sit here , and to pontificate , and therefore your questions were well put , erm , we can demonstrate , I think a much more effective approach to the environment in in our field , because er , we 're dealing with chemicals which we have some control over , and which exists to some small degree in air , air machines .
C F Cs , for example , er , we have just one a major prize , I'm pleased to tell you , for eliminating C F Cs at our Greenock plant .
So it 's easy for me to sit here and say , we think we 're doing a good job on the environment , because we 're not threatened , we do have to find ways round existing chemicals , we may have to pay , pay a higher price , but we 're not threatened in terms of the the core of our bottom line .
I think companies certainly are interested in creating the right impression , in in fact in creating the right er , environment , and they are willing , of course , to pay a a price , but the argument er , which you put is if you threaten the companies existence , right .
don't you actually set up attention , and the answer of course , you do .
Er , what companies can do , or should seek to do , is of course , see if they can manage round those tensions as well , but it takes a very long time to do that .
So , I have to say , that er , I believe that companies which erm , find it easy to change , are of course , changing .
Companies which find it more difficult because it 's the centre of their existence , erm , are clearly looking at the situation , but will actually take a very long time to move to the position which you , in your particular group would like them to occupy , and I understand that , changing in I C I is rather different from changing at I B M , and er , therefore it takes longer , but I do see a a consciousness , it 's the same conscious , you 're impatient for change , quite rightly , companies of course , have to keep their employees in an earning capacity , at the same time , er , move towards the position which you would like to them to do , and it may take a long time , but I accept your point , which is with some companies , then in fact , your clearly going to get attention of some kind .
Thank you very much , Sir Leonard .
Sadly we must bring this , er session to an end .
I do not think , Sir Leonard , that you will need to distribute your I B M questionnaires to calculate the satisfaction level of this session this morning , I think the c rapt attention , the erm , interest and the cl clarity with which you have answered our questions , the ideas I think , which we shall take from your address , some , I might say , to ad to try out on other companies , perhaps , whose record is not as good , I think all of this is of the most enormous value , and as I said at the beginning , I feel very pleased myself , that I live in in a part of the country where we have an I B M presence , and and er , we we value that relationship .
So thank you very much indeed , for coming , for addressing us , and we look forward I think both at national level and as you suggest , at local level with ever more valuable and productive relationships with the private sector , together with the other partners which , er , whom we need , and thank you for leading us along this
Thank you , thank you for the opportunity .
I I must just now , say one or two very brief things before you disa
Before you do .
Oh , oh , oh .
have the floor , realise , I 've got a very nice part to undertake .
Oh dear .
Would you like to stand up ,
Oh dear .
'Cos I 've been told , I 've got to get you ready for the photographer .
Oh .
You don't know anything about this , but Kay has been involved with N C V O for more than ten years , she joined the Executive Committee in nineteen eighty-one , I'm reliably informed , just before I got involved .
I forget .
and then you were inveigled to the R and D and then you inveigled to become a Vice Chair , and today you 've been handling the ceremony so well , we 've had to keep you in cotton wool to make sure that er , that you kept your health .
And we 're very grateful , you 've brought rural interest , you 've brought much wider interest , and you 've brought a great deal of warmth and compassion and interest and time , what more could we say , but to show a token of our appreciation and give you a few flowers to go with that .
Oh .
Thank you so much .
Oh .
I find this most embarrassing .
Thank you very much , I can only say that I have always felt it a privilege to be part of N C V O. Er , I have enjoyed my time enormously and if I 've had any role that I feel that I'm proud of , it 's constantly bringing members to mind .
I'm now , I'm not retiring , I'm just going back to being part of a member from my Hampshire Council of Community Service , and I shall be writing , of course , very rude letter , if the services and the communications of letters don't come up to standards .
But thank you all , and I wish you you the members and N C V O itself , every good fortune , and I think we 've had such a good day today , and I think Sir Leonard has shown us a really very clear way forward , and I know that the relationships which already exist , and those which will be developed can only be Thank you all very much for your support and help through those years .
Ar , now I forgot what I was going to say , so I 'll have to go back and look at my piece of paper now .
Erm , two o'clock absolutely promptly , please , at your seminar rooms .
The lists are outside and the the venues , and please take the opportunity during the lunch-break to make contact with your , to make contact with your Chair of Electoral Colleges , your Chairs , er , especially those perhaps , who are new members , the Chairs on their name-tag have a red star , and I think you will all know from the resolution this morning , who are the new Chairs , if they , if they have changed .
So please make those contacts , so that you can erm , make arrangements to discuss , obviously things of mutual concern , promptly please , to your seminars , when we will continue some of the discussions we 've been having this morning , and thank you all very much indeed .

fifty to three hundred and fifty pounds and Lot one four three three hundred and fifty to four hundred and fifty pounds .
I 'll remi remind you of those again as I reach the various Lots .
And we commence this morning with Lot number one Lot number one is showing to my right here , the ivory carving at fifty pounds at fifty pounds at fifty pounds you want it for fifty pounds , thank you sir , fifty I 've got now , fifty pounds is offered at fifty five at fifty five , sixty , sixty five seventy , seventy five eighty five ninety ninety pounds in the back row at ninety and selling for ninety pounds , any further bids at ninety pounds at ninety pounds .
Thank you sir , it 's yours for ninety pounds .
Number six O six .
Lot number two Lot two is a Japanese ivory carving we 've got that showing for you for seventy five pounds at seventy five pounds , eighty , eighty five , ninety offered I'm offered ninety pounds and I'm selling it for ninety , ninety five , a hundred pounds and ten one twenty thirty a hundred and thirty for you sir , coming in at one thirty in the back row , one thirty and selling for a hundred and thirty pounds .
The same buyer thank you , one thirty .
Six O six .
Er Lot number three Lot number three the Canton trays there we are there we 've got a sample showing for you Lot number three , there are seven of them in the Lot all seven of them for a hundred and fifty pounds at one hundred and fifty , sixty , seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred , two twenty , forty , sixty two eighty I'm offered two hundred and eighty pounds you 're on three hundred for you sir three hun three twenty three fifty , three eighty go to four hundred four twenty four fifty four eighty five hundred and fifty and you bet against you both now five hundred and fifty is offered against you both now , five fifty five hundred and fifty pounds .
Thank you that 's a lady 's offer at five fifty and that 's six eleven , thank you .
Lot number four Lot number four the rectangular box and we have that showing Lot number four at eighty pounds for this and eighty pounds and eighty five , ninety pounds at ninety pounds any more at ninety pounds only at ninety all ninety pounds ninety pounds .
Thank you Lot number five .
Lot number five the circular mirror this the mirror fifty pounds for this one at fifty pounds , at fifty five , at fifty five pounds at fifty five pounds all done ?
At fifty five only , at sixty , thank you , at sixty five sixty five again at sixty five if you 're all finished at sixty five pounds .
Thank you .
Lot number six .
Lot six a Canton card case this the card case showing I 've got several offers I 've got to start at three hundred pounds got that in several places three hund three twenty , three fifty , eighty , four hundred I bid four hundred , four twenty , four fifty at four hundred and fifty pounds , anybody else ?
Four fifty and selling for four hundred and fifty pounds , all done at four fifty .
Number ninety four , thank you , four fifty .
Excuse me please , is it possible for you to speak a bit louder .
It 's
I 'll , I 'll try for you yes .
Thank you .
Lot number seven Lot seven the rosewater sprinkler Lot number seven there it is a hundred pounds for this one , one hundred pounds and ten , a hundred and ten pounds .
Any more at one hundred and ten only , one twenty , one thirty one forty , fifty one sixty , seventy one seventy one eighty , the lady 's bid sir do you want to come in ?
One eighty coming in ?
One hundred and eighty pounds with the lady at one eighty and selling for one eighty in the back row .
One ninety standing two hundred pounds , two twenty two forty two sixty two sixty against the lady at six go on at two hundred and sixty pounds , you all done at two sixty .
Six one five , thank you , two sixty .
Lot number eight Lot eight there we are there it is showing to you , Lot number eight and I'm offered a hundred pounds to start me on it , one hundred pounds and ten , twenty , one hundred and twenty pounds at a hundred and twenty pounds all s all done at one twenty , one thirty , forty a hundred and forty pounds selling for one hundred and forty pounds , any more at one hundred and forty pounds .
Number one eight two , one forty .
Lot number nine Lot nine this the carving , Lot number nine eighty pounds for this one , eighty , eighty five , ninety , ninety pounds , any more at ninety pounds , ninety five , one hundred pounds , at one hundred pounds , anybody else at one hundred and ten standing , one twenty going on , sir ?
One twenty against you standing all done at one hundred and twenty pounds , any more at one twenty ?
One hundred and twenty pounds .
Lot ten ten , ten is the Burmese Buddha this the Buddha showing for a hundred pounds at one hundred pounds , and ten at a hundred and ten pounds all done ?
At one hundred and ten pounds , any more at one hundred and ten ?
All done ?
Thank you , Lot number eleven .
Lot eleven the Tibetan model there 's the model showing eighty pounds for this , at eighty , eighty five offered , at ninety , ninety five , ninety five bid , one hundred and ten , twenty , thirty a hundred and thirty is offered at one hundred and thirty , one forty a new bidder now , one forty to my right and selling for one hundred and forty thank you , one forty for join on .
Lot number twelve Lot twelve an alabaster model there 's the Indian model showing at eighty pounds for this , at eighty , eighty five , ninety five , one hundred , at one hundred pounds at one hundred pounds , any more at one hundred , one hundred , you all done ?
At one hundred pounds , any more ?
And ten , at one hundred and ten pounds one hundred and ten pounds .
Lot number thirteen thirteen is the bronze model there 's the bronze model showing for eighty pounds at eighty pounds at eighty pounds any more at eighty pounds , all done ?
At eighty pounds , the opening offer , at eighty pounds only .
Thank you .
Lot number fourteen .
Lot fourteen , the bronze bell the bronze bell is showing fifty for this , at fifty , fifty five pounds at fifty five , sixty , sixty five , seventy , seventy five going on , sir ?
Eighty pounds , eighty five ninety ninety five one hundred and ten twenty one twenty to my left standing , at one twenty all done , at one hundred and twenty pounds standing , at one twenty .
Thank you sir , it 's yours for one twenty and that 's for number eight four eight , thank you .
Lot number fifteen Lot fifteen , the jadeite plaque there 's the jadeite plaque showing a hundred pounds for it , one hundred pounds and ten , twenty , thirty , one thirty offered , forty , fifty , at one hundred and fifty pounds at a hundred and fifty only , at one hundred and fifty pounds , I shall sell , one sixty , one seventy , going on sir ?
One eighty , one ninety two hundred and twenty two forty , sixty two eighty , three hundred three hundred pounds , against anybody else ?
At three hundred pounds and selling for three hundred pounds .
Three hundred pounds , number sixty five , that 's a commission bid .
Lot sixteen Lot sixteen an okimono is showing , for a hundred pounds , at one hundred pounds and ten , twenty , one hundred and twenty pounds at a hundred and twenty , thirty , forty one fifty , sixty one seventy , eighty ninety , two hundred and twenty two hundred and twenty pounds to my right , and selling for two twenty , all finished ?
At two hundred and twenty pounds thank you , two twenty for number two O two .
Lot number seventeen Lot seventeen , the glass snuff-bottle snuff-bottle there showing at a hundred pounds for this , at one hundred pounds at a hundred pounds , any more at one hundred only , at one hundred all done ?
At one hundred pounds any more at a hundred pounds ?
Thank you , Lot number eighteen .
Lot number eighteen is the next to offer that 's the bronze model the bronze model , I have fifty pounds offered to start me at fifty , fifty five , sixty pounds , at sixty five sixty five pounds any more ?
Sixty five all done , at sixty five , if you 're all finished at sixty five pounds .
Sixty five pounds .
Lot nineteen nineteen cylindrical vase there 's the carved vase showing thirty for this one , at thirty pounds , at thirty five , at thirty five pounds at thirty five pounds , any more at thirty five only , at forty in front , forty five fifty in front , five fifty five against you , near me at fifty five pounds , you all finished now , at fifty five , any more at fifty five .
Fifty five pounds .
Lot number twenty twenty is a quantity of stands there we are , we 've got a sample showing for you just a sample showing fifty for the lot the whole lot there for fifty pounds at fifty pounds want them for fifty pounds thank you sir , fifty pounds I 've got , at fifty five going on fifty five , sixty pounds , sixty five coming in sir ?
Seventy pounds , seventy five eighty , eighty five ninety five one hundred and ten one twenty I'm offered a hundred and twenty pounds , I 'll sell , one thirty one forty fifty one sixty one seventy one eighty one ninety carrying on , sir ?
One ni two hundred pounds two hundred pounds against you now , sir
two hundred to my right at the back , at two hundred pounds thank you , six one O at two hundred pounds .
Lot number twenty one Lot twenty one the Japanese cloisonne there we are , we 've got one of them showing one of them showing for you , for a hundred pounds , one hundred pounds and ten , twenty , one hundred and twenty pounds at a hundred and twenty pounds , you all finished now , at one twen one thirty , forty one fifty , sixty one sixty against you , coming in ?
One sixty , any more ?
One six yes .
One hundred and sixty pounds , all done , at one hundred and sixty pounds , any more at one sixty .
One sixty .
Lot number twenty two twenty two , the gilt-bronze and enamel model showing at a hundred and fifty pounds one fifty I'm offered , thank you , one hundred and fifty pounds I 've got , one sixty , one seventy , one eighty , ninety two hundred and twenty , forty , sixty two eighty , three hundred three hundred pounds against you at three hundred , anybody else ?
Three twenty in the back row now three twenty in the back row and selling for three hundred and twenty pounds .
Thank you sir , it 's yours for three twenty and that 's for number six O nine .
Lot number twenty three Lot twenty three is the er lacquered circular cover there we are , that 's showing fifty for this one , at fifty pounds , at fifty pounds , at fifty five fifty five pounds any more ?
At fif sixty , thank you , standing , for sixty , sixty five seventy pounds , seventy five eighty , eighty five ninety standing I'm offered ninety pounds at the back standing , at ninety and selling for ninety pounds , you all finished , at ninety pounds .
Thank you sir , it 's yours for ninety pounds and that 's for number two one three thank you .
Lot number twenty four Lot number twenty four there 's Lot number twenty four showing at a hundred pounds , one hundred pounds and ten , twenty one thirty to my right a hundred and thirty offered .
at one hundred and thirty pounds , one forty in the back row , one fifty one sixty one seventy one eighty one ninety two hundred two hundred pounds in the back row , at two hundred pounds , two twenty to my right the lady 's bid , sir two forty two forty , going on ?
Against the lady at two forty , it 's in back row at two forty , it 's yours , sir at two forty .
All done at two hundred and forty pounds .
Thank you , two hundred and forty pounds , that 's for number six O six .
Lot number twenty five , Lot number twenty five there we are fragmentary carving there 's the carving showing sixty pounds for it sixty five , seventy seventy five , eighty eighty five , ninety ninety five a hundred and ten twenty thirty forty one fifty , sixty one sixty against you standing and against you no one sixty in the centre at one hundred and sixty pounds I 've got , at one hundred and sixty thank you , one hundred and sixty pounds for that six one three .
Lot number twenty six Lot number twenty six , the grey jade pendant there 's the grey jade pendant showing Lot twenty six for thirty pounds at thirty , thirty five , forty , forty five , fifty for you sir , thank you , five sixty , sixty five seventy offered I'm bid seventy in the centre now and selling for seventy , seventy five to my right eighty pounds eighty five eighty five , the lady 's offer , sir at eighty five pounds , any more at eight five pounds .
The lady to my right , eighty five pounds , that 's eight forty , thank you .
Lot number twenty seven twenty seven the bronze model there 's the bronze model fifty for this , at fifty , thank you , fifty is offered , at five , sixty , sixty five , seventy , seventy five , eighty , eighty five ninety bid I'm offered ninety pounds at the back , anybody else at ninety , ninety five one hundred going on sir ?
And ten one twenty one twenty bid at one hundred and twenty pou one thirty against you both going on ?
One forty one fifty one sixty seventy eighty , ninety two hundred and twenty two forty two sixty any more sir ?
Two eighty three hundred still against you three hundred pounds here on my right at three hundred , and selling for three hundre yes three twenty three twenty against you three twenty at the back and selling for three hundred and twenty pounds .
Thank you , three twenty and that was for number eight four one , thank you .
Lot number twenty eight Lot twenty eight er the white jade bottle there 's the bottle showing a hundred pounds for it , at one hundred pounds at a hundred pounds and ten , twenty one thirty one thirty offered and selling for one hundred and thirty , one forty one forty against you now one forty to my left and selling for one hundred and forty pounds second row , thank you , one forty and the next number is number two one eight , thank you .
Lot number twenty nine , Lot twenty nine the mandarin head-dress there 's the head-dress showing eighty pounds , at eighty pounds , at five , ninety , ninety pounds at ninety pounds all done ?
At ninety pounds , any more ?
At ninety only , at ninety pounds .
Have you all finished ?
Thank you , Lot number thirty .
Lot number thirty is the next to offer and that 's the beaker there 's the beaker .
Twenty pounds for it at twenty pounds at twenty pounds thank you , twenty is offered and selling for twenty pounds only , twenty five for you sir , thank you , twenty five , thirty thirty five thirty five to my left and selling for thirty five pounds yours sir , thank you , thirty five pounds for number eight four five , thank you very much .
Lot number thirty one , Lot thirty one , the netsuke there 's the netsuke showing sixty pounds offered , at sixty , sixty five pounds , at sixty five pounds , seventy in the centre , seventy five eighty , eighty five ninety in the centre I'm offered ninety and I shall take ninety if there 's no further bid , ninety five in front going on sir ?
Ninety five , coming in ?
One hundred pounds and ten one twenty one twenty offered to my right , at one twenty and selling for a hundred and twenty pounds .
Thank you , one twenty for two hundred .
Lot number thirty two Lot thirty two , the lacquer brushes there we are , there 's the lacquer brushes , I 've got two offers of a hundred pounds for them one hundred pounds in two places , at one hundred and ten , one twenty , thirty , forty going on ?
One fifty , sixty one seventy , one eighty any more ?
One one ninety , thank you , at two hundred pounds coming in sir ?
Two hundred against you both at two hundred pounds , the bid 's on the book at two hundred against you both , at two hundred and selling for two hundred , two twenty , two forty two sixty , two eighty any more sir ?
At two hundred and eighty , the bid 's with me at two hundred and eighty pounds against you all , at two eighty .
Thank you , that 's a commission bid and that 's for number one eight eight .
Lot number thirty three Lot number thirty three is the hanging basket there 's the hanging basket showing , a hundred pounds for this , at one hundred pounds and ten twenty , thirty , forty , fifty sixty , seventy one eighty I'm offered a hundred and eighty pounds , one ninety two hundred two twenty , two forty , two sixty eighty three hundred three hundred 's bid on my left and selling for three hundred pounds second row , three hundred pounds .
Two one eight , thank you , three hundred pounds .
Lot number thirty four Lot number thirty four the okimono there 's the okimono showing eighty pounds for this one is offered , at eighty pounds I 've got in two places , at eighty pounds , eighty five in the centre , at eighty five is bid and selling for eighty five it 's yours sir at eighty five , ninety to my right , ninety five going on sir ?
One hundred pounds and ten one hundred and ten pounds , one twenty a hundred and twenty to my right , at one hundred and twenty pounds , have you all finished ?
At one twenty .
Eight thirty , thank you , one twenty .
Lot number thirty five Lot number thirty five there we are , there it is showing , Lot number thirty five , eighty pounds for this one , at eighty , eighty five , ninety , ninety five , one hundred is offered I'm offered a hundred pounds and selling for one hundred , all done ?
At one hundred pounds , any more ?
At one hundred pounds thank you , number seventy four , one hundred pounds .
And Lot number thirty six Lot thirty six showing to my right , at a hundred pounds again , at one hundred pounds at a hundred pounds one hundred only , at one hundred , you all done ?
At one hundred , the opening offer at one hundred pounds .
Thank you , Lot number thirty seven .
Lot number thirty seven Shibayama aide-memoire there 's the aide- memoire showing fifty pounds for this , at fifty , fifty five for you sir , sixty pounds , sixty five , seventy , seventy five , eighty eighty five eighty five offered and selling for eighty five pounds , any more ?
Ninety here now ninety five , a hundred pounds one hundred to my left and selling for one hundred all done at one hundred pounds .
That 's in the aisle at one hundred pounds , thank you , and that 's for number two one two , thank you .
Lot number thirty eight Lot thirty eight the er Persian brass standard there 's the brass standard seventy pounds for it , seventy , seventy five , eighty pounds , at eighty pounds at eighty pounds any more at eighty only , at eighty pounds , all done ?
At eighty pounds , any more at eighty pounds eighty five , thank you , at ninety pounds ninety five , a hundred at one hundred against you at the back , at one hundred , you all done at one hundred pounds .
One hundred pounds .
Lot number thirty nine thirty nine is the coal holder there it is seventy pounds for this , at seventy , seventy five , eighty pounds at eighty pounds at eighty pounds any more at eighty only , at eighty , eighty five , ninety pounds , ninety five , a hundred pounds , and ten , twenty , one thirty offered I'm offered one thirty on my left and selling for one hundred and thirty pou one forty standing one fifty one sixty one seventy going on sir ?
One seventy against you , any more at one , one eighty one ninety two hundred two twenty two hundred and twenty still against you , at two hundred and twenty pounds I'm offered thank you , two hundred and twenty for the lady and that 's for number nine one eight , thank you .
Lot number forty Lot number forty Persian steel fitting there it is seventy for this , at seventy pounds , at seventy five , eighty pounds , at eighty pounds at eighty pounds , any more at eighty pounds , you all done ?
At eighty pounds only , at eighty pounds , any more at eighty ?
Thank you , Lot number forty one .
Lot number forty one , the brass sticks there we are , we 've got one of them showing for you just one of them showing , I 've got a hundred and fifty offered for it , one fifty , sixty , seventy , eighty one ninety , two hundred I'm bid I'm offered two hundred pounds , anybody else at two hundred and selling at two hundred , two twenty , two forty going on ?
Two sixty , two eighty two hundred and eighty pounds against you at the back and selling for two hundred and eighty pounds two eighty , one one nine .
Lot forty two Lot forty two is the er large selection of auction catalogues and we 've got a sample showing , there we are works of art for you twenty pounds for them at twenty pounds anyone want them for twenty pounds sample showing for twenty pounds , anyone want them for twenty , thank you sir , twenty pounds I 've got in the centre and I shall sell at twenty if there 's no further bid at twenty pounds , any more ?
Eight five eight , thank you , twenty pounds .
Lot number forty three Lot forty three a snuff-bottle there it is and I'm offered two hundred for this one , and twenty , two forty , two sixty two eighty for you sir , three hundred pounds , going on ?
Three twenty , three fifty , three eighty in the centre three eighty is offered and selling for three hundred and eighty , all done ?
At three hundred and eighty pounds .
Gentleman in the centre , three eighty and that 's for number eight three six Lot number forty four Lot forty four is the Japanese hand-warmer there 's the hand-warmer for fifty pounds , at fifty , fifty five pounds , at fifty five pounds at fifty five , any more at fifty five , all done ?
At fif sixty at the back , sixty five going on sir ?
Seventy , seventy five , eighty five ninety ninety is offered at the back and selling for ninety if you 're all finished at ninety pounds .
That 's back left ninety pounds , number eight five three , thank you .
Lot number forty five is the scribe scribe 's set , there it is for three hundred pounds , at three hundred , three twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred , four twenty , four fifty four eighty offered I'm offered four eighty to my left , five hundred seated , five fifty six hundred six fifty going to you sitting six hundred and fifty , going on ?
At six fifty standing on my left and selling , seven hundred to my right seven fifty going on sir ?
Seven fifty , going to you , any m eight hundred eight fifty eight nine hundred and fifty round it off ?
No ?
Nine fifty to my left and selling for nine hundred and fifty pounds .
Thank you sir , it 's yours eight two eight , thank you , nine fifty .
Lot number forty six Lot number forty six is the next , that 's the ivory figure Chinese figure there a hundred pounds for this and ten , twenty , thirty , forty , one forty , fifty , one hundred and fifty pounds , one sixty , one seventy , one eighty , one ninety two hundred and twenty coming in sir ?
Two fifty here in the centre now two fifty I 've got and I shall sell , two eighty two hundred and eighty , three hundred pounds three twenty three fifty three eighty four hundred four hundred by the post , at four hundred and selling for four hundred , if you 're all finished at four hundred pounds yours sir , thank you , four hundred and that 's for number six O nine , six O nine thank you .
Lot number forty seven Lot number forty seven , the micro-mosaic there it is Lot number forty seven at a hundred and fifty pounds , at one fifty , one sixty , seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred offered , two twenty , two forty two sixty , two eighty , three hundred and twenty three going , three fifty , three eighty any more sir ?
At three eighty going to you , all done ?
Anybody else at three hundred and eighty pounds , I'm selling for three hundred and eighty pounds three eighty and that 's number one O three .
The next Lot I'm afraid is withdrawn as announced er Lot number forty nine is the next , Lot number forty nine is a soapstone carving there 's the soapstone carving Lot number forty nine for two hundred pounds at two hund two twenty , two fifty , two eighty , three hundred , three twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred , four twenty offered at four hundred and twenty , four fifty , four eighty going on sir ?
Four eighty against you , any more ?
Five hundred pounds and fifty , against you still at five fifty seated at five hundred and fifty , six hundred to my right six fifty at the back seven hundred pounds going on sir ?
Seven fifty eight hundred eight fifty nine hundred and fifty at a thousand pounds eleven hundred twelve hundred twelve hundred against you sir , thirteen hundred fourteen hundred fifteen hundred sixteen hundred seventeen hundred eighteen hundred nineteen hundred two thousand any more sir ?
No ?
Not giving up now are you ?
Two thousand pounds here , going on ?
Two thousand ?
Two thousand one hundred two thousand two hundred two , two thousand three hundred two thousa coming in sir ?
Two thousand four two thou two thousand five two thousand five hundred on the back row , at two thousand five hundred pounds , I'm selling for two thousand five hundred two thousand six in time any more sir ?
At two thousand six to my right , at two thousand six .
Thank you , two thousand six hundred pounds and that 's for number two eleven .
Lot number fifty Lot fifty is a wood carving , a Japanese wood carving , eighty pounds for this , eighty five , ninety five , one hundred and ten I'm offered a hundred and ten pounds , I shall sell , one twenty , one thirty , forty , fifty one sixty bid I'm offered one sixty to my right , at one hundred and sixty pounds , have you all finished at one sixty ?
Thank you , one sixty for two hundred .
Lot number fifty one , Lot fifty one , Japanese mask put it on John er Lot number fifty one er eighty pounds for it , thank you , at eighty , eighty five , ninety pounds , at ninety pounds any more at ninety pounds , all done ?
At ninety only , at ninety pounds , you all finished ?
Ninety five in time , one hundred pounds at one hundr and ten , twenty one thirty in front I'm bid a hundred and thirty and I shall sell for one hundred and thirty pounds thank you , the lady 's offer , one thirty , front row and for that 's for number six one two .
Lot fifty two
Lot fifty two there we are , Lot number fifty two is in front of the rostrum here Lot number fifty two sorry ?
What 's wrong ?
Lot fifty .
I think we 're we 're okay , that was fifty one fifty one was the mask , that was okay .
Er , Lot , Lot number fifty two I'm offering which is in front of the rostrum here Lot number fifty two for a hundred pounds at one hundred pounds at one hundred and ten , one twenty , one thirty at a hundred and thirty pounds any more at one hundred and thirty , one forty in the centre one fifty going on sir ?
One f one sixty one seventy any more ?
One eighty one ninety two hundred pounds , two twenty any more ?
Two twenty , all done ?
Two twenty standing , at two hu two forty two sixty two hundred and sixty still against you two eighty three hundred three hundred pounds standing , at three hundred pounds , you all done at three hundred pounds ?
Thank you , that 's yours sir , for three hundred pounds and that 's for number eight five four , thank you .
Lot number fifty three
Lot fifty three again it 's in front of the rostrum here , Lot number fifty three for a hundred pounds at one hundred pounds at one hundred pounds , any more at one hundred only , at one hundred , you all done ?
At one , and ten , twenty one thirty at a hundred and thirty pounds standing , at one thirty , all done , at one hundred and thirty and selling for a hundred and thirty pounds thank you sir , the same buyer , one hundred and thirty pounds for eight five four .
Lot number fifty four Lot fifty four copper bowl copper bowl showing for a hundred pounds , at one hundred and ten at a hundred and ten , twenty , thirty , forty , fifty sixty , seventy one eighty offered I'm offered a hundred and eighty pounds , I shall sell for one eighty , one ninety going on sir ?
One ninety against you now at a hundred and ninety bid , with the lady at one ninety .
Thank you , one ninety er , nine , nine one eight is it ?
Nine one eight it is , thank you .
Lot number fifty five , Lot number fifty five the hanging lamp there 's the hanging lamp showing for a hundred and fifty pounds at a hundred and fifty , one sixty , one seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred , two twenty standing I'm offered two hundred and twenty pounds , I 'll take two twenty , two forty , two sixty two eighty three hundred three , going on ?
Three on any more ?
It 's against you both , three twenty three fifty at the back three fifty standing at three hundred and fifty pounds standing at three fifty and selling for three hundred and fifty .
Eight five four , three fifty , thank you .
Lot number fifty six Lot fifty six , the copper bowl , the Timurid copper bowl , there it is for three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds , any more at three hundred pounds , all done ?
At the opening offer at three hundred pounds , any more at three hundred ?
Thank you , Lot number fifty seven Lot fifty seven I'm offering , that 's the five er Persian sections , there we are , they 've got those showing or one of them Lot number fifty seven , fifty pounds for this , at fifty pounds at fifty pounds , fifty five , sixty , sixty five , seventy seventy five , eighty eighty five , ninety ninety five , a hundred and ten twenty one thirty a hundred and thirty against you near me now one thirty , anybody else want , forty in front one fifty going on sir ?
One fifty against you one yes ?
One sixty , thank you one sixty in front now second row at one sixty and selling for one sixty thank you , a hundred and sixty pounds and that 's for number two one eight .
Thank you .
Lot number fifty eight Lot number fifty eight is another five sections there we are , we 've got one of those showing for fifty pounds , at fifty , fifty five pounds , at fifty five , any more at sixty sixty five going on ?
Seventy seventy five eighty eighty five ninety ninety five a hundred and ten twenty thirty forty , fifty , sixty , seventy , eighty one eighty to my left one eighty , it 's yours sir , at one eighty , anybody else at one hundred and eighty pounds one eighty .
Thank you , a hundred and eighty pounds for number six one five , thank you .
Lot number fifty nine , Lot fifty nine is a plaster model there 's the plaster model showing thirty pounds for this , at thirty pounds at thirty pounds any more at thirty pounds , all done at thirty , thirty five , forty pounds yes ?
Forty five forty five offered and selling forty five to my left , all done at forty five , in all at forty five .
Forty five pounds and that 's for five two two .
Five two two sir .
Lot number sixty Lot number sixty rock-crystal beaker , there 's the rock-crystal beaker , for fifty pounds , at fifty , fifty five pounds , at sixty five , seventy five , eighty five , ninety five a hundred and ten twenty , thirty , forty , fifty , sixty , seventy , eighty , ninety , two hundred , two twenty going on sir ?
Two fifty two eighty three hundred and twenty three fifty eighty four hundred twenty any more ?
Four twe four twenty against you at four twen anybody else ?
At four twenty I'm bid at the back on the left at four twenty .
Eight five four , four twenty , thank you .
Lot number sixty one Lot sixty one is the er Bohemian base , there it is there 's the base showing , a hundred pounds and ten , twenty , thirty a hundred and thirty pounds any more ?
At one hundred and thirty pounds , one forty , fifty one , one fif sixty , seventy any more sir ?
One eighty one ninety two hundred two twenty two forty sixty two eighty three hundred and twenty three twenty bid at the back on the left at three twenty , anybody else at three hundred and twenty pounds ?
Eight five four , thank you , three twenty .
Lot number sixty two , sixty two , the Roman pottery lamps Roman pottery lamps thirty pounds for these , at thirty pounds , at thirty five , at thirty five pounds any more at thirty five only , at thirty five , you all done ?
At thirty five pounds , any more at thirty five ?
Forty in time forty five fifty , fifty five fifty five against you near me , at fifty five , all done at fifty five .
Fifty five pounds .
Lot number sixty three Lot sixty three Lot number sixty three , the showing for a hundred and fifty pounds , at sixty , seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred is offered I'm bid two hundred , to anybody else at two hundred ?
Two ten , two twenty , thirty , at two hundred and thirty pounds , forty , fifty two fifty , going on ?
At two fifty , all done , at two hun two sixty at two hundred and sixty pounds , any more at two sixty ?
Yours sir , thank you , two sixty and that 's for number two two two .
Lot number sixty four Lot number sixty four there 's another one showing for you , fifty for this one , at fifty pounds thank you , fifty is offered at the back at fifty pounds I 've got I can and will sell for fifty pounds only , any further bids at fifty five sixty going on sir ?
Sixty five seventy seventy pounds at the back standing at seventy and selling for seventy pounds .
Eight five four , thank you , seventy pounds .
Lot number sixty five Lot sixty five is another one there we are another one showing I'm offered seventy five to start me , at seventy five , eighty , eighty five , ninety five , ninety five is bid , at ninety five and selling , all done ?
One hundred and ten against you one hundred and ten pounds against you at one ten is my bid at one hundred and ten , all done ?
Thank you , a commission bid for number sixty six , one ten .
Lot number sixty six Lot number sixty six is another one there we are , there 's another one showing for a hundred pounds at one hundred and ten , at one hundred and ten pounds any more at one ten , one twenty , thirty , forty , fifty one sixty , seventy one eighty at the back against you near me one eighty at the back and selling for a hundred and eighty pounds , all done at one eighty .
Eight five four , thank you , one eighty .
Lot number sixty seven Lot sixty seven is another one there we are , that one showing for you a hundred pounds for this , and ten , twenty , at one hundred and thirty , forty one hundred and forty is bid and selling for one hundred and forty pounds , anybody else at one for one fifty , one sixty going on sir ?
One seventy , one eighty one ninety offered I'm offered a hundred and ninety pounds , have you all finished at one ninety ?
The same buyer , thank you , one ninety for eight five four .
Lot number sixty eight Lot sixty eight is another one there we are that one is showing for a hundred pounds at one ten , one twenty , one thirty bid , and s one forty one fifty sixty one seventy eighty one ninety two hundred two twenty two forty two forty bid at the back and selling for two forty , all done at two hundred and forty .
Eighty five four , thank you , two forty .
Lot number sixty nine Lot sixty nine , double page there it is Lot number sixty nine for three hundred pounds , at three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds , three twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred four hundred , going on sir ?
Four twenty , four fifty four eighty bid I'm offered four hundred and eighty pounds , I shall sell at four eighty if there 's no further bid at four hundred and eighty pounds five hundred in time going one sir ?
Five fifty against the lady now , at five hundred and fifty I'm offered and selling for five fifty .
Eight five four , thank you , five fifty .
Lot number seventy Lot seventy there we are , there 's in there look , number seventy for three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds , any more , three twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred , four hundred pounds , going on sir ?
Four twenty , four fifty four eighty offered I'm offered four hundred and eighty pounds , anybody else at four hundred and eighty pounds , have you all finished at four eighty ?
The same buyer , thank you , four eighty .
Lot number seventy one Lot number seventy one seventy one there 's the stele showing there 's the carving showing there for a hundred and fifty pounds , at one fifty , one sixty , one seventy , at one hundred and seventy pounds , at one eighty offered , one ninety , two hundred now two hundred is bid and selling for two hundred , you all done ?
At two hund two twenty , two forty going on sir ?
Two sixty , two eighty three hundred , three twenty any more ?
Three three twenty , three forty , three sixty still against you sir , three sixty , anybody else ?
At three hundred and sixty pounds and selling for three hundred and sixty , have you all finished ?
Three sixty is a commission bid for one O eight .
Lot number seventy two Lot seventy two two-handled ding there it is Lot number seventy two for two hundred and fifty pounds , at two hundred and fifty , two eighty , at two hundred and eighty pounds at two eighty , three hundred , three twenty now three twenty is offered all done at three twenty ?
I shall sell at three twenty if there 's no further bids at three hundred and twenty pounds any more ?
Three twenty , that 's number sixty three commission bid .
Lot number seventy three seventy three , the baluster vase is showing for fifty pounds at fifty , fifty five pounds , at fifty five pounds at fifty five , any more at fifty five , you all done ?
At fifty five , sixty at the back , sixty five , going on sir ?
Seventy , seventy five eighty , eighty five ninety at the back I'm offered ninety pounds , I shall sell at ninety , it 's yours sir at ninety pounds ninety pounds , gentleman left back and that 's for eight five three .
Lot number seventy four Lot seventy four , the censer there 's the Ming censer showing Lot number seventy four , a hundred for this , at one hundred pounds at a hundred pounds and ten , one twenty , one thirty , at one hundred and thirty I'm offered and selling for one thirty , all done ?
At one hundred and thirty pounds , any more at one thirty ?
One thirty , thank you , for number two two three .
Lot number seventy five Lot seventy five soapstone panel soapstone panel eighty pounds , at eighty pounds at eighty pounds , any more at eighty pounds , all done ?
Opening offer at eighty , any more at eighty pounds only , at eighty pounds any more ?
Thank you , Lot number seventy six Lot number seventy six Peking er dishes there 's the Peking dishes , there 's seven of them , we 've got one of them showing seven in the for a hundred pounds one hundred pounds at a hundred pounds and ten , at one hundred and ten pounds , any more at one hundred and ten , twenty , thirty one forty in front , one fifty one sixty , seventy yes ? one eighty , thank you one eighty in front , at a hundred and eighty pounds and selling for one hundred and eighty .
Thank you , they 're yours for one eighty and that 's for number six one two .
Lot number seventy seven Lot seventy seven Lot number seventy seven is showing for you and I 've got a hundred pounds offered for it and ten , twenty , at one hundred and twenty pounds at a hundred and twenty pounds , one twenty , you all done ?
At one twenty and selling all done ?
One thirty , forty a hundred and forty pounds , you all done at one forty , against you all , at one forty .
One forty is for one eight one .
Lot number seventy eight Lot seventy eight a patinated bronze teapot there 's the bronze teapot a hundred pounds at one hundred and ten , twenty , one hundred and twenty pounds at one hundred and twenty pounds , one thirty , forty , fifty , sixty , seventy , eighty ninety , two hundred two twenty bid I'm offered two hundred and twenty to my right and selling for two twenty , two forty two sixty , two eighty three hundred and twenty three fifty three eighty four hundred and twenty four fifty , eighty five hundred and fifty six hundred six hundred pounds offered anybody else at six hundred pounds still to my right at six hundred pounds .
Thank you , six hundred pounds .
Two O eight .
Two O eight .
Lot number seventy nine Lot number seventy nine is the Ming bronze model there 's the bronze model showing for three hundred pounds , at three hun three twenty , three fifty , at three hundred and fifty pounds any more at three hundred and fifty , all done at three fifty , any more , at three hund three eighty , four hundred , going on sir ?
Four hundred going to you , any more ?
Four four twenty , four fifty going on ?
Four fifty , any more ?
Four eighty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred any more ?
Six hun and fifty six hundred and fifty pounds against you both , any more at six hundred and fifty pounds , have you all finished at six fifty ?
To you , six hundred and fifty pounds .
Lot number eighty eighty is the bamboo carving there 's the bamboo carving fifty for this , at fifty , fifty five , sixty , sixty five seventy , seventy five eighty , eighty five ninety is offered , back row , ninety and selling for ninety , all done ?
At ninety five ninety fi one hundred pounds and ten one ten , one twenty thirty one thirty against you on the back row , you coming in now sir ?
One thirty here , one hundred and thirty one thirty .
Thank you , one thirty to my left and that 's for number two one two .
Er Lot number eighty one Lot number eighty one er the inkstone there it is , Lot number eighty one and I'm offered a hundred and fifty in two places one hundred and fifty , one sixty , seventy , one eighty , one ninety two hundred , two twenty two hundred and twenty bid at two hundred and twenty pounds two twenty only , at two twenty .
Two hundred and twenty pounds for one O three .
Lot number eighty two Lot number eighty two oviform jar eighty pounds for this at eighty pounds at eighty pounds any more at eighty only , at eighty pounds , all done , at eighty , the opening offer , at eighty pounds any more at eighty ?
Thank you , Lot number eighty three Er Lot number eighty is the next to offer a soapstone carving there 's the soapstone carving showing for a hundred pounds , at one hundred and ten , a hundred and ten pounds any more at one hundred and ten all done , at one hundred and ten pounds .
Thank you , Lot number eighty four Lot number eighty four a square seal there 's the seal showing eighty for this one , at eighty pounds at eighty pounds , eighty five , ninety , ninety five , a hundred pounds and ten one twenty thirty one forty fifty one hundred and fifty at the back against one sixty one seventy eighty one ninety two hundred two hundred to my right , at two hundred pounds , any more at two hundred , two twenty , a new bidder two fifty , at two hundred and fifty , two eighty three hundred offered I'm offered three hundred to my right and selling for three hundred pounds .
Thank you three hundred .
Two O five , thank you .
Er Lot number eighty five number eighty five is the jade pendant Lot number eighty fi er Lot number eighty five , beg your pardon , it 's a vase there we are , the vase is showing for seventy pounds , at seventy , seventy five , eighty pounds at eighty pounds , eighty five , ninety ninety five , a hundred and ten a hundred and ten to my right one ten is offered and selling for one hundred and ten pounds .
Thank you , one ten two O nine , thank you .
Lot number eighty six Lot number eighty six I'm offering there it is for four hundred pounds , at four hundred pounds at four hundred pounds , any more at four hundred only , at four hundred , you all done ?
And fifty , five hundred going on ?
At five hundred pounds and selling all done at five hundred pounds , have you all finished at five hundred ?
Five hundred pounds for one O five .
Lot number eighty seven Lot number eighty seven is a celadon jade carving there 's the jade carving showing for two hundred pounds , at two hundred pounds , at two twenty , two fifty , two eighty , three hundred , three twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred offered at four twenty four fifty going on sir ?
Four fi four eighty five hundred still against you and fifty six hundred and fifty seven hundred seven hundred pounds is offered to my right , at s and fifty eight hundred still against you sir eight hundred , going on ?
At eight hundred pounds and selling for eight hundred pounds , have you all finished at eight hundred pounds , anybody else at eight hundred ?
Thank you , eight hundred pounds two one four .
Lot number eighty eight Lot number eighty eight the bronze model there 's the bronze model showing and I'm offered a hundred and fifty for it , one fifty , one sixty , one seventy any more ?
One eighty , one ninety two hundred , two twenty two forty , two sixty going on sir ?
Two sixty , against you , two eighty , three hundred still against you going on sir ?
Three twenty , three fifty three hundred and fifty pounds , all done at three fifty and it 's still with me at three fifty against you all three fifty , it 's my bid at three hundred and fifty pounds .
Three fifty commission for number seventy one .
Er Lot number eighty nine Lot number eighty nine the seal there 's the seal there showing Lot number eighty nine for seventy pounds , at seventy pounds , at five , eighty , eighty five , ninety , ninety five , a hundred pounds and ten , at one hundred and ten pounds , all done at one ten , any more , one twenty one thirty one forty one forty in the front row at one hundred and forty I 've got and I shall sell at one forty .
Thank you , a hundred and forty pounds for six one two .
Lot number ninety Lot number ninety , the horn box the horn box and cover is showing for you for a hundred pounds one hundred pounds any more at one hundred pounds ?
All done at one hundred only ?
At one hundred pounds , any more at one hundred pounds ?
Any more , last time ?
Thank you , Lot number ninety one Lot number ninety one for a hundred pounds at one hundred pounds any more at one hundred pounds only ?
At one ten , at one hundred and ten pounds , you all done at one hundred and ten pounds ?
Any more at one ten ?
One ten .
Er Lot number ninety two Lot number ninety two is the seal Lot number ninety two for thirty pounds , at thirty , thirty five , at thirty five pounds in white , thirty five only , forty , forty five fifty pounds , at fifty five , sixty , sixty five seventy I'm offered I'm offered seventy pounds on my right , seventy five eighty pounds eighty five ninety ninety five a hundred and ten twenty thirty forty one forty bid against you now one forty is here at one forty , all done ?
At one hundred and forty pounds .
Any more ?
There was no other , one forty , thank you .
Two O five two O five , thank you .
And Lot number ninety three Lot number ninety three is the Buddha
There we are , there 's the Buddha up , up here on my left there it is showing for five hundred pounds at five hundred pounds I'm offered thank you , five hundred is bid , and fifty , six hundred and fifty seven hundred and fifty eight hundred at eight hundred pounds , all done at eight hundred pounds , I'm selling for eight hundred , any further bids at eight hundred pounds ?
Any more at eight hundred pounds ?
Are you bidding ?
At eight hundred pounds to my right .
Thank you , eight hundred pounds .
Two O five , the same buyer .
Lot number ninety four
Showing here on your left sir
Lot number ninety four showing here on my left there 's there you are showing for you Lot number ninety four and I have two thousand offered for them , at two thousand pounds I'm bid , at two thousand two hundred , four hundred , two thousand four , two thousand six two thousand eight , three thousand three thousand two hundred , three thousand five three thousand eight four thousand , four thousand two hundred four thousand five hundred at four thousand five hundred , four thousand eight hundred five thousand pounds five thousand five hundred six thousand six thousand seven thousand to my left and selling for seven thousand pounds , anybody else ?
At seven thousand , it 's yours for seven thousand pounds .
Thank you , the lady to my left , seven thousand and that 's for number eighty hundred and seventy , thank you .
Eight seventy the last .
Lot number ninety five , Lot number ninety five , the cabinet
Showing here against the wall
the cabinet , there it is showing on the left-hand wall there , Lot number ninety five is showing for a hundred pounds , at one hundred and ten , twenty at one hundred and twenty pounds at a hundred and thirty , forty , fifty , sixty one seventy for the lady sir one eighty standing one ninety two hundred , two twenty for the lady two hundred and twenty , two forty two sixty two hundred and sixty and it 's still with the lady and selling for two hundred and sixty pounds eight forty , thank you , two sixty .
Lot number ninety six Lot number ninety six there we are , we 've got this showing here now Lot number ninety six at eighty pounds , at eighty , eighty five , ninety , ninety five is offered I'm offered ninety five , anybody round it off for me ?
At ninety five , all done ?
At ninety five and selling for ninety five pounds , you all done ?
At ninety five .
Thank you , eighty four , ninety five pounds .
Lot number ninety seven , ninety seven , the lacquered panel there it is , showing here on my left showing at two hundred pounds , at two hundred pounds and twenty , at two hundred and twenty pounds any more at two twenty , all done ?
Two forty , thank you , at two sixty carrying on , sir ?
Two eighty , three hundred and twenty , three fifty three eighty to my left I'm offered three hundred and eighty pounds , I 'll take three eighty if there 's no further bid at three hundred and eighty pounds .
Thank you , eight hundred and twenty , three eighty .
Lot number ninety eight Lot number ninety eight a cloisonne dish we have that showing on my right this time , there we are eighty for that at eighty pounds at eighty pounds , any more at eighty only , at eighty pounds , all done ?
At eighty , eighty five , ninety ninety five , a hundred pounds and ten going to you at the back , going on , sir ?
You going on ?
One ten , here on my left at a hundred and ten and selling for one ten .
A hundred and ten , it 's yours , sir .
Two one two , thank you .
Lot number ninety nine Lot number ninety nine cloisonne vases , we 've got one of them showing there 's one of them showing there , for three hundred pounds and twenty , forty , sixty , three hundred and sixty , any more ?
At three eighty , four hundred coming in ?
Four hundred pounds , and four twenty , four forty at four hundred and forty I'm offered at four hundred and forty pounds and selling for four hundred and forty pounds against you all .
That 's a commission bid for one O three , four forty .
Lot number one hundred Lot one hundred is the belthook there 's the belthook showing .
For a hundred pounds at one hundred and ten I'm bid , at one twenty , one thirty at one hundred and thirty pounds any more at one thirty , and selling for a hundred and thirty pounds , you all done at one thirty .
One thirty and that 's for one one eight .
Lot number one O one Lot number one O one , the patinated vase there 's the patinated vase showing at a hundred and fifty pounds , at one hundred and fifty pounds , one sixty , seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred , two twenty to my left two twenty is offered and selling for two twenty , two forty at the back going , two sixty , thank you , two eighty at the back two eighty , three hundred ?
Three hundred ?
Two eighty at the back , at two eighty , all done ?
At two hundred and eighty pounds , any more at two ei any more ?
Two , three hundred I 'll take .
No .
Two eighty at the back , at two eighty two eighty er three five three .
Lot number one O two Lot number one O two is the lacquered bottle vases there 's the bottle vases showing for , a hundred and fifty pounds , at sixty , seventy one hundred and seventy pounds at a hundred and seventy , one eighty , one ninety two hundred is offered , two twenty two forty , two sixty any more , sir ?
Two sixty against you near me at two hundred and sixty pounds , you all finished ?
At two hundred and sixty pounds two hundred and sixty pounds .
Lot number one O three Lot number one O three for a hundred pounds and ten , twenty one twenty , any more at one hundred and twenty pounds , at one twen anybody else at one hundred and twenty pounds , any more ?
One twenty .
Lot number one O four Lot number one O four military sword there 's the sword showing for a hundred and fifty pounds , at one fifty , sixty , at one hundred and seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred , two twenty , two forty two sixty bid I'm offered two sixty and I shall sell at two sixty , any further bids ?
At two sixty thank you , sir , eight three two , two sixty .
Lot number one O five Lot number one O five , the terracotta carvings there 's eight of them there we are , all eight of them in the framed case for three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds and twenty , fifty , at three hundred and fifty pounds any more at three fifty only , at three hundred and fifty , all done ?
At three hundred and fifty pounds .
Three fifty .
Er Lot number one O six Lot one O six , the opium set there 's the opium set showing for three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds any more at three hundred only , at three hundred and twenty , three fifty , three eighty going on , sir ?
Four hundred , four twenty four twenty , any more ?
Four twenty you 're going to ?
At four hundred and four fifty , four eighty going on ?
Four eighty coming in ?
Five hundred , five fifty six hundred offered I'm offered six hundred against you , six fifty seven hundred seven hundred to my left , at seven hundred pounds .
Yours , sir , thank you seven hundred pounds
two two one ?
Thank you .
Two two one the last .
And Lot number one O seven , Lot number one O seven , the one-case inro there 's the inro and I'm offered a hundred and fifty to start me , at one fifty , sixty , seventy , one eighty , one ninety two hundred and twenty is bid , at two hundred and twenty is offered , selling at two hundred and twenty , two forty , two sixty two eighty , three hundred and twenty , three fifty three eighty do you want to come in , sir ?
Three eighty in front at three eighty and selling for three eighty thank you , it 's yours , sir , for three eighty and that 's for number six six one six one two six one two , thank you .
Lot number one O eight Lot number one O eight
Showing on your left
There 's the lamps showing Lot number one O eight there we are showing for twenty pounds at twenty pounds for the lamps at twenty pounds anyone anyone want them ?
For twenty pounds only .
Twenty pounds anyone want them for twenty pounds ?
No ?
Twenty pounds ?
Ten pounds ?
No ?
Thank you .
Lot number one O nine Lot number one O nine is er the cake stand there 's the cake stand showing there 's the cake stand for twenty pounds at twenty pounds again , anybody want it ?
For twenty pounds twenty pounds don't you want it for twenty ?
Twenty pounds only , ten pounds , at ten pounds , thank you , ten is offered and I shall sell at ten if there 's no further bid , at ten pounds .
The lady 's offer , thank you , ten pounds and that 's for number
six eleven , thank you .
Lot number one hundred and ten one hundred and ten is the bucket-shaped saki pot and cover there 's the pot and cover for ten pounds at ten pounds , fifteen at the back now fifteen is offered and selling for fifteen only , at fifteen pounds , you all done ?
At fifteen .
Yours .
sir , thank you , fifteen pounds and that 's eight five three .
Lot number one eleven one eleven chess board there 's the chess board thank you , a folding chess board for ten pounds at ten pounds I'm offered , thank you , fifteen in front twenty at the back , twenty five in front going on , sir ?
Twenty five , any more ?
Thirty pounds at thirty pounds , any more ?
At thirty in the back row at thirty pounds .
Thirty pounds and that is for number six O three .
Lot number one hundred and twelve , Lot number one hundred and twelve gentlemen , it 's the bamboo picnic baskets , there we are , there 's the picnic baskets showing in the front here for three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds , anyone want them for three hundred pounds ?
Two hundred pounds I want at two hundred pounds at two hundred pounds , anyone want them ?
At two hundred only , at two hundred pounds all done ?
At two hundred .
Thank you .
Lot number one one three Lot number one one three I'm now offering there we are , the brush pot there 's the brush pot showing for three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds at three twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred , and twenty , four fifty , four eighty , five hundred and fifty five fifty , six hundred for you , sir six hundred , six twenty six fifty six hundred and fifty in the centre and selling for six eighty seven hundred and twenty seventy fifty seven eighty eight hundred and twenty eight fifty eight eighty nine hundred and twenty nine twenty is bid on the left , at nine twenty and selling for nine hundred and twenty thank you , sir , nine twenty and that 's for number eight four eight , thank you very much .
Lot number one one four , Lot number one one four the kukri there 's the kukri showing Lot number one one four for sixty pounds , at sixty , sixty five pounds , at seventy , seventy five , eighty is offered eighty five , ninety I'm offered ninety pounds , any more at ninety and selling for ninety pounds , if you 're all finished , at ninety pounds .
Ninety pounds and that 's for one eight two .
Lot number one one five , Lot number one one five has a revised estimate Lot number one one five , two fifty to three fifty for this one , Lot number one one five and I have a hundred and fifty offered for it , one fifty , sixty , seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred and twenty at two hundred and twenty pounds , all done ?
At two fifty , thank you , at two fifty I 've got I shall sell for two fifty if there 's no further bid at two hundred and fifty pounds .
Thank you .
Five two three , sir
One two three , two fifty
Five two three
Five two three , I beg your pardon .
Lot number one one six one one six , the celadon jade pendant there 's the jade pendant for sixty pounds , at sixty pounds , at five , seventy , at seventy pounds any more at seventy only ?
At seventy , seventy five , eighty pounds eighty five , ninety pounds ninety five , a hundred one hundred pounds against you , one ten to my right , against you at the back one ten to my right , at one ten and selling for a hundred and ten .
Yours , sir , one ten , thank you .
Six O eight .
Lot number one one seven Lot number one one seven is the next to offer celadon jade er pendant another jade pendant for fifty pounds , at fifty , fifty five pounds at fifty five pounds , any more at fifty five pounds only , at fifty five , sixty sixty five seventy I'm offered I'm offered seventy to my left and I shall take seventy pounds , any more at seventy ? ?
Seventy pounds , it 's yours , sir .
Eight four five
Eight four five , thank you .
Lot number one one eight one one eight , the opium weights there 's the opium weights showing Lot number one one eight , fifty for these , at fifty , fifty five pounds , at fifty five pounds , any more at sixty , sixty five , seventy , seventy five eighty in front , eighty five ninety in front ninety pounds , going on ?
Ninety five one hundred pounds and ten one twenty one twenty against you one twenty in the second row at one hundred and twenty pounds eight three three , thank you , one twenty .
Lot number one one nine Lot number one one nine is the next to offer globular jars and there are two in the lot , we have one showing fifty pounds for the two of them thank fifty pounds ?
Eh ?
Fifty pounds anyone ?
Nobody want them ?
Thank you , fifty is offered .
I 've got fifty pounds bid and I shall sell at fifty if there 's no further bids at fifty pounds only at fifty pounds , you all done at fifty ?
Five two three , sir .
Five two three , fifty pounds , thank you .
Lot number one hundred and twenty Lot number one twenty there it is at the back on the left , one twenty right at the back there for three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds , any more at three hundred only ?
At three hundred pounds , anyone want it ?
For three hundred pounds , have you all finished , at three hundred pounds .
Lot number one two one Lot number one two one the gilt-bronze figure there 's the gilt-bronze figure showing for two hundred pounds , and twenty , two forty , sixty , two eighty , three hundred and twenty I'm bid , at three twen three fifty , three eighty now coming in ?
Four hundred pounds four hundred pounds , four twenty to you , sir four fifty four eighty five hundred any more ?
Five hundred against you any more ?
For five hundred pounds standing at five hundred , all done at five hundred pounds .
Thank you , five hundred for number two O nine ?
Yes ?
Two O nine .
Lot number one two two Lot number two one two two , the gold lacquer shrine there 's the shrine showing there it is for five hundred pounds at five hundred pounds at five hundred pounds at five hundred pounds , any more at five hundred only , at five , you all done ?
Opening offer at five hundred pounds thank you , Lot number one two two A
one two two A is the Tibetan bell , it 's in front of the rostrum here it 's in front of the rostrum at two hundred pounds at two hundred , two twenty , at two hundred and twenty pounds two hundred and twenty pounds you all done at two twenty ?
Anybody else ?
At two hundred and twenty pounds .
Two twenty .
Lot number one two three Lot number one two three there it is , Lot number one two three for a hundred and fifty pounds , at one fifty , one sixty , one seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred pounds , two twenty offered , at two twenty to my left standing , at two twenty , anybody else ?
At two forty two sixty two eighty three hundred three twenty three fifty three eighty four hundred four twenty four fifty four eighty five hundred five hundred is offered , standing at five hundred pounds and selling for five hundred pounds .
Five hundred pounds and that is for number eight three two .
Lot number one two four Lot number one two four there it is , Lot number one two four a hundred for this one , and ten is bid , at one hundred and ten pounds , at one hundred and ten pounds , any more , one twenty , one thirty going on , sir ?
One forty , one fifty one sixty , coming in Jim ?
One sixty in the back row at one sixty and selling for a hundred and sixty , one seventy standing one eighty one ninety one ninety , two hundred pounds any more ?
Two hundred pounds against the lady , at two hundred and selling for two hundred pounds thank you , sir , it 's yours for two hundred , that 's eight five four .
Lot number one two five , Lot number one two five , an Indian dagger there 's the dagger for fifty pounds , at fifty , fifty five , sixty , sixty five , seventy seventy five , eighty pounds eighty five , ninety pounds ninety pounds against you , sir , at ninety , ninety five standing , a hundred pounds against you , at one hundred and ten standing at a hundred and ten pounds on my right , standing at one ten .
Thank you , a hundred and ten pounds for number six one O .
Lot number one two six Lot number one two six is a silver bowl there 's the silver bowl fifty for this , at fifty , fifty five pounds at sixty , five , seventy offered I'm offered seventy to my left , at seventy , seventy five eighty pounds eighty five ninety ninety five ninety fi one hundred offered one ten one ten to my right seated , at one ten , all done at one hundred and ten ?
Thank you , the lady 's bid , one ten and that 's for number six one e six eleven .
Lot number one two seven Lot number one two seven , an okimono the okimono for four hundred pounds and fifty , at four hundred and fifty pounds at four hundred and fifty pounds , any more at four fifty , all done ?
At four hundred and fifty pounds any more at four hundred and five hundred , thank you , and fifty fi going on , sir ?
Five fifty against you at the back at five hundred and fifty pounds , you all done at five fifty .
Five hundred and fifty pounds .
Lot number one two eight one two eight , an okimono there we are , another one showing for three hundred pounds at three hundred pounds any more at three hundred pounds , you all done ?
Opening offer at three twenty , three forty going on sir ?
Three sixty , three eighty four hundred , four twenty four twenty coming in now , sir ?
Four fifty , thank you four fifty standing at four fifty and selling for four fifty , all done ?
At four hundred and fifty pounds , any more ?
Eight four one , thank you , four fifty .
Lot number one hundred and twenty nine , an okimono there 's another one for you for four hundred pounds and fifty , at four hundred and fifty pounds at four hundred and fifty , five hundred , five fifty going on , sir ?
Five fifty against you , any more ?
At five hundred and fifty pounds , if you 're all finished at five fifty .
Five fifty .
Lot number one hundred and thirty Lot one thirty a koro koro and cover , there it is a hundred and fifty pounds , at one fifty , one sixty now one hundred and sixty pounds , all done at one sixty ?
Anybody else ?
At one hundred and sixty pounds , any more at one sixty ?
One sixty .
Lot number one hundred and thirty one Lot number one three one is the container sutra container , there it is for two hundred pounds , at two hun , two twenty , at two hundred and twenty offered , at two hundred and twenty pounds any more at two twenty , two forty , two sixty , two eighty , three hundred , three twenty bid I'm offered three twenty and I 'll take three twenty , any further bids at three twenty ?
Thank you , three twenty and that 's for number two hundred .
Lot number one three two Lot number one three two is showing for you , Lot number one three two for thirty pounds , at thirty , thirty five , forty , forty five , fifty pounds , fifty five standing at fifty five I 've got and I shall sell at fifty five , sixty in front sixty , sixty five pounds seventy going on ?
Seventy five any more ?
Seventy five against you , are you coming in now , sir ?
Seventy five pounds standing at seventy five , all done at seventy five .
Eight four one , seventy five pounds .
Lot number one three three one three three is the sword rack there 's the sword rack showing for two hundred pounds at two hun two twenty , two forty , two sixty , two eighty , three hundred bid I'm offered three hundred pounds and ta I shall take it at three hundred pounds , anybody else ?
At three hundred pounds I'm selling for three hundred .
Three hundred pounds , number seventy six .
Lot number one three four , one three four is the pipe there 's Lot number one three four at eighty pounds , at eighty , eighty five , ninety five at a hundred pounds and ten one ten one twenty , thirty one thirty , forty , fifty one fifty , one sixty offered I'm offered a

Policy H two and the matters which are outstanding from our discussion yesterday are those which relate to the criteria and also the question of whether the policy should include specific guidance on the location of the new settlement .
However before we embark on that , there are two outstanding matters which were raised yesterday a and I 'd just like to know how far erm progress has been made in dealing with those and one was the erm definition as far as it can be made of what is meant by the Greater York area .
And also the compilation of the commitments etcetera by the Greater York er ag again related to the Greater York area .
Peter , North Yorkshire , on the former , Greater York , I think er I did undertake to consult with the county surveyor on the relationship er journey to work er and commuting around Greater York and that work is is in hand this morning .
I doubt whether it will appear erm by by one o'clock .
But er it will be in , it is being pursued .
Thank you very much .
On the second erm erm issue the commitments in Greater York , erm Mr has has made good progress erm on this erm and he 's been had discussions this morning with er district colleagues and hopefully we we are nearly there on that one .
Will that be ready by the end of the morning or are we looking at Tuesday morning for that ?
Hopefully by the end of the morning , we 'll do our best for the end of the morning .
Now we we we want to embark on a discussion of er matters C and D under issues .
But before we do that , er and you 're having given to you a piece of paper , headed possible scenarios for panel reporting on the new settlement .
Erm a very minor point , when you get it , those who have got it already , would you just draw a line from the top line which says discussed criteria , down to the box which says evaluate sectors around York etcetera .
Now by way of introduction to this , we had some deep thinking last night after we 'd concluded our discussion , and I have to preface what I'm going to say , certainly for Mr 's benefit that it 's the if question , the if question .
Erm as we see it , there are en two possible courses on the new settlement that in fact you end up if you look at the right hand side of that sheet of paper , with four possible answers .
But if I start with A .
If if it is considered that a new settlement is required to meet the housing provision in Greater York , then the first question that has to be asked is , is the criteria approach alone acceptable .
If the answer to that is yes , then we proceed to discuss the criteria and the panel could proceed to report accordingly on those .
If the answer is no , and here this is linked to the question of should the policy include specific guidance for the location of the settlement , and by specific guidance , it implies , should it be allocated to a particular district , then in order to do that , the panel feel that we would have to be in a position of having sufficient information to make an objective and logical decision on that .
And that may well entail during the discussion on D an evaluation around York to decide which maybe the appropriate sectors of of app which is the appropriate host authority .
If we find we have enough information , to proceed it 's all ifs I know .
But if we find we have enough information to proceed to make a positive recommendation , on the new settlement and the host district for that , then we would report accordingly .
If we find or feel that we haven't got sufficient information to make a proper recommendation as seems likely than again we will report accordingly but there are implications obviously on that .
And then finally , the other if is , if we find that the new settlement is not required then we report accordingly .
Does anybody wish to respond to that ?
Have we missed any possible scenarios out I wonder .
Mr .
Erm Roy , House Builders Federation .
I I I just wonder what the opposition would think if you decided that the criteria approach alone was not acceptable and you equally decided you hadn't enough information to specify a location , where would that leave you ?
Or where would it leave anybody else .
The ob the obvious answer to that would be we 'd not be in a position to make the proper recommendation in favour of I I suspect .
And that would be then a matter for the county to determine how they would proceed from that point .
We would of course fully report all of our reasoning at both the yes and no stages of this decision tree .
If we had found good reason to say no , to the first question , there are implications for how we say no to the second question .
Peter
Peter , North Yorkshire .
Er I'm still trying to digest the er implications of er these various er flows but just to comment perhaps at this stage on the possibility or otherwise of er defining a er a district location .
Erm I would have thought and it 's a personal immediate reaction at this stage , it would be difficult for you to come to a conclusion on the appropriate district location .
Erm you haven't had the the figures of the local authorities erm on that or for that matter the public at large which I think is important .
Erm which we think would be very important as part of the debate .
And perhaps secondly erm there is not a body of information which has been submitted to er this examination public which advises you in detail on the various issues that we think need to be addressed leading to the erm proposal occasions and I would have thought it would have been difficult for the panel to come to a a conclusion but I may be wrong on that .
Thank you .
I was hoping that we could actually tease out as part of the discussion , whether there is erm a positive way forward if if we if you are minded if we are minded to recommend the new settlement , then I would hope we would tease out during the course of this discussion erm the preferred or a preferred host authority for this new settlement .
Peter , North Yorkshire .
Well I would be in some difficulty there sir because erm I have clearly this is a very important and sensitive er issue , one which involves erm one which would involve erm consideration by my members of the various issues , erm I have no authority to express a detailed view on a ma on a matter of principle , or indeed a general view as to wh as to which is the er the best location .
Because I don't know .
Because I don't know what is the er what is the best location .
We are of course conscious that of the position held by the County Council and by the district councils .
Indeed we heard more than once I think yesterday , the district councils , they have no .
However , I'm sure everyone around the table will be conscious that one of the things the panel has a duty to do is to consider what is in the light of national guidance .
And national guidance does contain some fairly specific indicators of what is expected to be structure plans .
The other point on that is that the draft matters for the E I P including matter two D have been known to everyone for some considerable time .
The D O E objection has been known to everyone for some considerable time and their statement is quite explicit in what it says in relation to the matter of one D .
There have also been several representations from those sitting on my left hand side , about the possible answers to question one D in the affirmative .
All that evidence is before the panel , we have a duty to report upon it .
It may be fortuitous that if we spend this morning discussing criteria , there 'll then be a gap of one and a half working days for those who don't have to travel far to consider possible answers to the second stream of the dialogue .
In other words , a no to the first question .
I think
We have not made .
But as with every planning inquiry , hearing or whatever , we need not to avoid closing the discussion before we have all the information we need to reach a decision whichever way we decide to reach it .
I think just to amplify that point , if you look at the question which is set down under two two D .
It 's perfectly clear , should the policy include specific guidance on the location of the new settlement .
If the answer to that is yes , then how do we go about providing that advice .
Mr ?
Richard of .
Erm I must say I share Peter 's view here that the er location of the new settlement , whether in general terms or by district , has not been through the public consultation process .
And I don't see how the structure plan er i the way it 's been progressed so far , can determine any one of those general locational criteria .
All the while there has n't been a public consultation input .
And I it 's a difficult question and one I'm not so sure has an answer er but I don't feel that one can be in anyway specific about , the location of the new settlement certainly by district , cos the exercise has n't been done .
It would of course be necessary if the County Council well first of all , our report will as you know be to the County Council .
It would be for them to decide what to do with our report .
And of course it is open to them to take a contrary view to any conclusion reached on any matter by the panel .
However if as a consequence , of a panel recommendation or of their decision on a panel recommendation , the County Council decide to modify the deposited structure plan , there would of course at that stage have to be a public planning enquiry .
It may I I appreciate Mr , that that is a long way away or could be a long way away from the sort of public consultation which one .
It would take place in a different context , nevertheless there would be that opportunity and no doubt the adequacy of a public consultation exercise at the proposed modification stage would be a matter for the County Council themselves to decide .
Y er Richard of .
I think that is indeed correct .
I was a little surprised to hear yesterday the views of Mr about the need for this plan to identify the location or the general location of the new settlement .
Er that is not a consistent theme within the D O E strategy .
One only has to look at the Shropshire structure plan in which I was involved last year , and the Department of the Environment in that case had allowed the facility for new settlement without locational criteria .
So it it would not be inconsistent er for a similar situation to apply here .
That would probably take you to your er first scenario , if there 's to be a new settlement , that the criteria approach alone is acceptable .
That is certainly the approach the department took in Shropshire .
And I found it a little strange they were suggesting that an alternative approach may be suitable here , particularly when th the evidence has n't been put forw or gone through the public consultation process .
Do you wish to comment on that Mr ?
Thank you .
D O E .
Yes sir , er ever since P P G three was revised at the beginning of last year , I believe that the department has been moving steadily in the direction that indicated but certainly my brief here is quite specific .
The department expects a general location for the new settlement to be included in the approved plan .
What I said to you yesterday , I hinted that there were difficulties we don't know how they are to be resolved .
. We believe that for a structure plan to go forward now in the present state of policy guidance , bearing in mind that 's on the basis of P P G twelve and with P P G thirteen lying in the wings .
We believe that for any structure plan to conform with a str with a new settlement proposal without specifying the general location , would be .
We 've tried to persuade the planning authorities in Greater York area , for a considerable period of time to try to bring about a situation where to this E I P with specific proposals , but for good sound local reasons , that has not been possible .
we concede on the basis of the exercises that have been discussed so far , I think you will find it very difficult to make a firm recommendation in favour of a specific location. , albeit on a district basis .
I think you 'll find it very difficult to do .
And maybe at the end of the day , the County Council will have to come to a conclusion , after you 've made your general recommendations , with or without a location maybe th they will decide that having gone through a consultation exercise , they 're only course is to modify the proposals which would then have to be the subject of another E I P .
Now I hope that doesn't r ring alarm bells .
Certainly that would be o o one scenario which I think the county will have to contemplate .
Mr ?
Peter , er North Yorkshire .
Can I just pick up a a couple of points please .
First of all in response to to Miss .
I I accept that er the government guidance as Miss has suggested and reinforced by Mr does suggest a policy is that there should be that er increased level er of detail erm in the structure plan .
I think the the position of the County Council is twofold .
First of all , we feel that a step by step approach whereby we move from options to preferred option to a formal debate e on the principle erm of erm of of the strategy .
Er that 's basically I think a an approach which the County Counci er which the public at large has er has found acceptable .
Er we would find it difficult to justify public concern about a specific location er in advance of a decision erm the principle so we would prefer er a step by step approach er which reflects the special circumstances er of Greater York , and I think Greater York is a special circumstance if only because of the number of authorities erm er thus far involved .
Secondly I think we would be looking to pursue erm erm progress towards a preferred general location as a matter er of priority .
And in fact if you look at the the comments i i the blue book , erm on page thirty seven of the D O E , they have suggested as Mr has just confirmed , that we really ought to have made progress on that before there is an approved any move towards approving the alteration .
That is what we intend to do and we intend to do it on the basis of the criteria erm that we have set out .
Now I in terms of the fine letter of P P G twelve erm erm er that is not entirely consistent , but looking at the special circumstances of Greater York , erm erm and the long time you 've spent on this , trying to reassure the public that we will do this properly , we think it 's the best way to proceed .
Thank you .
Er Mr
Michael .
I and others ' main objections both the draft plan and the deposit plan , is there should be a s a general location in H in H two .
This is not a new matter , this is a matter on which the County Council could have directed their mind to for several years .
I like I'm sure others , once the issues were published for the E I P , took advice from the Home Secretary and were simply advised that the location that that we should give evidence on locational matters to the E I P and that is what we have done .
And we have given you detailed evidence .
That was available to the County Council to do so .
The County Council themselves have in fact produced a paper er which I have produced in my in my appendices which specifically identifies a preferred location for the new settlement .
Admittedly that was not accepted by the Greater York authorities working party , but it is there for you , it is a base of technical information for you to use in your decision .
In terms of what would happen if this if you felt unable well if there was not a general location specified in the structure plan , then there are two two two ways forward .
One that that the decision will be taken by the Greater York au authorities outside the development plan system .
That would clearly be completely contrary to the plan led approach which is urged by government in these matters .
It would inherently end up a large enquiry some somewhere along the line , which would frustrate the whole purpose of of the planning system .
Cos it it would mean the decision would be taken by the Secretary of State and not by the local authorities .
Alternatively , the step by step approach urged by Mr , appears to be totally illogical .
Cos the if there is to be a proposal modification , that must inevitably be the subject of another examination in public .
So we are basically wasting another twelve to eighteen months , sitting around waiting for a decision on the the new settlement .
It 'll mean a third hiatus making decisions on where development should go in Greater York .
Thank you .
Thank you .
I I take your point that yes you have submitted er a a proposal as have other parties er to the discussion .
From our point of view we 're not in the position and it would be totally wrong of us actually to try in public to to deal with those or to come to a specific conclusion about any particular proposal .
I mean that has to be dealt with through the development control processes .
Erm but nevertheless , that And local planning yes .
Thanks for reminding me .
Er nevertheless , under P P G guidance , erm advice , the new settlement is a strategic issue and therefore it 's right and proper to think about it and look at look at it and try to determine whether it is possible to give guidance on a district location through this through through through this debate .
Michael Michael .
I I fully accept e I I hope my evidence in fact wasn't directed at our proposal but in terms of the erm of the general guidance given by the Department of the Environment that there should be a general location specified by district and by locational features such as etcetera .
We feel we 've given you enough evidence sir that you can come to a reasoned decision .
We we think and I think that that the inexorable logic is towards the North East Ryedale districts of North east of York .
So I'm I'm sure we 'll go through that in detail later on today .
But I feel you have enough evidence in front of you to come to that conclusion .
Chairman , just a very brief point if I may .
Peter , North Yorkshire .
Mr made reference to the County Council considering a preferment .
The County Council has never at any time considered a paper or come to a conclusion erm on the preferred general location for the new settlement .
I wish to underline that fully .
Mr .
Paul , planning .
I wonder if we could just consider the question of what is meant by the term general location .
Erm are we agreed er wi with Mr I address this question really to Mr that this really means identification of a district within which the new settlement should be located .
Or is the Department of the En Environment looking for something a more specific area than a district ?
Mr .
, D O E .
Yes sir , the answer to that is that yes we are looking for something more specific .
Not site specific but sufficient locational detail to make it that there 're not rival schemes .
Erm we 've heard from Selby that they could they could provide possible sites for more than one scheme .
I believe it 's the role of the structure plan to specify the general location in such a way that unless those schemes were very close together , in terms of a site specific nature , that wouldn't be left to the local plan process .
Yes .
We did think about this point last night .
We tended towards a view that when there is a possibility that one part of a district might meet the criteria , but another part of the same district would either be contrary to or prejudice the objectives of the criteria , we might need to specify which part of the district we meant .
Perhaps by reference to rivers .
quick look at the map , the River Ouse conveniently chops Selby district in roughly half , and that there might well be considerations which for the sake of was not okay .
Equally there might be considerations the other half was okay .
And that was the sort of level of detail to which we thought we might need to go in those districts where it is demonstrated to us , of the district do need to be considered differently .
I that is something which we hope will emerge when we talk about the relevant criteria .
Obviously as the chairman has emphasised , we don't know which of these course we 're going down , we therefor need during the course of the examination , to go down all .
And it seems to us I mean we 've talked about the different principles , the ne sensible next step is to talk about the criteria .
Can I just confirm with you Mr , that what I 've described in terms of geographical location , is getting somewhere near to meeting his objective .
Mr Sorry
Mr D O E .
Fine as far as it went we would expect during this er proposal the nature of the new settlement to be specific particularly in relation to the transport of the structure .
And we 'll be looking for some general indication as to a location in a particular transport corridor .
Clearly you 're unlikely to be recommending somewhere that is not transport in the structure but you 'll believe it 's important to specify which one .
If we get to that point .
Mr
Yes sir , very briefly er first of all can I endorse Michael 's first set of comments , I agree with what he said entirely , I think it is incumbent upon the E I P and on the stage that the county have reached with your such good advice in your report , to come to bring this situation together towards the strategic decision .
I would endorse what Ken has said , I certainly am of the view there are overriding reasons which I 'll come to in a moment for putting forward a general location , I had seen that as a central location which may or may not span more than one district .
The criteria which we 'll come on to debate , there is one criteria in there which I say overrides or is overriding in weight , and that is number eleven , to be consistent with regional and sub-regional policies .
There are very significant sub-regional policies cross border migration which have existed for many many years .
Those policies in my view , and I put it this strongly , rule out certain sectors for consideration .
Mr
Er yeah thank you sir .
Terry , Selby District .
Erm can I throw another spanner in the works er sir .
Cos what we have heard so far this morning is certainly placing me in all of the local authority .
Er as you 've already heard , the Greater York authority have cooperated for a number of years in bringing forward new settlement proposals but erm I have to say that I I do agree it would be helpful if the panel were able to make a strategic recommendation in favour of one particular local authority .
My difficulty is as as you 've already heard I 've got no mandate to speak about particular locations or even sectors within Selby District although clearly I do have a mandate as I already have said to come along and say that we feel Selby District is an appropriate location .
Erm I had rather thought that that you had been given erm sufficient information already to perhaps make a straightforward simple strategic choice between between districts .
Erm if if I can elaborate on on that a a little further .
Erm
Right okay .
Sorry Mr , can can we can we leave that for later on when we talk about .
Okay what we 'll just do just just a brief .
It seems to me that there there are two ways forward that are that are being pursued in in in other areas .
One one approach that we 've already heard is is in policy .
Erm which again wouldn't trouble Selby district , because we 're we 're committed to a new settlement .
The alternative approach is the one that Mr in terms of specifying particular strategic locations .
the reasons I said I I I I could go along with that approach as well .
Thank you .
Mr .
Thank you , Roy , House Builders ' Federation .
Mr raised the possibility of a second E I P .
I would regard that as the nightmare scenario .
We have erm there have been certain decisions made over time which has got us to this position and whether erm you agree or anyone agrees or not the the the right next step is to specify a location , nevertheless it 's embodied in what 's gone on so far , a series of steps towards making the decision .
In my view , a second E I P would be a backward step .
We 've already expressed concern in other arenas about the way in which the greenbelt planning this structure .
We found certain difficulty with the with the with the logic of that .
But nevertheless we 've tackled that and come to deal with it .
But in a situation where we were left with the second E I P and we had districts preparing district wide plans and as Mr in his submission has said , he intends to remove the present article fourteen , direction , we are in real chaos .
I would urge the panel to make a decision which enables us to go down a road of logical decision making to get the issue resolved one way or the other .
If not we 'll be in limbo land for a long time .
It suits neither the development industry , nor would I suggest it suits the public to be left in limbo land for a considerable time .
Thank you that 's very helpful Mr .
Mr
Ned , Leeds City Council .
As the panel knows , chair Leeds itself is in the throes of producing its own strategic plan .
The more certainty they can have from this enquiry , the better for us in making our own plans .
So we would certainly vote in favour of a specified area the terms that Mr 's given .
An the sooner , the better .
Having given you food for thought , I 'd like to move on to a discussion of the criteria and can I say right now that I think it would be right and proper to limit our discussion this morning to the criteria .
What I would like to do is to come back on Monday sorry Tuesday , Tuesday , Tuesday .
To look at possible locations and I would hope and expect to have a positive contribution from the district council representatives on that , and the county .
And finally can I reemphasise that we have not come to any conclusion as to which road we shall go down on this one .
But i I did feel it was airing those possible scenarios to get a reaction and I think the forty minutes we 've had discussing that have been extremely valuable as far as we 're concerned .
Now can we move to a discussion on the criteria and I 'll ask Mr to open on that .
Thank you chairman I will be brief , Peter Davies North Yorkshire .
Er I will be brief , I really want to cover two things er in my introduction .
First of all the principle erm of the criteria and secondly the detail erm of the the content er of the criteria .
As far as the principle is concerned I just need to say two things .
Er first of all er P P G three and the question asked by the D O E as well that it 's sufficient justification to go further than the guidance det out in paragraph thirty three er of P P G I think it is paragraph thirty three of P P G
Yes .
er three .
I think there was a feeling yesterday , certainly it 's it 's our view that what that paragraph in P P G three does is to set the basic ground rules .
The basic ground rules that determine whether a new settlement concept does as I would put it get into the starting gate .
I think there 's a need or the County Council considered there 's a need for certainly in the Greater York context , for further guidance to be given to fairly erm assess where the new settlement location er should be .
We think it would be a sad day if local plans and structure plans were purely a restatement er of P P G three .
The purpose of the planning system I think is to develop government guidance er and therefore we think there 's a need for something further than P P G three .
Secondly , er we think there 's a need for a consistent overview of York , a consistent view of the issues and the matters that need to be assessed erm right across Greater York .
We 've already heard that Greater York os a very complex area with many interrelationships .
I think there 's a need to assess those relationships and those factors evenly and fairly across Greater York and if nothing else I think we owe that to the public er of Greater York .
And indeed we did give them an an undertaking er that that would be done .
That 's all I want to say on the principle erm of the criteria , as far as the detailed content erm er is concerned I suspect we could talk all day about whether social should replace affordable in one of the criteria , or whether the full stop is in the right place er in another one .
E we largely are perfectly happy to leave that sir t to the panel , having considered the views on the very detailed comments on the criteria .
Other than that I want to make just three comments on three important issues which have been raised .
First of all is criteria , criterion .
One that the new settlement should avoid er the greenbelt .
That I think is absolutely er fundamental erm to the issue , and because of the way the practically the the greenbelt local plan has been defined , that means it has to be practically outside the outer boundary of the greenbelt .
Secondly , the issue of eight rather than ten miles .
The county council very early on , in fact the Greater York authority , this is criterion three .
Did in fact with the Greater York districts initially take a view that it ought to be eight miles .
Subsequent reflection and erm consideration of various comments that we that were received I think rightly persuaded the County Council and the district councils that in order to ensure erm a proper search and a proper consideration of all the factors , er that eight miles should be extended er to ten miles .
And I think that that is probably the appropriate ground rule erm all that .
And then the other issue I think is criterion twelve , erm avoid conflict with mineral and non-mineral development .
Again I think that that is er an important consideration in Greater York .
That is not to say that that necessarily will discount any area , but in erm reflection of paragraph thirty one of M P G one , I think it is important that that sort of issue erm er is included .
So that 's all I think I want to say chairman .
Er time is progressing erm and obviously I would be interested to hear the debate .
Thank you Mr .
Well could I have comments on the principle or principles of er by using criteria and then I 'd like to go through the individual criteria or individual criterion one by one .
Can I say obviously we have our own comments about these .
Erm but to come back to the first criterion which says avoid the greenbelt , I know exactly what you mean when you say avoid the greenbelt , but if in the context of the wording before that where it says to be located beyond the outer boundary of the York greenbelt , do you need to have criterion one ?
Or is there another greenbelt which may also be er affected by a new settlement proposal ?
I think erm as far as the green belt is policy H two in terms of its general presumption does direct erm erm the new settlement beyond the outer boundary of the greenbelt .
Mm .
Erm the criterion one that has been avoi has been described as a avoid the greenbelt to reflect the possibility or the theoretical possibility that er a new settlement could be er provided shall we say erm erm n on the inner edge of the greenbelt , if the scenario arose that the final definition of the York greenbelt did allow for that possibility to emerge .
I think it 's very unlikely but I think it described as one avoid the greenbelt , to be seen to be er encompassing all possibilities .
Yeah .
Sorry I I have to cut across my advice to everybody else there .
It does strike me though as a that A that one of the basic points is that if this is going in as structure plan guidance then we have to be satisfied that these are in fact criteria which can operate at the strategic level .
Er and the other point which e you might like to comment is are they in effect set out in any order of precedence .
A descending order or pri importance f in in terms of the strategic thinking .
Taking Peter , North Yorkshire .
Taking the second point first , no there is no implied priority erm accorded to any of the criteria erm reflected in the order in which they are set out .
I think it is certainly the members er input is required to balance and weight perhaps individual criteria when they have a body er of information before them , but certainly er there is no intention to er er to er weight the criteria or to imply that er one is er more or less important than twelve .
I think it would be very helpful if participants could give us their views
Mm .
as to whether there should be any order of priority .
I think it would also be helpful to have participants reactions to the nature of the criteria .
Mm .
Are they about what the new settlement should be like , if so is that an appropriate consideration for the structure plan .
As opposed to are they about where the new settlement should be generally located ?
Which I know Mr will tell us is a matter for the structure plan .
So I think there are a number of questions about the principle about the nature of criteria , what would be appropriate in a structure plan , what would not be appropriate in a structure plan as well as , would it be helpful , unhelpful , impossible to have some order of priority .
Mr and and and then Mr
, D O E .
Er can I just respond briefly to Mr 's first point to to confirm that we 've absolutely no objection to a more detailed set of criteria being included in the plan than is contained in P P G three .
Er we wouldn't want the plan to be inhibited in that way .
I if I can just remind participants of what we said in our original objection , that further justification will be required to demonstrate that the level of detail proposed in the deposited policy H two is not incompatible with P P G three and does not involve over detailed or unduly restrictive policy guidance .
Mm .
Now we would expect that justification to emerge from this examination and in due course to be embodied in the er lower case script for the alteration itself .
But er I just wanted to confirm that we 've no objection to more detailed set of criteria being included .
Can I
Pro provided they 're relevant at this level .
Quite so sir .
Did you say , included in the lower case .
Er , D O E .
Er as you know er Miss er w the structure plan highlights the policies in upper case and the reason justification is provided in lower case script .
Yes I do but are y I'm sorry I'm not clear as to whether you are suggesting that there should be policy upper case criteria and some non policy lower case criteria .
Er , D O E .
Er er simply er that the various upper case items which are listed one to twelve , are backed up in lower case script .
Mm .
And as we see it , that lower case script is not quite good enough to justify what 's there at the moment .
We would expect that to be amplified after this examination .
I understand thank you .
Yeah .
Yes .
Thank you .
Mr ?
Paul , planning partnership .
Am I right in erm my belief that in fact the the final version of policy H two erm need not and should not include a list of criteria other than those set out in P P G two paragraph thirty three .
Because these criteria it seems to me are a means to an end , for us to decide upon an appropriate general location .
Having determined that general location , I believe it should probably be at a district level but clearly there is a view from others that it needs to be a smaller area that that .
It seems to me that it is then a matter for the local plan to erm promote or decide erm a more de probably more detailed list of lo c locational criteria , and then the local planning authority considers erm the alternative locations following public consultations and possibly invite erm schemes at that stage .
So it seems to me if we can agree on what criteria might be appropriate to look at the location of the new settlement on a strategic level , the final version of H two will in fact probably be much shorter , more concise er than the policy H two that we have at the moment .
Er and that 's I think the basis of the erm strategy I 've set out in my statement to the examination in public .
The other difficulty I have is with some of these criteria and their use at a strategic level .
Because it seems to me , many of them actually require a site specific evaluation or an area specific evaluation in quite detailed terms to be able to come to any sensible conclusion .
For example , the question of minerals which Mr has erm raised .
I think points to this erm issue erm very clearly .
In the paper which erm was considered by the Greater York authorities in January nineteen ninety two , on the possible location of a new settlement , all of Selby District was ruled out of consideration erm for a new settlement because it was erm within part of the district is within the Selby coalfield .
Now that flies in the face of erm I think the er the real position on the ground , which is that a development could take place within that district , even where areas have not yet been mined , without any adverse impact on the either the coalfield or the new settlement .
And yet on that one issue , taken on its own , Selby District is ruled out .
And there are others , agricultural land , again is a very site specific evaluation I think from this si erm generally .
We recognize that any new settlement site er in the area around Greater York is likely to involve the loss of some better quality agricu har er agricultural land .
And it seems to me that the use of these therefore at strategic level , many of them can only really be used if you 're prepared to make erm huge assumptions or huge leaps of the imagination .
And I in I invite I suppose the County Council really to respond to this issue of how they would intend erm indeed the districts , how they would intend to use these criteria certainly in a more rational and erm intellectually rigorous way than the sort of erm statements that were included in their January nineteen ninety two report .
Do you want to come back on that Mr or do you want to wait a few moments ?
Yes .
Mr
Michael , Hambleton District Council .
To come back on something that Mr said and perhaps take it a stage further .
Mr said that erm the D O E would have no objection to more detailed criteria in the structure plan policy erm than erm included in paragraph thirty three of P P G three .
I would perhaps add that erm the structure plan policy should n't exclude criteria that er are in P P G three .
And I would erm particularly d draw your attention to criteria two there that erm the proposal should have district council support which I think is an important point of principle .
And indeed if the panel are minded to recommend erm a criteria based policy of this nature , we would recommend the inclusion of this important point of principle .
Mr
Tony , .
I think there is a very real need for strategic guidance to be given by appropriate criteria being included in policy H two .
However in my written statement , I have suggested that certain of the criteria are going to be more appropriate to a local plan rather than to a structure plan .
My general comment with regard to the criterion number four is that more emphasis could be made upon the need to reduce car dependency
Yeah yeah .
and alternative transport modes being promoted in addition to rail .
Also I think that in criteria nine , that reference should be made to unacceptable coalescence being avoided .
But my principle comment this morning is with regard generally to all criteria and with particular reference to criterion one , avoiding the greenbelt .
Mm .
Now the planning system in this country , rightly gives the decision maker considerable discretion in exercising judgement regarding planning application , allowing all material considerations to be taken into account , and appropriate weighting given .
However , policies that use unqualified phrases such as , will be or should only be , do not allow scope for all ma material considerations to be taken into account .
Accordingly P P G three on paragraph thirty three states that a new settlement should normally only be contemplated where certain criteria are satisfied , including avoidance of the greenbelt .
This flexibility of approach is repeated in P P G four , paragraph sixteen , where it states that advice on greenbelts where industrial and commercial development is not normally be appropriate , is provided in P P G two .
Again in the recently published P P G six , paragraph forty six , it states that regional shopping centres may well have a role to play but usually only where the loss of greenbelt can be justified by the economic and social benefits of the scheme .
P P G two clearly states that the government attaches great importance to greenbelts. and in paragraph twelve , sets out the general presumption against in appropriate development within them .
However in paragraph thirteen , it does accept that in very special circumstances , exceptions can be made .
While stating in paragraph fourteen that development plans should make no reference to the possibility of allowing other development in exceptional circumstances , nowhere in the P P G does it suggest that the authority should exclude the possibility that very special circumstances could justify an exception to be made .
However policy H two as drafted , seeks to deprive the decision maker of the ability to consider all material considerations , by the unqualified use of the words will be required to and applies this to all twelve criteria without allowing discretion to be taken into account of any special circumstances that might present to justify exceptional development .
Accordingly , the guidance given in P P G paragraph three should be followed by including the word normally in the policy requirement and the requirement for the new settlement to be beyond the outer edge of the York greenbelt so as to avoid the greenbelt , with then form part of the locational criteria one .
This will also make H two consistent with the existing greenbelt development control policies E nine and E ten of the approved county structure plan which are still being retained and also the proposed open countryside policy E E two , all of which use the qualification , normally .
Now my submission is not intended to be representation that the new settlement should be in the greenbelt and great weight must still be given to it 's protection .
However , no opportunity that otherwise complies with the locational criteria should be disregarded in seeking the best location for a new settlement that serves the needs of the greater York area .
An area that was considered by the secretary of state as being five to seven miles of York City centre and is almost entirely within the greenbelt .
Perhaps as a final word , I might be per better to echo the chief planning inspector Stephen who at this year 's T C P summer school , said , Neither statute or policy rule out the practical application of common sense in unusual or exceptional circumstances .
Thank you sir .
Thank you .
Mr ?
Sir I I agree with the comments that Mr just made that basically policy H two in its present form has two functions .
One is that of refining the area of search for the new settlement and secondly , more detailed erm criteria for the local plan stage .
I think once you 've refined the area of search and I think I agree with Mr on this , there are two or three key criteria .
Namely if you if you take first of all the staring point that the new settlement should have good access to primary network , you immediately limit the area of search to the radial routes out of York .
If you then take the point that it 's beyond the greenbelt , again you 've limited the area of search and if we take the point that Mr I think put across so well that it 's consistent with sub-regional policy , you already immediately then rule out that part of the erm area round Greater York that would have greatest impact on the Leeds Conurbation .
The other criteria just simply ones that common to an an enabling erm that we see everyday of of the week in in other structure plans .
But because of the special circumstances of York we 've got to first define and refine the area of search to a specific corridor and then the other locational criteria are just a guidance , first we take the proposals forward to the local plan stage .
Thank you .
Okay .
Mr then Mr .
Mr to round up and then we have coffee .
Er David , York City Council .
Just a very brief statement sir to er make it clear as was stated in my evidence I support the comment made by Mr , from Hambleton that the criteria based policy should include the criteria as required by P P G three to indicate the requirements support of the District Council .
Thank you .
Mr ?
Michael .
I I tend to agree that the criteria tend to fall into two sorts .
Er one being descriptive in terms of describing the end product and I don't think that 's very helpful to a structure plan , I think that is a matter that can be left to to the local plan .
And that that overwhelmingly is of course erm criterion ten .
Now I also agree that these criteria are not of equal importance and I certainly would put the greatest weight on criterion one which is to avoid the greenbelt in fact I think it 's so important that it should n't be a criterion but it should be actually be within the preamble as it is now .
So that it 's not a matter which is weight to balance .
In my professional view , cos if the new settlement has to be in is ch is i has to be within the greenbelt then it 's better to go for peripheral development rather than have a new settlement in the first place .
Erm in t the second most important criterion I would have thought is that it needs to be on a public transport corridor .
And that again is emphasised by P P three and it goes back to the erm the o the object of sustainability and reducing C O two emissions .
The the third and I think very important criterion is the need to avoid is the need to comply with sub-regional planning objectives .
And obviously the new settlement is a very important sub-regional er planning proposal , and it must comply with the overwhelming run of sub-regional planning policy which is to avoid doing anything which would erm undermine the regeneration of West Yorkshire .
Now I think that is important enough to be specified in the policy in as a criterion in the policy itself .
The other criteria I I I I tend to agree with are matters which are capable of being weighing and balancing against each other and they are not overriding , but I think those three matter which I specified are overriding and would rule out any location .
Thank you .
don't comply with .
Mr .
Yeah , I think just my only summing up comment would really be in response to perhaps Mr m Mr 's erm request for erm perhaps elaboration as to how we would use these criteria .
I think I 'd start off by saying that it 's probably and likely to f that you could find in the Greater York area , between six and ten miles from the city centre , erm one location which met every one of the twelve criteria , one hundred percent .
Erm let me give you an example .
Mr and Mr have er laid great stress on the issue of sub-regional guidance erm and the implication that they would be happy with a new settlement location shall we say in the south west erm of the of the Greater York er area .
Now it may well be that er that may well be the the position in the south west in in respect of of of that particular criteria , but we would need to see , er how a location in that area , met the other eleven criteria .
And even looking at that one , erm erm the south west location , one would have to say that the increased accessibility erm which will shortly be afforded by the dualling of the northern section erm of the York outer relief road , er would increase the accessibility of areas to the north east of erm er of Greater York er to West Yorkshire .
And I think that quite clearly proves that what you need to do is a detailed evaluation of all these criteria , all of them which reflect as a appropriate strategic guidance , to come er er to a balanced view .
And it 's not going to be difficult and at the end of the day , someone is going to have to I suspect , and it would have to be members initially erm who would do that , as far as we see it .
Would have possibly to weight some of the criteria .
That this is more important issue er er than that .
That is the way the planning system operates , erm and I would have thought that the Greater York experience , erm does perhaps suggest that there may be some look at erm on the question of the need for sub district guidance .
I I I 'll go on no further than that .
Thank you .
Can I can I say that I after coffee I 'd like to go through each of these criteria and try to distinguish those which are relevant at structure plan level and those which may be more applicable down at the district local plan level .
And also I 'd welcome comments er we 've had one from er Mr that whether there are any things which you think ought to be added as well as taken away .
Can we reconvene at er twenty past eleven please .
Can we er now embark on this assessment or analysis of the relevance of the criteria ?
Bearing in mind that er we 'd like to try and distinguish those which would fall within a structure plan umbrella and those which would be more applicable possibly at local plan level .
And also I 'd like an indication as we go through of the relative weights that you might want to give to individual criterion .
Can er take Mr Sorry Mr
It 's alright ah .
So do we want to take the preamble and then and go through one by one .
Mr
I'm very sorry chairman , er Mr n and I were checking er a point in response to a question that was asked to me during the break .
Can you could just ask er again , I missed the
Ah well I said we we 'd like to embark on this assessment of the relevance
Yeah .
of the criteria and try to allocate those which would fall under the structure plan umbrella , those which would be more applicable at local plan level and added to that , give some form of weighting .
Mm .
To each of those .
I really don't want to make any introductory remarks to that .
Erm I think the criteria generally reflect appropriate strategic guidance but I 'd be very interested to hear the contributions round the table .
Right well we we go straight to number one which is proposals will be required to avoid the greenbelt .
Mr did you want to speak on that ?
Whip .
On the general point of differentiating criteria between strategic and local , I think that one ought to bear in mind that some have importance in both connections and particularly I would draw attention to the perhaps overriding points made in paragraph thirty three of P P G three , regarding the avoidance of unacceptable coalescence and positive environmental improvements .
Those in particular have connotations in both ways , for example in the sc the strategic level , er they might result in a whole sector being excluded from consideration .
Yes I fully accept that some of these are relevant at each level .
Erm and I think we could quite happily define which those are .
Does anybody dissent from the first criterion .
Apart from my earlier comment that I felt it might be slightly otiose in the fact that you 've suggested within the preamble that a new settlement should be located beyond the outer boundary and I did raise the question of whether there was another greenbelt which may come into play .
Erm well the only other greenbelt Peter , North Yorkshire , chairman .
The only greenbelt erm er in North Yorkshire er is the is is the West Yorkshire statutory greenbelt in the Western part er of Selby District Council , but the area of land the area of search that we have defined as about er ten miles would not take in any er would not be of relevance to the West Yorkshire greenbelt .
No .
So do you d do people think that criterion one is essential either at structure plan or l and local plan level ?
Mr ?
Council .
I I 'd like to see it retained chair because criterion three says generally within ten miles of York and er I'm sure somebody would er argue that well that 's only a general rule still acceptable
Well that we haven't got there yet we haven't got there yet .
Well right er okay but erm supposing it was retained as it is , I 'd certainly like to see criterion one retained in the list .
Yes .
Is the reference in the preamble to the policy , beyond the outer boundary of the York greenbelt in itself not enough ?
Dave , Leeds City Council .
Sorry chair my comments were in relation to the West Yorkshire greenbelt of course .
Avoiding the West Yorkshire greenbelt .
Yes .
Yes .
Almost a double negative isn't it .
But well can we move on to two and I must confess erm I'm not quite clear what is meant by this one .
Perhaps I could point up some of the concerns about c the second criterion .
Does all refer to timescale , size , land use or what ?
Peter , North Yorkshire .
I think generally we think that that that it would refer to er to all three .
I think the preamble the the the explanary explanatory text er with little two er indicates that really we are trying to address er erm a Greater York er dimension , that we are looking at a proposal er which meets the er development needs erm of Greater York over the period er that the contribution should be made through the new settlement .
I can envisage being at a public local enquiry th it would not be me , where a barrister would make a great deal of an argument that York needs a regional shopping centre .
Do you actually mean that you want this if that case were proven that you would want the regional shopping centre in the new settlement ?
Mr .
Er Malcolm Malcolm , County Council .
Er I'm not sure in in the case of the the example you 've given of the arising in Greater York that the question of a regional sop shopping centre would arise because that is not necessarily something that is generated within Greater York .
The shopping requirements , the sub-regional shoppings of Greater York and obviously the accommodated er within Greater York but obviously something of that nature is is er is not part of those considerations .
It is an extreme example Mr , trying to point out the sorts of problems that arise in relation to policies which say more than they mean .
And all has one definition .
It is all embracing .
I'm not sure that the word all is appropriate .
As written it strikes me as being a hostage to fortune .
Mr .
Yes er I I agree wholeheartedly because I can imagine if this ended up in Selby what might be proposed under this umbrella .
Erm bearing in mind the planning policies .
Erm I think it should be quite specific and it should say the housing needs .
I would suggest that all be substituted by housing .
Mr ?
Paul , planning partnership .
I also have difficulty with this particular criterion .
erm I accept the point that that has been made that the word all is too all embracing .
And perhaps it needs to be restricted to the housing and employment er needs arising from Greater York .
The other difficulty I have is in the er the lower case text which ex attempts to explain what is meant by this particular criterion , the sorts of considerations that will be taken into account .
And it states , that the requirement will be interpreted to preclud preclude locations which might positively encourage in migration or create pressures for additional land releases .
Now I am not sure how those sorts of issues could be objectively measured and therefore assessed .
Erm and I you know would welcome a response from the County Council on on that point .
Can I suggest that the again the employment needs of Greater York could be a hostage to fortune .
If I have got the right grasp of what the County Council and most people around the table are aiming for , the new settlement is primarily about housing .
But what is not wanted is a housing estate , but the employment that is related to , not Greater York 's employment but the employment related to the level of development in the settlement .
Am I right ?
Yes I would not erm Paul , planning partnership .
I would not disagree with that approach er one of the problems in dealing with this erm criterion by criterion is that er I can't refer to other points I 've made elsewhere on other aspects .
Erm elsewhere in my statement I have indicated an appropriate provision of employment land which is related to the population size which we are suggesting for the new settlement .
Er it should not be a an unconstrained figure for employment , it should be related to the economically active in the new settlement that is proposed .
Erm Peter , North Yorkshire .
Erm while I wouldn't disagree with with that general sentiment , I would probably disagree with what that figure should be but we 'll be turning to that er next week .
I think the general concept that we is that we do not want to erm envisage we hope we will not envisage proposals which generate a scale of development erm which is quite clearly not related erm to the needs of the Greater York area .
And may be more related to to the needs erm of of of of of other areas .
And erm how we actually measure I I would accept is d is somewhat difficult and I think it 's based on erm a a an assessment er a professional assessment of the issues that are current to the criteria .
I think difficulties in in introducing any statistical measurement to it and again it 's value judgements er which need to be tested .
Erm in due course at er at erm forums such of this .
Could I just clarify one other point , erm I did incorrectly advise the panel on the ten miles .
Erm erm in respect of the West Yorkshire greenbelt .
And strict interpretation of the ten miles and Mr reminded me would just pinch in a little bit erm of the of the West Yorkshire greenbelt .
So I if I put that in , I must apologize for misleading the panel .
Thank you .
Yes yes .
Thank you .
It 's alright .
Mr ?
, Associates .
If I could just make a brief point on employment .
While certainly in my earlier comments , I did say that it is highly desirable that there should be employment in any new settlement , it can not in my view be the case that th York has certain erm Greater York , but York in particular as a city has certain employment requirements as a result of decline in certain industries .
It also has certain opportunities , for example the University has already shown itself to be a leading research centre .
And there are certain strategic reasons why the I feel that a number of the employment needs of York in terms of location , advantages , and other advantages , would not match with the new settlement criteria once they 're put .
And for that reason er certainly some modification of that criteria is necessary .
So I wonder , could I just crave your indulgence very briefly .
I have a a pressing engagement to go to .
Could I possibly make my one one minute comment on criteria eleven ?
You can yes .
Er I hope that won't disturb you or er Sir my comment briefly is I I did indicate in my opening er statement er yesterday , that there is in existence and I don't wish to make too much of this at this particular enquiry , but you should be aware of a new settlement proposal in the Leeds district , outside the statutorily defined greenbelt .
That new settlement is while it 's within the Leeds district , is on the north eastern perimeter of that district .
One of the advantages of that proposal and its interrelationship with any proposal within certain sectors of Greater York , is the question about migration from West Yorkshire but in particular from Leeds .
That out migration had generally been running according to the household projections , at something like two thousand per annum .
It is projected to fall to somewhere round the fifteen hundred , fourteen per annum , towards the end of this decade .
Thereereere ors of Greater York , is the ven ? of thety two report .
Thank you , the point which Mr has made yesterday , I think will continue to make .
Mr .
Er yes chair , I'm not going to repeat the point I made yesterday but simply to clarify that the proposal Mr has outlined is not a proposal incorporated in the deposit U D P .
Thank you .
But I I take the sentiment of Mr 's comment .
Chairman , can I queue for your
Peter , North Yorkshire .
Chairman could I also confirm that the County Council would not be prepared to discount any particular sector in Greater York on the basis of one criteria , even if that was a valid criteria in the terms that er that Mr suggested .
We need to look at all twelve .
Thank you , can we go back to two , I I Mr and Mr , are your comment related to criterion two ?
Mr first .
Michael , Hambleton District Council .
I think bearing in mind the clear intentions behind criteria two and the concern that we 've heard over the last three days about inward migration , it might be useful if we tag a rider onto erm criteria two .
Perhaps I'm not suggesting this as a sort of erm a definite wording just as a s sug as a suggestion erm to the effect that the settlement should best serve the development needs arising in Greater York rather than the demand generated from outside the area .
Something to that effect .
Mr ?
Chris , .
I can share the concerns of er Miss concerning the expression of the word all in criterion two .
I mean conceivably on the tail end of policy H one yesterday , the new settlement isn't going to accommodate all the development needs of Greater York .
I think the the answer to that is that the reference e should be made to the village making a significant contribution to the development needs of Greater York , be it housing , employment or comm erm social and community .
Thank you .
Anyone else got any comments on two .
What sort of weight do you want to attach to this ?
Mr ?
Yes I'm I'm sorry , .
I'm in a bit of difficulty when you say what sort of weight because w we need to have some sort of scale I think but
up to ten .
I I would simply say that I think it does deserve maximum weight because I you will not be surprised to hear , er take the same view as Mr from Leeds City Council , that under no circumstances should the the settlement be located anywhere other than in a location which will serve York and not Leeds .
So it is strategically a most important erm criterion .
But I I
It 's one of the the leading criteria .
Yes .
Put it that way .
Mr .
Michael .
I think that two and a eleven basically say the same thing in different in different ways .
Erm they are the crit the two criteria which I I consider alongi along with the greenbelt and the need to be located on a public transport corridor , which must be given the most weight in the in the decision making process .
the need to avoid locations which stim which stimulate .
I think the word sir I would emphasise is stimulate in migration from West Yorkshire , would be clearly contrary to all the established planning principles which have been endorsed by the Secretary of State time and time again .
And I think it 's I would give very great weight to this partic these two criteria put together and and I think they should be made more explicit sir .
And they they should be an explicit criteria saying that locations should be avoided which stimulate as I say , in migration .
Thank you .
Mr , coming in or are you just ?
Oh sorry .
A slight aberration .
As as we 've actually had policy er criterion eleven raised by Mr , erm I don ' think there 's any dissenting voice about the weight on that or the importance of that particular criterion , is that regional and sub-regional policies .
I know I know I'm taking it out of order but rather than wait until we get there , this has been raised , why can't we deal with it now ?
Mr ?
It it does seem to me Paul , planning partnership .
It does seem to me that criterion eleven erm is has already been covered erm by implication in items er criteria two er and probably three as well .
And I I don't see there is a need for an additional reference to those policies , it seems to me that erm the references to in migration pressures are correct as a consideration erm if you like as a erm numerical basis in terms of assessing what have been made in the county .
But it is difficult , it seems to me , to to use them in a sort of very locational sense which is being suggested by their use as one of the criteria .
We 've heard that avoiding stimulating in migration , particularly from the Leeds conurbation is an important consideration , are they conscious that the rest of regional policy is something of a black box at the moment .
And I think it would be helpful to the panel to have a feel for whether the Leeds in migration issue , is the only aspect of regional , sub-regional policy or whether there are other aspects of it which are important or be it perhaps less important .
Peter , North Yorkshire .
On the particular issue of regional migration as it affects Greater York , I would suspect and we can probably put some information in to confirm this that the linkages between Greater York area and other county areas within er Yorkshire and Humberside , vary .
I I I say probably quite definitely that there is not a great linkage between the Greater York area in numeric terms and and all of Humberside , compared to that linkage erm with with with West Yorkshire .
Certainly as far as South Yorkshire is concerned , again we would have to say that the linkage social soc socioeconomic linkage between Greater York a and South Yorkshire er is very limited .
Er well Mr first Mr , please .
Yes er Gerald , .
I I have to disagree with er Mr of , I think this criterion is crucially important and in fact what Peter has just said , reemphasises my view that er the important sub-regional and regional issue is the relationship between York and Leeds in this er under this criterion .
And I 'd just like to take the opportunity to er emphasise the point that I have been making at this E I P that erm r regional migration from the West Yorkshire is reducing and we don't want to create a magnet which reverses that trend .
Er so I would regard this impo this criterion as critical very er it should be given the greatest of weight and erm must be left in .
Thank you , Mr ?
Er , D O E .
Erm as you know sir , you 've heard already er the department has not yet received advice from the region as to the content of strategic guidance .
N we ourselves have just started to put together our first thoughts on it in advance of receiving that advice , but clearly it 's much to early to be coming to getting the conclusions as to what that g guidance will eventually contain .
I would therefore think it 's appropriate to be in this sort of format er so that if any other issues other than questions of in migration appear to be relevant to this situation , then it can be taken on the move .
Thank you .
Mr ?
Yes just very briefly .
Peter , North Yorkshire .
I do think the discussion so far and the contribution from Mr and Mr is unfairly er at this stage erm prejudicing a proper assessment of er er er a for a new settlement all the way round Greater York including the Southwest and I return to a comment I made before the break , that dualling for example of the outer bypass of the York ring road which is programmed and is , will dramatically change may well dramatically change the perception erm erm of people to the to the west of the Greater York area in respect of the area to the north east .
That is a fact , it is coming .
Now that issue , needs to be borne in mind .
Er in the in in the overall evaluation .
So it 's not quite as simple to say that regional planning , sub-regional planning requires er a discount a strong discount erm to the south west of York , I think the issue is rightly addressed and we need to address it , but I must say the conversation so far , and and the contributions , really need to be weighted in one direction .
Er well I realize we 're beg being given illustrations , but I don't think there 's anybody really dissenting apart from Mr , to the inclusion of eleven is there .
As as one of the criteria .
Well I'm not arguing for the exclusion of eleven , I'm just trying to er give a balanced interpretation as to how it should be assessed .
We we haven't got there yet , so let 's wait .
Mr .
Thank you chair .
Now David , York City Council .
I 'd just actually like to support what Mr said because erm the next er government reviews .
The City Council examines travel patterns from settlements around York , and it was quite noticeable that a number of settlements to the north east of York did actually have a substantial commuting pattern to West Yorkshire .
To .
So I mean , Mr is quite correct in saying there 's already a significant er commuting movement between settlements to the north of York and and Leeds .
Thank you .
Mr ?
Erm I have to concur with that but nevertheless , er the north east sector is further away from Leeds than the south west sector of York .
One has to go through past or around York erm for your shopping facilities .
One isn't gonna go past York to get to Leeds .
If one is between York and Leeds , one has a a more distinct choice as to go to one or the other .
My preference er under this er item eleven , would be to clarify as far as we are able in terms of the regional planning guidance that exists , to state what we f what is meant by it .
Now we either are going in the direction this morning , or rather I think you 're being pressed to go in the direction of seeking to identify in due course , what is the preferred general location , and this undoubtedly is something you can hang your hat on .
It 's not as airy-fairy as some of the other criteria that er er might be considered as relevant to erm try and find a general location for this settlement .
I believe eleven should clarify that in view of the regional planning guidance , in view of the comments made by Leeds , er that it should one should state under this criteria that the new settlement should not be located on the south west side of York .
For for for precisely the reason set under regional planning guidance .
Unacceptable .
I think
Sorry I don't think that was heard for the record Mr .
That would be unacceptable chairman as far as the County Council 's concerned .
Well unacceptable it may be in your present state of mind , but
But we we can not It seems to me we can not end up with a blank sheet of paper , and draw a set of criteria up which says it it can be anywhere here .
I think we 're beginning to stray into what I hope will be a fruitful discussion on Tuesday morning .
Can we move to criterion number three ?
We 've now dealt with one , two and eleven .
Criterion three .
You 've made a qualification to this have you not Mr ?
Yes .
Yes .
There is a a proposed change put in on this .
Anybody want to comment on that ?
Silence means acceptance ?
Mr .
Thank you sir .
Paul , planning partnership .
I think we have to go back to what is the fundamental purpose of the York new settlement and that is to meet some of the development plan requirements of the Greater York area .
And it seems to me axiomatic that the further the new settlement is located away from York City Centre , York City , then less likely it will be erm to meet the housing requirement needs of the Greater York area .
And it seems to me that the outer suggested limit of ten miles is unduly generous and that there are more than sufficient sites available within a radius of six to eight miles from York City Centre .
And certainly from my submission to you in the Selby district , I have shown that er the the plan which was enclosed with the written evidence .
How does ten miles relate to the definition of the Greater York study area ?
as a general erm guideline chairman , the Greater York study area has a some degree of consistency with the outer boundary erm of the York greenbelt which is generally around about six miles erm from the Greater York er er from from the City Centre .
And in fact , quite fortuitously we did bring along a plan today which has a six mile radius , erm from the Centre of York which was er the subject of some discussion at the greenbelt local plan enquiry and by and large , erm there is some consistency between the outer boundary or the greenbelt erm and the Greater York study area , both at around about six miles from the city centre .
I don't understand that .
That is the
If the circle that I'm looking at is six miles , which you 've implied it is .
Yeah .
Then the surely the Greater York study area 's more than six miles otherwise all development 's in the Greater York area 's within the greenbelt .
Mal Malcolm , County Council .
The the outer boundary of the Greater York area was the parish boundaries .
It 's based on parish unions .
The outer boundary of the greenbelt is based on physical features , they 're not necessarily follow exactly the same features all the way round the Greater York Greater York area .
Erm in some places the Greater York area or the greenbelt extends beyond the Greater York area in some places , the Greater York area goes within the greenbelt .
The the memo I 've got is that the new settlement provision according to the structure plan , relates to the the Greater York area .
Yes .
But the actually new settlement would have to be located outside the Greater York area , as you are now defining it .
Yes that 's correct .
It would be a provision both outside the erm Greater York area and because of the erm statutory definition of the greenbelt being about six miles erm from from York City Centre , it would also be outside the greenbelt .
Which comes back to the question which Miss raised yesterday What is in reality the Greater York area .
As distinct from what is the Greater York study area ?
Well I
Are they are they coincidental ?
Well erm the Greater York study area has been defined and it is that area erm on the front of the erm of the Greater York er study document .
That is the area which has been used for the last five or six years as the basis of the And that outer boundary more or less coincides with the outer boundary erm of the York greenbelt .
Coming back to what is er er greater what is greater York , you would need to have to assess to look at the socioeconomic linkages with with er with York .
And depending on how you erm which criteria you use , they may well vary .
You may define Greater York on a erm on a different basis u if you use for example as against number of trips to theatres .
Or shopping in York .
But generally the feeling is that the appropriate sort of area for Greater York er in terms of the main linkages erm are is that defined in the Greater York study , which appeared to er find some support in the local government commission for example .
As being an appropriate erm area to look at .
Mr .
Ian , Ryedale District .
Erm I think the proposal for rewording this policy to within eight miles of York is being unnecessarily restrictive .
As can be seen from the map up there in the north eastern sector , the proposed outer boundary of the greenbelt goes beyond the six miles anyway , and is probably nearer seven miles .
Erm there are a number of objections to the outer boundary on the greenbelt in that area which if they came u came up , on an eight mile boundary , would reduce the area of search to something like three quarters of a mile .
Mr and then Mr .
Tony , Congle .
Er with regard to the definition of the Greater York area , I referred to this earlier on in my submission this morning , but it may er assist the panel if I draw attention to the Secretary of State 's letter in approving the structure plan in nineteen eighty seven .
Particularly paragraph er five point eleven .
Erm with your permission sir , I 'll read it out .
The Secretary of State has noted the panels suggestion that the boundaries of the Greater York area should be outside the York greenbelt area .
But having regard to the document Policies for Housing and Industrial Land in the Greater York Area , on which the County Council has based their proposed provision , and to which the panel referred , he considers that the outer boundary of the Greater York area , should be about five and seven miles from the City Centre , the precise boundary being a consideration for local planning .
As a result , he accepted the housing provision of nine thousand one hundred as recommended by the panel , compared with the ten thousand one hundred in policy H one of the submitted .
Following that er the Greater York study area er was defined by the County Council erm in consultation with the Greater York authorities and er as has been explained to you , it is substantially following the boundary of the greenbelt as defined .
Now if I can just refer as I did in my earlier submission to the possible results of that , I suggested that the requirement for the new settlement to be located beyond the outer boundary of the green er York greenbelt , should be rolled into criterion one , the need to avoid the greenbelt .
Now in criterion three , it also goes on to say , and have as close a relationship to the city as is consistent with approved greenbelt policy .
Now it it just possible and I will explain in a moment why , that the necessity to avoid the greenbelt may not be exactly the same as being beyond the outer boundary of the York greenbelt .
The reason for this is that in my submission to the York greenbelt local plan enquiry , I suggested that there could be a case for making an inset within the greenbelt to accommodate a new settlement .
Thus excluding it from greenbelt designation .
If my submission is accepted in the inspector 's report , it is possible that it would be consistent with approved greenbelt policy to have an inset new settlement avoiding the greenbelt but not outside the outer boundary of the York greenbelt .
it is for this reason firstly to identify the gree er the Greater York area as considered by the Secretary of State , and also to with regard to criterion three , er the question of consistency with agreed agreed approved greenbelt policy that I make this further comment .
Thank you .
Well you 'll have to wait and see what the inspector says on the greenbelt .
That I will accept sir out of great interest .
But it also follows from that that the panel here can make no assumption other then the greenbelt is as in the deposited plan .
, .
Yes I appreciate that inclusion as well .
Mr .
Yes , Chris , .
Erm you 'll see sir in my submissions that I 've proposed a rewording of criterion three so that the Greater York new settlement should be located as close to the outer boundary of the as of the York greenbelt as is consistent with greenbelt policy .
The reason behind this is having regard to the advice in the draft P P G thirteen and what we read in P P G twelve about erm trying to reduce dista erm distances travelled .
And I think that in the balance , that if you have two sites in e the area of search that are equal in all other respects , except that one is closer to York than the other , then the environmental considerations of that site being closer erm to York would weigh in its favour .
I speak with e some experience in the situation where two sites that will be within half a mile of that which was erm supported by the inspector , were dismissed basically on the basis that if I read the quotes for you .
Of the western sites these are sorry this is also one of the furthest from Cambridge .
Whilst there is no great dis difference in the distance of any of the sites in terms of , in aggregate , all the journeys which would be attracted to Cambridge , bearing in mind the role of the new settlement in serving Cambridge 's development needs , would be substantially higher in money terms and in the use of energy than most of the alternative proposals .
I would totally agree with that conclusion and I would say that in the York situation , you should choose the one that is closer to York than is farthest out .
All other things being equal .
But we have a band of six to ten miles , is that right Mr ?
Yes .
Yes .
S I would say that you 're better off Chris , .
You 're better off rewording that criterion to say as close en er to York as is consistent with greenbelt policy .
Mr
Thank you sir .
Erm erm get my mind round the relationship between this policy and the H one policy .
Erm and it 's something I hadn't quite considered before , that the greenbelt boundary and the Greater York area boundary is roughly .
In fact it looks if if anything , the greenbelt boundary is slightly wider than the Greater York area boundary .
In policy H one , it 's talking about nine thousand seven hundred and twenty in the Greater York area .
Is that the greenbelt .
There will be requirement for part of Peter , North Yorkshire , part of the Greater York requirement that that is the new settlement required to be met outside the greenbelt and outside the the Greater York area .
But Er , .
Policy H one doesn't say that .
The need to look carefully at the wording on that particular part of H one .
Mr
.
There is an argument for retaining a four mile annulus for the area of search for the new settlement rather than a two mile , because of the rigidity which at present applies to the distance of the outer boundary of the greenbelt from York City Centre .
Historically this was created shortly after nineteen sixty one as a rough way of judging the submissions which had been made for sketch plan purposes on the basis of the nineteen fifty five circular .
And the six mile doctrine has been repeated with one minor modification of wording ever since then .
At the time of the greenbelt enquiry , an extension beyond six miles of the greenbelt could not be considered because a general revision of the county structure plan was not envisaged .
On a general revision , there might well be a case for extending that distance in view of the development of the central area which has taken place since the six miles was first established .
it has been considerable .
And that has resulted in the restriction of the annulus width of the greenbelt .
Er in other words the inner boundary has gone out since nineteen sixty one and the outer boundary has not .
Therefore , for practical purposes , it would be better not to restrict the search area outside the belt to two miles now , but to have four miles .
Yes .
So in other words you you are saying instead of six to eight , it 's six to ten .
Yes .
Thank you .
I think Mr was in front of you Mr .
I do apologize .
Sorry .
Mr .
, D O E .
Just some points there .
Sir .
The area of search six to ten miles there .
I was just gonna point out that if you were to refer to the approved key diagram , you can get a quite easily visual representation of what that embraces .
There are certain things marked on that key diagram to give you clues .
The position of Tadcaster for instance on the fifty nine to the west , the red triangle which indicates a bypass at .
In the north west it 's roughly where the A nineteen meets the east coast mainline railway .
And on the north east it 's just a little short of where the York Scarborough railway crosses the A sixty four .
The only point I 'd make on that sir , you 'll see from that that the ten mile limit does extend across the county boundary into Humberside .
And there have been er quite detailed negotiations between the two counties and my understanding is that North Yorkshire County Council have agreed with Humberside that on no account will their their proposals stray across the boundary into Humberside .
Yes I I I had noted that that discussion had gone on and assurances have been given to Humberside that North Yorkshire would no stray in the sense of putting their new settlement into Humberside .
Mr .
Thank you , Roy , House Builders Federation .
Erm this issue about the extent er of Greater York .
I I have a always understood the distinction between the Greater York study area which is an area of calculation of among other things , housing needs and the Greater York area which was an area in which those needs may be met .
I think there 's there there 's a distinction between the pair and they 're not necessarily the same area .
And so the point that Mr makes that because you have you you assess needs within a six mile radius effectively , er doesn't necessarily mean you meet those needs er within that six mile radius .
So there there doesn't there isn't a conflict and th and there isn't a conflict because we have the area of search for a new settlement which is established in the referred to which is broader than the study area .
do you want to go back on it ?
Just very briefly , I think that erm the point Mr raised is a fair point and erm there may well need to be a good bit of clarification erm on on that .
Mr ?
Well e erm I don't want to dwell on this point but it it may have implications wider than just where these boundaries are .
Er because the commitments figures we looked at and the need figures are are they the Greater York area or the Greater York study area ?
Sorry .
All the discussion we had in the last few days .
the ones that have been asked for .
the discussion we had .
The figures that erm the nine thousand seven hundred dwellings , related to the housing need generated within the Greater York study area together with appropriate allowance for migration , and that totals nine thousand seven hundred dwellings .
It 's on the basis of the the parishes within the area that we have defined erm as the Greater York a Greater York study area .
I think .
And I'm sorry if this is going to ruin Mr 's weekend .
It is not going to be helpful to have the panel supplied with the information we asked for in relation to the Greater York area devised from the H B F table of commitments , confined to York City and the greenbelt .
I think what we need is commitments within the area of search .
Er which month would you like that information ?
Well the area of search is defined on the key diagram .
Which month , November nineteen ninety three , preferably before the twenty third .
Er yes we 'll do our best .
Thank you .
Mr .
er John , C P R E .
Just just er just so I can be absolutely sure about that I think I'm say I'm asking the same thing that the senior inspector 's just asked .
The commitments data that we 've been dealing with to date , for the Greater York area , that was supplied by the County Council , was that data that applied to the what we 're now calling the the the the greenbelt area , or was it the area of search as well ?
Because I think erm it it does somewhat alter the discussions that we 've had to date i clarification of that .
All figures that we 've produced and are producing in respect of commitments and the policy element the Greater York policy element of policy H one , relate to within the area defined as Greater York through the Greater York .
They have not been they are not the area covered by the er York greenbelt because as Mr said , er er greenbelt boundaries follow natural features rather than administrative boundaries which we use for the for the Greater York study .
And the figures that we worked out are not the figures for commitments within the six to ten mile area of search .
Yeah .
They are for that area on the Greater York study .
So just just on that basis Mr chairman , therefore presumably on Tuesday there will be an opportunity to revisit some of those figures in the light of the revised data that the the senior inspector requested from Mr .
Let me see the figures and I 'll dwell on that over the weekend .
Mr .
Michael .
My concern about this criterion and and my concern about the information asked by the panel , is of course the area of search includes areas which I don't think any house builder would consider falls within the York housing market .
It in fact includes quite substantial areas which are now in in fact includes parts of Leeds Metropolitan Borough .
Therefore parts of erm areas which actually relate to the housing needs of York .
I I like do support a narrower area of search for that reason .
Particularly as in to the west and south of York , the ten mile radius gets you very very close to Wetherby and very close to Selby , which are not areas which fall within the York housing market .
Mr ?
Thank you , Lindsey , Harrogate Borough Council .
Just to pick up a point on er Miss 's latest request for information .
Erm the housing need figure we 've been working on for Greater York has been nine thousand seven hundred and that 's been based on the parishes within the Greater York study area .
Presumably if we 're now looking at commitment in the wider area of search which would draw in many additional parishes , I think in the Harrogate case er something like seven to eight additional parishes , er if we look at commitments there would we also need to revise the housing need figure as well ?
To look at it on a comparable basis .
I think there is a danger of too much being made of this .
The reason we asked for the figures is to get a ball park idea .
No more than that .
We certainly would not wish to open up the question of need within that area .
I also take the point Mr has made , and only assure you that we will look at these figures when we get them and take on board the sorts of comments that have just been made by yourself and Mr and by and use them with our judgement applied liberally .
Peter , North Yorkshire .
You will in producing those figures chairman , ten miles have to approximate the ten miles
Yes yes yes yes yeah yeah .
As best we can .
Have we Mr ?
Sorry just just er John , C P R E .
Just one minor point .
Obviously erm in in receiving those additional figures I accept what the in senior inspector says about not er opening up the need side of the debate but clearly is I think the er Mr from Harrogate is saying it does it does cast a question mark on the supply dimension of the debate in terms of additional and commitments coming into the the figures to meet the Greater York housing requirement .
So whilst I'm not seeking to change the the the Greater York I E within the greenbelt requirement as we now define it , the the supply side of the equation is bound to change because the commitments figures will be different given the revised area of analysis .
Mr .
Malcolm , County Council .
accept the point that 's been made , we 've got to remember that the commitments that are are contained in the band six to ten miles , are principally there to meet the general requirements arising in the districts
Yeah .
and they 're not there t as they are at the moment to meet the needs of the Greater York area .
Yes yes .
Anyone wish to add any comments on criterion three or can we move to four ?
May I play devil 's advocate again ?
Erm two things occur to me from this criterion .
First of all , the risk that on the assumption primary road network includes trunk roads as well as County Council primary roads , is it right that we should encourage essentially local traffic onto trunk roads .
I'm sure those familiar with P P Gs will recall their purpose , moving people long distances from A to B .
Not carrying local traffic .
And secondly , is it right within this criterion , to put more emphasis on car transport or bus transport .
Road transport of some sort than rail transport .
Which by virtue its of its phraseology , the criterion appears to me to do .
Peter , North Yorkshire , chairman .
Just to comment on the senior inspector 's first point .
I think erm one would have to ac er accept that in Greater York , erm the existing pattern of trunk roads as they affect Greater York , do discharge an important function in distributing people around er Greater York and it 's entirely sensible in the Greater York dimension that they would do .
If they were n't there and if they were n't being used , then there may well be more and more p pressure on the city centre of York , so they do discharge I think er a positive function .
The bypass for example allowing people to move round er Greater York without passing through the er through the city centre and I think that 's par part of the County Council and I suspect City Council 's overall approach to traffic management in Greater York .
Michael Michael .
I agree with the panel that the criterion should give greater emphasis to public transport , that must be in accord with P P G three and must be in accord with the emerging P P G thirteen .
It also should give greater emphasisis to the ability to link into the rail network .
On the question of trunk roads and the general capacity of the road system around York , the panel will see that we have actually presented some detailed evidence prepared by and I and for the information for the panel on Tuesday , I understand that all that information is agreed with the County Surveyor as well .
So that 's w is an agreed position on highways .
Now in we have also consulted with the Department of Transport about our proposal and the Department of transport have no objections to the use of the A sixty four north east of York to serve a new settlement .
Have you got that ?
Mr
Paul , planning partnership .
Er whatever agreements may have been made with the Department of Transport and the County Surveyor regarding the acceptability north east of York of course doesn't mean that other locations are also not un not acceptable under this criterion .
Erm I 've expressed a view in my written submissions that I think the emphasis solely on rail erm access i is unfortunate and perhaps should be widened to er public transport generally , obviously rail access plus rail transport has a particular type of usage .
Erm in terms of York , the pattern of employment er within York City is fairly dispersed and obviously isn't particularly well served by the Central Railway station .
Er a bus system however is more able to provide a more diffuse pattern of access to those areas , from outside , wherever the new settlement is located .
I'm sorry , if I could just make on other point .
You raised this question of whether or not I think the new settlement should link into the primary net road network .
Erm in my view , it has to link in somewhere into the primary i into the road network and it 's not appropriate to link it into er the local road system and er therefore I think it 's inevitable that a linkage will need to be made to the primary road network .
Including into possibly into a trunk road ?
I think if erm if you can avoid a trunk road then that is a preferable solution erm if you 're able to rely on just County Council roads then that is a better solution .
Mr
Ed , Leeds City Council .
erm perhaps I 've misunderstood Miss 's comment on it but Leeds would not want the consideration of traffic consequences to be limited to roads within North Yorkshire .
Depending on the location of the new settlement , it it could have traffic consequences beyond North Yorkshire boundaries .
Mr .
, North York .
Er the point I would like to make if I may is with er regard to the question of a a positive statement er that car dependency should be reduced and er more emphasis given to the availability and use of bus transport erm as well as t er rail transport .
I think in the context of the Greater York area , er bus transport will have greater relevance .
It will be more accessible , most importantly it 'll be more affordable .
Given the relative costs of bus transport compared with rail .
An interesting comment from the national travel survey , nineteen eighty nine ninety one report , is that trains were mainly used by those living in the highest income households .
In contrast , local bus usage was associated with those living in the lowest income households .
Bearing in mind that given a choice between the use of rail and car , the question of cost necessarily will come into that equation .
If the costs are not significantly lower , people will =til still tend to use the car .
The other aspect with regard to the new settlement is that it should contain a significant proportion of affordable housing .
This in itself I think indicates that there should be affordable transport as a corollary .
The other point I would like to make is the question of the impact on the er highway system .
I think , taking into the equation of er discussing and considering alternative travel arrangements , the availability and indeed the extension of park and ride facilities around York should be taken into account and an integrated transport pattern , based on park and ride should figure within the transport strategy .
Thank you .
Mr ?
York City Council .
Er during my comments yesterday sir , I you 'll not be surprised that if with a very strong emphasis on if , er the the panel do go for a new settlement , we do in York feel very strongly that er the issue of priority for public transport usage should be a very high one in this criteria .
Er I note the comments made around the table about the the likelihood of rail based er traffic making a significant contribution .
I would share that expectation that er a location which will be ra well served by rail , whilst very desirable from our viewpoint , I think is extremely unlikely er given the pattern of the the rail system in the area .
Similarly with public transport , as I said yesterday , the evidence is quite clearly that er the public transport system is York i in Greater York is not good , and it erm is unlikely to be er improved by er the on the scale suggested I I would contend .
But nevertheless , having said those , I would clearly emphasise the importance of those two elements of the criteria .
Erm if a new settlement is proposed .
Turning to the issue of the senior inspector has raised , as something like er get my proportions right , but something probably like three quarters of the York outer ring road is is trunked already .
Clearly any proposal will have a major impact on the trunk road system .
Similarly with the other likely locations , I know we 're g not going into that , but virtually all of them will e inevitably feed onto the trunk network which does fulfil a dual function around York .
Thank you .
Mr is this something new in addition to what 's already been said ?
Well I'm
Or are you covering the same .
Well I I I would express my support for Mr and for Mr on widening the scope erm to include because clearly national policy talks about public transport generally and not just rail .
But just picking up on Mr 's point .
In my experience , British Rail whilst wishing to encourage the use of of trains as they would , er are resistant to opening stations that just delay journey times .
So whilst it 's desirable to encourage the use of rail , I think in in in practice it 's going to be er very difficult to achieve that and in therefore you should look at public transport in the round .
I note your critical comments about British Rail .
Mr .
, D O E .
Two points sir .
Erm the County Council 's phrase , an ability to link into the rail network , was geared originally to their proposal for a settlement of between eight hundred and a thousand dwellings .
That has already been increased to fou fourteen hundred er you when you 're making your recommendation may or may not come up with a recommendation for a somewhat larger settlement .
Clearly the bigger the settlement , the more the greater the significance one might expect from the rail network in this context .
Er the other aspect .
Erm much has already been said about the role of P P Gs and the advice they contain .
Er the draft P P G thirteen , for the moment merely reinforces the public transport points that are already made in P P G twelve .
But there is further unpublished research on new settlements which we are awaiting at the moment , and it 's our anticipation that when that is available and the Department considers it , it will update and er refine P P G thirteen .
And our headquarters have have indicated to us that that might well include a refinement of the criteria which are presently in P P G three .
Mm .
Well we shall wait and see .
wait and see .
Mr .
A very quick point sir .
Erm I I would have thought it would be helpful that if criterion four could be worded in such a way that it it emphasised the need to maximize transport choice .
And I think that must be the key .
Obviously i i bus would be acceptable in certain circumstances , it 's obviously better if one has the choice between bus and rail .
Thank you for that .
C on that on that
Weight .
What weight are you going to give it .
Somewhere near the top of the list ?
Michael .
I think that in the light of the emerging government guidance , that the transport choice must be given a very s substantial weight in the in that decision mak making process .
I in in the context of what Mr has just said , and I'm really talking about the way he 's said it , but the way actually looked at the criteria , can I try to cos I would like to close on this particular question by one o'clock .
Can I ask when we deal with the others that you look at them in that light .
As a sort of principle against which a settlement will be judged .
I don't really want to go over the grounds which you know you would seek to weigh different erm locations .
We 'll come back to that on Tuesday .
What I'm looking for e effectively is a set of criteria which will promote best planning practise either at structure plan or local plan level , in order to judge the location of this settlement .
So can we now move off four and look at five which relates to the need to er again I think maximize wight be a suitable word in here , er infrastructure .
Particularly drainage and water supply .
All I 'd say on five chairman is that this issue of infrastructure particularly sewerage , sewerage , foul water and water supply is a major issue in York and the location of the new settlement I think needs to be very closely assessed in terms of er of five .
I think it 's a very important criteria that we need to look at .
I agree it 's important , what I have no feel for , is whether it is something which helps to make a decision as to where the new settlement might go .
What I think I'm looking for is some evidence that the severity of the infrastructure problems to which you refer actually varies from one district to another .
If it is the same problem in all districts then it doesn't help anyone make a decision .
Well it 's not chairman , and perhaps Mr has got some information I think that might help you on that .
Er yes , Malcolm , County Council .
Certainly in the work that the Greater York er authorities did in preparing their proposals over the past er four or five years , er we have worked fairly closely with what was then the Yorkshire Water Authority and National Rivers Authorities on the questions of drainage erm and so forth which are our major problems around York .
And there are certain areas around the city where a the provision of a new settlement is likely to create more severe environmental problems .
No I don't need to pursue that any further .
Mr ?
Er John n , C P R E .
Can I just make one suggest suggestion hopefully it 's helpful .
Er the reference to surface water presumably that 's a reference to to flooding and the the need to avoid areas at risk from flooding .
Erm I ask that as a point of clarification .
Yes chairman .
The the conclusions of the National Rivers Authority erm and the the Water Authority was that er in general terms er the location of a new settlement could have a significant impact er on local land drainage .
Erm and that that really needs to be carefully assessed as one moves towards some conclusions on where that new settlement ought to be .
Can I just just Er is that something that perhaps should be explained in the explanatory memorandum with the discussion on this criterion in particular is quite brief .
Erm Peter , North Yorkshire , I think it 's appropriately addressed there and I think there are so many elements of it that er I think you w you would end up with perhaps a very long explanatory section .
I think the importance of the issue I think is fairly stated there .
I think I think we take it as it as it as it at its face value Mr .
Mr
Roy , House Builders Federation .
I think in assessing this criteria chairman , you you 've got to make a distinction between the N R A responsibilities and the Water Company responsibilities .
Erm I I I would obviously take very seriously the N R A responsibilities but I think you 've got to bear in mind there 's within the water act , there 's a thing called infrastructure charges
Yes .
and and and and and and in fact the the provision of sewerage and er and and water supply are are are a matter of of er things which are done on demand and er are are covered by infrastructure charges .
And and the shortage of er sewerage as such is not as su as such a criteria to on which to judge the provision of the new settlement because that 's part and parcel of the infrastructure that would be provided .
Yes .
Six .
To avoid the best and most versatile agricultural land etcetera .
Do we have any dissenting voices or comments on that , or is it acceptable .
How important is it ?
How importa
It 's it 's a very short comment erm
Yes , that 's alright , go on .
And and but the only comment I 'd like to make is that there was a suggestion in I think it was a that the necessity to protect agricultural land had diminished since the food from our own resources and government 's policy .
I would simply like to point out that the protection of the countryside and agricultural land for its own sake is the policy that should be er er applied in this case , and I just want to make that point .
It it doesn't matter whether it 's needed or not needed for food production .
Chairman , Peter , North Yorkshire .
We have of course proposed a change to to this criterion which would effectively terminate the criterion after P P G seven .
This was in response to requests from .
Well that 's the one I'm reading here .
Then Mr 's not
Sorry Mr 's yes .
Well I I I mean I see six as being quite specific in relation to agricultural land instead of the more general philosophy erm which would probably appear in other parts of the structure plan policies .
Can we move on to
But
Sorry it 's all yours .
I appreciate you 're trying to get on .
Mr , if we have a criterion that says protect the countryside for its own sake , and a criterion from our discussion yesterday , and somewhere down here in relation to free standing , isn't our conclusion that nowhere is acceptable for a new settlement .
Because by definition it is not related to an existing settlement , it is not in the greenbelt , it must be in the countryside .
So the net effect of your suggested criterion is to get us rather further from a decision than even the chairman and I thought we might be at ten o'clock this morning .
Yeah , Joe .
Well my my suggestion was not meant to be unhelpful er
Erm no it it it y you know where I'm coming from on this , the suggestion is that Se
Yes
that Selby is unconstrained in inverted commas .
Erm I just don't I I I simply want to make the point that the protection of the countryside for its own sake is planning policy which must be brought within the of that criterion .
But I do realize that it does er have locational implication which possibly we can deal with on Tuesday .
Thank you .
Michael .
As worded I I think that criterion six is unrealistic .
there 's general acceptance and I note the D O E even accepted in their representations that any new settlement around Greater York will by the very nature of the character of Greater York , require taking some best and most versatile agricultural land .
The object objective in six should be to minimize the loss of that land and to take the land in the l in the lower grade within the best and most versatile , rather than the higher grade .
And that of course is exactly what P P G seven says .
Do you want to comment Mr ?
Er just very briefly .
I 've just a quick discussion with Mr .
Er we don't think that er that a new settlement would nec of necessity er include the the best and most versatile land .
Thank you .
Thank you .
Paul , planning partnership .
And I concur with Mr on the point that he made .
My concern about this is that I don't see how a view can be taken at a strategic level on something which ultimately can be only ascertained on a site specific basis .
We can not rely on the erm land category maps which are produced by the Ministry of Agriculture , for areas I believe of less than forty hectares .
Erm and and I welcome any response of the County Council as to how erm they would actually s use this criteria to make a to take a view on the acceptability of any location around the er York area .
I think we looked to Peter , North Yorkshire .
We 'd look to advice from the Ministry of Agriculture on this and their view to m their their willingness to make a positive contribution to the development of the e er assessment in terms of the er erm the availability and distribution of the the best and most versatile land .
I think that 'll be the right way to proceed .
Michael .
I think it 's a matter of fact that all the schemes I have seen have included an element of best and most versatile land .
And then include schemes widely distributed throughout Greater York .
The difference is in the proportion and type of best and most versatile .
And that must be what should be expressed in the criterion .
Thank you , Mr ?
.
I think there 's an opportunity here to bring in to six one of the considerations which occur in paragraph thirty three of P P G three , namely the reference in the fourth point to the importance of using erm derelict land , reclaiming derelict land .
Er if that can arise .
And one might one might say in six , erm perhaps not avoid but minimize the best and most versatile land in accordance with the provisions of P P G seven .
And utilise where possible , derelict land .
Thank you for that .
Any more comments on this one or can we move to criterion seven ?
Which at the moment reads , be capable of being assimilated satisfactorily into the local landscape .
Is this a strategic matter ?
What does it mean ?
Does it mean that it is well landscaped , built of local materials , doesn't stick up like a sore thumb ?
If so , are those strategic matters ?
Or does it mean something else ?
I think chairman Peter , North Yorkshire .
Er I think there 's a need to to have a look at erm landscape character er across er Greater York on a consistent basis and er there are a number of ways that you could that you could look at this .
I suspect there may well be areas in Greater York for example which are of high landscape value .
Er but which because of their erm pattern of tree cover for example , may well be able to erm erm er accept er a new settlement which will blend reasonably erm er into the er landscape .
Erm conversely that would suggest that erm you know , the one should n't automatically er be looking at the areas of of low l landscape value .
Erm conversely I I think we would want to look at individual proposals as they as they came forward , and see what landscaping proposals they have and er how they intend to mitigate any perhaps adverse er landscape er implications .
I think this is an extremely complicated er issue but I think it 's on that needs to be looked at consistently across North Yorkshire .
But the implication that Mr is that this is not a criterion which can effectively be operated at the strategic level .
It 's a local consideration .
Well I mean I think the issue revolves around whether landscape in the Greater York context , in the light of the specific proposal , is a is a strategic issue .
And I think the need to protect the landscape on a settlement which we propose erm of fourteen hundred dwellings and round about three thousand three hundred people , I think is quite a significant and important issue for for Greater York .
Yes I'm not I'm not saying that I don't think it 's a an important consideration .
What I'm trying to get a feel for is the level at which it is a consideration .
I would be f very surprised if any of the district councils for example , would accept that a new settlement could be plonked down somewhere within their area , without consideration of landscape proposals .
Yes I agree .
Thank you .
Mr
Paul .
Paul , .
You asked the question of of what this criterion erm could mean and I 'd suggest that it means the following .
That the new settlement should utilise the site of er low landscape and ecological value .
The development should be capable of being assimilated into the natural environment .
And the development should be able to show a positive landscape and ecology effect .
Now I think the landscape issue and by landscape I mean er landscape and ecology , is capable of assessment at a strategic level , that 's why we have er National Parks , A O N Bs and so on .
And I think a similar exercise can be undertaken in the Greater York area .
So in my view it is a relevant consideration at the structure plan level .
Michael .
I tend to agree with on at least on the latter point .
The the criterion can be applied strategically .
Erm if there are areas la large areas around Greater Greater York particularly to the west of the city , which because of their flat open character would not be suitable for for a new settlement .
There are other areas , particularly to I 'd accept to either to the south or to the north east where a new settlement could more easily be integrated into the existing landscape framework .
And therefore I think it can be applied in a strategic way and therefore is reasonable for inclusion within the structure plan .
Mr and then Mr .
Ian , Ryedale District .
I would agree with the points made by Mr and Mr in that it can be a strategic issue .
I'm not necessarily in agreement with their conclusions .
I think that what is needed for the Greater York area is a comparative assessment of the landscape quality and that the criterion should indicate that the settlement should avoid areas of significant landscape value .
What Mr seems to be directing is that the settlement should be directed to those areas which are at present have pleasant tree cover and things , which theoretically can assimilate a new settlement which in the context of the Vale of York , tend to be those areas which are th are of the better landscape quality .
By including the words , avoiding areas of significant landscape value , you are by implication , directing it at areas which can be improved by for example a structure plan to increase or improve the landscape value of that area .
And I would suggest that the that is putting it within the er remit of paragraph three three of P P G three that it offers the opportunity to er upgrade areas of low landscape value .
Thank you for that .
Mr ?
I certainly agree that the thoughts of paragraph thirty three should be brought into criterion seven .
Erm and particularly the conclusion of paragraph thirty three that following the criteria they give , the net effect of a new settlement will either enhance the environment or cause only modest environmental impact .
That depends where on starts from , what the landscape quality is to begin with , whether one can bring about an enhancement .
And I therefore feel that it it is indeed both a strategic and a local consideration .
Yes yes .
Yes I 'd accept that .
Any more comments on this one or can we move to eight ?
Which currently says avoid areas of archaeological and nature conservation interest .
Mr
Joe .
I don't regard this as a strategic issue .
I think this is a a matter for erm local consideration .
Do you have any view on that one ?
I don't think I 'll go to the wall over eight , chairman .
Thank you .
I
Sorry .
Mr n .
Sorry I can't agree with Mr erm planning policy guidance three quite clearly indicates that S S S I 's for example are a strategic matter to be taken into account in locating new settlements .
Thank you .
Number nine .
Be free standing and well removed from existing settlements , thereby minimizing any adverse impact on existing settlements .
A comment I ha or a question I had was how far is well removed ?
Do you intend to try and define that .
I think we 'd we 'd want to look at it and I think various figures we 've talked about certainly as officers , whether we ought to try and er quantify that in terms of distance .
certainly I think er we 'd be looking perhaps for a minimum of er er of one mile but I can't advise you on any level of agreement as to as to what any definition of it .
I think the I think you will be talking about that sort of order .
Is this a consideration which helps anybody to decide which district the new settlement should go in ?
Much shaking of heads .
gentleman for .
Mr first .
With er this consideration in mind I er put forward erm to you the diagram of settlements round York .
Because coalescence can be in my view a very important issue in deciding which sectors might well be the id=375s1
Thank you .
Er I I think I take Mr 's point that er you wouldn't go to well a mile it 's really going to be horses for courses isn't it ?
Yeah I think we need t I I think one really needs to look at this .
Yes .
Down on the ground .
Yes and not a strategic one .
Or is it ?
Well
In terms of determining location .
I think it 's an important erm requi it should be an important requirement th the philosophy behind that that er that that argument should be pursued that it should be free standing .
Yeah .
Thank you , Mr .
Er thank you sir , Terry n , Selby District .
Yes I was going to say , whilst it 's not necessarily a strategic issue , there is a reference in the revise P P G three to the need to avoid coalescence .
Which is a very similar wording to to the one used and if you do decide er to go forward with this criteria , perhaps erm there 's scope to introduce the wording avoiding coalescence .
Yes .
Michael , very briefly .
I think that this erm criterion nine relates to is is of the type of new settlement rather than helping select the general location .
And I would my my general thoughts would be that it the word free standing should be actually in included within the preamble to the policy .
And it be removed as a criterion .
Cos it doesn't help help select a general location .
Because almost all general locations round York could be could be fulfilled by that criterion .
Mhm .
Thank you .
Can I move on to ten which no doubt will excite comment from my left .
Mr ?
Roy , House Builders Federation .
You anticipate me sir .
Erm yes you you you 'll know from my evidence that I have certain reservations about the detailed wording of this of this particular criteria .
Er my main my main concern i i is really related to the implication within it that that literally every cost which is associated with a new settlement would have to be borne by the developer .
So that literally means the developer will pay all the teachers that might be in a school , pay all the people to sweep the roads and a a and and everything else .
They would expenses of that nature .
That would seem to me to be contrary to government guidance and the wording needs tidying up to reflect that if that is not what is actually meant by the revision and by the wording of the policy .
Erm a for that reason , I have in my evidence commended some alternative wording to you which is based upon erm a panel report for the Nottinghamshire structure plan who who considered the issue .
Thank you .
Is this a strategic matter ?
I'm not saying question that this is not an important consideration , but does it help us decide where the new settlement should be ?
Right .
Peter , North Yorkshire .
Er I don't think it probably that it does decide help you decide where the location ought to be , but that having said that , I would not want to minimize in any way er the views of my authority er as to the importance erm of the look of contributions from the private sector .
Erm obviously you 've seen what Ro what Roy has put in and obviously you 'll come to a view on the position .
Mr ?
Er John , C John , C P R E .
I think erm er certainly the first half of the cri the criterion is is a strategic consideration .
Erm but within that the the the phrase the troubles me is self contained .
Erm particularly your question Mr chairman about er the principle against which such a criteria can be can be judged .
Erm I think we established yesterday or current research suggests that certainly size of fourteen hundred people , no way can achieve self containment .
Erm Mr in in his closing remarks yesterday afternoon defined a balanced and integrated community .
What what we haven't yet defined is is what we mean by self containment .
And and the degree to which that is consistent with the sustainable development argument that has been already been put .
Erm er presumably this is something would have to be elaborated in the explanatory memorandum .
Can you say why you think it would be it is a strategic criterion ?
If we take a narrow interpretation at least for the moment of strategic means it helps decide where it should go .
Well that that depends on on how we define self containment , because erm self containment has for example a transport implication .
Erm if er the extent to which a new settlement would generate new trips and that that has a locational implication .
I'm not sure we follow that one .
Well er as I say I think , er if if if the County Council are are insisting that any new settlement erm should be self contained , I think one would need to see what that definition is before we can be clear as to whether or not it has it has strategic implications .
Cos that for example
But is it not true that wherever it is , we 're not going to build a wall around it , to keep them in .
Mm .
But but th
And therefore wherever it is it is going to have transport implications in accordance with its size .
But that but that 's my point really , we it 's not really defined what what is meant in this criteria by criteria
But
by self containment .
If you accept that it doesn't matter where it is , it will have transport implications , we 've already discussed a criterion erm about relating it to transport provision and facilities .
How does this criterion help us to decide where it should go .
Erm well well er put like that erm put like that er I suppose it it doesn't if if one accepts that the the the traffic and transport erm case is ma is made elsewhere .
Paul Paul , .
Th this criterion I think is what I would call an operational criteria , erm it defines effectively what 's going into the new settlement .
Erm I don't think it assists at all in terms of location and I think it is a strategic matter however in terms of erm the structure plan and would probably be best incorporated into policy H two in a revised form and I suggested .
I believe inevitable later .
Thank you .
Mr
Erm thank you .
Roy , House Builders Federation .
I 'd just like to I don't think this is a strategic matter in the in in the terms which you are now defining it and indeed the issue of self containment , my understanding is only the universe is self contained .
Erm but er you 'll notice from my wording er revised wording of the policy , I seek to define the terms of that self containment by using the words , and so the District Council will seek to secure land for .
Mr .
David , York City Council .
Just a brief comment .
Erm you 'll not be surprised to hear discussing yesterday , on the issue of self containment , erm I regard this this criteria and .
Would you say that again .
If if if you accepted if you were to accept the the the issue of self containment we discussed yesterday , about the transportation implications of a new settlement of this size .
Then the inclusion of the word self contained in this criteria within those terms rule out all proposals .
You would like high priority therefore attached to
Yes I I remember we went down a very long cul-de-sac at one stage on self containment didn't we .
I think we might need to look at that one very carefully to see whether it adds anything to the er criteria .
Mr .
Wincup , D O E .
Just a very brief point sir .
Th don't want to extend the the d debate on this , just to point out that paragraphs thirty five and thirty seven , P P G three , both related to local plan policies and not to structure plan .
Yes .
Thank you .
Do you all feel as though you 've had your say on that ?
Mr , were you going to rephrase that ?
Er no sir , I'm waiting for the next item .
Lead on .
Er Terry , Selby District .
Er this i matter er item twelve .
I thought I 'd better get in here first before Mr , and er Michael start hurling pieces of coal at each other .
Erm I 'll be I 'll be very brief because I set out Selby District 's views in in my written subm submission , but basically , strict interpretation of of this particular criterion , would clearly eliminate substantial parts of Selby District which is affected by the development of the coal field .
Now the coal field is a clearly very complex issue , but basically it it is now becoming clearer that er the life of the coalfields will not be as long as originally envisaged .
In fact substantial parts of it will be er will not extend beyond the end of the the plan period .
And al already there are significant areas of that have actually been worked out .
So that that the constraint wouldn't apply in in those areas anyway .
Er at the very least I wish to see the criteria amended erm and expressed in terms of minimizing impact rather er avoiding completely .
Yes I I presume there must be some form of safeguarding areas laid down by British Coal .
And equally I presume you 've also got some form of mineral protection zones or aren't they relevant in the context of the area of search .
I I don't th
in terms of and gravel resources or whatever .
Er Malcolm , County Council .
Yes
I just can't get to the reason why why you have th this criteria in .
Well as you know , we have very substantial planning permission for the Selby coalfield which covers
Yeah .
Mm .
part of the area that we would be looking at for the new settlement .
And I think it is very important if we take into account the the potential conflict .
Now that does not entirely rule out any possibility of the new settlement within the Selby area , as er Mr has implied .
That has never been the County Council 's interpretation of the of the relationship between er this criteria and the Selby coalfield .
Nevertheless it is a very clear strategic matter which must be included in my view in the in the criteria included in the structure plan .
Mr ?
Paul , planning partnership .
The effect of the Selby coalfield erm is felt on specific areas of land .
And as er Mr has pointed out , er some parts of the district are not affected at all by this issue , other areas have already been worked out .
And doubtless other areas will be worked out before there is a need to start on site .
The subsidence which occurs as a result of the mining in any event is very limited and has been able to be taken into account quite adequately on other developments within the Selby District .
And because this issue is clearly so site related , it seems to me it can not possibly be looked at at a strategic level .
And the appropriate way in which this matter should be considered is through the local plan when you are considering a much er more limited range of possible sites for the new settlement .
And for that reason I believe erm it should be deleted from the locational criteria in terms of the area of search around Greater York .
Can we ?
Michael Michael .
I I consider that that this does assist in general location .
Quite ob quite obviously cos I say so in my evidence .
Erm it is a the the impact of the new settlement upon the worki the workings of Selby coalfield are recognized by British Coal .
British Coal haven't made their position quite clear .
They consider that the new settlement should should n't be within the wi within areas which would affect their future workings .
It 's a matter obviously it 's a matter of weight to be given to it .
But I I think that it it is a matter which is legitimately it should be legitimately included within the the structure plan as an important factor .
Now obviously the weight we can we can debate on Tuesday .
Mr ?
No ?
No ?
If I could just make one further comment please , Paul , planning partnership .
The existence of the Selby Coalfield has not precluded substantial development within Selby itself .
Indeed British Coal erm have current proposals to undermine Selby town itself .
And for that reason I don't believe this is really any form of constraint on new development which could obviously be built with er appropriate foundations to absorb the very slight movement that takes place when undermining occurs .
Peter , North Yorkshire .
I I really don't want to make too much of this chairman .
You you 're aware of paragraph thirty one of er M P G one .
There has been some concern expressed by British Coal on this issue .
Er and it may well be as Mr has suggested that when we look at it it is not a problem .
But I think in fairness to erm complete the picture shall we say , I really think we ought to er we ought to be looking at it .
But it may well be as Mr suggested that er there 's l there 's gonna be very little difficulty there .
Thank you .
Any more comments on that one ?
We 're running slightly behind time but we 're doing very well .
Does anyone have any additional criteria , they wish to add .
No ?
Can I can I just raise a question er to r to clarify the point before I answer your question that I are am I are we to assume that in response to Mr , erm it 's on the record that there 's a er a request to add , clear expression of local preference I by local planning authorities ?
That 's his request yes .
In that case I don't need to repeat it .
Thank you .
Mr .
I think that one point Er .
I think one point is not allowed for in the criteria and that it is of relevance .
If the new if the new settlement proves successful , it will have an impetus all its own and therefore it will not come to a full stop in two thousand and six .
There will be a natural tendency for expansion to occur thereafter .
Therefore in considering the degree to which any er area can assimilate a new settlement , the size which it must reach subsequent to two thousand and six , should be considered in addition to the size it expected to reach by that date .
A valid point Mr , yes .
I'm not sure sure how we could build it into the criteria of But it 's it 's a point which would obviously have to be borne in mind in terms of the str you know , the planning process .
I think Peter , North Yorkshire .
I think we talked about this yesterday , I think and certainly my view was that th s that a further increment onto er a new settlement would be one of the options .
Erm of course two thousand and six is a consideration that we ought to look at once a new settlement location 's identified .
Er I think I share your view there 's some difficulty as to how we would actually accommodate in er in the policy .
The implication of that could be one of two ways .
Either , that long term flexibility beyond two thousand and six is a relevant consideration , or it is not .
And I 've lost the second one .
It obviously wasn't important .
It 's getting late .
Well
Ah yes , the second point was , is that a consideration which is determines location in strategic terms ?
Erm I think I 'd support the first point that we we 're obviously er all in favour well the County Council is certainly in favour of flexibility in terms of addressing the post two thousand er six scenario .
One of those options would be a further increment on the existing erm new settlement .
Erm I'm not too sure on the second point .
My tired brain is trying to work out a response which it 's failing to do at the moment .
So I don't think I can help you too much on the second one .
But in fact it could be looked at in the light of criterion nine , which is free standing , well removed etcetera
Yeah .
thereby minimizing any adverse impact .
Yeah .
Mm .
Whether it would still continue to be free standing and well removed in terms of a second er second increment .
Mr .
, D O E .
Er on Mr 's point about the preferences of the district councils sir .
While that 's clearly the most important consideration for each of the districts over the next few months , while the selection process is going on , er bearing in mind what 's said in P P G three , we regard that as axiomatic and I I find it inconceivable that the the department would allow any new settlement to proceed nowadays without the agreement of the district council .
If that is so , I would then say that by the time you get to the modification stage and the County Council has published a proposal for the general location , I therefore think at that stage the need for the criterion has disappeared , so it may be that the approved policy will not need to contain such criteria .
Point taken .
Mr
Paul , planning partnership .
Erm I have one other criteria which I would suggest you 'd need to take into account when considering the general location of the new settlement around York and that is to the need to what I term in my er planning submission , to plan for success .
Erm in my view , it 's crucial that the selection of a general location should be overwhelmed by these technical considerations .
It 's very important in my view er because the new settlement will be primarily dependant on private sector funding which in itself is dependant on the uplift in land values , erm that the area should be one in which developers wish to build .
And that obviously creates the uplift in land values which finances the social structure that would be set in terms of the operational criteria for the new settlement .
So I think there is a need to plan for a location where this new settlement is going to be successful , recognizing that failure to attract appropriate er private sector interest will mean poor quality design and social provision which will obviously detract from the new settlement as a place to live and also undermine its role in terms of the Greater York area .
Now we have taken advice from several chartered surveyors and indeed the developer of the existing Clifton Moor industrial estate on this issue .
And their very clear view based on their long and practical experience of the Greater York development market , is that a location South South West of York is more likely to be a successful location particularly for the employment component of the new settlement , than any other sector of York .
And I would ask you to have regard to that erm when you look at the technical criteria which we 've spent the last couple of hours looking at .
Thank you very much , we will come back to that on Tuesday morning .
Er thanks for your patience .
Can I remind you that we 'll be looking at er two D on Tue Tuesday morning .
That 'll be starting at ten o'clock .
We 'll have to conclude at one because the we have another issue in the afternoon .
Erm if we overrun on Tuesday morning , then we have spare time in our programme for a week day .
Erm I just put you on notice about that .
I would hope that we might be able to arrange it but obviously if it is er out of the question , then we 'd have to try to rearrange it some other time .
But I hope it might be a spur to some positive discussion , Tuesday morning er and terminating absolutely at one o'clock .
Yeah .
The alternative of course is that we could reconvene later on Tuesday , if the hall is available .
But er let us see how we go Tuesday morning .
To put you on your mettle .
And can I remind the district planning officers I am looking for a positive contribution from you on Tuesday .
Michael Michael , to to assist the panel , after we received 's paper on on on the erm coal workings in Selby we have act we faxed that over to British Coal for their comments .
I'm now just got their comments now , and it may be helpful if I enclose a copy to er whoever may may wish to have a copy to be looked at over the weekend .
Thank you The the the good news for you the good news for you is that if we erm run out of time on Tuesday morning , we can have the hall all night , Tuesday night .
Thank you very much , have a good weekend .

Can you get it all sorted out
What 's the
Are you going up tonight with your da like ?
What ?
Are you going up tonight with your da like ?
No .
You 're not ?
No .
Your daddy 's gonna go up apartments .
Come on
See where you
What ?
See
Aye and a lovely job ?
A bit er .
Listen Mark come on .
Right .
Our Michael tried to steal my gel this morning .
What ?
Michael tried to steal my gel this morning .
You know when you were shouting at him ?
What ?
Know when you were shouting at him ?
Aye
That 's what he was doing , hoping I was asleep .
Well Will you bring Mark ? fibreglass .
Aye .
There 's someone at the door .
Aye .
That 's
Right Mark , come on .
Right .
I forget where I was now .
I'm gonna fibreglass all down and everywhere .
What got in that loft Mark ?
Angela 's toys
Is that all ?
and Christmas stuff
Ah .
and two suitcases .
And all the rest are bits and pieces everything 's going off to Thomas .
Yeah .
I don't know what way your daddy 's gonna fix them carpets down to the floor .
Yeah I 'll have to get
I mean it 's solid concrete .
I think you need lots of rolls of two sided tape
Aye .
and stick them down .
Oh come on Mark !
Do you know this morning .
You go down and bring the hoover up ?
Aye .
And then I 'll clean the bathroom
Yeah .
I 'll not get anything else done out the back .
Why ?
Well the rain and it 's gonna shower all day .
I mean you can't paint till you
Right .
Come on
Right .
You putting that bit of carpet down till your daddy come along and done that on it .
Yeah I know .
And I was doing alright myself , I shouldn't 've let him do it .
Mark whenever you start drag him off into the cupboard
I know .
You wanna 've seen your face , your face , you didn't know what had hit you , you just went Oh dear .
You order me
No .
But if you get up and give me a hand
Right I'm getting up now .
and we 'll
was hoping this afternoon to get the curtain rail .
I know he does .
get up late this morning .
You sure you given him the right size .
Aye , ten and a half curtains for and she 's gonna get the net curtains Was Alex saying that young couple across the way from Thomas only moved in last week ?
Aye .
that was working on the car ?
That 's the one downstairs .
No the one downstairs has been there quite a while .
That 's the one I mean , that 's the one that was working on the car .
Oh that blond haired guy ?
Aye .
Does he live below Thomas ?
Erm no at the other side .
Oh at the other side .
Aye he wanted , he offered to give us a hand though .
Och did he ?
of course he was talking to .
Och well that was nice of him Mark .
I mean you know you don't always get people that will give you a wee helping hand .
Och well he 's got all his basic stuff there now , it 's only a matter of sorting it all out .
Ah I know .
Getting himself organized .
Should 've sorted out I mean I can't go up , I can't go up and give him any more help cos I'm working tonight and tomorrow night .
Oh today .
Our Michael 's forgot where he , has forgot where he 's hid his Nintendo tape .
Mark yesterday it was in his box in his wee desk .
That 's what he says .
I 've seen it .
Oh
Mark .
When I made that bed yesterday it was sitting in there .
Maybe
Honest to God , I seen it .
Right come on , come on get your room done clean up wardrobe up .
Right .
were gonna meet Albert and all up in the park last night .
Were you ?
Aye .
Sure you knew you were gonna help to let Thomas in .
Oh I didn't think I was gonna be that long .
Ah Mark , when you 're moving house !
Did our Michael get your hairspray ?
What ?
Did Michael get your hairspray ?
Did he get me it ?
Get your hairspray last night er this morning .
Oh left it in the bathroom .
Ah I thought he used it .
Between the four of yous I'm fed up buying hairspray .
Oh he used all our can all of it .
See I 've had my hair cut and I didn't even use any of it .
them curtains fixed .
Is this , what 's this ?
What , is this dirty ?
No it 's alright .
It 's okay ?
Yeah .
the wardrobe , the state of your clothes , I don't know why I iron nothing stays without wrinkles in that wardrobe .
Oh it 's alright .
Right .
I know what I need , to put my head down for half an hour this afternoon I won't be fit for nothing the night .
Oh I think I just a can of beer or cider , fuck Mark the wind 's killing me .
It is Mark , I mean I know it is myself .
It 's fucking madness , I 'll ge I mean it kills me the next day , it 's madness , I don't know why I do it .
Fucking habit that 's all it is , just a fucking habit .
Can you ?
Oh you must stop that bad habit of coming into this car , every single time , light a cigarette .
Aha that 's what I do , it 's like getting up in the morning Mark .
I get up in the morning , first thing I do is light a cigarette .
It 's just
Thomas is coming on well with his wee flat .
I suppose he 's glad .
What ?
I suppose he 's glad to
Well if he keeps , if he looks after the car and keeps himself right och it 'll be okay but if he 's gonna mess about and wreck the car well he 's he 's no way of getting to work .
up there there 's no bus service near there .
Oh god I feel like death warmed up Mark it 's a horrible feeling .
Can I have one ?
Can I have two .
No
Yeah warning you to stop teasing her .
What 's this ?
Oh aye .
It wasn't last night actually .
Oh have to get these they 're really getting , they 're getting that they 're , they 're dangerous .
What time did Thomas say he 'd be down , half three ?
I don't know , I didn't even know he was coming down .
Well he wanted me to go with him and get the curtain rail .
I was gonna try shopping in there for a change
Rather than the Co-Op ?
Aye , just to see what it was like .
Took him ages didn't it to get his flat and it 's not even where he wants to go .
He had to take what they gave him though .
Yeah I know .
He 's , he 's got ta get a , get a place though somewhere else when he gets married .
Well they 'll put in for a transfer .
He won't get it .
He might , some people might prefer it that way , Flora nice wee quiet village .
Where 's she want to move to next ?
Erm closer into Lisburn .
It 's a wee bit way out out of the road for Denise like you know .
Aye .
You know they just , they don't care , the don't care where they dump you .
I mean they could 've given them a wee , a wee two bedroom around our w our way rightly .
Mhm .
Even that wee flat in
at all .
houses in estate .
just waiting for me Mark .
Mhm .
I can't do them in here .
Right , move your bum and let 's go .
That 's it I'm not using it , I'm not getting it .
here , want one ?
No .
I wonder what time it is .
Got your watch on ?
Aye .
Five , ten past one .
One sixty nine for a wee that size .
size of it .
I know .
Well I could 've bought with that
under her armpits .
She don't even need it .
She 'll have the bedroom stinking of it now , she 'll scoot it
I know
it everywhere , she 's a wee cat .
Mm don't scoot that all over the bedroom now .
I don't
come and take that off you .
I can't afford to go around buying that stuff and you , you , going madam .
anyway with all your smelly stuff , it is you .
It 's not me .
Soap and water does just as well .
Nothing but the best for body beautiful like .
Well you pay for what you want .
Ah well I 'd like to be able to pay for what I want too you know .
I want it too .
It costs for good stuff .
I'm sorry I fucking came here worked out dearer this week than they normally do .
Right , home , unpack the groceries watch Home and Away go and get Stephanie and Melissa out of school Angela will you
Thomas
will you run over and tell Melissa 's mummy that I 'll pick M I 'll bring Melissa home for her ?
It 'll save her going round with the baby .
Yeah .
Just , just go over and just say my mummy says erm she 'll bring Melissa round for you if you want .
Okay ?
Mhm .
Look at that wee house Mark , that 's an awful crying shame that place went like that .
Aye .
I'd 've loved to have been in there and gone mad pull all them windows out and put all nice new wee windows in .
would 've lived in it .
Mm
to go like .
Had to go cheap really .
That wee house would be a challenge
Why ?
What today ?
Aha .
Ah I know .
Oh something I would love challenge .
Are you turning in mister or what ?
Or do you plan on , oh for goodness sake .
that bastard , didn't know where he was gonna , he was indicating but I didn't know whether he was gonna just go on or what he was gonna do .
Aye .
wee car for sale .
Did you see that ?
What wee car ?
Lean over .
erm
Aye .
I thought that rain would stay off you know .
What ?
Oh
now eh ?
No I'm not .
I am .
Two more .
God love him ,
Where 's you going , home ?
Michael ?
Eh ?
Shouldn't 've come down this way .
Why ?
What ?
I just felt like walking it .
Have you phoned her ?
no .
phone , they 're stinking .
Sure wreck it , round here , don't leave nothing alone .
Ah I know .
Our phone on our street 's
What ?
The phone on our street
It 's a wonder well Michael because all , all they wanna do round there is vandalize and destroy .
Ah , see if I catch you round there I 'll kill you .
Or them ones at the shops , I catch you in there I 'll kill you .
I'm not allowed ?
No .
They 're a bad lot Michael .
Er
There 's Terry
Who ?
Terry .
Who ?
Terry .
Who 's Terry ?
Is that i does that happen to be his nickname ?
No .
Is that Terry or something ?
No .
The cyclist here .
red balls on it ?
Aye .
Terry .
I know .
it was the one I used to and meet , mess about with few cracks with us .
He 's just passed his test there .
Who ?
Him there , his second time , first time he failed it .
Well it does happen .
He got a cancellation .
Did he ?
Aye .
go in for it ?
He got it .
He 's done it an'all .
How driving there .
Lee you said .
No I didn't I says he .
Oh I thought you said Lee got a cancellation .
Lee , Lee surely he has n't even got his form away , form away yet .
I dunno why like .
Lee passed his test for that wee bike .
He didn't have to do his test for it , well not really it 's , see with the Post Office
Aha .
he does like a wee test , think it 's
Well they 'd better do a wee test then .
Aye .
he 's a nice wee fella .
Aye .
And Dolly likes him too .
Oh I see .
he 's got , he 's a nice way with him .
If things work out well for him he will do good with his money , if he doesn't go out spending like he does , his money will do alright .
Like Nicholle , Nicholle 's over a couple of thousand saved for a car .
Well like that 's good for a wee girl who 's still going to college and what not right ?
Aye sure she work she gets , saves all that money .
And Lee says she 's tight with money in a way but if , no she , but she 's very careful with her money .
Well that 's right
I know .
Best way to be .
I 'll just have to get another job now after
says to me did you get
Here you can help .
Grab the bags .
Well I'm only asking him to lift the bags .
Now don't you two start now .
I'm not starting .
Hurry up and put it on will you .
You left the handbrake off .
The car 's rolling in the fence .
Here .
Right , go .
Want a hand with it ?
Want me to help you kick it ?
didn't have to do it .
If you two are going to start your fighting around in here er hair will fly and it won't be mine .
Yes my dear .
All you two think of is fighting with each other .
He didn't wanna bring his bag in , he started kicking it .
Put them two inside .
For once in your lives can yous not be nice in this house instead of bickering and fighting
Why ?
You know why .
Well grow up .
You 're seventeen years of age , can't be fighting with a twelve year old .
I can't help it , he 's just annoying .
Well you are bloody annoying too .
Everybody annoys you but you don't think you annoy , and yet you har you never stop to think if you may annoy people as well .
I didn't do nothing to him last night .
Look he 's laughing
You get right up my nose you do .
And you , less of your smirking .
Er mum did you get two tins ?
Of Mr Sheen ?
What ?
It 's not
Aye it 's er for the batteries
Did I get what ?
Have you got ?
No .
I 'll if you have
Yeah it 's nice .
That 's for the batteries .
I 'll get it .
Hello yeah what ? where are you ?
You 're coming up eh ?
Right , cheerio .
Whose ?
Albert , that 's all he seemed to do .
That 's all you do .
Hey
Well it 's not you 're picking on it 's Michael or la last night it was Thomas .
He started it last night .
You pick on your da , you 'll get a thick ear .
can't just back then .
I know you can't and you need n't back to me ever .
I know , I wouldn't hit my parents .
I would hit my brother but
Ah mister goody two shoes .
No I wouldn't .
The day you lift your hand
Have you ever seen me hit you ?
the day you lift your hand to me or your father would be the day you wouldn't walk again cos I 'd cripple you .
I wouldn't .
I wouldn't hit her .
Sure I was gonna flatten Thomas when he , he was gonna hit you .
He jumped up to you .
Here
Try and flatten him .
Mark it 's gonna stay dry you know , we could finish them wee bits and pieces
Yes
It 's gonna rain .
it 's not gonna rain , you 're a lazy get
that 's cos you don't want to do it .
Albert 's coming up , Albert 'll do it .
I don't want Albert doing it , Alb Albe Albert
Yes mummy
he , he 'll end up getting er that won't even fit in there Mark .
Cut the top off it when you open it , give us open it what 's that all over there ?
I don't know .
Washing powder ?
It 's not it 's conditioner .
Conditioner ?
It 's come out o
That 's very unhygienic mum .
It 's not unhygienic .
That is .
Mark you start talking about hygiene to me dear whenever you pass your basic hygiene test .
I 've done mine .
I 've cut the top off and the wee cap can't go on
What ?
Look I cut the cap off and that won't go on .
Ah Mark you 've cut too low !
Well it fits in the cupboard .
Okay I 'll collect her , I 'll collect
Here take that see if you waste all of it you 're done for .
Och it 's even forty P off mummy .
I know .
and gets a shower or something .
Mum
freezer .
The freezer 's all filled up .
That was Michael yesterday .
I'm not one for squealing like but it was Michael .
Oh dear If you 're not going to eat that piece of cake Mark may as well throw it out .
What do you mean ?
I was gonna eat it yesterday and you says no .
Well I thought the kids would 've took some of it .
I only took a wee bit , leave it there and I 'll eat it at the end of the day .
Albert 's coming up , he 'll have a wee bit .
Look there 's wee pieces of cheese everywhere in this fridge .
Open a block and then open another block .
That 's Michael again .
You 're the one that eats cheese too , you blame everything on Michael .
It 's him that eats most of the cheese .
Well at least that 's the shopping out of the road Mark , all sizes .
I like them but they 're nice and hard .
I'm gonna do erm I'm thinking of
I don't want anything .
We ha well you 're gonna have to eat something decent .
Well what are you gonna make ?
Potatoes and with peas and gravy .
Oh yeah right .
What time are you making them at ?
I'm not put it on early
Oh that 's alright then .
cos I have to go to work at s I have to be ready for work at
Well do you want me to make it ?
if you like .
No Albert 'll be here .
See what our Michael done ?
Put his shake thing in there spilt all over the fridge .
For god 's sake !
Look .
Michael
What ?
Come here .
You 've spilt that old milkshake stuff all over the fridge Michael .
Do you not want it then ?
Do you want it Angela ?
She 's not in , I think she 's going out .
Oh I 'll leave it there , Albert 'll be up here probably he 'll take it .
Alright .
Is that washing finished and I 'll get it out of the dryer .
Have to fix this for you I think .
Aye the , the down the back and all , the dog 's kennel there Mark .
Mark ?
If you close that up
See after I pass my test I'm going over to I'm not going back to .
It 's round about it 's round about the same .
Well I don't know why you I don't know why you want to bother. ?
Where 's the car keys ?
Erm I don't know in my bag .
He has them .
here ?
I think the hammer 's up in Thomas 's flat .
got our hammer .
There 's a wee , I think there 's a wee hammer here too
a wee small one .
Where 's the Stanley knife now ?
I need the Stanley knife the shaft 's too thick .
if we had , if we had a blade
might get me a buyer for that .
Is there not a Stanley blade knocking about anywhere where you could just pare it down a wee bit ?
No .
knocking about .
Ah , what did I say Mark ?
Use a sharp knife .
I haven't got a sharp enough knife .
Hello
Talking about you you big eejit .
What for ?
What ?
What for ?
You didn't ?
Why ?
Come up where ?
His house .
I seen Terry on our estate .
Did you ?
Aye .
Him and Davy ?
Aye .
And two other girls .
Aye .
You 're not working today Albert though ?
Eh ?
Tonight .
Tonight .
You 're working tonight ?
Ah I didn't get , we didn't get in there with one .
Aha , did you not ?
Took us half the night to get all that stuff in .
By the time you get by waffling and all to everybody .
Waffling !
You were fighting everybody .
I wasn't .
You were .
Just wanna kill him .
I give
What ?
Albert Albert want a bit of cake ?
What cake ?
had a bit of it yesterday .
Wedding cake ?
No it 's birthday cake so it is. if you want .
Why ?
Time ?
Were you arguing with her ?
No
Are they ?
I thought I heard them when I was on the phone .
Where ?
Is it ?
good money but very good money .
I dunno but I have to go down to
When ?
?
Aye .
Aye .
I can't go tonight .
like and he 's gonna wanna take me .
Where are you going to ?
I'm gonna go to er erm Du ah Dundonald .
Dundonald !
How you getting down there ?
I won't be starting until about nine months when , after I 've done my test .
Then take the car over .
then ?
Aye .
It 's a banger so it is .
Is it ?
Aye .
It 's near where they held the show , you know show ?
Aye .
Near the
Do you want that ?
It was Michael 's and he didn't like it .
Oh I 'll try it then .
You don't want that cake ?
Eat it , eat it all if you want .
I 'll just have a wee bit go down and get something
that 's Yeah I , I 've lost over a stone now .
Have you ?
My ma 's not feeding me .
putting the fat on something shocking .
she , she cracked me up she said I left she says no don't , don't , don't , don't it 's too , it was a bit like
Sometimes I think he 's a frigid or something .
You what ?
Sometimes I think he 's a frigid .
Yeah .
I 've only seen him kiss your woman , that was what three and a half months ago .
last night he was having
Who was ?
With Joanne
Were you ?
I wasn't
Eh ?
she asked me for my phone number last night .
she says what 's your number .
So I told her and she says mhm
No ?
What ?
Do you want to ?
What ?
See her .
Why ?
Because .
something goes wrong I end up backfiring on me or something .
What goes wrong ?
won't talk to me .
So
Would you see
Who ?
tomorrow .
Dunno .
I would .
You would ?
Yeah .
Would you ?
After last night ?
You bet your
John sitting on me , me , Joanne she was sticking feathers and everything in my ear and trying to kick her , Lee , here 's Lee , Lee 's don't , don't , don't , whack !
I went straight over and I didn't get up for about ten minutes .
He hit me that whole car park on the ground .
He me something shocking .
Your nanny has to work you know .
Well for Christ 's sake you haven't even done a week yet .
What did your mam say Albert ?
Oh I dunno .
I think I 'll phone them up and cancel them .
What ?
I think I 'll cancel them .
And when 's he supposed to be coming in ?
phone me up yesterday .
Did you say that to him ?
There was nobody there .
Oh was it closed ?
Aye .
Ah well there must be something wrong then Albert .
Mm ?
No I don't know .
What ?
How would I know ?
Albert Albert
cigarettes ?
Yeah .
That Hellraiser 's good .
I 'll see you later
Yes .
Right cheerio .
Cheerio
Cheerio now .
Hand it in now love , right ?
Right , I 'll see you later .
I think wants me to paint the levelling for him .
Does he ?
Aye .
fucking
Why ?
Wonder how much I'm getting from the claim .
I 'd like to know cos I can get , if I'm getting say if I'm getting about two
Aye .
I wanna put it away and save
and prove our Thomas wrong , he says I 'll never have a decent car .
his er , his Fiesta , three hundred pound junk .
So I was down Butcher Road yesterday , seeing jeeps nearer five thousand .
Well if I get this , if I start this job it 'll start me saving again .
six hundred .
Well that 's er eighteen hundred innit ?
Aye .
That 's good .
But I 'll insure myself for my dad 's car , hundred and sixty eight pound .
So I 'll use that there , ought to get me about .
I was saying them , them jeeps are four thousand ei eight hundred , four thousand eight hundred and fifty nine pound .
Those Suzuki jeeps
Aye .
on Butcher Road .
I wonder if she got hers .
I wonder if she is getting it even , she says she 's gonna
You never know she might n't get it .
She 's on about two fifty an hour .
That 's what Joe 's on .
You know Joe ?
That 's what he 's on .
Aye he is .
an hour
No he 's not , he 's on two fifty .
No listen we were all on two twenty five , I can't remember how it happened but Amanda explained it to me , about Joe .
Something happened , he got accused of something , he got accused of something .
Aye .
And he got two fifty or something .
Aye .
Then he ha they asked him
They asked him back .
to go down .
But he , he was getting more money in Bailey 's so he ended up if he went down to the , the he would get two fifty still .
Ah .
I could n't go back after Amanda .
Eh ?
Who ?
Over where ?
Who ?
No .
Well we 're on holiday next year then ?
Aye .
I wouldn't mind going away this year .
But only after , after er .
I haven't got the money .
Plus I wanna get my car first this year .
Er I wanna get my car first this year so that gives me time to save for next year .
Plus Thomas 's wedding an'all and I 'd like to buy him a decent present like considering His flat 's nice .
Flat ?
Aye it 's a flat .
That 's nice .
It 's a nice flat , it 's big too .
What is it you 've to see her about ?
Well just go in and tell her you 'd like to enquire about your claim .
Or do you know your name of your solicitor , do you want to see your solicitor ?
Do you know the name of her ?
No .
Is it er is the name on the window there ?
No .
It 's a fella .
Is it a girl you 're seeing ?
Just say you 'd like to see your solicitor and they 'll ask you who it is and you 'll just say it 's er a gi a gi
just say you don't know her name but you 're it 's a woman .
And then they 'll know .
will I say ?
Just say you 'd like to see your solicitor and they 'll ask you who it is and you 'll say it 's , you 're not sure of the name .
Hello .
Can I make an appointment to see a solicitor ?
Okay , what 's your name please ?
Albert .
Albert Why do you want to see your solicitor ?
It 's just that I wanna know what , what 's going on .
Okay well we 're waiting as far as I know for the money to come
Is that ?
Yeah , I 'll just see if I can find an appointment .
What you 're putting on your ,
Has your daddy your bank account ?
No my daddy 's , it 's in my daddy 's name .
Do you remember the , the forms you signed ?
Yeah
We 've just sent that back to the , the D O E and so we 're waiting
yeah we 're waiting to get the money in , we 'll let you know .
Right .
Alright ?
Thanks .
Cheerio .
Cheerio .
Fine .
I er well er you 'll have to put it in your daddy 's name lift it .
No
But then if it 's in your name your bank account .
What are you gonna do ?
I tell you I wouldn't touch it .
Like considering like it 's money you never had like you 're going to lift it all and just blow it , I know you .
Fucking am I ?
I know you Albert , you will .
I would leave it there like it 's money you never had , I would leave it there until you get your test .
Like a few months before you get your provisional and while you 're working you can save the rest of your money , like you 're .
You 're getting the thousand five hundred , lift the five hundred leave the thousand there for a car like .
Like it will crack you up like when you see everybody else out driving in a car like , look at Terry and all and Debby , see all them driving a car .
It 'll crack you up like if you 're not gonna be driving about .
Oh you 'll probably be with us but you 'd like to have your own car .
Lee has n't even got his form away yet .
I know , he
But if I know you you will lift it .
You will lift it .
Ah you will .
Sure like you says , how much did you say you were gonna give your ma and da ?
Who ?
You .
A hundred and fifty , ah that 's a bit better .
You could even give him a hundred that 's all I'm givi I'm giving my da my ma two hundred pound .
Like no way I 've been out of work for a few months
and she 's been letting me off for the keep .
keep ?
Well once I get my claim money I'm gonna give her about two hundred of it that 'll help her anyway and with Thomas 's wedding like she had to pay like , how much was it she says ?
Six hundred or something for a day no four hundred for a day .
Four hundred pound
For the cars .
Then she said it 's what , sending him for his honeymoon .
He 's mad that 's all I 've got to say to him .
You 're mad if you lift it .
You are .
Eh ?
Ah , just going to get Stephanie .
You wanna get Emma ?
Aye well So what 's going on in here ?
I
What ?
?
Is going ?
Probably go
?
Ah that 's right , Stephanie too .
I don't know .
Why ?
Ah
You 're never gonna believe
Ah ?
No .
I 'll probably be down it 's in my diary for Thomas ,
tonight ?
My dad 's going up to Thomas 's .
You going with him ?
Had a laugh last night we were laying the carpet and I was laying it , I cut it off see where it is you can't fit , can't fit it under the doorsteps
Can you not ?
cos it 's all concrete floors and of course it 's inside can't even nail the carpet down , you have to get er sticky stuff .
So you had to cut round the doorstep , cut round it ,
I done it , I did it all neat and tidy the whole way round till we got round to the door and I says you can do it , no way am I cutting round there big chunk
Ah sure he 's only staying out for a while till he gets married and that .
Gets on his feet again .
She 's not allowed to move in though
Is she not ?
not now , no .
Michael what are you doing ?
Here , here hang on .
Where tubes go that was in there ?
Where are my , where are my two tubes of gel go that was in the cupboard ?
Michael ? taken my
Two tubes of gel ?
Ah .
Oh the ?
Aye .
Down there .
Are they ?
Yes , in a bag .
How do you know ?
in a bag .
How do you know ?
How do you know ?
You stop poking into my stuff or I 'll kill you .
Get out .
Catch you in my stuff again I 'll kill you .
I wasn't in there anyway .
Yes you were .
Then how 'd you know where they were ?
What ?
What do you use it for ?
Go on , say something now .
Ah and I 'll kill you .
Right I 'll tell you now , see next time you punch me in the mouth
I 'll kill you .
Alright !
You win .
throat .
Oh are you ?
Leave me alone , alright
Leave me alone alright .
You should n't go to kick things in .
Then I 'll hit you .
Oh ma our Michael 's up here throwing things at this my table c hi fi thing
Ah you are .
Mark I would like you and Michael to come out of the bedroom now please .
Want me to slap her ?
He said , he was going to throw this car thing at my hi fi thing .
See that fucking knife Mark , I ought to stab you or him with it , I am sick to death of yous .
All yous do is fight and ruck and fight do you ever see a house like it Albert ?
And what 's wrong with you now ?
He gave me a punch on my nose .
and I 'll tell your da you were out so late .
and there 's , and there 's enough fighting going on in this bloody house
See you later .
How long will you be ?
I 'll phone you .
Aye , how long ?
Ten minutes ?
Aye .
Want to go with us ?
To get him fixed up .
Yeah if you like , aye .
your sisters .
They 're married .
Margaret ?
No er , er her , her sister 's married like , she got married when she was eighteen .
Too bad , what a waste .
Aye .
Here 's me , oh my god !
no way I'm gonna see that fucking
I didn't want her in
I'm glad she 's not back in .
What ?
I'm glad she 's not in .
Cos if she doesn't get in not leave the Hey ?
She can't leave the and I can't leave June so
I should 've she made it worse , she started slapping her jaw you should n't hit your man one punch jaw and mouth , his jaw and nose and everything .
What ?
was last night it was , it was good .
We were gonna hold him on the floor so we were .
have a label on it .
Sure
No had a good laugh last night .
four of us , no there was six of us , six or seven of us .
Right James had all his mates down , right ?
And many of us so all of us stood
Yeah .
every one , every one of us no ? it was a good laugh like so it was Donna was telling me Jamie , Donna says and he says no and he says you wouldn't two time me and she says aye
She 's surely gonna say aye .
She says , she says aye get on no Barry says he says get off
see you later .
so she 's thinking about it
Albert ?
No it 's Lee 's .
I thought you went to get a tape the other night .
Where did you get , off Lee ?
That 's what I thought you went over to his house for .
Aye
Er what was it you went for , the wrestling tape or was that what it was ?
I lent it to Lee 's da .
Cheek .
What ?
Cheek .
Look who 's I says get the job done , and I am the father like
Every time
What ?
She 's always full aye well we 're using that , the white stuff
What for ?
That was we were using that white stuff , you know thirty , thirty six ? off his hand where it had all dried and he rolled it up in a ball and hit me in the face with it , that hurt .
So I threw the I put some thirty , thirty six on my hand , I put it on and it went hard
Now see the way his car 's banged at the front ?
Why ?
See it ?
Mhm , that , under there ?
Aye the front of it dips .
Aye .
What , dip ?
It 's not meant to be like that .
going over to this place .
What 's this ?
what do you say ?
He 's just a kid you can not hit a wee kid .
Oh what are you gonna do now ?
Yous going out tomorrow night party ?
I don't know Albert , I
that 's tough .
He 's playing dead
that a nice dog !
Alright .
You know .
No .
Who says I am ?
wouldn't you mind if I go down ?
Aye .
Who ?
aren't you going out ?
Aye .
Be off with you then !
We 're just going to Hall .
You , you going to , will you go round the Paki ?
This way before .
Hello Mark .
That 's right , we 're friends , Marky .
Are yous ?
this morning .
Aye .
He , he did come .
Who ?
Who ?
Fucking Albert .
While he was sitting there this morning .
Would you ?
Aye .
Na na na na na na na .
Heard it all !
Bloody disgrace !
See , if you had of gone down to the shop
He 's alright .
he would have had fucking pen there would have been no working for them !
Right .
Yes .
Is that what it was ?
No I said
Had it with the shop ?
He wouldn't go round to get changed !
He wouldn't go round to change !
Oh .
So he wouldn't , he was , I ge I said to him er , where you going ?
I'm gonna get changed , sure he never said anything about a shower to get
And
what the hell very much !
Well anyone
He 's got one , he had a bath .
Mum , we
But er
saw you .
He 's down to the fucking , it 's taken him more than three hours !
He 'll be down on Sunday .
I know , that 's what I meant .
What kind of ?
That 's daddy .
This man
No .
on the way down to the villa
Oh , and that 's enough .
all to you .
What ?
Right .
I would sooner die !
Good that was
Kill her !
there .
Alright .
Alright !
that one .
That 's right .
Is that right ?
I think so .
Well , eh !
Eh !
And I don't like you fucking about !
Alright !
Okay Mark ?
Hey !
Come here !
Take my back
Oi !
pack in there and I'm gonna
Oi !
play Michael Jackson .
Okay !
Jackie !
Is it ?
I thought you were going
Is it ?
out tonight ?
You 've got ta tell her .
There 's they got there .
Oh !
You 'll be up that !
Right !
Er .
You 're getting rid of us !
I said I 'll .
You want this pair ?
Get away .
Get away !
What ?
Well my
Trying to fix me up .
You know .
Hello !
Aye .
Taxi .
Taxi .
Taxi !
Taxi .
Alright ?
Yeah ,
Aye !
Aye .
Ooh , nearly out now !
Ooh !
Watch your flowers
Okay Leigh ?
Yeah , that 's me !
We did
What ?
have to be in at .
Oh .
Okay ?
Yeah .
Let 's go .
I won't fucking say it again !
I 'll buy you a card and a box of chocolates
No I don't want them !
Give them
Alright .
tell them take them back !
Alright , well I 'll eat them for you then .
You can open it .
Open them up , she didn't want it .
Right , I 'll see you later .
Alright ?
Cheerio !
Go !
I'm waiting to go .
Right cheers !
See you !
Wo !
Wo !
Have a good time !
Right .
Bye !
Say hello to !
He 'll have a good Well you don't have to date more than one guy .
Oh fuck !
Marky
Copacabana .
Copacabana .
Yes .
Can you open your ?
They don't know .
Forgotten about it or what ?
I wonder if a country boy you
How much is it ?
These will about for you Dominic .
What ?
Did you bring your bike , your bike over here ?
No .
Alright .
Where are you working now then ?
That .
So I'm down aren't I ?
You see I 'd rather be over to Ireland
with a
In a way , aye .
like
Should be a crack !
A crack !
Yo you 're joking !
Aye .
He 's not really going .
Ah !
Hello there !
What 's ?
Ah it 's good !
Or you get thrown out and he says it 's the end of it .
I 'll just keep going .
He 's his fucking army !
I know !
Did you sa , say , I think it 's couples bar in the morning .
Oh aye , on his first night of being back .
And stay like in the couples bar .
Ah .
Alright faggot face !
Couples disco yes .
Sure this is a just watch yourself and he says there 's big chicks knocking about him and old town and all .
Oh that 's really
No !
Sure .
He walked up with her .
No big deal !
Never seen her .
I said not that I'm only saying like , I'm only saying , passing on what he said I , not that you fucking crease me !
Aye , I bet you this was .
Ah God !
Sure you 'll be on cover down the border .
Fucking about .
She 's not .
. That 's why he says to me I'm gonna make sure they 're to get me fucking in !
He won't get passed us .
You say like it ah , oh aye !
You 're expecting
man in the box .
Me !
Aye , al
If I got stopped I'm grabbing Albert and he 's coming down to get changed too !
Anyway , I'm not fucking
Are you sure they 'll let you in ?
Let 's see .
Well if he doesn't , we 'll just go somewhere else then .
We 'll have to get , have to get
Oh aye !
Eh !
about bottles .
Is there ?
That this Thursday the twelfth of May
Aye I know .
He 's alright .
Aye , I know .
and see how he
No !
Leave that alone .
Ah , what did I say ?
It 's
Aye .
Is it ?
Are they having it ?
Allo , oh Allan says he 'll , I 'll get yous tickets .
That 's very well , we 're going then .
And is there one where they get so much parties and that cos it 's free ?
I 've got tickets for a too .
I don't know who it is .
I got them last night , you know .
Who says that fucking Norman and er Bashy never had shirts on last week ?
They didn't .
That 's right .
They didn't even wear a shirt .
Aye .
Considering their dad was on the door like .
Oh that 's true .
You were n't wearing jeans .
I was wearing jeans last week .
I says to your dad , your dad said well you were n't wearing jeans .
That 's right !
I saw last week .
Is that , that what he said ?
Aye , that 's right your dad said you were n't .
Sure I wore my jeans with my white T-shirt .
They said your man wasn't wearing jeans , he wasn't gonna let him in , in here .
?
You was wearing a Wrangler jacket well too .
look at the lot of us .
Peters .
Well you better er sticking that on getting a fifty in your lap .
Maybe get down
to the corner too .
Ah , it doesn't bother him .
He 's loaded !
Is he loaded ?
Aye .
Ah .
So he 's taking me here tonight .
Albert .
Is he your nanny ?
That 's right .
See what I mean ?
I hope !
Well I won't be doing any !
He must be the one , the man with all the money and everything .
He is , indeed !
Mm .
He is .
He ai n't working any more .
What 's the odds ?
Ten to one .
One to two .
One to two , I told you !
Hello .
Who 's that ?
On your fucking !
What 's this for ?
Is this they jabbing your face my Lordship !
Aye .
What are they doing ?
About four times a night .
Just checking .
See if there 's a
Da da da .
Excuse me lad , we 're in a hurry here !
We 're supposed to be in a hurry .
Look .
that ?
About the time we 're fucking get away about six quid !
All this waiting time !
But anyway , I just hope there 's
We 're gonna an A B C or something .
Yeah .
One of you got an A B C !
We 're twenty three we 're barely that !
Just he is .
What ?
The ten P
What them ?
twenty P , thirty P piece .
No !
And is it
car what 's that ?
See my bro'er , my bro'er
wanted dropped off somewhere , know what your man done ?
He went past the bo , my brother wanted dropped off , it was a one way street he went the way down came back up and parked and by the time he come up and parked it was thirty P extra !
My brother went and fucked himself !
It was one , it was
Go down that way
two pound ten , here he was , two forty for what ?
He could have dropped me off the first time !
He was , I know but I had to turn .
And he goes will you fucking
turn the next time after fucking , you drop me off !
I 'll shoot him !
Any of yous got ten P ?
Ten P ?
Aye .
Oh !
Fifty .
He 's a man with money .
No , where 's Albert 's phone number and my keys ?
The
That 's the biggest number Albert had .
It 's down here , take that down .
Aye , here 's an eighty P .
I 'll try it .
Just hold on .
That 's it .
You !
This guy 's got big boils !
What 's the time then anyway ?
Quarter past .
Yep !
Ten past nine .
Eight ?
It 's ten past nine .
I 'll bet you he 's not coming in .
Have you tried ?
What ?
Twenty five .
Oh !
I 've got nothing .
Yeah .
Oh !
Nothing
It 's all bollocks !
I was and I'm playing football match and there I was absolutely fucked !
I was meant to go there .
Did you work late over there last night ?
Robert !
I was meant to go and play there .
Were you ?
For
Aye .
Playing Scottish next week .
See Tony .
Scotty ?
Oh aye .
That 's right .
Scotty with a moustache ?
Aye .
Ah .
Know him as well .
Why what ?
And again he sa , he says that if .
He says the colours are .
Aye .
Said why didn't you knock him back .
Ah come on !
That Scotty , he 's he gets weird !
Yeah , he 's dead honest .
He 's had lots of lottery people from er .
Who 's he then ?
Club owner .
Here 's your thing .
Used to sit down
But er
in the middle of pitch .
Bu is he a ?
Aye .
He was last year .
I don't know if he is this year .
The bastard !
Oh I'm just guessing .
Tell me , this guy he 's a fucking
Fucking !
Eh !
He was do , over to get my one time , know .
A while ago he done that .
Ask him , does he know Ormo .
I bet he 's fucking
Where did they come from ?
I dunno .
That 's alright .
Go ahead .
Right .
See if I can shut the door on you !
Cor !
I might call back to fucking haunt you you bastard !
cunt !
Please tune in tonight !
You see , I daren't say that .
Come and , he might look at me for something .
But did you give then ?
Mark .
What did ?
Did you give a right name ?
No ! !
Och !
I think you 're right , I wasn't even .
Neither did I .
I was , did you show
but that 's the second you 've used that .
!
Your mad !
Fucking give the police the wrong !
big party .
They 're lovely you know that !
That was nice !
I 'll have to compare Deborah .
Got a light ?
Is she having to come back off them .
I think this your woman goes here and all .
Used to be , see her now .
Aye .
Aye .
Oh !
Michelle ?
Aye .
No .
No Michelle .
Ah !
Ah !
I know her brother said he might be with her .
No , she wasn't with him .
and er , Maxine .
I dunno where he is .
Oh yeah .
I er er I haven't that .
So that could be
?
the answer to your
I don't know where Moira is , they 're all finished them
Oh well that 's alright , is running away .
Her feller ?
Aye .
Feller she might er .
She gets carried away .
If it 's Kerry he 'll be round !
For everybody ?
That 's fucking desperate that Allan !
Thanks in million .
There you go .
Get the fuck all out !
Cheers man !
Alright thanks .
I wouldn't worry about it .
I got ta turn this thing off here .
Your walkman ?
No .
Well , stay he will ?
What ?
Here 's a bit of skirt .
Oh big deal !
What if it was ?
I would say no .
Whoever it was
Are you we gonna try for someone or
Yes .
something ?
Yes , I think we are .
Oh aye .
I didn't wanna
There 's plenty of them in the Washington ai n't there ?
What ?
wanna try them do you ?
You always try .
None of us .
Oh I know alright !
You just go to people you know Albert !
I don't see you going
It 's like one of those people on the
Do you go
.
Aye !
But you know them don't you ?
So !
Well so what !
You don't
Do I ?
go to other people and ask them up to dance and all do you ?
Yes I have .
When ?
In the Washington like
Aye .
What the fuck !
The girl came to you Leigh that time !
Aye .
There 's a couple who came to me Mark !
But how about the other people as well , you know .
Not just this one .
Do you just wanna walk ?
Do you also ?
Alright !
I dunno .
Look at her ?
Alright ?
What ?
Look at her !
Erm how much is it for hotel ?
Shall we go there ?
Ah !
All of my love .
You 're just sad cos you never saw me .
Oh yeah , just is that alright ?
Oh it 's just one of faces .
It 's in the Washington .
Debby wants too .
Not me .
I just want to have Debby .
Debby gonna have that girl here .
Aye .
Well who was just dreaming about two !
Well he , he would have talked more about that was how .
That 's like Davey too he keeps on and on all night !
Fuck !
Oh fuck , you 've changed your tune now haven't you ?
or whatever , he 's a bit of fun anyway .
do you think ?
He 's an annoying fucker !
Now what does that mean when you fucking first asked ?
Want the Washington ?
don't worry about him , what he 's saying !
Aye .
You know what
the place is like .
What ?
You know what Copacabana is like .
You know what other place is like .
Right , and it made my last week .
Aye !
Cos your dad was on door !
Your man always there !
And all it was a
Aye !
Yeah .
But that 's what I mean about it .
Cos you made your own fun that 's why !
Whoever , yourself !
I never said that .
I don't care .
I had to keep you up .
Cos you were gonna sit down again and he went and sat down .
No !
You went and , you went and sat down and I seen yous fucking between the so I went and sat down .
I .
Aye , you were !
You were pulling him back to get on the dance floor !
So I sat
I didn't !
down !
He
I felt sort of like a dickhead fucking !
Cos you had to pull him down to dance .
After we if he didn't enjoy it then he 'd get off the floor .
He was just about to walk off when I pulled him back on .
Ah you grabbed him and wanted to walk tried to walk on tried to
Well he
walk off .
all I had to do was dance there anyway back to the other side .
But you just fucking walked all off !
Aye !
I ai n't gonna stand there dancing away while you fucking find me !
He 's gonna dance !
Aye .
Sure
Aye , in the Washington I was in the Washington
I just
everybody does it like that .
So , but anywhere else Marky !
Not just at the Washington .
I thought you mean you can't dance about the Washington and nowhere else .
all my life la , la la la I look in your eyes darling , da dum la la la la la .
What ?
What about your dad ?
What ?
What about your dad ?
Ah ?
Ah ?
Are we there ?
I'm still let us hope that and don't forget who 's taking you home
you home .
and in who 's arms you 're gonna be so darling save the last dance for me .
Save the last dance for me .
Oh !
and wop wop wop bobble wop , ding da ding ding ding blue moon I saw you standing alone
Saw you standing alone
without a care in the the world without a love of my own .
Without a
tear in my eye .
Without a
Without a
Without a
.
Without a
in my .
Without a love .
must be .
can't go in case they 're not cheap .
Say that you Bloody !
But don't forget who 's taking you home and in who 's arms you 're gonna aha oh darling .
They 're not even over the chippie yet .
Oh !
Oh !
Hey Mark what 's this ?
Hey ?
so it is boy .
Cos that 's the channel it 's on because of
Turn it off .
Where 's the remote ?
Where 's the remote ?
Is it on now ?
Where 's the remote ?
Right !
Tell him he 's the first one with the remote .
Hey !
Hey !
Where 's the remote ?
Hallway .
There .
each other to be a little sweet love forever .
Should n't need to .
Which one 's the cha
Which one 's the channel , the video on ?
That 's it there .
Look at you two drunks !
She could have just mind .
I don't think so .
Be quite hard .
Mark .
And again .
Bit taller .
Avaline .
That wouldn't make any difference .
There you are then , that 's what I'm saying .
What do you say ?
Must admit , I hate those .
.
How do you know ?
What happened to this last you was dancing with ? .
.
Cos the other day she stayed , aha .
I know she
That 's nice .
Is that Mark ?
Yes .
That 's a ripe old age !
Fucking hell ! .
Aha .
It 's disgusting !
Is he , is he the black one ?
Do you wanna watch that ?
No .
I don't like that .
I'm not too fussed about it .
Joe 's dead !
Really ?
on the bed .
But er she let her kiss you ?
Mm ?
No .
I rang Michael .
He 's the one er , was saying .
It was you saying about it .
He was being really helpful .
Who was ?
Bernie .
well it is now !
But it is now .
Da da , der der er .
got it back yet ?
What ?
Can I borrow it ?
Yep .
Which tape and all was on there ?
Better off using your own .
I don't worry about it .
tt No .
Got some of you , should I ?
She standing right there and that means , that means she 's on the way..
Turn that off .
There you go .
I think it 's back in .
How about that ?
Need you .
Come on .
.
Turn that off could you ?
Just turn it off by the T V .
I 'll turn it off by the wall .
It wasn't turned on by the T V .
It was turned on by remote control .
Let me turn this off .
Somewhere .
Arrivederci , it 's one on one .
Sock .
Socky .
Socks and my shoes .
So what are you saying ?
You 're gonna have to bribe me .
Shall I put that back ?
Did you walk all the way ?
Mm ?
Did you walk over here ?
.
Mm ?
Take it back with you .
How many earphones ?
Having the earphones ?
I know , it 's much better !
Aye .
So Arrivederci Arrivederci it 's one on one .
It 's down there .
Ah yeah ?
I wish you would have told me about it .
What ?
You didn't tell me about it .
She 'd never believe it .
Cor !
That 's the only reason I 've to tell her anyway .
You wouldn't have the right .
She can sleep downstairs .
Sit up and watch videos all night .
Oh .
What ?
Have a .
What ?
Have a blue one .
Sure if it is , I would , the way , I 'd die but if .
Hey ?
Not so bad .
So how 's her wee cats ?
Or is it .
Only
Aye .
Oh good !
What 's her name ?
Why do you have to be a heart breaker .
I never knew that was on .
I never knew that was on .
It was under there .
What was ?
That 's underneath Hulk Hogan and that .
Warrior !
Urgh !
Urgh !
Urgh !
Urgh !
It 's the music of the warrior !
They 're going wild !
Down , down !
Da na !
That 's right , so we work them down a bit .
I 'd like to go back to fucking Monday night .
I thought it wasn't good up there tonight ?
But er
You two ought to .
You 'll be able to shoot me !
Fortunately
Yeah .
they , they 'd fucking shoot me !
Ah , I doubt it !
Cos you had to be there last week , you say ?
Who ?
Yeah , I bet last week wasn't good .
We 're playing for .
Put it away .
Take the road .
They 're hurting someone .
We 're going up to your house and dodge through the back !
I'm starving !
Oh what the fuck !
Yeah , whatever that is .
It was a good night on Saturday night , Leigh ?
Oh yeah .
Just sitting and .
It 's twenty past twelve .
Och , She 'll be by that sitting there half ten like .
Ah , fucking , like you do on a Friday night !
Fuck .
See Jackie last time they were there , sure .
Well Jackie and Gail , well at least
Aye , .
didn't think that was a very good night .
Kelly 's ?
I dunno .
Seen everyone getting on a grey bus .
I dunno where where they 're going .
You what ?
You 're useless !
Well , my .
Ah ?
I don't care like !
I don't really wanna know what they about me .
Alright ?
Why , why you calling him ?
Well I wouldn't call him .
Fucking !
What is it , a ?
No .
Well shut up then .
Have you told him that I'm a ?
What ?
No , it 'll be probably be a long sight .
Should be getting one .
enjoy the ten percent .
Fuck !
So do I ! .
If they had to sell it .
How many gigs do they have like ?
Cos I like them to serve food , I really do .
It 's a nice bar system , fucking people going in .
I love to eat !
Aye , where were you ?
Copacabana .
Any good ?
Christ Shit !
Shit !
One boring fuckers wanted to go .
It was boring
That 's cos I was bored !
That 's the word for the place .
I heard he 's got fat .
Where were you ?
Simon ?
What ?
Where were you ?
Some party , wished I hadn't of went .
Why ?
Bastards shaved my
Seriously ?
Really fucking pure bald !
Bastards !
What ?
Where did you go ?
Party .
Say well
Where you going now ?
see what you can do with this .
What could you do with it , like ?
Fuck all !
See all the fucking !
Want Chinese ?
Why , you going up for a Chinese ?
Mm .
No .
No..
Who ?
Yeah .
How do you
He does
know ?
he does it .
I just fucking packed up and have a sister .
Pity there 's no .
Hey , here , let me off here taxi driver .
Hello !
Seen your house .
Have you ?
Have you ?
Baldy aye .
What did they say to you ?
Oh her mum was delighted to see me .
Was she ?
Aye , she nice then ?
Playing for England .
.
Oh wait till I get to him !
I 'll .
Aye .
One half one .
Cor ! aye , aye , aye !
You been down ?
I'm off to fucking bed !
I don't know how I'm gonna fix this ?
Just leave it .
You got work tomorrow haven't yee ?
Ah ?
Cos you always like it shaved don't you ?
Close .
Well not fucking this shaved !
Holy Shit !
No hair at all .
It 's not bad .
Baldy !
I went pure white !
Oh !
You !
Over this side !
I 'd say it 's still not bad .
I 'd say it 's not too bad compared to this fucking thing !
Ah fuck you !
You 'll have to shave that a bit .
So , are we gonna be here ?
Who done it ?
I dunno .
Who done it ?
Should have taken my own
don't worry about it .
soap !
Who said
Who said
I 'll have to wear a hat .
Fucking balaclava more like it , don't know about a fucking hat !
Still working ?
Aye .
Well , are we gonna go down here ?
Right lads .
Probably see you tomorrow .
Yes alright .
Oh yeah .
I just didn't like him .
He keeps on stinking .
It 's you they 're looking at .
Listen , I'm alright .
To the nearest fucking gonna get down through there .
Just to see what the people say .
Yeah .
I 'll be working all day you see .
So , from one to ten I 'll sleep .
Fucking hell !
Leave about one o'clock get in at half four .
Aye , cos you were in early this week .
. If you left at two .
One .
Get up at nine , get a stop there like .
All that time we 're getting on your bus stops at .
Leigh !
It 's not actually Leigh .
last night ?
Fuck me !
That 's all I ever get !
Oh !
Do you ?
I'm on the earlies in the morning now .
If I'm on the earlies , right ?
And I get up about half four , right ?
Just say half four
That time we 're just coming in from a nightclub .
I get up for about half four and
I go to bed at half eleven till twelve .
But I'm no , I'm in the house like , but I tho , I don't go to my bed till about half eleven twelve .
Generally .
Do you , bollocks !
I fucking go
You were in bed about half ten last week .
Ah , but sure right .
I don't come in till about half ten .
I don't come in till half ten , or ten , ten o'clock .
Why don't you ask to go to bed every half hour .
Alright , just say it Leigh !
Just say it !
You 're coming down to see us .
Oh !
And very funny !
Ha !
Ha !
Ha !
Ha !
Ha !
Ha !
Very funny !
How do you feel like ?
It 's a right bastard on this !
It says bastard on his back !
She 's going to beat me .
Kiss my arse !
Mm .
She 's probably a hooker .
.
That 's nice .
Go and pick her up .
Oh !
Why do you think everybody 's .
In fact , that 's a good place to stand there .
Oh fuck off you !
Fuck off you !
I didn't want you to .
Hey !
This is mine !
Fucking sore !
Oh for fuck 's sake you 're in it too .
I 'd laugh if they 've got her .
It 's up there .
Somebody 's pulling that back off again .
Fucking stupid !
See that .
Go on then !
Sorry !
No touts , thank you .
Thank you !
Just fuck off !
Just sort of looked after me .
I knew .
Ah ?
Cos I knew she wouldn't come near me .
I'm sure glad I 've got it 's just that I seem to be .
Oh I don't care like !
Oh , I got it .
You want a be a biker ?
I goes , no like .
Obviously not .
Just .
He 's a very like er rebellious towards rock and roll .
Yeah , but if you remember I goes in to his right now .
Oh fuck !
He was gonna kick his car down !
I mean he really was a fucking animal !
But er
But his car 's over there , right ?
Leigh ?
It 's over there .
If you put there .
You 've only got .
Oh sure !
Sure you can erm
He 's just said , we going into there ?
Mm .
I must find another .
But we never have long there .
He 's never there long enough .
That 's right .
doesn't he get the bristles on him !
On the way , yeah !
Loads of cars !
Where is
This chap nearly got stabbed and we sa saw it .
Well it 's his fucking !
They ought to let that out .
It is , that is a bloody nuisance !
Fucking !
Shh !
Shh !
Shh !
There 's no messing about .
he says I 've been talking to that wee feller and he was talking about the pub which got .
Ha !
Can you see the talent !
Oh ! second choice oh , in the end fucking Moya !
She 'd like it though .
Moya .
Moya .
Ah !
Does this mean you 're moving out ?
No , it 's fucking with that fat girl !
Oh !
Fucking
She had nice knockers , mind you !
Sure feels definite .
As we ever
So !
we would have all got out .
And hung !
This mindless feller move his bike straight out !
And it was the er just going out and she pushed me too far !
At least we got a couple of fucking here with those girls , you know what I mean , it feels good .
You don't talk very much there Mark ?
What ?
You ought to liven up a bit !
I'm pissed off !
Because of work ?
Are you going to go
Are you walking down to the garage ?
What ?
aren't you walking down to the garage ?
Walking down to the garage ?
Aye .
Aye .
Well you didn't seem to be enjoying yourself sitting out there like .
I'm really enjoying myself now .
I 'd rather be sitting in there and listening to music .
That 's all I think that place is good for , is the music .
Good for the crack .
That 's the good part of going to , The .
I could not have stayed up there and fucking hell !
I could not have sat there all night .
I 'd have walked out .
Fucking left the two of yous there !
Yeah , perhaps we fucking should !
Well where are we going then ?
The only reason which I haven't .
Aha .
Less walking .
.
I 'll you bet you her !
Please leave the bottom line .
Big deal !
It was crap over there !
And some of them are practically doing that every night !
Oh wow !
What ?
I haven't .
Over in that
Over there !
I was .
Where ?
Over there .
I don't know where you were sitting .
Look !
There 's Albert .
He must have got it from someone .
Last night Leigh .
Last night ?
Were you up at the garage ?
How come you were all up the garage last night ?
Refresh your memory Leigh .
Oh is it ?
Yeah .
When we came back from Diva
Was it ?
Back from Diva
Yeah .
It was all mucky Leigh .
It 's a good day now !
It 's a good easy day .
Over there ?
It 's not a very good day .
I wasn't sure .
I wasn't sure I 'd give it out .
I used to go in the dark .
Aye me too .
And I'm feeling , feeling really sober .
Yeah , I thought so like .
Ah ?
Aye .
Excuse me !
all the time .
Together !
As one nation !
And I 've said fuck you !
And I said fuck you too !
Ha !
Get the fuck out of my country !
Well what er , do you wanna do ?
It 's the hit man and .
How the hell do they go out every night there !
Stick that in my coat .
Hey lads .
Hey look !
His eyes .
Look at me .
Alright ?
Ray .
I 'll tell you I 'll go up and collect him .
Ray called for you .
I know .
is there .
Are you ?
Write it down there .
Record it .
Y M C A at .
Hers is not bad .
She 's
Aye .
Got it in an advert , you know available .
What do I have to do now ?
It 's quite a lot of walking .
We 've passed the .
Oh Jesus !
Turn around , see that dog .
too .
Oh is he anyway .
Load
Aye .
of bullshit !
Actually I 'll get in first , that 'll be rather good cos I don't have to pay .
Just missed the .
Where ?
Ah .
Oh I saw them .
Their T V 's on .
Oh then , I 'll see you tomorrow shall I ?
Yeah , alright .
Right .
Yeah , it 's terrible !
What time is it ?
Ten to four ?
Ten to four .
Getting in at ten to four .
It 's all your fault !
Could always take a dog for walk .
He attacked me .
Only joking !
It 's freezing !
Well come and take a bit of a bed .
What 's the matter ?
You 're taking the mick aren't you ?
That 's if you have a bed when you go back !
Ah true .
take over it .
There 's nothing Leigh , in there 's .
Thomas , Thomas , Thomas !
That 's all I get .
Hey Leigh !
I can't feel nothing .
Aye .
.
They are ?
We 're all waiting in here cos it 's freezing .
Say , everybody was saying to me we could break in there .
Say before what ?
Aye .
Dead on .
Here boy !
Here now !
Up !
Up !
Up !
Up !
Oh ! in shit !
Get out of there !
Go ahead !
Up !
Ha !
Why do they eat ?
What happened ?
Oh !
Up !
Up !
Good dog !
Good dog !
Go over in that ditch there .
There !
There !
There !
That .
That was fucking all over !
Enjoy yourself ?
Do they have to know
Hang on !
Hang on !
Wait !
There 's a car .
He 'll stay on the same side of the road as me , or as anybody .
.
Aye .
Ooh !
Until , no he will .
He won't run out onto us .
He 'll stay till you go .
Oh !
So if you went across he 'd stay here ?
And if I stayed th this side , and you went across he 'd stay with me ?
Well I wasn't sure .
Ah !
Ha !
If you started running across , call Bruce !
Bruce !
Bruce !
Aye , he 'd go .
Caught up in your wishing well your hopes and sadness
sadness
take your love and promises and make them last .
promises and make them last .
You make them last .
That 's why we haven't .
Yeah ?
Yeah ?
Up !
That 's .
Up !
Here !
Here !
Aargh !
Aargh !
You ought to see them up it 's sort of like a leg here , half a leg there a bit of chatting up .
No he 's he 's found somewhere to .
But I thought well he 's trying to get over a dog .
Yeah , you 're at the right end !
Ooh !
Ooh !
Ooh !
I can't get in .
There 's Albert he er , as though we down I expect up the other side .
You got ta jump down then up .
Then what ?
Yeah , so either the people got ta go , ah !
I just did !
Who ?
Fucking , all the others , er , didn't make out .
So what ?
Excuse me !
We thought you 's was with Neil .
Oh yeah , that was me .
Not at all .
He 'd never fucking do that !
Just don't .
Wo Bruce !
Come on egit !
Did you get the way you do that you clot !
I won't probably .
I see .
I see .
Perfect ?
Aha .
You forgot who you got .
What do you think of your bike now anyway ?
.
That 's a thermal you 've got ta have .
He don't want one , I put it back with the rest .
Did he ?
Good !
The bike .
You 'll see for yourself , I'm gonna get rid of it .
What ?
Any time I like .
It 's fucking !
I'm gonna be able to take away that one .
Why ?
Here at the hospital .
It blew !
Why what happened ?
Linda was holding and it blew .
Just fucking shattered in half !
Straight over arm , over here .
Yeah , but fuck it !
But I suppose , like blew it all .
Anything happen , like , no ?
No .
She had to go down to
Linda fucking !
Fu started smacking Pippa over Blue 's nose !
What the fuck !
Clean you out of his .
Oh that 's right !
Johnny boy !
Got or something ?
There 's another one .
That 's a .
That 's what I 'll do , I 'll get a one .
What ?
Swear I 'd do that .
Smell another dog 's shat .
Aye .
You bastard !
Wallop !
Ooh !
That can come and see me .
You a special case or something up , boy , you !
You think you are a .
You walk
Are you ?
in front .
Bruce !
You think you 're special ?
I 'd like to see .
And do they have to know
Oh Christ !
about my good
What ?
night
It 's .
Dare you to get permission for your .
can't be helped .
We could do .
What if he wants
Here he comes .
Sure did .
It 's a certain .
Going for a triple A .
I'm gonna tell her , that you woke me up Bruce .
So
Hello .
First one .
It 's really cold .
coming to my bachelor 's .
No dropping off at Kellydonald
Where 's your other leg ?
Up !
Up , son up !
Up !
Up !
Aye .
Well that dog jumps up .
Oh my lovely dog !
Interesting how your la , your back is Johnny .
I have to play for next week .
Well , I don't have to , like .
They want me to .
Cos they 're scared of getting beaten .
So he asked me to play , cos they 're playing against the Scotches .
Are they ?
Aye .
.
After me packing
Oh right !
football in after Ballymena .
Should go .
Who ?
You .
Why ?
Good crack !
Against the Scotches .
Where you playing ?
Dunno .
Probably up in .
Working ah la , across your river .
Well I 've got the key to the gym now .
So just wait to see just going to the committee .
Got a key for Stu .
It 's through the insurance , I know .
Is he coming up right away ?
He 's working up back on .
Ah , but that 's not the point , I wo , if they take him back I still should n't be allowed to train him .
don't let me .
Hello .
Good fun !
It 's all du , , it 's his fault .
That 'll be the worst thing for us to do .
tomorrow night .
Ah fuck !
I'm gonna fart .
Oh fuck it !
I see the be out .
They can sense these things !
Something like that .
You 're lucky you missed me , you 're big feller !
How 's your big alsatian ?
Alright .
Ah , let me tell you Bruce .
Up Bruce !
Up !
Up !
Up !
Go on !
Up here !
Sit !
Stay !
Yes Leigh !
Alright .
Willie won't get me now , will he now ?
Bruce !
Kill !
What did you say ?
Not too sure .
He wouldn't do anything !
Not too sure .
And Willie will probably just fucking
step in one of them .
Somebody 's car 's been done in last night anyway .
That 's a nice !
Did you see her ?
Yeah .
I don't think we should or whatever .
Why not ?
Did you ever buy , buy one ?
Bruce .
Back , back a bit boy .
Do you ever want a ?
You want one which .
Who 's is it ?
Where you going ?
Is he , is he not well ?
Shut up !
No , he 's not with Willie .
He wanted you .
He 'll never be .
What did you get up to tonight ?
Grandpa is the dining room .
Grandpa .
What ?
Grandpa is in the dining room .
Oh !
And he 's on the game now .
That 's pretty good !
I'm gonna meet you under the duck pond and whe , when he gets back .
Oh you dirty dog !
No , that 's dirty .
I 'd rather trying to spare thought for your grandpa Willie .
Any luck ?
She had , I heard .
S s so , where did she go ?
I guess we 're going fairly straight .
Head over there .
I think I'm just gonna go .
You just call him Leigh .
Bless him !
The wee dog .
Woof !
Woof !
Woof !
I'm a dog !
I think she 's a bit scared of the look at the way the dog 's heavy breathing .
What ?
Bruce !
You were .
Bruce !
Bruce !
Please !
And the police are investigating a heavy breather here today over the telephone .
Well that should make it up to something .
. They 'd never be able to chase it !
What 's the ?
Are you oh ho hey hey ha ah !
That 's enough !
Yes .
I said perhaps they get them on .
Just go out .
But I 'll taste it .
Let 's see if they can smell the money printed up .
It 's fucking horrible !
We 'd all fucking taste of !
Go on !
Go on !
Up !
Up !
Up !
Up !
Up !
Over here !
Come on !
Are you supposed to have shoes here ?
Bruce !
Come on !
Try and get my shoes , I knew they would .
Bruce !
Come on !
Bruce !
Come on !
Come on !
Come on !
Come on !
No , not me !
No !
Erm
Come on Bruce !
Erm
Come on Bruce !
Come on !
Come on !
Wrong way .
Bruce !
Oh shit !
Bruce !
Go get !
about that .
Where to ?
Get him a fucking !
Bruce !
Oh Bobby !
Oh you stupid fucker !
This way .
Fucking die !
Where you going now ?
Look at that there !
On the other
side there .
You go down and get .
Okay .
Usually I let him go on the .
Aye .
I know .
can't wait for the dogs .
You call that a part where he is .
There they are there .
Where ?
So it is .
They 're there under the bridge .
You see the red coat .
Bruce !
Jump in with the canoes !
It 's a fucking elephant !
Aye , Leigh 's ma is like an elephant .
Oh !
You fucking bastard !
Go on !
I'm alright .
Tell him .
Tell him .
Oh where are you going ?
Well yous fucking walking about here or I'm dead !
He 's away chasing
Oi !
that dog .
oh that dog 's away .
And do they have to know
Are they allowed to come in here ?
Dunno .
about my goodnight girl .
Waiting for something ?
We 're waiting for the rain to stop .
Oh I see .
It used to be
Yes .
back here anyway .
Caught up in your wishing well .
Is that your dog there ?
Yes .
Go after her !
Bruce !
Up !
Up !
Up !
Up Bruce !
Sorry ! is er .
Bruce !
He loves children .
Where you been boy ?
Jump up !
Jump up !
Jump up !
Jump up Bruce !
Jump boy !
Jump up Bruce !
He 's scared .
Well I don't fucking !
Fucking hell !
Will you show me ?
I did .
Got a new coat Julieanne , I mean it 's fucking Debby !
I know you wasn't was you Leigh ?
Ho !
What ?
Ho !
Ho !
Are you sure ?
Were you ?
Yes .
Seriously ?
Like that .
don't call me fucking daddy !
How do they
Can I get a smoke off you Julieanne ?
Get up here !
Up !
Ah la la la la la la la !
Ooh !
That 's awful !
I don't think leave .
Bruce !
Bruce there 's two against one there !
Come back and get this one .
Come on out .
How about there ?
Christ !
I saw her .
I saw her .
Shall I get Bruce out of there ?
Oh aye .
Shall I get him ?
You go and get the other one .
Bruce !
Wait for me !
No he didn't .
Bloody dog went in there !
Come on !
Bring it back boy !
That 's it , Bruce .
Push Albert in .
Jump on Albert .
People must be getting home .
What ?
People must be getting home .
What ?
Bruce .
Jump in that .
Who 's ?
Bruce !
Come on !
Here !
are you ?
You 'll have to sort them out there Mark .
I know .
I realize you 're not .
Somehow I think you are .
What ?
Bruce !
Up !
Sit !
Stay there !
Sit !
Sit down !
Sit down !
Sit !
Bruce , sit !
You said jump up by me and not sit , like .
Sit down !
Obedient dog !
I know .
Bruce !
Sit !
Jump !
I could teach him that one !
Jump !
Here !
Sit .
Just think , he has a .
Bruce , stay !
Bruce !
Swans .
Stay !
Good dog !
Eh ?
I thought .
Swans , Bruce !
Seize !
Get them !
Swim with all those ducks !
Bruce !
Bruce !
Bruce !
Leave !
Come here Bruce !
Come here !
Actually they will be stuck in the mud .
Go !
Go !
Bruce !
Up !
Up !
Up !
You dog !
You dog !
Ha !
Ha !
Ha !
Ha !
Lay down !
Silly sod !
Lay down !
No !
Stay there !
Oh look !
See who I see .
That is
The peg .
that 's what do you call her ?
De Deborah or
Is her name Deborah or not ?
What do you call her ?
Flirt ?
Aye , I think it 's .
No .
It 's Debby ?
Aye .
Would you or wouldn't you ?
wouldn't .
wouldn't .
What do you want ?
What do you want ?
You 're sti You 're stinking Bruce !
You are stinking !
Dirty him !
Dirty him !
Plenty of .
don't dirty me , Bruce !
Sit Bruce !
Sit !
Sit !
Sit here .
Brilliant !
Bruce !
Si , ah you sod , ah !
Are you getting wet ?
Ha !
Bruce !
Bruce !
Bruce !
Hup !
Hup !
Hup !
Hup !
!
Ow !
Back !
Ah la la la la la la !
Kill !
Maim !
Oh you 're daddy 's is all stained at the back and at the arm .
Right then .
Right elephant .
Is that just her natural mother then ?
Shut up !
Ha !
I think it 's gonna be good !
Hoping , I'm hoping .
I'm hoping .
What do you want ?
Your stinking Bruce !
Sit down !
Aye , er
have him back !
Eh ?
You soon be fucking will be !
Oh that 's swollen .
It 's just one bigger than the other .
Her bad ankle 's swollen .
Bruce !
Bruce !
Bruce !
Bruce !
Bruce !
Bruce !
No Bruce !
don't tell the dog , no !
No !
Hey !
Yeah .
Hey Bruce !
No , that 's not nice .
Bruce did that to another dog .
He 's laughing !
I 'll tell how I stopped him .
Bruce !
Up !
Up !
Up !
Come up here , Bruce .
Bruce , here !
Come up over here .
Come up here !
No , wait here Bruce , don't go up there .
Do you think he 'll go over .
I 'll be laughing the other side .
I shall be watching him .
Great !
When your dog barked , the other dog will bark again .
No !
Not this dog .
It 's not his .
Ah ?
Ooh , caught up in your wishing well .
Ooh ooh !
Yeah , you 've come out with the right words haven't you ?
Oh !
Oh !
Oh !
, you 'll have a laugh .
No !
Christ !
He ai n't gonna fuck hit him !
Take your love and promises .
Mm !
Smell nice now !
Well Joanna she won't .
like my car or something .
Bruce !
Bruce !
Here !
You got it on there ?
Aye .
Fuck me !
What the hell 's wrong with twenty minutes !

At the bottom of the street
Which house ?
Mine and hers taxi , Bluebird taxis .
to the bottom of us
Hiya , hiya
Shh
Hello Colin one of the musketeers here Candice , aha , a few minutes , right , cheers Colin , tarrah .
Why we watching that tape over there ?
Oh it 's where ?
Private taxis isn't it ?
One of the musketeers .
You 'll get it
By the way I 've got me
What have you been saying about me Jimmy ?
Jimmy by the way
I haven't said nothing .
she 's switched tapes
say by the way Jim you could have fixed that boiler take everyone off the pipes
that 's it , just send our love , oh no
no , put the stuff back in the box
That 's off yours
I 've put the stuff back in the box
me console , and me old radio
can't throw anything out on a stormy night
Is that not my bulb ?
ma
Mum
er everything got there , it 's got ta be sent in there , it 's got ta be sent back .
Aha
Where 's the wiring harness ?
The old one ?
Is it in the
Where 's the box ?
when Saturday ?
Tomorrow night .
Oh tomorrow , what time ?
Yeah tomorrow six till seven cos I could n't wait .
Oh I'm on till seven , will you be awake when you get to the bus stop then ?
Half one .
Eh ?
He might take us on er eh , he might take us up Newcastle
.
Hey , fancy dad watching .
Get lost .
.
No .
How are you mam ?
Eh ?
Oh stop it Sharon .
No I think we 've got a good .
It gets not too much gets not too much .
Well maybe as me dad was saying , conservatives erm sh should be and everything but
They didn't they didn't .
they didn't they you know
They didn't .
they got to see that .
Oh .
Dad dad was years ago
Aha aha .
when it was foreseen that what was gonna happen .
There was even a sketch in the papers about
Hiya .
all the land would be you know , heartland and things like that .
Labour always get in Shields though anyways don't they .
Mm .
It 's very always has .
I'm confusing 'em I don't know who I'm I don't think I'm gonna vote at all .
As they say , when in doubt do nowt .
You should vote .
Every One person 's saying Labour and the other one 's saying Tory .
You make your own mind up pet nobody does it for you .
Everybody 's got their opinions love we 've got
.
You 've got to you 've got to go your what you think
You vote for who you want .
Let 's face it .
It doesn't matter who you vote for , you could be wrong .
Yes .
Aye .
But it doesn't matter which government gets in , they 're gonna do something wrong .
They 're all like that .
It doesn't matter which government gets in , they 're all gonna make mistakes .
.
Mm .
The next the politicians .
Well I suppose they 've they 've got to be you know .
They 're stopping trade .
Wheyey .
I 'll tell you what , there 's been no good in the other party 's
That 's that 's all they 've done .
they haven't said what exactly what they 're gonna do .
big parties .
That 's all they 're thinking on , all just slagging each other off really aren't they .
Yes .
They always do and they always will do .
.
Kinnock 's photograph in front of the Sun this morning
Aha .
Big headlines saying if Labour get in today will the last person out of Britain please put the lights out .
Something like that .
.
If Labour get in what ?
Kinnock on the front of the paper this morning , the Sun , his head was inside the light bulb .
It said , if Labour get in to the government today , will the last person who leaves Britain please put the light out .
.
Er what you having , cheese ?
Aha .
Well I 've got me chocolate .
.
they 're good you know , are you not getting any ?
John you know those novelties , M and Ms ?
Any of them in the warehouse or anywhere ?
I sent them back mother .
You sent them back .
.
Ah there we are .
.
Aha .
.
Mind I think er M and Ms is rubbishy. quarter past .
I had them things you know , Kinder Eggs .
Have you had them new bars they 've made ?
Oh they 're lovely .
coming in .
.
Poor little .
Did that job I give you this morning .
Aye .
What a bloody shame , if I had known I would have sent somebody else .
.
Well he took the tomato empty tomato boxes out for us .
Poor little .
.
.
still be doing it at Christchurch 's till
What time will they be in ?
.
When will they know who 's won .
What time will they know who 's won .
Oh about
Early morning at least .
Early morning .
They 'll be all night counting to get the results in from all the .
It 's exciting really , to watch isn't it Pat ?
I bought an extra packet of tabs watch the
You do .
.
I'm always saying , right I'm going to bed now and you say you know well we 'll wait till the next one then , we 'll wait you know and it 's it 's it is really .
I'm worse than .
But if it was gonna be a hung parliament you won't even know this time tomorrow .
No if it 's gonna be hung .
What 's that mean .
It 's not decisive .
So would you have to vote again like ?
There would be another election .
Depends .
Depends ?
Yeah .
That 's how Harold Wilson got in wasn't it .
There probably would be another election unless
Mm .
erm the Labour party decided to go for proportional representation .
If they did that , the Liberal Democrats would probably go along with .
Aye .
I think one of the things is that Mrs Thatcher 's not there any more..
Well if Labour don't get in don't get in this time , the only person they can blame is their leader .
He has n't come out very well
.
.
Talk a bit louder please .
Pardon ?
Talk a bit louder .
.
.
Ooh me nose is itchy .
They 'll use that one in the Oxford dictionary .
.
Announcement , Mr to the back door please , Mr thank you .
.
.
Mr sexy man Tom Cruise
Staff announcement , Mr , contact the wines and spirits please , Mr .
Took us all me time to get out of bed at nine o'clock .
.Gary that 'll be for you .
Hello .
No I'm just coming down , aye .
Thanks a lot .
Who was it for ?
Eh ?
Who was it for , you ?
You .
Eh ?
Me ?
.
.
Well talk then .
You all keep talking about us bringing it in and you 're not even talking .
About what ?
I dunno .
You keep saying bring it in , bring it in , and I 've brought it in , you 're not talking now .
talk about .
my house last night..
Were they playing last night like ?
Yeah..
You what ?
They use that in the Oxford dictionary you know .
What a shite .
Mhm .
Me arm 's killing us .
Your arm ?
It 's not like sore , it 's when I move it it 's
Mm .
like pulling at the top .
.
Ah .
?
Eh ?
?
Yeah..
Yes..
.
Margaret ?
One eighty three .
How much are they anywhere else ?
One eighty two .
One eighty two .
They put them up to one eight six and then they brought them
Down .
down .
It 's outside the University .
There 's just a survey I 've just got to tape general conversation .
Me and me mam were singing it the other night .
I think we 're auditioning for summat when they listen to this .
Should we ask them .
Aye .
.
If it 's like this on Saturday I 'll be at the town .
Aye .
.
Mhm .
Oh I like going to town .
really busy the shop .
Well it seemed it the bairn 's been in .
Dad 's been busy .
.
Aye so I hear .
In here ?
Aha .
I see I thought it was in North Shields .
He was but he 's I don't know whether he 's back just for today or what ?
I thought it was only ten past twelve .
ten past twelve on my watch .
and away .
Tell me about it .
.
Is Pauline off all week ?
She was in last night .
Was she ?
.
she got Monday and Tuesday off .
I didn't see her mind .
Did you not ?
She was five till eight .
although I never see her on Wednesday night .
definitely .
When she was on holiday last week , she come in the shop on er the Thursday or the Friday , she could n't speak then .
.
Well it must have went away
Aha .
must have got alright and then it 's come back .
..
Mm ?
I say they 've finished .
And then they puts put gates and big lights up
No and they 're doing all sorts..
..
What time you finish .
Are yous getting
Half four .
.
.
Not doors .
What you gonna do ?
Windows .
Windows ?
Your not .
Eileen said get those .
Aye but it won't be erm plastic doors .
It 's not gonna be the plastic doors .
.
windows .
If the surrounds of the doors are rotten they 're gonna
Aye .
see to all of that .
Metro line .
? the Metro .
The whole estate needs designed .
it 's not the same estate is it ?
Well I I don't know I haven't lived there as long as you .
I hated it when I first moved on it .
People said it used to be lovely .
Could n't say nowt nice in it .
Oh no .
No .
Just had it
I I 've been gonna move and move since I went on to it but it was so handy for
J that 's it
Erm I thought oh well I 'll I 'll stick it out but
Erm It 's not your cup of tea like it 's just
No .
.
I don't know who designed it but
You cannae beat houses that 's got front gardens and back gardens back to back .
You can't .
We 'd a lovely garden .
I mean our back door should really
Ridiculous .
... ...
Oh well I changed my window you know .
Did you
Oh aye .
Could n't put up We put a big picture window in , could n't stand them .
Oh it 's nice that .
I think going on to sleep .
I know , he 's got me tired .
last night ...
So could I .
It was
I was eight o'clock last night you know .
.
milkman that comes round our place , not the Co-op one , the other one .
There 's two of them on .
Oh aye aye .
Dear me they 're a disgrace .
Five o'clock every morning .
Five. ?
Oh it 'll be after the meal 's over tonight when we
Aye aye .
won't be till ten , always are .
Ah .
Election night .
.
They say Dan 's been round .
He has
.
Aye
voting for like .
Bit late in the day if you don't know now .
I thought I 'd just close me eyes and put a cross .
Hope for the best .
.
That 's a daft was of voting .
.
I don't know I think they 're been getting the majority they generally get .
The last one they didn't
The last one I don't think they did .
They didn't .
Now the last one they didn't they didn't get in was a majority .
Yes .
This time I don't know what
Aye I think I'm just gonna put .
I think it 's anybody 's guess..
Well what 's Conservative 's done for you .
What 's Labour done for you ?
Nothing .
Eh ?
.
Oh so you all
No .
.
Well nobody 's .
.
my eyes is heavy with watching you .
Aye watching you .
Oh .
.
No they put me off to sleep .
Eh ?
.
.
I 've still got it .
. No I don't wear it much now .
I never wear it .
I don't like it .
Oh .
I don't like it .
Just gone off it eh ?
tomorrow morning .
like
.
ah .
just wants general conversation .
Who wants this .
It 's Oxford University , for a dictionary or something .
.
So they can look back at nineteen ninety two and see what language we uses .
will they pay for it .
Twenty five pound voucher .
What ?
Will I get paid for it ?
No .
You 'd be talking anyways wouldn't you so I'm just taping you talking .
.
You never talk about anything interesting anyway so I'm not paying you for it .
No is it .
No .
.
That 's alright .
.
.
Your voice is on it .
.
His voice is on it ?
It is now .
that 's his speech .
.
Aye .
.
It was lying here when we come over earlier on .
lying about .
.
.
.
.
Are you alright ?
Fine .
How you doing ?
Terrible .
Why ?
.
What you after ?
Nothing .
.
She 's taping you man .
Turn it off .
No I 've nearly finished a side of a tape .
You 've had that on me all day ?
No no not all day , just general conversation .
I knew you had to have something .
It 's nearly finished , I wanna finish this side .
Can I swear can I ?
Yeah .
I 've had it in the .
You had it where ?
The bottom of a our bottom pub .
That is great .
Eh ?
.
Nice..
Is he ?
Aha .
Ah .
for the money one night
Oh that 'll be nice
They 've got a lovely surprise at the wedding came to a a hotel you know
Staff announcement Mrs contact Mr please , Mrs .
Announcement , Mr contact the Wines Mr , thank you .
.
Why should I .
Eh ?
yeah , come on let 's hear it .
.
Rowntree 's Jelly
I mean domestics .
. They had to go and pick bags of stuff up .
I think she 's I think she I said Are you gonna vote Conservative like , just cos you 've got a canny job .
I says , and your house .
and she looked at me she , what do you mean , I says , you know .
I says , you vote what you want I says , I says erm , you 're sitting pretty just now .
She were like I thought , aye I wonder how you 'd get by if you didn't have a job .
I mean it 's not as if mortgages and that that erm bed and breakfast and different things .
all had good jobs .
Aye .
Especially if you 're used to having the money and all like .
They are .
just been finished off the rigs .
Aye there 's a lot gonna be finished off the rigs .
Oh well all that got paid off because of erm giving the yankees the contract or something .
The the contract .
He 's got his name down like so he might be lucky and get a phone call cos he
Well what happens if they don't and Thirty pound social security .
Me Aunty Linda 's not working either , like she didn't need the money but I mean he was on the dole for years me Uncle Ron .
Mm .
He was like , he was on the dole for years man , he was lucky to get that but I mean he used to .
Aye .
So it was his last trip and he 's waiting to hear something now so
Well that 's one t one thing about us , never ever made good wages .
I mean he worked hard , he worked he worked six nights a week .
He used to work twelve hour twelve , thirteen hour shift he worked .
And his wages were n't all that good and he worked kids .
And he never got good wages .
.
Just didn't get good money .
Seems to me I was Jobs are hard , the were n't like secure jobs .
You got a few months and then you were paid off you were back on the dole .
I remember .
I mean many a time we had mm .
oh fine you know , .
As I was saying to me mam like , all these John Major and that , they 're all going on about what they 're gonna do .
But they 've all got big houses and loads of money .
They don't know what it 's like er being on the dole .
I know they don't have to go and say , ee can I afford that this week or can I
Aye .
afford that .
It 's alright for them to say we 're gonna do this and
do that , but they get everything easy don't they .
I mean they all say they understand what it 's like being on the dole and that , but they don't .
Of course they don't .
Nobody knows .
Nobody knows .
If anybody tells you ..
No .
I mean did you see that them lads that were round that discussion .
And this lad got up and he says , I get thirty one pound social security .
He says I have to pay me rent , he says me rent 's three pound right , he says I have to pay me poll tax , I have to pay me electric , me gas .
He says , feed meself all out of that thirty two poun He says , could yous manage on that ?
And he had a place of his own , a flat , he was on his own .
How how would how would what would you have out of thirty two pound .
I 'd love to see them manage on it for a year
I mean you could n't .
They could n't could they .
And then that one conservative who did go and do it , he swapped places with people who were on the dole , and he went and lived up in Newcastle .
Never heard of him after that did you I mean ?
Well they swapped places didn't they .
Aye you never heard of him after that .
So who do you think 'll get in ?
Well I think it 's hard to say .
Well I think Labour 'll get in like .
Do you ?
Well I .
Cos somebody was saying something about the la the last time they got in , it all went
It 's er very very poor .
You see there 's been that there 's been that many flung out of jobs Sharon , there 's been that many people put out of jobs , there 's been that many people bought their houses and been put out on the streets they 've got no homes you know .
It 's about time like s somebody else had a go at it because
Aye .
Aha .
Labour or Conservative
That 's why me mum and dad voted Liberal Democrat this time , I mean they never vote for them .
There 'll be a lot like that .
There 'll be a lot .
And me mam says , oh just for a change to give someone else a chance .
you swing the whole it could just swing .
Paddy Ashdown .
I like him , I was watching him on the telly the other day , I think he seemed nice .
There 's not many people like Neil Kinnock like .
Well I think John Major 's nice .
Did you see Spitting Image ?
Aye Ee
Ee it was great .
Why was he grey ?
Me and me mam could n't understand it
Yes You c he 's grey because it 's all to do you turn grey .
That 's what he was grey for .
Oh .
Because he 's grey because he knows he 's losing , he 's gonna lose his job .
Well they have published that he 's gonna lose
Aye .
his job , they might n't .
Ah .
.
Might come up trumps. on the night but nobody do on .
It 's the politics didn't work got ta mention politics , it 's just to get away from politics .
Who was this ?
put a do on tonight .
We were laughing at the Sun this morning , had a picture of Neil Kinnock 's head in the light bulb and it said , could the last person out of Britain please turn the light off after them .
You see and another thing what they 're saying is thirty year ago when Labour was in , there were strikes and everything
Aye was saying that .
I mean grave grave diggers went on strike , hospitals went on strike , could n't bury your dead .
Stuff wasted in the streets , rubbish and all that and there was rats and everything .
Er you know but you see , conservative won the election and because what they did was , if you went on strike they they paid you off , you got sacked and you just didn't get any money .
And so people had no other option but to go out to work .
Even if you had any grievance against your employee , it didn't stand .
Mm .
And and employers put an end to people .
They took an end because they took them in a scheme where the kids actually got jobs what you 've done .
Now then that after about six weeks or eight weeks , if you 've got a kid you can have them .
Oh aye I don't believe in the Y T Ss and that like .
job .
No .
So that 's doing away with a person 's er wage isn't it .
I think there 's a few times I was gonna pack in cos I used to do the same amount of work as everyone else and I got paid
That 's right and you were only getting aha
not even half what they were getting
And the government pays them that .
So they really were getting you for nothing .
Oh aye .
So they 've made cheap labour .
They 've made er and you know what they did , they 've privatized all the jobs .
They school cleaners and hospital cleaners
Then they brought this poll tax didn't they ?
Aha .
The poll tax has done them through .
I was gonna say , if they lose it 's I think a lot of it 'll be through the poll tax .
Aha .
Poll tax and people getting flung out of houses .
That 's not him is it ?
I think she 's got a new husband now .
Not him .
That 's that little fella .
Aye I think he 's her new husband .
I thought that was the mate who was going out with the blonde you know .
Wh is that not .
I 've got I'm on to tape four .
And she 's coming tomorrow morning .
.
twenty .
.
.
Me tapes tomorrow morning .
work
Aye but she says you only you can just do as many as you want she says , you 'll not use the twenty .
Aha .
She said you probably won't even get th through the first ten .
And then will she And then will she erm
Eh ?
She says the other ones they 're all full of politics .
The ones I 've taped today .
Aye but you wouldn't be able to would you ?
Probably wouldn't like it like mm .
Mm .
So she 's coming in the morning for it ?
Yeah .
And I get me twenty five pound Marks 's voucher .
Oh yeah .
Not bad that .
It 's not no .
.
.
.
.
.
.
What for ?
.
That 's .
It 's gonna be .
.
Ah .
. You know what I don't know how many times I 've stripped that down .
Aye I know .
..
I know I 've seen .
I .
He doesn't take any notice now..
And look at his watch , his watch is in a right state .
do that .
how did you know .
and done it .
.
You never
.
When I phoned our Rachel 's I was hollering , I always do that .
It 's just cos the numbers .
Vivienne Vivienne does it .
Does she .
and she 'll say , Mam e it 's me .
Cos our Rachel 's number starts with .
Is that at ten thirty .
And y just cos I'm used like used to phoning I just .
.
.
get the telly page .
...
Nine o'clock .
.
Oh
.
already , God almighty..
.
.
.
.
microphone
.
What 's your microphone ?
One of them little clippy ones .
What do you use that for ?
I got a woman give us it , she 's doing a survey for erm Oxford University .
She asked us if I would tape conversations .
She 's give us twenty tapes and I'm only tape five and she 's coming for 'em tomorrow .
left it running all the time .
I took it to the pub the other night , but you can't hear nowt except pool balls crashing .
And the jukebox on .
Oh .
And me and me mam we singing in it the other night , just to use up the tape .
telly on it 'll pick the telly up .
Aye it does .
I got some good ones of when Col was talking the other night didn't I ?
I was Yeah I was listening to all his howling .
What was he saying
it was just the was talking not what he was saying .
It was the way he asked get a cloth , that 's what he was saying , I was howling .
Aye aye aye .
.
he 's awful isn't he
Aye .
I thought it wouldn't last .
Has he seen .
She 's she 's never been away .
She 's been .
Mm .
She mentioned tonight she 's been at work every day mind you .
So has he still not been down ?
She won't go back down ...
Oh I didn't know that was meant to be him .
.
Did I tell you .
No..
Mhm .
Aye .
.
.
Oh yeah there 's all .
Oh my god .
Pack them in now .
Right , see you later .
Tara Alan .
..
Where 's he ?
that er B and Q had erm gardening centre .
Forty nine pound .
Mm .
's got them in they 're ninety nine pound .
Erm She was saying er cos she went .
And er . ?
Eh ?
Do they do them for free ?
.
They 've been there before .
round here didn't we .
Aye .
How old is John now ?
.
What 's a hung parliament again ?
.
What 's a hung parliament .
It means that got a majority .
.
Oh have they got to have so many past each other ?
got and twenty six .
Why ?
Three hundred and twenty six .
If they get three hundred and twenty six , they 've won .
What do you know what he 's talking about ?
three hundred and twenty six gives them an overall majority
Well what happens
It 's not gonna be a a hung parliament .
What happens if if Labour had got one more vote than Conservative .
No it 's got What are you saying ?
What a hung parliament is ?
We 're asking him what a
What 's a hung parliament ?
Three hundred and twenty six .
No I'm saying the majority .
don't shout I'm only here .
No if if if if a party 's got a three hundred and twenty six
A hung parlian A hung parliament To get into parliament in the house of commons you 've got to have a thirty percent majority .
What 's that mean ?
To be a full parliament .
But I still don't know what that means .
Three hundred and twenty six votes .
You 've got to have a thirty percent I'm not on about seats .
You 've got to have a thirty percent majority .
Well what 's that mean ?
Thirty percent more than the other party ?
If Labour won the morrow and they only had twenty five percent majority it would be a hung parliament .
But if they had twenty five percent it would gentlemen of the Conservative party to say , Listen , you 've got twenty five percent , go on , run the country .
And it would be .
There 'll not be a hung not be hung parliament .
What do you mean twenty five percent majority .
You 've got to have a thirty percent majority .
Three hundred and twenty six
Oh .
They 've got to have three hundred and twenty six seats .
doesn't want to talk to us .
Cos he 's talking stupid .
They 've got to have three hundred and twenty six seats .
. They 've got to have three hundred and twenty six seats to get in .
It 's thirty percent majority I 've just told you .
does the Queen vote ?
No the Queen 's speech .
But who did she ask for ?
ask for anybody .
But who would she like for
Labour
The only people who 'll get the Conservative parties back in is the snobby people who work at Oxford and that .
They get right on my wick .
And I can see your tape moving so that 's why I said it .
Well I'm finishing me tape she 's coming for it in the morning .
That 's why I said it cos I could see a tape moving .
voting Conservative like .
just been on where they 've had unemployment and loss of jobs and the Tory 's held it .
Where ?
Basildon .
Well you 're talking about South dad .
You 're talking about South .
It was a Conservative
There you are dad .
After four results
You 're talking about South .
Conservatives three , Labour one .
Liberal Democrats non .
That 's how many places they 've got
Aye but they 're they 're starting off on the South that 's what you 've got to think .
No there 's a there was a Tory Tory held one wh which was very very close in the last election , Tory held it .
What did I say now , Tories 'll be seventeen short .
Labour 'll be nineteen short .
At the end of the selections .
Well that 's what I predicted .
There 's loads of people I know sitting up to watch this .
Margaret at work and she 's an old woman and she says it 's dead exciting .
How old is she ?
.
Erm .
No she 's about sixty I think .
But but but Basildon John , loads of unemployment dad .
A hundred and seven .
You said Oxford .
Conservative
See Vivian voted Conservative
That 's what it is , it 's Conservative all down South .
The whole of Scotland The whole of the North East of England 'll be Labour won't it .
Darren 's mam was saying Vivian 's only voted Conservative cos she 's sitting nice , she said they 've both got nice jobs and a nice big house and that .
Oh .
I suppose they would work out nice if you are doing good really wouldn't it ?
get loads down .
So what time will they have the results in ?
Oh .
By tomorrow morning ?
When I get up , six o'clock .
Will it ?
Oh aye usually .
So if I put the teletext on
even if they haven't
telly on , and it 'll tell you .
Someone says about one or two o'clock .
watch this till about I normally watch this till about two .
All night .
Big Nicky is watching it all night .
Big Nicky ?
Aye .
Does he .
I usually watch it about two or three o'clock in the morning .
Is he interested in politics and that like ?
stupid he does things like that .
He 'll have a bet on it or something .
.
He will he 'll have a bet on at the bookies .
.
Is he betting for the bookies ?
And he 'll be panicking .
He 'll be sitting panicking .
Why ?
Cos he will .
Oh I know why John Major was grey .
.
Cos he was losing .
That 's what it was meant to mean .
Oh was it ?
Aye .
.
Last night .
Darren 's mam and dad were watching it , they were laughing .
.
Jeff 's been alright has n't he ?
Oh
For the first time in about three weeks .
Sa s He 's been to the psychiatrist you know..
Oh that 's
They 're going .
Two of them , sitting talking to him .
They go and off it with the doctor .
.
He 's o What was he on he was drinking , what a bottle and a half of vodka and about fifteen pints of cider a day .
.
He went to the doctor 's he says , listen if you drink another drink you 'll be dead in six month .
Mhm .
Full stop , there 's forty milligrams of valium .
Mhm .
You 've got ta take that a day .
They reckon the doctor should 've says to him He should n't have said that , full stop , you should never say that to an alcoholic .
They reckon he should 've said cut it down to about two or three , four pints a day , there 's fifteen milligrams of valium .
Fifteen so you 're talking treble .
He was taking treble the amount of valium and drinking and all .
What did he do John ?
Oh he was great tonight he was back to his normal self tonight .
Aye I saw him down the pub .
He 's had about three pints but that 's what they 've told him to take .
The psychiatrist has told him to take three pints of lager .
.
Jeff went to the psychiatrist and they start babbling on saying about the forty milligrams of valium he 's taking .
They says the doctor 's given you that to take you off the alcohol .
They says , right , he says , I 've got a I 've got a problem with alcohol and he 's given us the valium to get us off the alcohol .
He says , right six months time I'm totally off the alcohol , he says , what 's gonna get us off the valium ?
Cos that that does you up
Ah .
that stuff .
How many people get addicted to that ?
Oh aye .
He says , right I'm gonna go off the alcohol , I 'll be totally teetotal but I 'll be taking valium , he says it 's just like a vicious circle , what am I gonna do after the valium .
What you gonna give us to take us off that ?
And they told him they told him he should n't even be on that .
So what have they given him ?
The doctor didn't even say six month .
He sh he did but he didn't .
His mam 's been on the phone .
Where to ?
The doctor .
The doctor 's ?
Aye the doctor .
And the doctor hadn't said six months ?
He did .
He did he said that which he should n't have done .
He says if you have another drink if you keep on drinking , you 'll be dead in six month .
Oh .
And is he saying he didn't say that ?
That was to scare him .
He says if he doesn't stop drinking he 'll be dead in five year .
So I said that so he would stop thinking .
Aha .
But you don't do that .
No with a proper alcoholic .
He 's sound as a pound isn't he like , he 's only had a couple of pints .
first time you 've been able to talk to him properly .
So is he still on valium ?
Aye but he 's on next to nowt compared to what he was .
What 's he drinking , lager ?
Owt .
doesn't make any difference just so long as it 's equivalent to two pints of lager .
has he admitted he 's an alcoholic John ?
Aye .
Is he .
I think it 's between two and four pints of lager he 's allowed to have a night as long as he doesn't touch spirits .
Aye .
But me and Jimmy was standing say like me and Jimmy have what seven or eight pints , a night .
.
When I go out , aye , seven or eight pints .
Oh .
Jeff can only have three or four .
So we says to him , why didn't he get a half of lager a h a bottle of Kaliber which is a half of lager non-alcohol , and put it in a pint glass .
Aha .
So he can have like four pints but it 'll be exactly the same as us having eight .
Aye .
Know what I mean .
.
.
what you got that on for .
Cos I 've got to finish it for the morning .
.
Me last tape .
So does he have Kaliber ?
I'm not telling .
I don't like the talking , it 's like the war .
Eh ?
I don't like the talking it 's like it when the
Be talking to and Billy .
.
Talking to and Billy .
I haven't seen them for years .
From school like .
No shields .
I 've never heard of them .
.
.
Do you know him ?
glasses ?
No .
That 's the boxer trainer
who you 're on about .
From Street all the
second hand shops .
Great big double glazed glass .
.
That 's not him who I'm on about .
he 's one of the top notches of Shields .
So 's him mate , .
Have you heard of ?
Who ?
.
Have you heard of him dad ? dad ?
What ?
Have you heard of ?
.
Who ?
.
Where from ?
at the end of the .
Aye he used to be the
His brother used to be his brother and all .
He 's o he 's one of the top notches of Shields him like .
You wouldn't believe it but he is .
He 's a small dark lad .
.
Nothing to look at honest to god .
man .
.
His brother 's with Oscar 's er wife .
His brother 's You know his brother was living up at erm
Those flats .
Aye
er Oscar .
.
Oh .
that 's 's brother .
's brother .
Oh I know
He is the hard I would put me money on this coffee table now to say he 's the hardest man in Shields .
.
.
He is .
.
A very hard bloke .
Aye .
Ah but I'm saying he is the hard one of the hardest blokes in Shields .
I 've been talking to , , and Billy .
No Billy , no not the one you 're thinking of .
Oh aye .
He 's a waster him , Billy .
.
Put your money on he 's one of the top in fact I would say he 's the hardest bloke in Shields him .
I 've never heard of him .
And he looks nothing .
His second name 's and he 's wife 's name .
And that 's the truth .
H No but that 's his nickname , that 's what people call him , .
But his second name 's and his wife 's second name used to be .
And when they got married it was and in the paper and that 's the truth that .
And that 's the truth .
Mr and Mrs .
.
No that 's the truth , not a word of a lie .
,
.
.
aye .
I know used to work in the curry shop .
did he used to .
Is he hard like ?
Is he hard dad ? ?
.
Is he ?
Oh aye .
you wouldn't think so looking at him .
Small ?
No he 's not small but he just doesn't look the type that would fight .
is small as owt .
No Aye and he 's like a
Baldy little dark bloke and you would look at him
half caste .
You look at him and you think
's a half caste
look at .
.
Take anyone .
.
That 's the truth .
..
Well you should n't have it on .
I don't know how anyone could sit and listen to tapes .
You what ?
Aye .
She 's picking them up tomorrow morning isn't she .
You should 've been a lot through more than five .
I 've had it on all the time haven't I mam ?
you haven't .
John there 's two sides .
Forty five minutes each .
She was on about general conversation , you should have it on the whole time .
Well you all keep telling me to turn it off .
But you haven't though .
don't say it 's through me .
Cos you haven't turned it off .
That 's a great big spot on the side of your face and I'm happy .
I'm glad .
Why ?
Cos I'm glad you 've got a big spot on the side of your face .
Where man ?
There , right there .
There ?
No down .
There .
It 's massive .
You cannae pick it cos it 's inside .
So .
What you do that for ?
Dot to dot .
Mam he 's horrible .
What you glad for ?
I'm glad you 've got a spot .
Why ?
Cos .
I 've got loads of spots .
I know but that one 's massive .
So .
.
.
sleep .
Spots don't bother me .
It 's looks like an Indian woman asleep on a pillow .
spots lying next to us .
Spots don't bother me .
They do like
They don't .
They really bother you .
So do your blotches .
Me blotches don't bother me .
They do .
You 're lying .
.
They do cos you 're always looking and saying
Ee there 's a spot .
I don't get many spots .
But you have you 've got a great massive one on the side of your
Well shut up man .
You 've got them on your chin .
I'm not cared I'm not a lass , I don't have to make-up on them .
At least I can cover mine .
I don't have to cover mine .
You 've got to cover yours to look alright .
So .
I wouldn't bother , you 'll never cover that .
Polyfilla and concrete wouldn't cover that spot .
Darren 's got his driving lesson tomorrow night .
Aye .
six till seven .
.
.

Alright .
Oh it 's still going .
Oh God !
No I'm do , making a right mess here .
Yep .
That 's good .
I 've seen it down over there .
That 's , that 's alright though .
See I need a new map .
I got ta come out .
The amount of time I 've
Whoops !
Can I ask a selfish question ?
Yeah .
What 's that County Down on ?
That 's just here .
And ?
I 've got one left .
Use that one .
Have you got a to go with it ?
You want to go er so far there .
I 've got a dart , yeah I 've got a name .
Is it ?
To be honest with ya , I haven't got a clue .
I don't know where the is .
Stanwell , are they are a part ?
Stanwell , ask her there ?
No , yeah .
That ought to go there .
Like that one ?
Very quiet today .
Ooh nice !
Manchester , I think .
Ye , well it 's good .
Well I thought Manchester is over
No , Manchester 's over there .
This one is for me .
Oh nearly everybody
Is it ?
likes this one .
Cos that 's what , it 's up the
I dunno whether
country int it ?
Towards there .
I 'll tell you where the next one is .
It 's probably along there .
Part , near to that .
Has anybody got any Blu-Tack ?
Yeah I got this .
I mean not Blu-Tack , Tippex .
Oh nothing .
No .
We never get any .
Right .
So that 's only
Terry .
Yeah ?
Yeah , here 's one I prepared earlier .
It 's on a bit .
I'm all finished now , I can't do any more .
What number 's that ?
Erm , as you say
How we doing folks ?
the er it 's , you know
Terrible !
it 's so .
Hopefully on the
Yeah fine .
.
Terrible !
One , is the one up , did you say it was Wales ?
Everybody stop when you get to these two .
I think so .
Where have I put it all ?
I'm using your clip .
Aye .
There 's no panic on .
No it 's not , no .
I 'll never get it done quickly .
Not through me I'm not .
That 's what they said it is .
Everyone just says look at he points .
If we were doing that .
Yes .
Are we ready ?
Have we tried our best ?
I 've got ta get something though .
Where d'ya put er
Oh I 've got one , not put on .
Ooh !
Why haven't I got
There 's a few I haven't put on .
I don't know .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Go on , I didn't
Stop .
have anything .
Stop then .
Have you put your label
at the top of the page ?
Oh no I didn't .
No .
Mm mm .
Stop .
Too late , done the test .
Mm .
Oh .
Pass your paper one , pu , no , the other way to your right .
Pass them to your right
And then to the left .
again .
Oh !
It 's there then isn't it ?
And then to the left .
Okay .
Oh .
And I want you to mark your
colleagues ' paper okay ?
This is gonna be fun for someone .
You don't even know what you 've put or something .
Just with a tick and a cross .
Can you
Why ?
put the corrections in a
Eh ?
perhaps a a
Bloody hell !
a bracket .
Well I ai n't telling you .
Okay ?
I have no problem talking about you .
Well
Can you see those at the back ?
Yeah , I think you 'll have to go round a bit .
Nope .
Let me take you through them .
Ooh !
Aberdeen .
Yep .
Mhm .
Yeah .
I'm going to go clockwise , yes ?
Mhm .
Sterling depot .
Number three , clockwise , Glasgow .
Yeah .
Carlisle .
How many have got them all right so far ?
That 's clockwise .
Janey 's got all
of hers right .
No , that 's why I said clockwise .
Sorry .
Andy , will you put your line across there .
What ?
What you got on mine ?
That 's border of Scotland Andy .
Oh right .
I 'll just move my border up , don't worry .
Durham .
Oh I see what you mean , I'm following the names clockwise , not the
Yeah .
dots on there .
Sorry , er er Durham is next , sorry .
On the right , on that picture is Bradford .
Mm mm .
You got that er
Do you work in ?
you do an extra one .
What , are you ?
No .
Durham and Bradford .
Oh God !
That 's alright , I got Bradford wrong as well .
The next one is Rotherham .
Oh thanks .
gonna have more brackets
Yeah you got
in there .
It 's okay , I 've got a photocopy of , of that one anyway .
Leicester .
That 's good .
Where 's Leicester ?
Did you see your atlas ?
You got Rotherham and Durham on the , all in th the same one .
Give him the benefit of the doubt will you ?
You crossed Rotherham out .
Oh yeah .
It 's Durham there .
Well never mind .
Durham , right up
Thanks .
by Carlisle , near the Abbey .
It 's mapped out anyway now .
You got Molesly twice .
Mm .
Thetford in the little East Anglian part of the country .
Yeah .
That 's the big fat thing that sticks out at the side down there .
Thing , right ?
A bit like me .
Shaped a bit like me .
Right .
Next one down in the East Midlands is Wellingborough .
How many have got them all right so far then ?
David .
Only David .
I take it you 're marking David 's ?
Yeah .
Alright then .
Well done David .
Well you did something right at er school David .
This is true .
Luton .
We 're having companies on the .
Right .
We all got that one ?
No .
No .
Brentwood .
Can you put in correct ple , in brackets , what the depot , the correct depot is at Collindale .
Oh !
What 's that ?
I 'll give that a strict mark , I think , that one .
Hornsea .
It 's got ta be totally wrong .
We 're going round the M twenty five in
Oh that
a minute .
that 's wrong .
The next one I 've put
Now , I'm going to go out to the east again with Maidstone .
Hornsea Maidstone .
Let 's do that down there folks .
Yeah , he 's got them all right .
Mm .
More marks bit tied down to the limit now .
Croydon .
Okay .
Heathrow , right about here .
How are you doing on these , alright ?
Who ?
John ?
Byfleet .
We 're on the , near the M twenty five .
Stanwell .
Up just , just a little bit towards Byfleet .
Now I'm going to take you to Southampton .
Thanks .
Yeah , I 'll come , across Exeter in a minute .
It 's where the docks are that
Ah .
I'm trying to follow anyway .
And then Exeter over in the west country .
Off the coast line to Bristol .
And in South Wales , Llandyssul .
Llandyssul .
Sorry , Llandyssul .
I could n't see I was so
Llandyssul .
far back .
You get lovely don't you ?
Sort of , lovely , lovely little place there .
Got something called the Pakistan , they don't give you a a .
don't they ?
They call it , but er
I got told off for calling it Pakistan .
Anyway , .
Well they better not try telling me that .
Milton , is in the
Middle .
Berkshire area .
North .
Show us where Birmingham is .
After
Do you Kathy
the M four .
we 're doing well .
I put , I put Nottingham .
What has he got them right ?
I think that 's right , I got
Worcester .
Worcester depot .
Got that right
That is sa , sa south of those three , yeah .
And you go up the M six vi , the M five to Birmingham .
Oh oh !
David !
What a shame .
London .
Ah !
Ah ah ah !
I'm disappointed .
Sorry .
Yo , you mean you lost Birmingham somewhere ?
No he got Cannock and Birmingham mixed
Oh !
up .
I tend to
Easy done .
er e easily done .
Cannock is north of Birmingham .
I had it north first , Stirling didn't I ?
didn't used to be there though did it ?
No , not when I did it .
No .
Teesside .
Yep .
Manchester .
That 's a bit , er regionalist
Sorry .
isn't it ?
Are you gonna do the regional accents all the way round .
Well I 'll try .
I like this part of the world now , I'm into this bit .
I like watching
She knows her way around .
I like watching er All Quiet on the Western Front as well cos it all sounds
And Coronation Street .
Yeah .
And Coronation Street as well .
Ramsbottom .
Nay worry .
Yeah ?
And Belfast .
I 've , I 've already covered Carlisle have I ?
Yeah .
Terry rightly told me I went down the wrong I was looking for names rather than the dots .
Carlisle 's on the west .
Surprise Surprise !
A bit harder than you thought ?
Yeah .
We got seven there .
I'm still .
How many is there ?
I don't know .
Twenty nine on there .
Right .
Still , seven out of twenty nine is
What I'm saying is
I got .
Who got the highest score ?
Is er
Does anybody wanna
David .
do a tot up ?
I must say I'm ashamed .
What is mine ?
Oh oh !
What 's he doing on
Are there four ?
David got this .
One .
Seven .
Well mine 's .
Oh !
He got
How many 's that ?
Is that , is that eleven ?
You could give him a half a mark there .
Oh sorry .
Write that .
Is that alright then ?
I know I 've put that on .
Which one do you want ?
Have you got erm Jane 's
Yeah , there you go .
you 've got
Do I get a bonus point for getting everyone under the south east ?
A bit like
I don't imagine
cos you 're based in London you got all the M twenty five ones .
Yeah , I got the lot .
How many
That 's right .
or what was the highest score on the first one ?
The highest score ?
That 's what I said .
David .
Twenty
So ?
seven .
Twenty seven ?
Well done
Well done !
David !
Jolly good score !
Next one down from twenty seven ?
Anybody got twenty six ?
Twenty one .
Can David know his own roads , I don't know .
Shut up !
Yeah .
Twenty six ?
Twenty five ?
Have you counted them up so have you ?
Yeah ?
Twenty four ?
Twenty three ?
Twenty two ?
Yes I 've got twenty two .
Oh oh oh !
Oh !
Ha ha ha !
Twenty one ?
Yeah .
Oh !
Three
Yo !
cheats .
Yo !
Three for twenty one .
I won four games
Twenty ?
last night .
As I say
Yo !
Well done Justin .
Purposely missing confused of
The south east .
I got them all wrong on purpose .
Arsenal were n't down there were they ?
Two down the bottom .
All the same
Arsenal was .
all the same side as the Watford Gap aren't they ?
I got Holland and Brussels right
I mean , Holland and Brussels
That 's alright , I got all of them wrong as .
Oh .
What number , that was nineteen ?
I don't think that 's logical thing .
No .
Eighteen ?
Ooh well done Carly .
Not too bad for
Mm .
an indoor sales girl there .
Cor !
Oh that , even thought about that
I 'd rather have .
Is fine .
What was that , eighteen ?
Seventeen ?
Yeah .
Oh .
It 's this neck of the woods I don't know .
I think I 'll have a .
And London .
It 's in these neck of
of the woods is it ?
Well my aunt got lost on , round here .
Well Ca , Cannock
Luton , Wolverhampton
Yeah , that 's where I got mixed up .
and Maidstone , yeah .
, do you ever go to .
don't you got to , you got Wolverhampton one of yours have you ?
Yeah I'm sure there is .
There 's some of the things you know Carly put on there .
I had Cardiff didn't I ?
I went and put Cardiff on .
Actually Manchester
don't sound so excited Carly .
But a Wolverhampton 's not .
Erm , where were we down to ?
Eighteen was you saying Phil ?
Seventeen .
Sixteen ?
Fifteen ?
For a southerner not too bad .
I had something
Fourteen ?
Thirteen ?
Ooh ooh !
We 've got lower than fifty percent now .
Yeah , if it makes you feel better now they 'd have only , cos Janey 's was there ?
The rest of them still to go .
I know , it 's not too bad .
Twelve .
Ha !
Ten .
I had eleven .
Just over half .
That 's okay .
I 'll save you going any further , I got below ten .
I choose not to disclose .
I make no excuses .
My geography 's terrible .
I 'd
Eleven ?
Ten ?
Nine ?
Nope .
Eight ?
Seven ?
Six ?
Five ?
Four ?
Also I had , put more than that .
I got eight .
Eight .
Eight .
Seven ?
Yeah , seven .
Seven .
Mm mm .
Yeah , seven .
Six ?
No .
You need to look
Ah yeah .
you can not talk about moving parcels around the country if you don't know where the towns are .
You don't have to visit all those you didn't get
Oh yeah .
I think , in their own time at their own expense .
That 's right .
Yeah .
I just get my bunches of three the wrong way round because I know where they are .
I think before we go .
I know the Midlands is in the middle and the south is in the south and
Not to your customers
Might be some
it isn't .
Not
Well
your customers
What 's wrong ?
Well I know the north is in the north and the south is in the south
I just don't know where the towns are that go with them .
I know the numbers of the depot .
No .
You do need to get
That 's what we need to get
very , very , you should have a national map in front of you .
And not just you don't want just our depots , you want them in relation
That 's the thing you see the
to their customers there .
a lot of them places yo , they 're not sort of like famous are they ?
You know Byfleet and Hornsea and
They are to us .
Yeah they are to us but
They 're extremely famous to us Justin .
Manchester
was a nobody until we put a depot in it .
Hornsea is famous Justin .
No , I don't mean that , I mean yo , it 's not a popular , yo like a
To start looking for Cannock
Just because Byfleet
on Saturday
Byfleet doesn't have a premiere football team doesn't mean to say
No .
it 's not famous .
No .
Aye .
Cannock is famous for
Tottenham .
your
Can I just say that
the Manchester depot , actually in Manchester
Yeah .
Hornsea beat Tottenham .
it 's in Stockport .
It 's in Stockport .
Yeah , it 's not even in Manchester .
I know .
But you 're right .
So now the south east most of those depots that you 're looking at Cannock isn't in Cannock .
No .
So , what I'm saying is they 're just th , they 're , they 're , it 's just for er
The biggest place near it .
the biggest place near it .
Now what
I'm saying is , is you ought to get very close to that geographical map because it 's the logistic logistics er difficulty with getting , and you ought to know where there are mountains and where there are valleys and the fact that that , in South Wales they can't just go across country , they have to go back down the valley after the M four and up again .
Cos we 're driving lorries , we 're not driving little , you know trial bikes that go over mountains like the Brecons and stuff , you have to
But we do use the sheep in some ways don't we ?
That 's right , that 's right , we do use the sheep .
But not for
No .
the sake of the .
No , right .
What
what I'm saying is , you know , you can't go from Stirling to Aberdeen in a couple of minutes .
That 's big country up there .
And so there 's a big mountain range running up the middle of the country , someone thought once was the English Channel .
Well that 's okay cos we 've got a tunnel now .
Yeah , we got a tunnel now .
Yeah .
The English Channel , not the Pennines .
But they 're going where 's the Pennines ?
Erm what I'm saying is
I 'd say I don't know where it is at all .
I am saying to you now folks become familiar with the erm depots .
Now what about the depot numbers ?
No idea .
No .
Forty nine .
Not at all .
Forty six .
Forty nine .
I'm gonna call them out .
Write them onto your sheets .
Aberdeen , thirty nine .
Yep .
And you have corrected your sheets haven't you ?
You 've got all the right ones next to the
Mandy 's put them on a nice new sheet ai n't ya ?
Yeah , well done .
Aberdeen , thirty nine .
Stirling , twenty six .
Mm mm .
Glasgow
Forty five .
Yeah , right .
Carlisle
Oh good , .
forty four .
Durham ?
Forty two .
Bradford ?
Forty six .
Forty seven .
Rotherham ?
Thirty
Twenty
Twenty nine .
Leicester .
Forty three .
Thetford .
Forty one .
Well done .
Wellingborough ?
Hold on a minute , I'm still writing Thetford .
thirty four .
Th oh , four
Four , forty one , Thetford .
Hang on , hang on , you 've lost me now .
I'm lost .
Wellingborough , twenty four .
Newquay ?
Forty .
Brentwood ?
Twenty eight .
Close .
Hornsea ?
Thirty three .
Maidstone ?
Twenty eight .
No .
Oh no !
Twenty three .
Croydon ?
Thirty seven .
Thirty seven .
Well done , Dave .
Byfleet .
Eighteen .
Stanwell ?
Eighteen was that ?
Sixteen .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Eighteen , Stanwell , sixteen for Stanwell .
Sixty ?
Sixty ?
Sixty for
It 's Byfleet eighteen , Stanwell sixteen .
Sorry , I'm getting my tongue twisted round those .
Exeter .
Number , Adrian ?
Thirty one .
Thirty one .
Southampton ?
Nil .
Twenty five .
I 've gone the wrong way round now haven't I ?
Sorry , but I'm going up it 's the er
Southampton 's nearly up there .
Bristol ?
Twenty on , twenty two ?
Well done. ?
Thirty two .
Milton .
Twenty one .
Cos I'm just
How come you know them all by number but you don't know where they are ?
I 've dialled them that 's why .
Worcester ?
Twenty three .
What 's happened to Milton ?
I missed that as well ?
Twenty one .
Twenty one .
Milton .
You missed that as well ai n't you ?
Twenty one .
Did I call it out ?
Sorry .
Yeah .
Milton , twenty one .
My fault I think .
don't get , oh Mandy 's getting her hair off here !
I keep losing numbers .
Oh my God !
I 've lost it !
I 've lost the country now , lost the numbers .
Worcester ?
Twenty four ?
Se se , twenty seven .
Birmingham ?
Yo !
Double O five .
Double O five .
Cannock ?
Thirty four .
Double O
Double O
Thirty five .
Double O five .
What was Birmingham ?
Double O five .
Say that again .
O O five .
Why ?
Why has it funny number ?
Cos it one of the new places .
Cos they 're all funny numbers Mandy .
Cos it 's twice as .
Ah right !
Just don't worry about it .
You could n't get double O seven .
Deeside .
Where 's Cannock ?
I missed that as well .
Thirty four .
The man in the back says so .
Deeside , forty seven .
Mm mm !
Manchester ?
Forty nine .
Forty nine .
Forty nine .
That was the last , , I should have been market trader , been shouting out that voice and
That 's , well
He 's like Chubby int he ?
Ramsbottom ?
Thirty .
Belfast ?
Thirty five .
Erm
On Belfast I 've been told , and and my oversight , beg your pardon , that erm I mentioned the four regional
The branch that .
managers .
Because of the nature of that , that
being across to water
sorry , Phil , are you alright ?
It 's alright .
don't worry , I did go at a pace .
Because
Okay .
I talked about four regional managers , they were mainland U K .
Er , Brian , is also a regional director for Belfast and the serving areas of Belfast as well , okay ?
He has sole responsibility for Belfast , but he does have regional directors going to but Brian tends to cover a general manager role and with with erm Dick ma , .
No , not Dick , who 's in er Belfast ?
Tom , Tom .
Yeah .
And er himself , run the Belfast operation across all the regions .
But sometimes , because he doesn't have hundreds of depots I think he 's not regional , but that 's my own fault .
Brian is the Northern Ireland region .
Well done .
Do get a , er buy a map , spend some money to get one .
You may have in your depot you may have in your depot a map which have pinpointed the T N T depots .
Does any , has anybody seen one yet ?
Yeah .
The big wa waterproof one which you can draw on ?
Yes .
Yeah .
They 're , er , well they 're not waterproof
Well
but they 're coated aren't they ?
Er , so you can wipe them clean if er , you use a special pen .
But , what I'm saying is , if you , salesmen particularly get one , you 'll need one to get round the country your patch , but you need to get familiar with the towns up and down the country for deli , for delivery , cos your customers will talk about the area and you 're talking to someone from a transport café , you haven't got a clue where the towns are .
I mean , you know , where 's your credibility ?
And write down erm it .
I know north of border , nothing happens south of the border and like but , but we do deliver down here so do , do give yourself a little practise of that .
Now I'm going to ask you to do another little test for me .
Simple questions , ten questions , alright ?
Do you want ta , tidy up your little bit of paper out the way again ?
And there 's ten questions about the conditions of carriage .
Name on the top of the list .
Now how many people have not seen a list of the
carriage yet ?
Er erm
Nobody .
I think I have not .
You haven't Paul ?
I don't think so .
It 's the of the company and fax it .
I 'll look in mine tomorrow .
You think you have ?
See
if I don't know by now
see how you do .
We won't , it 's just
a very casual sale .
Well I'm not .
Just think , use your options .
This is so , you know so many days
Yes .
Yeah .
Just use different options .
Alright ?
Better put your name at the top of the page as well .
We 'll go through the answers anyway .
Instead of just spouting at me , I 'd just like you all to engage brain with .
Do you do , I 've got one wrong .
Alright , just make some notes and stuff that you 've got already .
Right .
I got lost .
What happens in is you do have the people in that area in the first few weeks .
.
The customer is same there .
The same as in C .
.
Finished ?
Pass it to your neighbour and once again .
?
Well I 've read a few of the , it 's just a case of remembering the precise details .
Cos I , I , know , I know it means roughly in common terms cos , I got a sister to interpret it .
finishing her law degree .
Alright .
Come round the corner
and that
no it 's not , it 's pass , pass your one
It 's just remembering what 's actually on the sheet .
and then it 's mine one , pass it down to
Is it pass it twice ?
Yeah , pass it
round again .
T N T .
Oh !
No I 'll do like this .
Right .
Well se , see what you can do just now .
I can't specialize obviously .
But having well a regional , a regional visits every once every how many weeks .
Dunno .
Just until we come through .
Exactly right .
Yeah I know .
It 's seven thirty .
Did you do that ?
Yeah .
Well they , well er , no it 's feet U K national
Let me just da dish this out .
and it 's
Do you want to score that for me ?
centimetres for worldwide and Euro .
Let 's score the paper then we 'll go through the er
I'm sorry .
I got number one .
Ah ?
I sa I said I got number one .
That 's what I wrote but I thought , I didn't put that , it didn't exactly right .
But still , if you , but definitely if you feel like that and it goes
It 's the T N T Express .
I don't think it was right .
It is !
I could be wrong .
Look !
There !
Oh .
This is the trouble isn't it ?
But some are good , especially .
Kathy , is it
You might be buying more .
Have you just got to sort of like the , these open to interpretation , or has it got to be word for word ?
Well we 'll go through it
Giving us the answers now ?
because , don't
Yeah .
Good one .
do a tick and a cross if you , interpret it , interpret it the way you want to .
If , if you think , hang on
that doesn't sound right we 'll discuss the answer as we go round and we 'll have a group
I 've got the questions wrong here .
Have another go then .
There yours , take those .
What 's that ?
Give me a paper please ?
Mm .
Yeah , that must definitely be right .
It 's up there ?
Yes .
Right .
Is that
Well , it 's a .
If you 're , I think there 's only two wrong here .
Just
That 's right .
pick what you think is right .
If it sounds right then put it up and we 'll discuss anyway .
Alright .
Ha ?
Mm mm .
You still add a mark if you put then , would you give us the same mark as before ?
Oh you 've got to have that on as well ?
Well it 's just a legal
I think so
That 's a good idea actually Phil .
Oh I 'll tick that right , I don't care .
That 's right .
Mm .
Did you tick that ?
Mm mm .
Mm mm .
I give half for your number four by the way .
I meant a fifteenth of the following
I 'd be , I , I 'd be inclined to give a half .
I meant the following month
A half for one .
but know why I did .
I'm not gonna give him that , I'm gonna give you half .
I'm sorry I can't give you that .
Got a half of what .
Got to be strict .
It 's not very good .
Once you done the fifteenth
, I bought you one .
that 's all
What was this ?
going to .
Definite .
Well you give me one .
Yeah you need , you need one .
So would I .
Give half for that one .
There are some which is distributed , things distributed by a carrier
?
Say that to me again , Phil .
There are some which is to be distributed by a carrier .
I 'd say no , so he 's right .
Definition of a consignment ?
Yeah .
Well
I will accept that sort of answer .
It is , the , this specific thing about it is from
Yeah .
one place to another thing .
The one time , one load .
Classified being a consignment .
from one address to another if is the important thing .
Yeah , plus it was
The important fact was covered in that .
Who 's got that ?
I 'll give you that .
Oh yeah .
So the , no two labels showing destination
I could give people the last part , be careful in the second one .
Okay let 's discuss the , let 's discuss the answers
Yeah .
Let 's discuss the answers .
Where 's there 's any discret
Ooh !
discrepancy , I wish I could take the dog 's teeth out
You should be able to know them all
and put my own in .
Let 's see if we can clear up any discrepancy .
What is the legal title of the company ?
Did anybody get it technically correct ?
It isn't just T N T .
John ?
U K .
No .
didn't get the question together .
How many got the first one right ?
T N T Express U K
John did .
Ltd .
Yeah .
Wo oh !
No , I put , I put
Yeah , Janey did .
carrier .
Well what have you got in ?
You put the word the carrier ?
I just put carrier cos
We , I understand what you 're saying because yo , that 's what it 's used erm
I'm looking , I'm from sort of like
in the conditions .
a legal point of view .
Yeah .
I understand what you mean .
Danny 's point is valid there because when you 're reading a legal document , T , the T N T Express U K will hereafter be known as the carrier
Carrier .
he 's put , so we wrote
So really that 's saying the title
Yeah , the legal
actually .
title it does say .
But I was just gonna say , it 's understandable
Mm .
him thinking in terms and conditions of carriage .
Yeah .
Yo , you wouldn't have just put the carrier normally would you ?
That 's what I'm saying , so er , just er interpretation of the question slightly misleading there .
Right .
No worries .
What is a definition of a consignment ?
Now if you get these right , word for word you 'll be er , I do conditions of carriage quizzes on selling skills courses and the amount of people that get this right I can count on one hand in the last three years .
Who got it right ?
David .
Word for word ?
What was the bit you did ?
Not word for word , now
What did he say , please ?
He said , one or more items to one address .
No , not comp
No ?
No .
not complete .
What was the completed
Andy
bit ?
So did I Phil .
That 's not right .
Andy 's got it right .
Oh !
Er er , parcels , a number of
package goods
parcels packaged then together
That 's what it means
and carriage
but it 's not the same .
That 's not the exact , not it either .
Collect the packaged goods to be transferred from
Oh I 've got it .
one place to another
Oh stop it !
consignment as agreed .
No , that 's not enough .
What 's mine
No
then ?
David is the
no it 's
nearest one .
Parc the number of parcels .
that 's what I put .
A parcel or goods , goods or a parcel , or a number of parcels from one address to another
At one time .
at one time
In one load .
in one load
in one load .
That 's
Aha !
i , those , those points are all valid .
If there 's
I missed that .
a group of parcels going in two loads it 's two
I put and I crossed it outside .
Two loads .
Consignments .
Consignments .
If it 's going erm
To different .
to two different
I got that one .
addresses it 's two consignments .
That 's what I meant .
If it goes at different times , it 's a different consignment .
So in , parcel or parcels , going from one address to another at one time in one load that is a consignment .
If you just say erm a group of parcels er er , in one load that 's not enough cos it can be
Yeah I know .
part of a load .
I missed out the from address to address .
One address to one address .
It 's
Yeah .
quite er distinct what I di , a what you 'll be determined as .
Cos some people er er may think , you know , the agreement because I have split the load you can still charge me the same price and it may not be the case .
Right .
Next one .
What 's the question ja Andy ?
What is the cus , sorry , what should
What should
the customer provide prior to the collection of a consignment ?
What was some of the answers there ?
Janey 's put , name , address , from another consignment note filled out and service requirement
and weight of the consignment .
Yeah .
So what we were looking for was something more er erm
Did I answer that one ?
No .
I didn't get round to it .
Anybody get what we were looking for in the , yes you should ?
What should the customer provide prior to the collection of a consignment ?
Well obviously the delivery name and address is important and the consignments , so you didn't get that wrong but there was , what we were looking for as well a full written declaration of the nature of contents of any consignment containing dangerous infested , contaminated
Aha .
or fragile goods .
In other words , is there anything , did anybody pick up
You got that .
Yeah ,
unusual
I did .
I might have given you one there , that looks good enough .
Oh .
Did you get that there ?
I did a part of it .
Oh
I reckon Justin 's got enough cos
What
he 's got times
Time
when ready , weight , number of packages , destination , and then haz
Well done .
Haz will do nicely for me .
That 's what we 're really looking for , hazardous
Yeah .
goods .
Well done .
Because , how can I say
Even , even I take
we 've , you 'll see , I mean there 's a , not a very good illustration of a , the hub with the yellow walls of the , the conveyer belt behind you , but you can see the fairly plain packaging that parcels come in .
The more , er er sophisticated erm wholesale er distributors now know that people just pick up from stock a box don't they ?
And , they may have one display displayed , but if you go to somewhere like a warehouse or distribution where you go round and pick up your you can go to a garden you 'll pick up a box that 's illustrating a Flymo lawn mower or something and , and it 'll , er they spend a lot of time and money on the packaging , but , a lot of people for pilferage reasons don't illustrate and that 's good practise not to illustrate , from our point of view , what 's on the package .
But you must know what 's in it .
Just knowing the size and the weight isn't , you might , that 's alright , that 's only for the price what 's in it is vital because if I asked the sales people from their top ten major customers what do you carry for them ?
Do reme , can yo , can I , can you guess at how many would say I don't know ?
Major customers .
Half a dozen .
It 's a lo , I , I 'd sa , they wouldn't admit it Bill , they might say something like erm oh it 's electronics , but they wouldn't know specifically what electronic .
Would that not cause er security problems if you put exactly what was on the box .
You don't put , you should n't , but you should know .
You should declare it .
They should declare if it 's hazardous , infectious , infested , i it will , what 's word you used ?
Incestuous were n't it ?
Incestuous ?
Was that a word .
Infested .
Infested , contaminated
Yes it is .
or fragile goods .
Dangerous , haz really , he should declare it , and people don't you know , unless you ask .
Right .
Right .
Next one .
What is the customer obliged to provide da to load and unload a consignment ?
Who di , who got the answer ?
Not exact .
I , er I said suitable lifting or moving equipment .
I 'd accept that .
Plant , power or labour .
Moving equipment then .
Yeah
That 's
I got that one .
what I said to you .
Ah !
I got that .
Did you accept it Paul ?
It got one .
Yeah .
Yeah , you did ?
Yeah about lifting equipment ?
About power lifting equipment .
Yeah I 'd accept that .
Cup of tea for the driver .
What we actually put
Cup of tea , sustenance , yeah .
What we actually put is , er , it is the responsibility in the conditions of carriage .
It is a responsibility .
Where would you find the conditions of carriage .
On the back of every erm contract out there .
On the back of every contract .
Because it is subject to the conditions of carriage that we accept their business and therefore we have to provide them with written information .
Now , it is down to interpretation i er er and , it , on your next courses you may do a more in-depth conditions of carriage quiz which will ask you to study the conditions of carriage at night and produce a bit more detailed answer in the morning , but we 're not gonna expect you to do that on this course .
Erm , number five erm can you read that out for me Mandy ?
What , sorry , go on .
Go on .
When would you cube a consignment ?
What did you put Bill ?
What did Bill put ?
That 's a very good answer then .
It 's one I could think of .
Gets me out of trouble that one .
I got one .
Did anybody get that one right ?
No well I , I
I thought when the mass
I sa er
is greater than the weight .
You know
Yes .
That 's right .
Cos I put like
I put
if you 're taking six foot of film it won't weigh much but it 'll take a lot of room up .
That 's fairly accurate that .
I just put if you 've got
Oh you 're having that one are you ?
if you 've got a load , if you
It 's a good point .
if you 've got a er
More consignments on it .
dead we or gross weight
Yes .
Well
and the big package
that would have meant
then it go in , in a large
That 's correct .
dimensions then you cube it .
We 're gonna do cubing in a minute , do a few exercises on cubing .
Yes , I mean , Je Mandy said er , if we 've got any consignment which exceeds one point five cubic feet per ten kilos .
But you usually know don't you if
It 's lower than that actually but er sorry
Mm mm .
it isn't .
I , I said , yeah a cubic foot , is se , six point six then .
That 's probably right , yeah .
One point five per ten kilos .
You can usually tell when you get used to it and we 're gonna talk about visual identity in a minute , but when the mass seems greater overly large to the weight is what er Jen , sorry Mandy said , and I think that 's a good er er a good er analogy there .
I got if erm , if the size is greater than the weight actually .
Yes .
I got that .
I 'll accept that at this stage alright ?
Next question is , what 's number six ?
Who can read it out ?
Er six .
can't read that word .
Notional .
Oh !
Ha .
What notional weight is used for cubing ?
Six point six per cubic foot .
Did you get that right ?
I did , yes .
Mm mm .
Yes .
What notional weight ?
Did anybody get that right other than , Dan ?
Mm .
The man .
I , I put one , one
Janey got it right .
ton per cu , well it 's per cubic metre
I know .
Yes .
because in my last job that 's
Three feet .
how you worked it out , we didn't work with feet .
We worked in metres .
Getting you excited now Bill .
Yeah , well he does it all the time .
It 's only twen , it 's only twenty six point six two .
Is it ?
Yes .
I dunno , I mean , I got
A metre , no , it 's not a ton .
And if you do a cubic metre , in my old
Yeah but yo
it was one , it was like one one ton per cubic metre .
That 's when you used to work in weight and measure though isn't it ?
Yeah .
We do , plus a thousand
They did
kilos per metre squared ?
Yeah , if you work on , is it , is it always on cubic feet or do you actually do it on metres ?
Well
We always wo
we tend to go back to feet I must say .
Yeah .
But I don't know why ?
Unless it 's Euro or international and then it 's in metres .
What are you refer , what are you referring to that one , that , what does that
That 's for loading containers ?
That 's what you ship in .
Yeah that 's for international you see .
Oh right .
It 's a different one .
I didn't realize I was
No .
international .
No .
It 's not the same .
That 's what containers do don't they ?
They seal containers and export it to different er ratio .
But the cubic idea is the same , but it 's six point six cu , kilos per cubic foot .
So a metre would be about three it 's a cubic metre .
We 'll work on that one .
Got ta be nine ,
Nine .
nine
Nine .
cubic metres in a
metres
yard .
About the same sa , in ten .
Mm .
It 's about the same .
What I can't understand is
Not a ton .
is why we mix , why we mix the measures .
Neither can I .
We 've got kilos for the weight , and we 've got cubic feet .
Mm .
Mm .
Mm .
Mm .
Terry do you wanna re-write the cu , the cubing manual ?
Please .
Make it simpler .
Maybe then I 'll get it right .
Make it simpler for the new babies coming in .
No you didn't , you got it wrong .
Oh right .
Er , seven .
To what extent is T N T liable for indirect or consequential loss ?
I 'd say we were
Answer ?
.
No .
Anybody get
It 's not .
it right ?
Yes .
Yeah .
I got one of them .
And a show of hands .
Does everybody understand
A lot of people .
what consequential loss is or indirect loss ?
You lose the parcel but it 's end up for example in the , they used a contractor at the other end because we lost the parcel but they 're not responsible for that .
We 'll just take the blame for it .
If , yeah , we don't
And erm
insure documents anyway .
We don't er offer transit liability on documents because we only that is a flat piece of paper to us , it isn't a valuable item .
We don't con , the , you know , what the arrangement is .
Mm .
If it 's your marriage contract and you don't get married because you don't got , that 's not our fault .
We just cos we don't ins , it 's only a piece of paper to us , you see .
So documents do not get transit liability on them at all .
And tenders and deadlines can be particularly sensitive to that , but you can not offer transit liability .
But even if this tape is going to record the last speech of somebody famous and it didn't get and therefore they could n't record it , that is co , the consequence of a delay , you know , a fall of snow or our vehicle breaking down or something not being done , or missed some in human , some human error , it 's not our , we don't lay , we 'll give , we 'll insure or offer transit liability on the value of the goods providing you 've got additional full transit liability with us , but we won't for the loss of business because you didn't get it .
Is that , can anybody think of a , a courier of documents , it 's still the same .
I think that 's why super mail offers on large goods .
Mm .
It 's better than one .
Mm .
Mhm .
Yes .
No we don't do ta , erm the conditions of ca , there 's , there 's a slight sort of
on conditions of carriage for the same day operation but , not in that league at all .
On super mail , if that item doesn't arrive in a set time
Mm mm .
what do you make up for , just their postage ?
It might be more might n't it ?
The consignment or
Yeah .
the nearest nearest service value .
If they send out a document that weighs a kilo for tapes and they sent that one , they 're losing twenty
It 'll lose it 's value
rather than say if it doesn't arrive at a set time
That wouldn't make any difference .
then it 's covered for them .
It 's E
Just the consignments .
Class E .
With post , yeah .
I'm talking about
Yeah sorry
If it , if it was like you
say
Yeah .
if they us , if they use a contractor
That 's what they 're , what we 're saying .
You might , you might get
And that sort of from the policy .
you might get it
No .
for nothing .
Well er
Cos but erm
But they still go there now .
Yeah I know , but our sort of van
What would it cost ?
or
Like
carrier like the local land owner at the House of Lords can do that .
I 'll buy you a .
Yeah but , she didn't say these are all wrong once I look at
Yeah .
the board .
Paper .
Most of them would cos they are going like far
And everyone 's .
You 've seen people see
We only , we only insure
I didn't say what the license is .
we only insure for the intrinsic value of
And is there any situation
the item .
That 's all .
Right .
But you guarantee them delivery .
Yep .
On the piece of paper .
I know but you 've lost the .
We give them their money back .
I mean , well it 'll probably arrive , it 'll turn up somewhere won't it really ?
But se
Could do .
I mean send another one is what we 're saying , have your money back .
If you haven't got the you should be okay .
Or
if it arrived , if you paid for a before
One customer should expect it to arrive then
noon and it er
I mean , same ta super mail , we wouldn't give them their money back .
I think that 's a bit more than that now .
But if you ordered a ten thirty delivery and it arrived before noon , we would just give you the money difference the before twe , ten thirty and the before noon price , not the complete price .
Unless you wanted to argue about it .
But we feel that , okay , you know , it may have been a half an hour late but you got there .
And therefore , we have incurred cost and therefore , but okay , it wasn't the guaranteed service .
But you could argue with us , you know .
And again , a commercial decision is made locally based on the strength of the account .
But we don't , you 've got ta be careful as you probably know Phil , the abuse can of the ca , you know , carrier , you know , can be a nice little earner if you 're not careful .
And , you know , erm people can intend to fail in order to claim money , revenue back , and so on .
D'ya know
Or damaged goods can , you know , put the foot through it to get the insurance cover on what we pay and we 're liable .
So you 've got to be very , very , very careful .
Having said that if you , there 's been a court of law we 'd prob , if , they 'd probably erm

There will be no wavering from the course of reform , there will be no more compromises with people whose views are beyond the pale .
Thus , how Gorbachev finally called for a free market , free elections and freedom from the Soviet Republics that want to leave the Union .
The traumas of the last week will reverberate through history , are you rejoicing or is your jubilation tempered with unease .
A nuclear super power is now utterly unstable , authority has broken down , the infrastructure has virtually collapsed , last night there were dire warnings of civil strike and even civil war .
How should we respond ?
What should we do to help re-build the frail economy , prevent old scores from being settled in ways which will lead to even further insecurity .
In sure that there domestic problems don't spill out across there borders .
Today John Major will discuss the West response with the Americans and Douglas Hurd will meet our European partners .
Should we too except part of the blame for last week 's turbulent defence ?
Have we been beguiled by Mr Gorbachev ?
Have we to lack the courage to support the radical reformists and break away Republics ?
What hopes and fears do you have ?
Please do call , with me is the professor of Russian studies at London University , Geoffrey Hoskin , and on the line from Blackpool already , Peter White .
What do you feel about the developments over the last er few days , are you rejoicing at them ?
Erm , I am tentatively erm provisionally very hopeful , but I am fearful of a number of things , I three observations in respect , observations in respect of them .
I thank Mr .
John Major should plead with George Bush not too let the C I A start it 's own secret foreign policy deals .
Either with the rump of Soviet Central Power or with the separating Republics .
I think that the C I A , er , would accelerate potential for chaos , I don't think one needs necessarily to look at 1789 or 1917 too know how great will be the dangers of civil war , possibly starting from entering public boundaries dispute , or of militaristic counter coups which threatens neighbours and rather in a , possible in a way .
I think we should therefore hold the fight until a clear pattern emerges and certainly avoid international incidents which might tempt the Red Army , either at Union level or in the Republics and finally I think perhaps one useful thing we could do is too assist initially , and I stress initially , well disposed Republics with bread and sausages .
Freedom from Communism is not going to last the flag very long if it 's identified with a freedom to starve .
Liberalism and Democracy don't flourish on an empty stomach .
Is , is the a a danger Geoffrey Hoskin that the instability in the Soviet Union , if one can still call it , a Union , could effect us , could spill out across its borders ?
Yes , there certainly is , er , there we have this huge empire on our Eastern frontiers with nuclear weapons , er , possibly descending into major civil War and communal violence .
Er , people with unknown ambitions , frontiers that they want to adjust and so on .
So it seems to me first of all that we should maintain a state of military preparedness , not because the Soviet Union is likely to attack us , but , simply because it represents this huge area of instability on our Eastern Frontiers , but I think also we should be more positive , I don't think we want to do secret deals in C I A style , er , in fact I think we want the maximum of open diplomacy .
I think we can help the Soviet populations to get through the coming winter , with , with , food aid , cos I think there gonna have a very bumpy winter er , in the economic sense , and then I think we should also , er , be involved in sorting out the military future of Europe , because it 's Europe as a whole that we 're talking about now .
There be NATO in the West and then there will be the ex-Soviet Union probably of some kind of military alliance in the East , and I think that we need to be in constant contact with one another discussing the changes that are going on .
The Russians will be very ready to respond to this and I think even more so the other Republics .
They want peace as much as we do .
Peter White , this instability could result as people have been warning in Civil War , that we 've already heard about venturism being er , suggested by the Russian leader Boris Yeltsin it , he might try to change the boundaries of the Soviet Republics .
He might try to take over on of Russian speaking peoples in other Republics , that could lead to the sort of situation we 're seeing in in Yugoslavia now .
But .
If that did happen , should we try to intervene , should we offer to put in some sort of peace-keeping force or should we just leave them to it ?
Erm , funnily enough earlier on in August , erm , I rang you up about Yugoslavia , and er , I , one of the reasons that I gave for not , the Europeans , not intervening in Yugoslavia was my fear that it might lead to the Russian military unseating Gorbachev and my , er , discard that the , the sick man of Russia , so erm , sort of parallel I , well I wouldn't parallel it with Yugoslavia , my argument in Yugoslavia was that we should n't intervene because we do not have primary interests with , I mean , well we clearly have general interest but we don't have primary interest , additionally in Russia is that everybody , in the world have interest but I would definitely here say that Britain should clearly do nothing per .
Let me do that , let me .
We , in the election and we should , and we should wait for America and try and advise America a a and , and take a view , a a it oh o otherwise madness lies , if there were people who gonna make deals with bits of Russia for this grievance we 're gonna be in a terrible state .
Hello , from South London , , do do you agree with that , we should n't get involved if civil conflict breaks out there ?
No , not really I think erm , er first of all I think very important that especially with the Baltic share the public the should not give the commission to the Baltic public until , unless the Republic itself guaranteed the right of the Russian and minority and the Polish minority and the and the Republic .
We .
We should not grant recognition to the Baltic states or any other So Soviet Republics unless they guarantee human rights ?
Exactly , unless they guarantee human rights er , you see , what 's really happening especially in the Baltic , that is er there , there is an anti Russian feeling you know , and er there is element in in the Baltic Republic who want to er , want to deport the Russian population who 've been there for maybe for the last forty five years .
How , how do you know this ?
Do you come from there or have have you been there ? .
No , no , no , I see that , I have erm , Soviet was an ex-commons before , and I know , follow the Soviet history , so in a sense , I think is a very important to to give protection to the population , to , to , er to the Russian population , the Polish population and the Baltic .
The same applies to the Ukrainian and the other Asian of populate .
I think we should encourage this , the the signing of the treaty rather than to rush too , er , to the recognition like of German and the French .
Professor Hoskin .
Yes , I think the point that 's made there is fair enough , er , the Russians indeed feel oppressed in the Baltic and , and probably in other Republics as well .
I'm not sure that withholding diplomatic recognition is the best way to approach that , after all diplomatic recognition is concerned really with the effective control of territory and things like that rather than with moral principles , however , I think that er , when the Soviet Republics are signing their new Union Treaty or Commonwealth Treaty or whatever it 's going to be called by that time , this question should be amongst the most important to be tackled there , that 's to say the rights of ethnic minorities living in Republican Territories , that they should have the right to educate their children in their own language , that they should have the right to their own religion and so on and so forth .
I don't know that we in Britain should be directly involved in defending those things , but there is the Helsinki process the C S C E process which is a Europe wide arrangement which among other things exist , there to ensure that these rights are observed .
So I'm , I don't think that should be used as a weapon in diplomatic recognition .
But do you agree that we should put diplomatic pressure that George Bush should , the Europeans should , Douglas Hurd should , and say look guys whatever you do , if it , though were prepared to recognise you as an independent state , don't take it out on the Russians ?
Yes I do think we should , because er this is one of the most important pot potential areas of instability , these ethnic conflicts arising within Republic sort of broken away .
Chris Perry from Stockwell again in South London .
Good morning .
Hello , what do you feel we should do ?
Well , I'm very uneasy about the er , principle that some people are discussing of taking sides er , er , in the internal affairs of er other countries and in this case there the Soviet Union .
Er , we did it erm , er just after 1919 when er , er we started backing the white Russians and erm , before we write off erm everything the Communist er Government of er Russia has done over the last seventy years as being evil , what I think we 've got to be aware of is that we may once more be unleashing the forces of nationalism , which in 1914 , and I think of going up er in the period in the thirties very much lead to erm two world wars , and er I 'd like to know more about er some of the forces the so called democratic forces that are backing erm Mr Yeltsin .
Well I don't think there 's any danger of us unleashing the nationalism .
The nationalism is there at at the end of the lead already isn't it ?
Yes , but er I think that erm , before we champion er , or back er people like Mr Yeltsin and say that they rep represent progressive forces , I 'd like to be clear about where those forces see themselves going , because I don't see nationalism as a progressive force in the er , in the last decade of the twentieth century , I think we need to be concentrating on those people who are trying to build a new international order rather than splitting things up in the Soviet Union in a way which may be catastrophic .
Professor Hoskin , how worrying is this rise of , of nationalism in the narrow sense of the word and er your concerns about adventurism by Boris Yeltsin that concerns the republics , er , which might suffer considerably , Armenia for example , has always been er some sort of conflict with its neighbour like .
Yes .
Well some of these national conflicts have been artificially created by the Soviet State , but of course some of them haven't like the Azerbaijan Armenian Border conflict , that 's been going on for centuries , it was existed before the Soviet and it 's gonna go on existing after it .
Erm , I think Yeltsin 's threat as it were to the Ukrainian is actually a diplomatic move , he wants Ukraine to remain within the Soviet Union , er and if it does so he 's not going to make an issue of the border , but , er , if it does break away completely I think what he 's saying is well there 's a frontier that we 're going to have to reconsider because large Eastern areas of Ukraine including huge industrial towns are predominantly populated by Russians .
Now of course if Ukraine were to give er water tight guarantees of cultural autonomy to those Russians then probably that would cease to be a serious pointed issue .
President of er has warned that there could be a real and serious civil war and the conflict that there is between Armenian people and Azerbaijan , I'm not sure that I understand it , but I suppose it has some similarities to so many other conflicts we see around the world , Northern Ireland , er Yugoslavia , just , it goes back hundreds of years and .
Yes , well it 's , it 's the classic Muslim Christian Frontier , you know , it 's like Southern Spain in the middle ages and so on , you know .
I was being suppressed by Central Authorities for so long , but now they 've taken the lid off .
That 's right it 's been smothered under a kind of blanket , and that blanket has now been taken off .
Er President of Kazakhstan of course he 's president of a country where again Northern Kazakhstan has a huge Russian , compact Russian population that might want to break away .
Now if these issues are badly handled , yes there could be civil war between the Republics .
Percy is er ringing up now , from , from London , what are your concerns ?
Yes , er I'm very worried about this aspect of er whose finger er on the nuclear trigger , because the nuclear referee in the Soviet Union is divided between mainly peace states , Russia , Ukraine and , now Boris Yeltsin has said that he is going to protect his Russian minorities in Ukraine and , now I fear that if that comes to some kind of a conflict then it 'll be very uncertain as to what arrangement could be made about er , honouring international agreement and about ultimately too er , any kind of nuclear er congregation .
Well Boris Yeltsin this morning has said that he wants a veto over the use of nuclear weapons and about ninety percent of which I think are on Russian soil , that perhaps can be interpreted , additional safeguard to have another veto .
You 've got to get Boris 's agreement before anyone can press the trigger or is this actually much more dangerous than it sounds , is he saying we want to take over the nuclear weapons .
Well again it could be sinister if things get out of hand , but er , er , and I think the speaker 's warning in that respect is fully justified .
Er the former Soviet Republics are going to have to decide what kind of defensive alliance they want among themselves .
Ukraine for example is already stated in its er declaration of Sovereignty that it regards itself as a non nuclear zone , so they 're not going to want nuclear weapons for themselves , and er , I imagine that the former republics will have to quite a a comprehensive military alliance perhaps on the lines of NATO and that nuclear weapons will be vested in that alliance .
Russia will be the leader of that alliance and therefore like America NATO will probably have the decisive say on what 's done with those nuclear weapons .
That 's how I see things evolving , er but it must be said that Russian statesmen have got to have this self restraint not to abuse those nuclear weapons just as the United States has had to .
Of course if independent Republics do get control of their own weapons , it 's blown out of the water , their non proliferation treaty caught you has n't it ?
Yes of course it is and er , that , that points er to the the danger of of a the disintegration of the Soviet Union , I , I .
This is an area in which we legitimately can get involved do you think ?
Beg your pardon ?
Do you think this is an area in which we can legitimately get involved ?
Yes most certainly because er the point is that er we 're involved er with the erm , er and the honouring of the start of an agreement , and er I think that the West er therefore has er direct er responsibility also in this matter and er I fear that er ten percent , er alright ten percent of the nuclear weaponry is in Ukraine is in and er we do not er have some kind of proper arrangement being er agreed too .
Then er even one percent of nuclear weaponry that er could be used is a danger to world congregation and I fear very much er that unless there is some kind of a proper cast iron guarantee er with the successor to the Soviet Union er there 's going to be much er trouble especially if er there is an ethnic violence er erupting on the borders and again er Boris Yeltsin has said that er , er he is going to want to control er the position on the borders , well he may not get the agreement that he seeks , er one hopes that he will , but he , he may not .
Okay from er High Wycombe , are you fearful of what 's developing or are you delighted at events ?
I'm absolutely delighted .
I'm , I'm , quite amazed that , that , the question has even been asked , you know , that er that , that , er is this a good thing , I mean er presumably the people that are arguing that it 's not a good thing and that are concerned about events are actually condoning imperialism , er these people seem to think that it 's okay for a country to be occupied er like Poland was occupied by Germany and Czechoslovakia and France , that 's okay er and in fact you know we should just turn a blind eye to it and just let it carry on forever .
I 'll be arguing that the end of imperialism and communism might be a wonderful thing , but that period of instability , that period of change can be very dangerous .
Well of course , and er , and er Lithuania has right from the beginning er embarked on a , a sort of a campaign for independence in a most impeccably peaceful way .
Despite your English accent are you Lithuanian ?
My father 's Lithuanian .
Hm , hm .
I sort of regard myself as a sort of a dual nationality now , but that 's one thing I 'll be looking at , er in the next few months hopefully .
Yes , I , obviously Lithuania is the , is the country I'm most concerned about .
We 've had er callers earlier on suggesting that there could be problems between Russians and Lithuanians if an goes there , which seems almost certain it will now .
Would you be happy for Britain , European partners and the Americans to recognise Lithuania 's independence while at the same time saying look don't take it out on Russians who are living within your borders , observe human rights and all the rest of it , is , is that our affairs , and our business ?
Well I did hear that point , it 's , it 's interesting because in fact Lithuania er President Boris Yeltsin signed an agreement in July , er which effectively Russia recognise Lithuania as an independent state , it was the second country in the world to do that , er all of this was sorted out in a very er , good , er peaceful , sensible way , there , obviously Russia has concerns in Lithuania er not least the district .
All of that was sorted out and agreed and that 's the way to progress in these matters .
People get a very negative attitude , they think that these , like there was a caller recently that sort of equated nationalism with er , with you know Nazis and , that 's completely wrong , I mean , but , and , and , you 're all in the news you 're always hearing about the radical nationalist deputies as if they 're some sort of strange breed of person , but in fact they 're just like the MPs in our House of Commons , democratically elected people , sensible people who want peace , they want prosperity for their country and er , there 's , there 's no mad empire imperial ambitions , Lithuania has no need for an army or anything , but er apart from just maintaining er internal er control , but er people have a very strange attitude a very anti nationalists , I find it curious .
Would you like Lithuania to be part of some sort of erm , Soviet Federation , voluntarily I mean just some loose trading or defence partnership ?
I'm , I'm sure that would happen , but Lithuania , if , if it had the er complete independence to er choose it 's own trading partners , it 's own defence partners , then it would make sense for Lithuania to have some sort of a a trading arrangement with the old communist block and .
Ra rather , so the E C can become a member of NATO ?
Well , I , I , the way I see it going is that the E C will expand to not only Lithuania about being but also other , other , er forms of Soviet Republics .
I was struck too by the way in which we started the programme by considering the dangers of the situation and there 's no doubt that that 's correct , but it is important to say , perhaps the most important thing is that the end of isn't in the Soviet Union and the break up of the Soviet Empire is an enormously positive event for all of us , for the citizens of the Soviet Union and for us in the West it gives the opportunity for much greater stability , real stability , peace and prosperity then ever existed under the old regime .
With all that said of course the transition period is going to be very dangerous for the kind of reasons we 've been talking about already and I think is right too when he says that er , the so called nationalist in the non Russian Republics , if you 're a Democrat in a empire , then you are inevitably a nationalist as well because you want your nation to have its natural human rights .
Andrew Campbell from er Coggeshall in Essex , what do you feel about this ?
Erm , I think it 's probably inevitable but most of the Republics will become independent , but I think the idea of them becoming independent in their present borders is very worrying indeed cos that , most of the borders are grossly irrational and becoming independent with those borders ethnic conflicts built into it , erm , and I think unless there 's some sort of er negotiations about what border these countries will have before they become inde independent , we could see quite a lot of bloodshed .
In fact some of the Republics have such such a mixed population , it 's almost impossible to see how they could be separated out , Russians and Tartars erm , and all the rest of it , all intermingled to some extent .
Is it possible Geoffrey Hoskin to have some sort of sort out , where people could be encouraged , compensated perhaps to leave their villages and towns and go back to the Republic from which their parents or grandparents originally came ?
Yes , I don't think changing borders is the right way to approach this problem .
In some cases population intermingled there 's bound to be conflict whatever happens , it seems to me that these problems can only be solved , first of all by ensuring that all eth ethnic groups have the right to their own culture , their own language , their own religion and so on and to exercise them in their own territory , but they 're not discriminated again in jobs and housing and education , er and then also as you say to help with state sponsored finance people who do decide that they want to migrate , that they don't want to live in somebody else 's Republic , that they do want to move across the border into , as it were , their own Republic .
Adjusting frontiers is historically enormously difficult , there may be two or three very clear cases in the Soviet Union when it came be done without much dispute by general agreement , but on the whole I reckon that observation of human rights is the way to approach this , and then of course the er growth of economic prosperity if it comes will actually help to ease these problems .
Andrew Campbell here we are handing out advice well intentioned , but I wonder if er Russians and Kazakhstanis and all the rest aren't going to say mind your own business , leave us to sort this out .
Erm , well , I am a bit doubtful about Geoffrey Hoskin 's point of view , erm because he 's assuming erm , sort of democratic goodwill etc , on the part of these governments and I don't think that 's necessarily so .
I mean I think the most blatant example is the which is erm ninety per cent Armenian population .
is part of which I think is just ridiculous and will be a nice well meaning democratic tolerant guy in but considering the history of those two countries I rather doubt it erm and I , I think the best way of securing er the safety of that population is actually to change the border before the borders are are fixed and settled and before these countries actually become independent .
Geoffrey Hoskins are already reports of erm an enormous number of refugees trying to get out of parts of the er Soviet Union , in Poland I think in one area they 've closed the borders having let through twenty seven thousand refugees in one day , there are now huge tailbacks of traffic at the border post .
Henry Kissinger warned yesterday this might happen , do you fear that we could face a flood of refugees ?
Yeah , yeah .
Well it is possible of course and I think that er the European Nations , including those in Eastern Europe er ought to be getting together to consult about what we can do , because I don't think it 's right simply to send these refugees back as the er Italians have been doing , er in fact there likely to be amongst .
They 've been doing it to Albanians at .
Yes to Albanians that 's right .
Erm , I think these refugees are likely to include the most enterprising , the best trained and so on , they 'll be a grave loss to the Soviet economy , erm , but I think they 're a potential gain to us and er , I don't think that , I think therefore we should make arrangements to try and absorb them if we can and , and let them contribute as they undoubtedly will to our own economies .
Well what do you think if there 's a mass migration from Soviet territories , should we absorb those immigrants into the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe , it 's just after half past nine , you 're listening to Radio Four , this is Nick Ross , we 're discussing , as you 've no doubt gathered , events in the Soviet Union and how they affect us , what , if anything we can do to influence them .
Graham Bishop is on the line from Brighton in Sussex .
Hello there , erm I was calling in to sort of object to the erm whole presentation of recent events in the , in the Soviet Union .
Firstly I don't think there 's a substantial disagreement between Yeltsin and the so called hard liners , except over the question of timing so as to win the market and someone 's introduced them to the Soviet Union , and secondly I don't think you can treat Boris Yeltsin as some kind of democrat at all , on August the twelfth he threatened to rule Russia by decree just at the definitely senators and the Russian nationalism and he built some sort of support and I , I think it 's very wrong to characterise the events there with the revolution , more it 's been , it 's been much more of a power struggle between different sections of the you know , the elite there along the lines of the events in Romania .
Can we just the two things you 've said .
Firstly that , he 's a hardliner erm just like the others , I mean are you talking about and and and the people who lead the , the coup and that you 're saying Yeltsin 's no different from them ?
I think the key point is Yeltsin , like Gorbachev , unlike the coup leaders is part of a very privileged elite in the Soviet Union and the difference is that to express the erm , you know trying to put them , advance themselves in society at the expense of the rest of Soviet 's society , applicable difference is erm much more inventive and sort of packed on the end to justify er that , that the moves they are making , I mean at , you know like I say that can be seen in the very democratic step that Yeltsin 's been taking since he 's been the Russian president .
I must say Professor Hoskin I was rather struck by pictures in the papers today , yesterday of Boris Yeltsin standing over a boar he 'd shot , it was strongly reminiscent of pictures we 've seen of the former president of Romania , Ceauşescu .
Right and indeed , er I , I must er correct the impression that Yeltsin is anti-semitic , I don't think there 's any evidence of that at all , er , a and , er I , I would regard that really as a slander on his character , but er , er Russian nationalist , this is a very delicate question .
We 've always in the West used the term Russian nationalist as one of abuse , er and that it seems to me as , because it 's always in the past been associated with empire , Russian nationalists in practice have oppressed other people , but after all why should the Russians not be patriotic just as the British as er a citizen or a Frenchman can be patriotic , er provided that that doesn't go with oppressing other people .
Now it seems to me that er Yeltsin 's that kind of Russian patriot and he 's shown it by concluding treaties as equal partners with Ukraine , with the Baltic Republics and so on er in which he said that er Russia is no longer going to interfere in their internal affairs , so they they are equal partners in these treaties .
So that .
But that that contradicted today , when he 's not only threatened to intervene against the Republics that have been attacking their minorities but erm , since he 's become Russian president he 's constantly threatened and the area of and you know denied it sort of national .
I think the the key point about patriotism is one reason why perhaps people in , in Britain and so on should n't be patriotic too , but if you see the rather cynical attitude of the Western countries towards recent events , not just in Russia but right across the Eastern block , very good example was condemned , erm but when , following the massacres erm , the West has gone on to sort of do deals with the winners and cultivate links er with the people responsible for that massacre , the killing of the Soviet Union went the other way and consequently erm that 's where you know Western resources are directed .
I'm sure if the hardliners have won , now that is erm , would be dealing with them just as now .
There is a human characteristic that we like to think , see things in , in very clear cut ways and you 're saying we should n't go overboard and just think that Boris Yeltsin because of his courage standing on the tank and , and helping to prevent the coup , we should n't go overboard and think that he 's er the most marvellous human liberal democrat who ever walked the earth .
I think , I think we should see it for what it is , which is a power struggle inside a ruling elite in the Soviet Union for which we don't really have an interest in taking sides .
Er , of course er , Yeltsin does sometimes take own measures and that 's because the situation genuinely is very dangerous er and er , I think that everyone would agree that really .
Anthony Kenny from Essex , what 's your view on this ?
Good morning Nick .
Hello .
Nice to speak to you , erm , I 'd just like to say that er , take me now as a , as a normal chap from England who looked across right through his life at Russia as the big bad bear and eight years ago I had the opportunity of going over there , just an ordinary chap and er , of course , there 's so much about the Soviet Union we don't know , we did , we , erm , for instance we were over there in 1982 when they were celebrating sixty years of the incorporation of the saints into the Soviet Union .
And I didn't even realise at that time that there were fifteen states in the Soviet Union .
Now we travelled the best part of the Ukraine and we also dipped into and er we were there about a month , just under a month , and erm one of the impressions that I got there , just as an ordinary chap , no , not learned politically so I can't speak on the level er of most of your callers today , but er , I realise that here you had er people , in actual fact my my comment was the country 's half finished , everywhere you went there were building constructions so far incomplete , er projects underway and you 've got the impression that they did need communism in a way to make the thing work er , the er , let 's take the Ukrainians , I mean that , that 's where the Cossacks come from and they love a good time , er those sort of people in a way need a strong government .
Are you , you saying that things could get worse now that erm communism is gone and is going to become even more impoverished .
What I'm saying , yeah .
You 've got it in one .
What I , what er , I in fact , what , what I did notice in that time that I was there , was that er , when you talk about the old guard , the young people , anybody under forty er they were a little bit cynical about this communism lark and Lenin and the rest of it , they all went to say , they would all go to Lenin 's er statue and in effect have a blessing from Lenin , we went along with them on one occasion , very pleased to do it , but you you got the impression that the younger generation were already in 1982 and the people now that are out there with Yeltsin were shying away from communism , now the thing is this that Gorbachev came along in my opinion exactly at the right time and tried to move things a little our way a little way from the hardline , which obviously could n't be sustained .
And perestroika has actually caused economic problems not , not resolved them .
Yeah , you 're right , and that 's what I'm saying , they have tried and I think they 've let Gorbachev down .
Let me put this to Geoffrey Hoskin , Professor Hoskin we 've heard of a people ruled by Tsars and then by , is there going to be any thing but anarchy now ?
Will democracy really work ?
Well of course there isn't very much of a democratic tradition in Russia that 's quite true , but that 's very different from of the Russians and all the Soviet people and saying they 're simply incapable of living under democracy .
Any nation has to learn democracy er , and it seems to me that all the people of the Soviet Union have shown over the last four or five years a lively interest in politics and considerable to participate in politics , er one of the problems is of course is that they 've been doing so , too much and in too disorganised a way , they 're going to have to get together .
That 's what I'm saying , they need , they need just a little , in fact we do here you could argue , er , I feel that all the elements there are of a turning into something a bit ugly , I think , I think they were very quick to drop those statues down , now I know , I know the fellow who in , who set up the K G B could have been the most popular bloke in the Soviet Union , but nonetheless , er he was down within a day , I hear this morning that Yeltsin 's talking about border changes and quite frankly they 're moving too quick and Gorbachev at least was providing a bit of restraint , and I think it , they want to think in terms of decade .
Ian Ian Cuthill from Hitchin in Hertfordshire , are you also concerned about instability there ?
I certainly am .
Erm I 'd liked to discuss the point about what aid we can give to try and promote the stability and the event of prosperity of the country .
Now the present British government is very anxious to give the Russians our financial expertise rather than practical help to promote a market economy .
You think our financial expertise doesn't amount to practical help ?
I certainly don't , because erm , according to this policy the first thing the Russian people have got to put up with is a high level of unemployment .
Now I suggest that we .
We 've become quite expert at that haven't we ?
Er , this is the point I'm going to make , this is absolute hypocrisy .
I mean after thirty years of policies our own real economy is shambles , growing unemployment .
Now I suggest that er don't you , it 's vast numbers of Russian people milling about with nothing to do is certainly not going to promote stability .
What the Russians want is technical help and equipment , now our own industry is in decline er yes , particularly in machine tool industry , and I think the first thing we should do is to go over there and see what it is they actually needed , what they actually need right now , er one of your previous er correspondence , er speaker turned round and said well they 've got half finished buildings and things like that , I mean er , people have got to be put to work because people in co-ordinate employment is the only source of real wealth , but the market economy isn't interested in promoting real wealth , I mean it 's only interested in what it can get out of an economy not what it gives .
If , if were going to give them transfer real wealth , machine tools and all the rest .
Yeah .
How 's it going to be paid for ?
Are we going to divert er an aid programme from the third world to prevent people starving and so forth to the Soviet Union or are we going to have er funds from the National Health Service , from Education , who 's going to find the money ?
Erm , is the money really , erm , this is , I think this is a bit of a bogey .
A country can produce these days as much money as it wants .
Only , only if it creates inflation .
Er , yes , but if you 're exporting the stuff why should it create inflation ?
I mean this is the the cause of inflation surely is to have more , too much money taken too few goods and if you produce more goods this helps to deflate , er we didn't have inflation thirty years ago .
Well this is a marvellous new form of economics , if we could just create things and er export them without getting paid for them and it wouldn't us .
That 's right .
We could .
We could because the sense of wealth is people at work have people scratching their backsides doing nothing erm is absolute , er you know is lunacy .
But the .
The fundamental point that you make is we should n't be simply offering good advice or , or bad advice , we should be offering real aid , real goods .
That 's right .
And doing so for the goods .
Er the goods that what , not goods that we want to give them like junk food and ludicrous fashions , to find out what it is that they want this of equipment and no , and don't forget the know-how , I mean we are , we have a hell of a Know-how in this country which is not being used .
Okay .
Let me get to Somerset to and Commander Michael Blake , are you a Naval Commander incidentally ?
Yes , I'm retired .
Er , do you think we should er give substantial aid to the Soviet Union ?
Well the er point I 'd like to make is that as of last Saturday the er , erm , the Soviets were building a new submarine every forty days , they 're spending thirty five percent of the G N P .
on armaments and erm , I , wouldn't it be prudent to insure that erm they stop spending all this money on armaments before any aid is given to them ?
I thought it was twenty five percent of their it 's a big sum anyway .
No , I , it 's an enormous sum I mean I don't think anybody in the West is spending er as much as ten percent on armaments and er I heard a on television not so long ago saying that in eighty percent of their industry is on armaments .
Geoffrey Hoskin .
Yes , I think that we could actually kill as it were two birds with one stone here er , the conversion of military industry into civilian industry has begun in the Soviet Union but it was going very slowly and part of the reason for that is , is it 's very expensive , now that seems to me a worthy recipient for Western direct economic aid .
But another reason is presumably in the past , because the military was terribly powerful , much more powerful before the coup than now and Gorbachev was frightened to start dismantling it too .
Precisely that 's why this is an excellent moment to offer precisely that kind of aid because those obstacles have been largely removed .
So Commander Blake we should not just offer a stick saying that we we aren't going to help you until we start dismantling your military programme , we should offer carrots too , do you agree ?
Well I , I I , I don't mind how it 's done but erm I hear nothing on the many people on , you know , who talk about erm giving aid erm a dread from this problem is this vast erm amount of the G M P and going on armaments and going on one way and another .
I would have thought they 've simply , it had to be agreed that that was stopped and then as the professor has said , I mean we give all the aid we can to turn their erm military er industry into erm , what was it , instead of guns .
We move to another caller from in Surrey .
What 's your prospective on this ?
Well I really feel very uneasy about present events in Russia and er , particularly on a simplification on world politics what on .
I just feel in an absence of a Russian from the balance of power gonna leave the , the arrogance of the United States totally unchecked .
When you say , talk about the Middle East , are you from that part of the world ?
I am from Iraq , yes .
From , from Iraq .
Yes .
Erm , interesting , president Saddam Hussein has er also deplored er the ending of the coup and the fact that er Gorbachev has backed .
Let me , let me interrupt you here , I must support Saddam Hussein , I don't believe he carried his own policies , I'm concerned about the Iraqi people themselves .
You know I mean this has , this has been used accused Saddam Hussein has er is a , is a supporter of er the coup , but er , the real implication I am talking about is the problem .
Hm , hm .
I think the solution here is , a , a , a , and er future will be totally unbalanced .
You raised a very , very significant issue that I haven't heard much addressed in recent days and we know that there has n't really been a super power of the Soviet Union and any other military sense for the last couple of years .
He has , he has since the Gulf War .
I mean look at , look at the conduct of the Gulf War .
Absolutely , and this is again having enormous implications particularly in the entire world .
.
And now you , you gonna have the whole resources will be totally controlled by one super power .
Geoff Geoffrey Hoskins is it a good thing that we no longer we have too super pow powers viewing for authority and all the rest of it or are you as worried as ?
On the whole I think it 's a , a good thing , er it 's only five or six years ago that an historian called Paul Kennedy published a book saying that America was in decline as a super power , er and in fact I think what 's happening is that er , there are , there are going to be clusters of super powers now in the world and they 're all more modest than American and the Soviet Union were a few years ago .
There 's the United States , there 's Europe , Western Europe , plus central Europe now , there 's Japan and there will be the Ex-Soviet Union in some form , er those arrangements will be complicated , but they will be less ca cataclysmic as it were , the danger will no longer be of Armageddon , there 'll be very serious , could be very serious conflicts that could arise .
just come back .
I don't agree at all .
Sorry .
I don't agree at all .
Do you not think that up to now Middle Eastern countries and some other nations and people as well have been of the super powers in their giant struggle against each other , but now the United States may be able to take er , if you like a more mature and more relaxed attitude .
Maybe .
I am sorry I d d , I agree with you on one one point that the Middle Eastern er , er government that of the super power from , from the reception , but what really happened in the Gulf War is a typical reflection of the injustice of how the war was being conducted .
It was conducted in a in a devastating effect because was totally unchecked and America got the upper hand and they simply played the game by their own favour without giving due consideration to humanitarian or , or even the justice er element and this , this is how the world 's gonna be , and America is an arrogant super power .
What 's .
It 's certainly something we 're all gonna have too er adjust too , thank you for pointing it out that the United States is going to have such enormous influence er from , from now on , we 're all going to have to get used to it and er get used to how to deal with it .
from , from Coventry , what do you feel about what 's been happening in the Soviet Union .
Well the thing that concerns me is the readiness in which er rushing to ban the communist party .
I would rely on Mr Yeltsin and Mr Gorbachev that the only possible way in which they could have reached the eminence they have today is through membership of the party .
There must be many , many able Russians who take the same line as the only way forward could be incorporated in a democratic Russia and very , very substantially contribute to its recovery .
you you , you 've been a communist yourself ?
Let me give you my family history shall I ?
Oh , oh , if you can do it in a sentence .
I 'll do it very quickly .
I am the great grandson of the founder of what is now the greatest , one of the greatest in , in Leningrad .
My name is as you know and company that found these was which was my Uncle and , well erm , about Mr Yeltsin and Mr Gorbachev to lead a Russian political book and I could which was the name of the company today .
Now in this book they will read that the progressive forces of the late eighteen hundreds and the early nineteen hundreds will endeavour to educate the workers from the er , mythological and textile industries were not basically communists .
Let , I .
But were social democrats .
Forgive me I don't want to go back that far , but , but let me just put the point you 've made to Professor Hoskins .
The communist party should not be banned , it is true that many members of it did support er an coup , on the other hand so many people joined the communist party for advancement and it 's not very democratic to ban a party which has had su such power and such membership .
Well first of all it has n't been banned er a suspended it while it 's role in the coup .
Disband it .
Just a moment , suspended it and then Gorbachev , his first secretary has the right to do it , disband the central committee and then what lower party er bodies do is up to them .
However what , what I think is the most important aspect of this , the communist party is not and never has been a party in the normal sense of the term , it 's a closed shop for the ruling establishment of the Soviet Union and therefore it 's quite simply incompatible with politics .
Eighteen months ago it gave up its monopoly of politics but it continued to exist and it continued really as a kind of dog in the manger to prevent the er establishment of normal multi-party politics .
Therefore it seems to me that the communist party really has to disappear , it 's a good thing that it 's own general secretary has disbanded it , I anticipate that it will break up into a number of political parties , perhaps one kind of social democratic party on the left and another , if you like a kind of Russian unionist party , on the right , erm , but as the communist party it 's simply incompatible with the emergence of democracy in the Soviet Union .
Let 's move on if I may to Dr. Nora Worcester calling from Cambridge .
Hello .
Hello Dr. Worcester what do you feel about all this ?
Well , er , I became er , unhappy with the communist party many years ago because it didn't follow the philosophical teaching on which works , the erm , erm , dialectical materialism .
They said that in a political situation , if you had one side you could call it the thesis , say capitalism was the thesis and communism was the other side and that was the antithesis and that these two would one another and it was only when they came together and got their good points both of them adopted , that one was really going to get a satisfactory solution .
Do you think we 've got a satisfactory solution in the Soviet Union ?
Some kind of social democracy in Russia , erm on the other hand in central Asia as for example , I think it 's quite likely that former communists , although they may disavow their former allegiance , will in practice take over as national communist parties and continue to run their economies , well there will be private economies but with a large state sector and run on a pretty tight reign .
So I think the , the answer is we 're going to see a variety of things , there is a tendency I think amongst er Soviet Citizens at the moment to regard the market economy as they used to regard communism , that 's to say there 's a kind of ideal which will bring about universal prosperity , and relief on all their worries .
There is a certain danger there , cos in fact er , the market economy in some ways is not as pleasant as , as that suggests .
Hazel Clarke from Okehampton .
I , I 've been in Germany recently , selling. , I took a number of our British products over and I saw half a ton of my cheeses in the German supermarket .
Also while there I was working from eight in the morning till seven at night .
I was able to talk to the German customer and the people on the floor , who are excessively worried about the number of people coming in from the East , not only East Germany but they 're very , very worried about people coming in from Eastern Europe , and secondly there was so much East European food that was for sale in Germany at very low prices and there 's food that used to go to the Soviet Union .
Now it 's made the people , I have friends in Moscow , who are saying that they are losing a lot of their food supplies , because the West are taking the most throw down prices so that the Yugoslavs and the Romanians can get the goodies they want for us .
Throw down the prices from the West but of course good high real foreign currency for Soviet Union .
Exactly , but also it was food for them .
Hm , hm .
And they are losing their tradition of the food that they have been getting from Eastern Europe .
So what can be done ?
I , I think that we , it 's really like taking chocolate from the mouths of babies , to take food from people in Eastern Europe who are rather desperate .
It really , we need to encourage the trade that Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and if it , one of the former speakers said , we need to give them aid and ascent for people who can , erm , show them what to do .
They need the technical help .
Actually , the speaker that was talking about this was suggesting we give them an enormous amount of real tangible assets , er without it costing us anything .
Now I know , know of no law of economics which would permit that , would you be prepared for us to pay a lot out of tax payers ' resources to give to the Soviet people , to help their economy , to to help them survive this very difficult transition period ?
I don't think it 's so much monies that they need .
What they need is certain products .
It , it comes to the same thing doesn't it ? .
And I un well as I understand it from , from , from the friends in Moscow their , their traditional industries are very archaic , they may have erm , the expertise in , in the armament section , but the other things , what they need is some of our engineers and we 've got a lot of engineers who were working overseas and at the moment aren't .
If we could send some of the people over there , to help them to retrain things and reorganise things .
So , Professor Hoskins that would be a relatively cheap way , it 'll still cost money , but relatively cheap way of , of , of really helping these .
It would be a relatively cheap way , and other things we could also get European Community , this isn't a British problem it is a world problem .
Yes , Professor Hoskin .
Yes , yes we have got some unused resources that could be er , er , diverted towards the Soviet economy , food surpluses for example , the coming winter is going to be very difficult in the Soviet Union and I think direct food aid may well be necessary .
We don't have to worry as much as we used to about its being misused by the party state apparatus for corrupt erm , then of course there 's , them , the , the , the problem of longer term aid , how we help the Soviet Union integrate itself into the world economy .
This is undoubtedly an all European problem , United States , Canada , Japan , everyone else should be involved , er I think we should probably identify with the Soviet 's aid and help , hm , key projects like the conversion of military industry into consumer goods , er , like transport and communications , key areas of the economy where relatively small amounts of investment could produce big returns , and then finally it seems to me we should be extending to the Soviet Union for membership of er , international financial organisations like the world bank and the international monetary fund , whichever in criteria of course for helping countries and for integrating international aid to those countries .
Graham calling from in Sussex , is it the economic aspects that concern you most ?
Yes , well the economic effect on our own country , well when I say under , er Europe , er , with this proposal that er , we have to open up our markets er for the benefit of the Soviet , er because , that is going to cost er , what they 're , what they 're asking for , not only in Soviet but also across Eastern Europe is that the agricultural market , the steel , and the textile market , all the most sensitive areas , should be opened up to them , and that 's going to shed a , a great increase in unemployment er within the , within the common market .
Are you a good old fashion protectionist ?
No , not at all , er , but I , I , I , am someone who believes you 've got to have level playing fields , which we do not have , er or won't have , er with the implementation of the common market er , regardless of any relationship with the Soviet Union in 1992 , er after all to , what has not been published very much , er is that , you know , got to take into account indirect as well as direct and erm , if you look at for instance the United States er which is constantly packing the common market people , which is of course , er
I'm , I'm going to have to cut you off , cos we 're running out of time , but I very much take the point you 're making , that it could 've had this trade effect on us , just in the last ten seconds Professor Hoskin , is it possible to predict what 's going to happen in the Soviet Union over the next six months , is it gonna be for good , or , or , .
It 's quite unusually unpredictable at the moment .
I think the long term results of this are entirely good , but in the short term there 's going to be major instability , making life possibly quite nasty for everyone .
Professor Hoskin , and to all of you who called and listened , thank you until next Tuesday , bye , bye .

Just thinking what we 'll start off with .
I think I 'll give you some homework that you could do for the week .
So it 'll be
Right .
based on , what we do today will be based on
Okay .
technical names of notes and intervals .
Things like that .
don't , can't remember whether we actually any of the technical names of the of the scale before ?
No .
How many notes are there in a scale ?
Eight .
Right .
So each one of those is going to have a a name of its own
Yeah .
with the first and last of course are gonna be called the same thing .
And it 's the tonic .
You , you 've probably heard that name before .
Tonic .
Because I think we 've probably
Yeah .
talked about tonic chords and things like that .
Tonic is the first degree of the scale .
So in the key of C major C will be the tonic .
Er now the next note second is called the supertonic .
It 's immediately above the tonic .
And so would that be like D ?
That , that would be D .
Or in the key of G it would be A .
A .
And so on .
The mediant is the third degree of the scale
Yeah .
and it 's called mediant because it lies exactly half way between the first note and the fifth note which is also a very important note in the scale , which we 'll come to in a minute .
So mediant is the third and it lies between , it 's in the middle in other words .
Subdominant again is the fourth .
And I 'll explain why in a moment .
Fifth is the dominant .
It 's , it 's a very important note .
Dominant means that it 's important doesn't it ?
Yeah .
Er and then the submediant , because it lies halfway between the upper tonic the eighth note of the scale and the subdominant .
So that , that 's called the submediant .
And then the mediant is called the mediant , the mediant because it lies halfway between the tonic and the dominant .
So you 've got the mediant between one and five .
Submediant between
Between
eight and four .
And that actually shows you slightly better .
That little diagram .
If C is the tonic , G is the dominant , so in the middle comes the mediant .
And think of that as the upper tonic .
And that would be F would be the fourth degree .
So that becomes submediant .
Right .
And seventh note is the leading note because it 's leading you up to the tonic again .
Tonic , supertonic , mediant , subdominant .
The lower dominant in other words and it 's
Yeah .
called subdominant because it 's , it 's five notes below the upper tonic .
So the dominant is five notes above the tonic and the subdominant is five notes below the tonic .
Right .
Yeah .
If you like underneath the lower one .
Mhm .
That jus if , if you can keep the th the descriptions in your mind as well it just helps you to , to remember why each one is called that .
Yeah .
Okay and in fact I 've given you part of your homework is to write out the technical names .
With a very brief explanation of , of why .
And you can use this little book for now .
I think , I think we 've got one of those
You may have one of these .
at home certainly .
So you can use use that
can't you ?
I 'll put the page numbers so you 'll be okay there .
The other thing I'm going to talk about are intervals .
I can't remember whether in grade it was three you did wasn't it ?
Yes you 've had to do intervals in oral tests
haven't you ?
So you know things like major second , major thirds .
Erm perfect fourths and perfect fifths ?
Did you have to go as far as that ?
No .
No .
No we didn't .
Right .
Okay .
Let 's refer back to C major scale because it 's the nice easy one .
It 's all white notes .
So there 's nothing to worry about as far as sharps or flats go .
There 's ei the , the eight notes of the C major scale .
C to D is a second .
There are two notes involved so we call it a second .
And that 's a major second because it comes in a major scale .
So it 's C to D , A major second .
C to E
C to E major third .
Major third .
Miss out fourth and fifth for a moment .
Go t to A .
C to A ?
Major sixth .
And C to B ?
B major seventh .
Is a seventh .
And then we 've got an octave .
Right .
The fourths and fifths aren't called major .
They 're called per perfect fourth , perfect fifth .
Right ?
Yeah .
The reason for that is because those two notes also come in the minor scale .
Alright ?
I know the D does as well but the fourths and the fifths always remain perfect .
Okay ?
So you say major second , major third , perfect fourth and fifth , major sixth , major seventh , and octave .
It 's actually called a perfect octave but they never worry about the perfect when you 're talking about an octave .
But it is actually called a perfect octave as well .
Okay .
Besides the major intervals you 've got minor intervals .
If you think about C minor scale .
You 'd have C D E flat F G
F G A flat .
A flat .
The key signature actually has a B flat in it but because in a harmonic minor if you remember you raise that
a semitone that 's a B natural going to C .
Now you still have a major second but you have a minor third which makes it minor scale doesn't it ?
Yeah .
And a minor sixth .
But you 've still got the perfect fourth and fifth .
You 've still got the perfect fourth and the perfect fifth .
Right .
Now with all the oth other intervals you can also have minor seconds , minor sixths and minor sevenths .
Which is why they 're not called perfects .
You can't have minor fourths and fifths .
So fourths and fifths just remain perfects .
Any idea what you do to make all of these other intervals in to a minor interval apart from those two ?
What happened to the third to make it a minor ?
Lowered a semitone .
Right .
So if you do the same thing with a D .
Erm .
You have C to
D flat .
D flat .
That becomes a minor second .
Right .
There 's the minor third with E flat .
Fourths and fifths you don't have minors .
You don't have .
Right
Now .
That 's the sixth .
Minor sixth .
The seventh to make it minor you would
B flat .
put a B flat in .
And that gives you the other minor interval .
So you 've then got a minor second , a third , a sixth and a seventh .
Right .
Now all of the intervals also have what is called an augmented interval and a diminished interval .
What do you think a diminished interval will do ?
To a minor interval .
Erm
What , what happens if you diminish something ?
You put it down .
Right so it gets smaller .
Yes .
And if you augment
something ?
It gets bigger .
It gets bigger .
Right .
So .
You 've taken that down a semitone to to make it minor .
To make it diminished you just take it down another semitone .
Take it down another semitone .
In fact you
So
wouldn't hear any difference between that
So .
Yes it 's C C .
and , but you must call it D double flat .
Because it
Oh right .
must have , if it has n't got another letter name then it 's not a second is it ?
Yeah .
So C to D double flat .
It 'll sound the same note .
So you can only see it on paper .
You can only , you , you wouldn't know that it you were hearing a C to a C , you wouldn't know you were actually hearing a diminished second would you ?
Because it 's the same note .
Right .
What about
Would they would they write it like that in the music ?
It would be written like that sometimes if
It would .
yo if they 're changing key
Yeah .
they might put a double sharp or a double flat that but would be the same note .
But that 's just a way of changing key .
It will actually show up though once you 've
What about the , what do you think a diminished third is going be ?
A diminished third will be a D .
But you 've got ta call it E something otherwise it 's a second
E double flat .
isn't it ?
Yeah .
Okay .
So if you want it to beco to be a third you 've still got to make it an E and call it a double flat .
Now you can also have diminished intervals for the fifths and fourths .
Fourths and fifths .
Alright .
So what do you think a diminished fourth will be from C ?
A diminished fourth would be diminished F double flat which would be played as an E flat .
Now will it ?
Remember there 's no minor interval so you can just go
Oh yes .
straight to an F flat .
F flat .
Yeah .
It 'll be , it 'll be played as an E but of course it 's actually actually an F flat .
Okay ?
As you don't have to go through a minor interval just go one semitone lower and
Yeah .
it becomes diminished for the fourths .
Same thing for a fifth .
Yeah .
It 'd be a G flat .
Just an ordinary G flat and that becomes a diminished fifth .
Erm and A C to , to A .
C to A would be A double flat which would on a keyboard be a G .
G .
Right .
And what about a diminished seventh ?
Diminished seventh would be played as an A .
And it would be called
Be B double flat .
a B double flat .
That 's it .
Fine .
That 's , those are the diminished intervals .
What about the augmented intervals ?
Go up a semitone .
Right .
so an augmented second
Second
will be ?
Do you have to go through the minor ?
No .
Because you 're getting
No .
bigger .
Oh yeah .
So it 's going the other way .
Right .
So that would be a D sharp .
A D sharp .
a second .
And a third will be ?
It 'll be an E sharp .
Which will of course just be played as an F .
Yeah .
Must be called an E sharp .
Then we come to the fourth .
That 's the F sharp .
And fifth ?
G sharp .
And the sixth ?
A sharp .
They 're much easier this way round because you haven't got to go through the minor at all to reach them .
What about a B ?
That 'd be a B sharp .
Which of course is played as C .
Played as C .
So again you wouldn't know you were n't playing an octave .
But on paper you can see that you 're intending it as a an augmented interval .
Then of course you don't have to worry about the octave .
You could actually have an augmented first .
Which would be the C sharp .
Mm .
That 's a bit silly .
It 's an interval you 'd never see but I mean theoretically you could have that .
The augmented intervals are quite easy because you 're only going one semitone greater than what , than the note that appears in the major scale aren't you .
But to get a diminished interval you 've got to remember that if you can have a minor interval , you 've got to go one semitone less than that minor interval .
Right .
Which is two whole semitones less than the major interval
Yeah .
isn't it ?
Aha .
Except for the fourth and fifth which is easy cos that 's just one semitone less .
Mm .
They 're not really so complicated as perhaps they might look in the first place .
If you
just keep it clearly in your mind that you can have erm major intervals .
Anything that appears in the major scale is a major interval or a perfect fourth and fifth .
Okay .
And then you 're gonna have a minor interval from each of the major intervals .
A diminished interval from any of the intervals .
Yeah .
And an augmented from any of the intervals as well .
Right .
So if you 're in the key of F major .
What 's the key signature of F major ?
F major , it 's a B flat .
Nice easy one to start with .
So there is the tonic .
Let 's call it by its proper name , tonic .
Tonic .
What would a perfect fourth be ?
Perfect fourth it 's erm
First of all letter names .
It 's , it 's a C .
That 's a fifth .
Remember you have
Oh is it ?
Yeah .
to include the first note .
It 's er it 's er a B flat .
So it 's B flat .
So a perfect fourth is that .
Right .
I 'll I 'll put the flat in front of the note so that you can see it .
What about an augmented fifth ?
Augmented fifth would be a C sharp .
Right .
What about a diminished fifth ?
Diminished fifth would be a C flat , a B .
That 's right but don't forget it must be
Yeah .
called
C flat .
C flat .
So that 's a diminished one .
Minor seventh ?
Minor seventh is a B flat .
No a erm A .
That 's a fourth .
Oh yeah .
Well an A
would be a third but B flat would be a fourth .
B flat .
Now you want a seventh remember .
Oh you 're going from the other
It 's erm E flat .
E flat that 's right .
What about an augmented seventh ?
Augmented is erm E sharp .
Which would be played as an F .
E sharp .
What about a let 's have one more , A minor sixth ?
A minor sixth .
That 's erm D flat .
A D flat .
Right you just have to remember that whatever key you 're in , you 've got to remember the sharps or flats from that key .
Cos those will be the major or perfect
Yeah .
intervals won't they ?
And then you 've got to add or take away .
Er if you er if you had to have an augmented fourth what would you do ?
Augmented fourth .
It would put it up a semitone , so it would be a normal B .
A normal B .
If you had a key signature you would have to remember to make that a natural wouldn't you ?
Yeah .
But if it 's got no key signature you wouldn't need to bother to put anything in at all .
Cos inevitably it would just be a a diminished fourth .
Right .
The other part of your homework I 've given you to do , is to write down all of the intervals that you can possibly have .
But based on the key of G .
I gave them all to you based on the key of , of C Now .
C .
But if you write them all down first of all starting with C .
And then going to D which would be the major second .
And so on .
I 've put major second , minor second , diminished second , augmented second .
And so on .
And then the third and then the third and a fourth and a fifth and so on all the way through .
Erm .
If you get used to writing those out .
And then the next time I 'll probably give you some intervals and ask you what they are .
I 'll actually start writing out things for you to do as homework .
And I 've also got a book that we can use .
I 've got grade four and grade five which are quite useful .
But I find it more useful actually to write out the things I want you to actually do .
Er .
And then I shall find out quite quickly what you don't understand .
So what we 've got to spend more time on .
What you do understand so we won't bother to spend as much time on .
Cos there are quite a lot of other things as well that we 've got ta deal with .
In fact we 've got to deal with everything that comes in this particular book .
And there 's quite a lot of it .
The other one of the , one of the things that people find very difficult , the learning all the words they expect you to know .
The Italian terms .
And the French terms now they 've added .
And some German ones .
And there are pages of them .
Quite a number of pages .
What sort of things ?
Like erm poco a poco all , all those different speeds .
Yes .
Erm .
Allegro , andante , everything .
And they do actually now add , they only used to give you Italian terms , they 've now add added quite a lot of the French ones and the German ones .
I can never remember the German ones .
French ones I don't have any trouble with .
Most of the Italian ones I don't have any trouble with .
But I can not remember the German ones .
But I 've never had to use them .
You might find those easier .
Do you do German at school ?
Yeah I do .
I do French and German .
You 'll probably find you won't have quite as much trouble as I do with them .
But I 've never had to worry about them so I , I 've never really got on and learnt them .
That 's , that 's what it boils down to .
And there are a lot of them .
You know they 're all things that you , they d expect you to know .
And they do ask you questions on quite a lot of them .
And there are pages of them to learn .
Er .
You 've got to know quite a lot about rhythm .
All the different time signatures that there are , which will include everything
Two four three four
Two four three four
four four
Yes .
which is the crotchets .
Then you 've got erm six eight things like that , where it 's quavers .
Six eight you 've got to be careful with because you 're in to a different type of time .
Erm
And you go one one two three four five six .
And those are comp what we call compound time .
Yes .
Erm .
It 's , it 's the same time as three four
You have t you have two types of time
but you count the quavers rather than the crotchets .
It 's not quite like that actually .
Six eight time is actually two time .
But the beats are divided or shared out into three .
Oh it 's in triplets .
Er they 're not actually triplets no .
Oh .
They 're , they 're , they 're six to tell you you have six quavers in a bar .
It 's true .
But they 're in two groups of three .
Like that .
And what it actually means if you see them like that it actually means that there are two beats in a bar and they 're dotted beats
Oh right .
er as opposed to two beats in a bar that are not dotted .
Just writ
And that 's just called two four .
That 's two time , two dotted beats in a bar .
It 's called compound time because they 're not beats that can be divided into two .
They go into three you see .
If you have nine eight it 's the same thing as saying three beats in a bar .
Three beats in a bar .
But they 're three dotted crotchet beats , or nine quavers in a bar .
And they 're grouped in threes .
The compound time is grouped in threes .
The ordinary simple time grouped in twos or the beats can be divided into twos .
What 's divide actually means in twos is that you share it
Mm .
equally if you divide something .
Erm you can also have six four time .
What do you think six four time might mean ?
Six four .
Erm it 's
Well there are gonna be six somethings
Yeah .
in the bar .
It 's
Six what ?
What does the four stand for ?
It 's crotchets .
Six crotchets .
Right .
So .
Let 's write it down and you can see , six , there are six crotchets in a bar .
Now remember if it 's got six at the top it means it 's in two time .
So divide that bar into two and then make each one of those into a dotted beat .
And what do you get ?
Erm
You could make a dotted something out of that group of three notes .
Mm .
Yeah .
Erm you have what is it ?
A dotted now that was a dotted those three notes were a dotted crotchet .
Yeah .
So three do so three crotchets will become one dotted ?
Minim .
Minim .
So six four time means two dotted minim beats in every bar .
Right .
So it 's two time .
What about nine eight or nine four ?
Nine four we 'd better do hadn't we ?
Nine four .
It 's erm nine , it 's nine
for crotchets .
nine crotchets
Or three ?
Or three dotted minims .
Dotted minims in a bar .
These are the things people get very confused about .
That there are two basic different types of time .
Compound time .
Simple time .
These are the compound ones the six eights , nine eights , six fours , nine fours , twelve .
You can have twelve as well .
Twelve is four beats in a bar .
You can also get it with twos can't you ?
So you 'd have like four two which would be
You could , yes you could do .
minims .
Do you get it with semibreves ?
No .
It 's unlikely .
No .
I suppose theoretically again you could have but it 's , it 's not a
Yeah .
not a usual one cos that would make a very
Yeah .
very long bar and
Eight .
er but you can definitely have you can have six sixteen if you wanted .
Nine sixteen .
Six sixteen would be what ?
Erm it would be
Six what
Semiquavers .
Six semiquavers .
In other words two dotted quavers
Yeah .
in a bar .
What would be the equivalent simple time signature to that ?
The equivalent simple erm
Remember six means
Yeah .
It 's two
two beats in a bar .
So we know the top number 's got ta be two .
Two .
It 's two four .
Erm
Erm no .
oh
just two quavers in a bar .
Two quavers .
Which is two ?
Two eight .
Eight .
Instead of having two dotted quavers , two ordinary quavers would be eight .
It 's not a time signature you see very often but again you can , you could have it .
Right .
Or that one would be three four wouldn't it ?
And that one would be three two .
Three minims in a bar .
Three over two .
We 'll go into those in a lot more detail when , when the time comes .
But if you can , if you can understand the difference between simple time and the compound time and er try not to muddle the fact that six eight does not mean that there are six quaver beats in a bar , but it means that there are two dotted beats , and two dotted crotchet beats in a bar and try and get that into your head as soon as you can you 're gonna find it a lot easier .
So many people find it very very difficult , to sort out the difference between simple times and compound times .
If you could basically thr remember to that there are two beats , three beats in a bar , four beats in a bar , five beats in a bar , whatever .
But even in compound time you still have two beats in a bar , three beats in a bar , four beats in a bar .
But they 're dotted beats .
As opposed to simple time which is ordinary single beats .
Erm you 'll hav have plenty of opportunity of writing them down and erm you 'll be given a lot of extracts of music like you probably were in that book
Mm .
and asked to put the time signature in .
Of course they get more complicated don't they once you 've got compound times , and , as well as simple times .
And that one had bar lines ,
which is the same sort of thing .
You 've got to know what the time
Yeah .
signature means haven't you ?

I just remembered junction thirteen .
Fourteen .
Right .
Oh !
I dunno know what to do with this .
So you know what you did last year ?
Nope .
I dunno what to do
Just stay here .
with this .
I reckon you should speak to Mr and see where they went .
They might cause more trouble than that .
Mm .
You might be right .
Aye .
Depends what
Actually , we 've seen it before but they 've got a huge big and it didn't look that big .
Mhm .
I mean , it 's much wider than there .
It 's like , something like mine , the back end
Aye .
of the chairs .
Er , probably .
And it didn't squeak a lot though .
Much better isn't it ?
Well I 'd just got it in , and the doorbell went , it was Berty and Joke , Joke had on his uniform and all
Mhm .
that .
Er Joke went to Berty , and he says well you better tell her , you 've arranged it all !
What 's wrong ?
What is it ?
He says , well he 'll tell you , you know .
Well what is it then ?
And er he says well Berty 's arranged for a van to sa to get this suite .
So I says when ?
When ?
He says , as soon as possible .
I said , well how soon 's that ?
And I thought , oh gee !
She says half five ?
Jesus Christ !
This is only what , ten to five .
God !
doesn't leave me with much time .
So er says right , I 'll see you later , and just as we 'd gone away Joke got back out the car er , and she says don't worry about the money .
And I said , I 've got it there .
And er , she said I didnae worry you and er he turned round and just leave it there , so I think it he 's coming to get it Saturday .
So that
Yeah .
settles that .
Yeah .
It was er Dave 's brother , oh er Andy .
Mhm .
His brother .
It 's was about quarter past eight when he comes in .
Berty just got here .
Mhm .
Well if he 's done the building then , yeah .
Carole 's got it .
Cos she 's got this and exchange
it .
Aye .
Cos she 's got a hundred pound
That 's right .
that 's why she 's swapping .
My er , cos I don't
Aha .
It was actually alright apart from the cushions on the couch .
Aye .
They were very well that
Worn .
one 's .
Cos they 're the same , it 's , you know , roughly the same .
Does she want
Yeah .
So the
I'm talking about having the bloody money to do this , you know .
Yeah .
So when they brought the seat back it was about quarter quarter to six I think .
I think they got all in including the settee I think .
Mhm .
And I offered them a fiver to pay o for the van but they didn't take it .
It was very nice , very .
But you have to take it
Do you want a cup of coffee .
I didn't even eat tea nothing because by the time hoovered and they were away .
Mhm .
Then they went away about six .
And er Kelly saw the ra Neighbours .
So I put the dinner on just after Neighbours finished , I thought they 'd go .
They did eventually go out of the house but he was about done and then he comes in five to seven .
last night ?
Aye , he would be .
Oh .
Cos he come
Aha .
straight to bed with a Lemsip .
Well , Morris didn't come in last night , but her car was there
Mhm .
till very , very late .
Erm , and I spoke to her in , in Tina 's car and she was caught out .
Oh .
Kelly didn't make them quarter to ten comes in .
It was late though .
Quite hoarse though .
Ste Steven I mean .
But he didnae tell me that he , he has telled me in a way .
Aye .
I just want to know what why
Is Ben , is
why , why he done that , you know .
But he said that Alec denied it , whatever it was .
But Margaret told me well it was years ago up at the Germany , says his wife left him .
Mm .
He went up , and it 's first time he 'd seen her for a while and she said something about , oh he was supposed to have something but he got to hear this well it 's got nothing to do with all the others .
Cos Alec said something to me about Maggie .
I says , well what ?
Ah , I don't understand it because Margaret , Alec got on well with Margaret .
Maybe they both knew that is , I don't know .
See Margaret was going to be , be erm what d'ya call it ?
Like what I had .
Mhm .
He was married at the time but he wasnae .
Mhm .
He had a flat over I think it was .
And he came , Alec thought she was a bit abrupt like , but she was alright .
Didnae offend , and didnae offend me .
Was that , are they ma are they married ?
Yeah .
Aye they , they didn't know .
Mhm .
But I mean they phoned and that so , he cannae have been
Aha .
well you probably find it 's
Well she never got in contact with me again .
And meeting her again , she was married .
Mhm .
He told erm I think it was Berty that tell Alec .
Or Berty telled somebody and it
Mhm .
looks really anyway , eventually .
I think they 're going to move down south .
I think it was Kerry that tell us .
Black Kerry ?
And er Margaret never got her money back from er , for .
Ah , but you never found it was Berty 's son that co you know what he 's like .
Exactly .
It 's , Margaret probably said that .
Well that 's what Lucy said , that it wouldnae lasted too long , I mean , it was over a year .
But er Berty said it would have only lasted a couple of weeks , cos Alec won't talk .
But it was Berty getting stuck on the it did go on for so long .
Mhm .
You probably find he said something to her .
Anyway , and I were n't gonna say that to him .
He says to her aye , he says , I could tell you a few things about Fiona that 'll make your hair curl .
I says , I bet you could n't .
He says , I bet you I could .
I said , don't talk .
And er this was him trying to get off the subject when he was getting a bit nervous I think .
Well you better get ready .
Go for a bath .
You just go like this .
This .
Oh you mean if you , , I says I was getting that for years Berty .
He was really taken aback cos he says to me , you didn't tell anybody , then you Joe .
Well kind , what kind did she say ?
I think she 's getting worse !
But he thought this is a big surprise then .
Especially when he was trying to get off with her .
Aye .
Aye , that 's .
It 's nice to let us know .
Ah .
You get us used to it .
What are you gonna do , go and tell them ?
Give him a this afternoon .
Er tell him then .
Twenty .
I 'll charge six from silver .
Mhm .
Six , six , seven
Twenty .
I saw Steph today .
I haven't a , I haven't got a clue what to get her .
See .
Well not bad , not a bad idea sometimes
I know .
is it ?
Better that than buying summat for
Well either
all I could is , I 'll get Tracy summat to wear and you got time , and she picks like a blouse , she 'd pay a hundred pound for one .
Oh right .
She wastes her money all the time on clothes .
She has to go to Next , nowhere else .
Or Wallis 's at a push .
I think and I keep thinking well I'm not going in there buying her anything .
I was just looking at some of the prices they want for the property .
It 's ridiculous !
Yeah .
For a leasehold just the offers over eighty five thousand .
Did you read that one ?
No contact .
Right .
What 's that , terms ?
The job .
Next week .
Aye .
Unless there 's hotel a desk .
.
Right .
Can I have your second name please ?
Pick it up
Yep .
Hello dear .
Right .
Mhm .
Mhm .
Yeah .
Yep .
How are you for er , do you want one of everything ?
Right then .
Mhm .
Right .
Yeah .
Eighteen .
Right .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Right .
Right .
Right then Anne .
No juice ?
No juice ?
Right then Anne .
Right .
Bye .
There you are .
Thank you .
And can you can you book me that for
That 's the name , .
What 's Monday 's date ?
The third ?
Third .
Yeah .
Suggested there 's been a hundred and fifty grand allocated to the factory for er foundations and extension .
And they suggested it ?
Yeah ?
I'm not sure wha
Mhm .
over , over what 's the time period .
I mean that if it 's over like two years make quite a difference though .
Yeah .
Well they said that it is going to cost about seventy five to get the kitchen done .
Mhm .
And the outside with er they say say a hundred thousand tops for er including getting a a kiosk made up to a a food bar .
Yeah .
But then again , it depends if till they build an extension out in the back , it 'll cost a fortune .
Er
Are you getting all this up to scratch for ninety three ?
I would imagine so , yeah .
Mm mm .
Cos after that they 'll be fitting their own here .
They 're getting the region to do that .
Yeah .
Er well it 's only what I 've heard it 's
See how it goes .
Aye
it 's not
it 's not on paper yet .
Mm .
Jim came this morning .
What 's that ?
Er Jim the joiner .
Aha .
The girls were wanting something done , partitioned off up the back or something for the draught coming under
Yeah .
Yeah .
the communal
Yeah .
We never had one of the proper forms so he 's coming back later with forms with us you see .
Yeah .
He 's got ta come back in the morning but he never said that .
Have you finished , totalled up the rolling ?
I , I ha I haven't done it yet .
No .
Right .
I 'll do it .
I thought I 'd give you it .
I have the shifts to do over here .
A I was doing my er
Yeah .
the sheets and all stuff like that .
I 'll draw up that sheet for er they 'll probably start Monday the twelfth .
The Coke machine 's out of Coke .
Right .
So yo er
I 'll fill out a , I 'll take about six case up .
I think it 's about four cases to go up four or five cases .
Did you have them that big ?
Yeah .
You did ?
Yeah .
Aye .
Yeah , I was watching it .
That 's it .
Wait till you see them done .
And hear about all the ?
Yeah .
Yep .
And make the both the coffees and chocolate size and er
Just filled them up this morning .
It must be the way you 're doing the machine .
Tuesday .
I 'll , I 'll write it down and put a sticker up on the wall .
I 've got the dentist at half past four .
So I dinnae forget .
You know how you said you 'd work Tuesday
Oh right .
Yeah .
for me , so , I 've arranged to go back to the dentist then .
Had to phone them last night .
I meant to phone them on Wednesday when I got in .
Yes and Billy comes in on a Tuesday .
Yes .
I was telling Steven , he says it 's about time some of them 's done well .
Cos he 's got ta end up getting I wonder
Well it 's
what it 'll be like ?
it 's for her good
The night after that .
and it 's
Yeah .
and it 's also for er everyone else 's is good .
Mhm .
Cos
It 's not that , but , every time he came he came near us George was saying coming out with an excuse , er that 's a phone for you .
Erm
Yeah .
accounts is on the phone .
You know , and he and you 're hiding .
That 's the thing , the thing is like , and like er , he 's Billy 's been given a lot of scope though , erm , to just go out and do his own thing and he thinks like a , as a , I was speaking to like his er course tutor and it is erm Councillor and Katie was saying that Billy thinks that because he 's got , he 's got this , this wee job now that like , he 's er he 's the street cred you know , he 's cool .
Mhm .
But he 's not .
Erm and he seems to think that er er , because he 's got this freedom and he 's got this street cred that like er , wo women will just fall over him .
And go out and spend his money .
Well that 's it , you know
Mm .
so erm er th the thought , the thought did occur to me that perhaps one of these times he 's gonna actually go beyond just like talking , and perhaps touching somebody .
Mhm .
Erm which is , a definite no-no .
Cos I mean , he 's starting to make a beeline for Carol now and she 's getting the creeps about it .
Well , that 's er , that 's why
Mhm .
it 's being knocked on the head now .
Before he gets any serious And er , er Fiona one of his tutors upstairs , she 's like er , the floor manager as well , yeah ?
Mhm .
mentioned get some of the staff .
Right .
So he 'll probably get I think he , he goes to the class first , then come , and he comes downstairs .
So as soon as he gets told he 'll be
He 'll be straight down .
He 'll be straight down .
Mm .
Expecting to see you .
Mhm .
So
He 'll get a shock !
It 's not that though , er , I mean I 've worked with a mental handicap and , it gets to the stage whe like you say though I'm not just touching you , I'm just And the strength they 've got , you 're their strength .
Aye .
Well since he got the er , male nurse sat .
Mhm .
He 's been , said that to his wife there touching you up at his side .
Aye .
I mean it 's a shame somebody 's getting sacked because of him .
Well I mean I , apparently he 'd been giving this , this guy stick like all day .
And you can only take so much .
And eventually rap rapped his face and called him a effing person like , you know , it 's
Mm .
and this guy got him by the throat and pinned him to the wall and said Billy shut up !
Or you 'll be seen by an auxiliary ?
Mhm .
And Billy complained and and said yeah I saw it .
The guy was sacked .
So after that he got a bit cocky .
Erm
I mean there 's times I could just take Billy and just but then you have to think , no .
Yeah .
can't be done .
Calm down .
That 's right .
I thought Billy we wa would have been in by now .
What 's that ?
I thought the work would have been here .
What is this ?
Right .
Can I have some cash ?
What ?
What er Sandy what happened about the hot sweets today was the su I had six customers all came in , they all saw the strudel and they said , oh , we 'll have strudel .
Chris said , she said well she didnae mind going down for it .
So every one that I brought up was sold .
Aye .
Tell them , it 's just the way it is , that was how things have gone .
Yeah , no I meant this hot sweet er , erm erm there 's one or two that 's saying that er er every five or ten minutes , I thought well
No , no .
No .
you 're gonna have doing it instead
No , I only got , because I knew he was coming back up
Yeah .
wi more food , so I
Aha .
asked him if he 'd bring up six sweets , I never bothered him before .
Yeah , that 's er , certainly Michael .
Hope hopefully ah , er these guys are getting
Alright .
puds today .
But
A apparently they were in the college yesterday but they er could n't find , went away again .
It 's their problem .
What happened , what happened with the sweets then ?
Oh it 's stupid !
What ?
Well there was six customers wanting , all wanting , right fine , I'm not getting it
Yeah .
and I explained to them that it really wouldnae be piping hot , and then John came up with stuff and the custard
Mhm .
and cos he paid him twice for that , their sweets , and John was coming up , so , I don't know if it was genuine , asked him and I cos I knew John was coming up
Aye .
and I knew I had orders for them all , Katriane .
Mhm .
with them .
And so she come in and that .
No , I can see it 's alright , it 's alright .
And er
Cos that was only just ten minutes going back .
I thought erm , oh well cos like , I explained yesterday there was no way we could have them because of there was only the pair .
This is stupid !
Mm .
And I thought , you know , .
Yeah .
So there 's
you see ?
sixty pence , and six , and it 's three pound sixty .
And they 're all ordered , they 're all for different people cos John is coming up with sweets .
Mm .
That 's what I said to him .
He 's just touchy with everyone .
I mean , the thing is Katriane , it wasnae putting him out !
And it wasn't putting anybody else out !
But it was absolutely .
Oh well , John John .
Mhm .
He says , I'm not just running round for six hot sweets !
And I mean
Mm .
like that , touchy .
Oh !
He had bad news and he , he wanted to talk to you about it at twelve o'clock .
But you know , working with
Aye .
I know .
I know .
But I thought , after all , I'm gonna like that at all .
No .
To her , I'm not gonna get called out the back
No .
especially when I had customers standing .
Aye .
That 's right .
He sent his upstairs and he talked through that intercom to me , I says put your , you didnae press the button !
Like that , I was shouting him .
And he keeps pressing it and you , cannae hear him .
That 's it .
Because you get , all you do is , is press that button up there and let it go and you can talk .
Aye .
It 's that you 've got to put on , so
Aye .
you hear
Aye .
or talk .
To talk you press it in .
But upstairs he presses it in as well , and I , I'm not hearing
Aye .
it 's muffled .
Aye .
And he sa and he said to me one day , are you fucking deaf !
And I heard it .
I says , I haven't got any , and he came down here and I said to him , I 'll give you fucking deaf alright !
I said , when you press that button upstairs it muffles it and there 's nothing you can do .
Oh right !
I didn't realize that .
I said , well fine .
But lucky I 've said .
I know .
I thought , if you shout that I'm fucking deaf again I'm going to bash you !
Ignore him .
I just ignore his sentiments , that 's what I do .
Ah .
I don't really throw
I know .
The only thing I 've do I thought , oh no , I know when , I 've no do I feel I 've no done anything wrong .
I know .
And it seems that if I go Steve , right , bring me up a dozen sweets and I haven't selled one of them well that would be
enough .
Aye .
Well that 's , but not when I 've just sold six .
Right !
Ooh !
Aha .
Ah ! my leg .
I 'll put them in the file .
That 's it .
Cos they 've been building up like that and they 're bound to fall down .
Do you want them to do a menu rotation or keep making them up every week ?
Like do a twelve week menu cycle ?
I 've tried that .
All it does is .
But wha what we 've go got ta watch out for is like er there 's plenty there though , and like
Mhm .
always like , quite when they re repeat the same thing the week after .
Mhm .
So it 's ham and mushroom by chicken and ham ?
I bet she does it .
Er , what 's the soup today ?
Er spring veg .
Has it got meat stock in it ?
No , veg .
I 'll probably just have some soup .
Erm it 's there 's some things we we 're okay to do .
Mhm .
Or a , you see the same every week .
Er
But if we get them to sit down and actually do the cycle you know , so they do it
Yeah .
theirself .
I 've found that in the past
Ah .
erm I think we were working on a six week cycle
Mhm .
the last time .
Cos it seems to be , th do , going okay just now .
I mean
Mhm .
erm
a couple of days they seem to have two big sellers on as well and then one , one day
Yeah .
there 's you 're not so , not a good seller on any of the food .
Well spaghetti bolognaise and
Mhm .
chilli , has , has , has never really been er , big sellers
A big seller .
here .
Course then I mean , you don't have chilli , you can
Mhm .
if , if you try and do enchiladas or
Mhm .
erm
Tacos ?
tacos .
I mean we we , we 've got taco shells , but I find that the taco shells have kinda got a wee funny taste to them .
Mm mm .
Erm
That 's the cheap ones though .
Yeah .
Heavily shred your lettuce and you 've got tomato on as well , and it 's and cheese or whatever you
Mm .
want .
If I was the one doing chilli
Yes .
God !
I'm not gonna eat all that !
Ah you will , you will , done it before .
I 've got to use a knife .
We 'll see in a minute .
Mhm .

Well , good afternoon , everybody , I think we 'd better get started .
We looked so thin on the ground , I thought we 'd sit and wait and see if everyone 's coming , but erm we 'll have to get started anyway .
We 'll welcome , we have two speakers , Mr Bob Plumtree , and Ms Erica Ison .
We asked them to the meeting and we look forward to listening to you later on in the agenda .
The minutes of the meeting held in January .
Any corrections to the minutes first ?
Page 1 ?
Page 2 ?
Page 3 ?
Yes , Judith Gaffan I believe , erm not Judith Gaffon , whatever that meant , it 's
Spelling mistake .
Yes , she 'd like her name spelt
Yes , right .
Could you spell it out then , correctly .
G A F F A N
’ A’’N’ , ah , thank you very much .
Page 4 ?
Page 5 ?
There 's a small typographic error , a line up from the bottom , fluoride should have a’ u’before the’o’ , rather than the’o’before the’u’ , to make it’fluo’ , not’flour’ .
Yes , I
Page 6 , 7 .
’ Matters arising’ , Page one , page two , page three ?
On page two , the recommendation
four ?
Yes , please , I wondered just quickly erm the letter to the foreign office , has there , can we see a copy of this ?
erm We haven't as yet , erm the problem is I don't normally deal with the sub- committee , the person that 's that should be dealing with it is not here today , so I 've been unable to track down a copy of this letter .
Ah , I was just going to say , if it hadn't already been done , erm Friends of the Earth will be perfectly willing to do that..
Yes , erm I 'll check that up , I'm sorry about that .
Certainly I think I mentioned 2 .
A : points discussed at the public transport sub-committee .
That 's right , I 've actually got the draft with me .
Have you ?
Yes please .
This was discussed at Public Transport at its last meeting , and there 's quite a lot of preamble , but basically erm in response to this request , erm Mr Townsend said that he reported the bus and coach council was looking at the question of pollution and green issues generally , and was about to produce a document suggesting ways forward .
The bus industry as a whole was very conscious of the problem of pollution , and were trying to provide solutions as far as it could .
Mr Brunhead , who represented Thames Transit Limited stated that the City Council could just be proud of what it had done , for public transport , and he was aware that the city council was looking again at the balanced transport policy , and ways of making the city centre more viable for bus and for public transport .
He stated that the bus companies wanted to reinstate the dual bus lanes , and that these should be extended , and that traffic generally in the city centre should be reduced , and that public transport should be encouraged .
erm Mr Brunhead also said that his company were investigating the possibility of fitting ceramic filters to its vehicles to cut out pollution .
The City reported that City Council was in the process of reviewing the which included the updating of the balance of transport policy , and that this would be submitted to the Highways and Traffic Committee in the next few months .
Any matters arising on Page 5 ? erm page 6 ? erm We have a response on 49/2 , on the front page of the agenda from the allotments sub-committee .
erm There does seem to be a sort of slight discrepancy in the idea of us trying to have a nice clean city and then the people on the allotments committee continuing to build bonfires. erm And it is possible that they perhaps , they haven't in fact any alternative way of getting rid of their rubbish , on the allotments site .
That either they haven't been able to think about it very carefully , not looking at the real options , or haven't got an electric point , so they can't have an electric shredder , or whatever the appropriate way of dealing with the more sort of shrubby erm waste that they 're likely to have .
There was a leaflet wasn't there about bonfires ?
We haven't actually , I haven't actually seen one .
Did it go , was it a leaflet that the allotment sub-committee had ?
No Jan , I understand some information published from the company Double Day Research Association , erm including a leaflet and erm if you recall chair , we were asked about producing a leaflet for some time ago .
We haven't actually produced one yet , but it 's something that we sort of erm attempted
So hopefully , by we will be able to reconsider whether or not they can cut out bonfires on the certainly on the larger allotments
Yes
Anything else ?
Are we talking about that now ?
Have you something to add to it ?
Yes , I 've got an allotment actually in the city , and I compost most of my stuff , as most of you 'll be aware , this is by far the best way of dealing with it .
As far as I'm aware , the only reason to actually light a fire , make a fire is actually to kill pests , and disease , erm maybe , but those should be in relatively small amounts , so those do need to be incinerated to make sure they 're killed properly .
If you 've got big compost , then maybe the heat of the compost might kill them , but as much as that , it will probably just rejuvenate them .
So , that might be something to bear in mind , that it 's not just the negative part , get rid of the excess sort of organics , but it 's to get rid of cure disease .
It there may need a press release which gives out a more balanced view to go out .
Could be a need for a press release on that then , could n't we , Chris .
Any last minute contributions According to the
I heard a statement from the environmental health officer about what was being done on the environment , current position of the state , are we aiming to see that one ?
Sorry , what page are we on ?
Page seven of the minutes , last minutes .
Oh , erm yes indeed we have , erm it 's that was a report which I 've put to Local Government Information which was in fact written by or contributed by officer Roy Holt and on the to erm have a look at that , have a copy of it I mean .
Is that the same as the association of District Councils ?
No , they 're doing one on their own , no , we 'll come back to that later on .
This one is .
This is Local Government Information unit , which is funded from all of the Local Authority Associations , and they have taken an interest in the passing of the environmental bills and they ran , we do give them some help , which we did .
So this is erm
Separate organisation .
Is this a national initiative ?
It 's not a government one , a Local Authority organisation .
In fact that 's essentially a worth-while sort of .
Are we going to go back again to Didcot Power Station in the meeting ?
Sorry ?
Are we going to go back again to Didcot Power Station in the meeting , or are
Yes , it 's on the agenda .
No urgent business ?
Item 5 , Lucy 's .
Perhaps I 'll just explain what this is about , chairs , it 's not very self- explanatory .
If you recall , there was an explosion at Lucy 's erm just over a year ago , last March , erm when there was an explosion in their Air-Filtration plant .
Following on after that , we had a public meeting to which erm Mrs Dick was invited , and about 90 members of the public .
And erm this sub-committee asked for the C H O .
to write to the Health and Safety Executive asking for a report on their findings of their investigation into the causes of the explosion , and erm after several letters , if you recall at the last meeting I was asked to write to MPs and so forth .
I didn't need to write to MPs because within two days of the meeting , this letter appeared .
And the letter is tells me basically that they 've not been able to find out what the cause of the explosion was , and that there has n't been any further explosion since .
What I can also tell you is that Lucy 's engaged the erm British Cast Iron Research Association to carry out a survey , and they tried to repeat the circumstances of the explosion , and they could n't do so .
They just could not repeat what transpired .
So , I think we 're no nearer forward to having a reason for the explosion , but erm there has n't been one since .
Any questions on that ?
I have a comment .
It seems that the length of time in them answering reflects the fact that all these sort of pollution inspectorates and Health and Safety Executives are understaffed .
You know , because of cut-backs , and that 's probably the reason why , it 's a hell of a long delay isn't it , three or four months or so .
And there isn't really an answer , this is just an assumption that it was .
It could happen again , you just don't know .
Well , if they really tried to do it again and they failed , there 's not much else that we could ask them to do is there ?
Anyway , we know what the situation is a little bit .
Item 6 , Mr Bob Plumtree , would you like to give us some more information about saving the rainforests .
erm Would you like me to give you information , or would you like to ask me questions , and maybe I can try and answer them , I mean , it 's just as you wish .
Well , could you sort of start by talking a little , and then
Yes , certainly , I 'll do that .
There are various activities going on at the present , looking at the state of the rainforest , and what is happening , one of which is a project which we are involved in ourselves , which is looking at the incentives to people to erm manage the forest , for sustained yield , so it produces timber indefinitely .
And the other benefits in the forest .
erm And what it makes people either do it or not do it , right from the forest end , right through to the consumer end .
Now we are involved in a project at the moment , with the International Tropical Timber organisation .
Perhaps I 'd better introduce my sort of position here .
I 've spent 14 years in East Africa , most of it working with tropical rainforest and its utilisation , so I 've been in Uganda , which is a relatively small country as far as forests are concerned .
But I have worked in conditions there .
But since then I 've been on a unit of tropical forestry in Oxford Forestry Institute , and I 've been travelling regularly , almost yearly since I 've been there .
erm The trouble about the tropical forest is this tremendous variation from place to place , the conditions are totally different in different places , although the forest is similar in that it 's got large numbers of different species of trees and flora and fauna .
It 's extremely rich in different species that it contains .
And that in order to manage it to retain all the species , you need to more-or-less leave it alone .
erm On the other hand , if you take the variety , you in fact leave it very mixed still , because you take your relatively small quantity out each time you go round , and you 're taking a relatively small number of species , so that if you are logging in a tropical forest at the sort of intensity most logging takes place , you 're only creating gaps where you take out the valuable species and leave the less valuable species .
Probably in the nature of ten percent of what is actually standing on the ground in terms of trees is taken out of each logging in question .
Partly because the species are not marketable , partly because trees are only taken over a certain size , erm and so on .
And a large part of my time in Uganda was spent trying to market new species , taking on a wider range of species , and a more intensive utilisation , so that you 've opened up your canopy enough to encourage the regeneration of the valuable species .
erm So there are lots of questions as to what is actually the sustainable yield .
And this little book , I don't know whether you 've come across it , is a fairly technical description of what 's happening in different parts of the world , and what is meant by sustainable management of tropical crops .
It 's fairly readable , I think for the non-forester as well as being fairly technical of course as well .
erm Now , possibly I could go on as to whether in fact we could do anything about preserving the tropical forest in this country .
Again , the conditions are very very different in every place , so if you go to Honduras , erm they have 2 million hectares of tropical forest , which is scarcely being used at all to the use of timber , but is being steadily cut down , and turned into , first peasant agriculture , and second , ranching .
And the ranching .
If you go to Brazil , there 's a lot of destruction of the forest .
There 's a tremendous amount of forest .
If you refuse to buy it from Brazil , tropical timber , their exports are something in the region of between 3 to 5 percent of their .
So , in fact you 're not going to do anything to them much in the way of discouraging them from removing their forest , by stopping them exporting small amounts of .
Zaire is a huge tropical forest , which is virtually untouched , and not being touched because it 's too inaccessible .
Indonesia has large industries , recently developed in the country , and are exporting large quantities to saw mills , whereas a few years ago they were exporting to lots , they are now exporting saw wood and ply wood .
A big trade , probably the biggest imports of tropical ply wood and saw wood come from Indonesia , as far as this country 's concerned anyway .
erm Indonesia 's policy in the past has been to clear and resettle excess population from Java , into the other , into Sumatra and town , the two other islands bordering over Sumatra .
And they have had this policy of resettlement called transmigration so they were actually clearing forest after logging , and then settling .
This has been reduced , and there 's been a considerable move in Indonesia towards turning over to sustained yield management .
But having said that , over the whole of the tropics , there 's something like a thousand million hectares of forest , of which one million is actually managed as sustained yield as defined by this book , which is erm managing the forest , and actually carrying out sort of operations to improve the regeneration afterwards .
It is not cutting the forest , going away , leaving it and letting the trees look after themselves , and the rest of the forest regrow , without actually going in and cutting it down and burning it .
erm There 's probably two-thirds of the logging that goes on in the tropical forest , which is about 5 million hectares a year erm is of that nature , so that the forest is left to recover after the logging has gone through .
And forest , if it is left to recover , will in fact recover fairly well , probably with slightly fewer of the species that have been taken out , but the same sort of diversity of tree cover , and of fauna and flora , because in fact you 're taking very little out when you 're logging alone .
So , the really destructive thing is cutting it down and burning it and turning it over either to shifting agricultural , or permanent agriculture , ranching or something else .
erm Now , perhaps we come back to what can we do at this end , and I think Friends of the Earth has done an excellent job in bringing it to peoples ' attention that large areas of tropical forest are being destroyed at roughly the rate of 0.7 or 0.8 percent of the forest each year , erm and they , you know I'm in agreement with them on the fact that forest is disappearing , it 's dangerous in many places , it 's catastrophic in some , for instance , particularly in West Africa , the clearing that 's gone on in the Ivory Coast is pretty disastrous , and erm there are indications that the West African strip of forest along the strip of the West African Coast by removing that you 're going to make not only that area slightly drier , but mainly the northern areas of those countries , and the drier , so it may well affect climate .
erm I would be quite happy to ban timber obtained from the Ivory Coast , because I think forestry is particularly reprehensible .
On the other hand , next-door-neighbour Ghana has a policy to preserve forest and look after a limited quantity of the forest , and manage it with sustained yield .
So you 've got two countries next door to each other , one of which is on the whole starting into reasonably good practice , whereas the other has , although it says it has intentions of doing it , in the case of the Ivory Coast .
You have another country along that coast , Nigeria , which has just got to the stage where it 's got through its forest and it 's not exporting anything at all , if anything it 's importing .
erm So I would say there are critical areas of the world where erm the destruction of forest is becoming particularly serious , and that 's one of the areas I would particularly want to concentrate on , and possibly parts of Central America .
erm So that there are differences between countries .
If you then go within countries to the differences between individual areas or forests within a country , there are probably , the general policy is set by governments is more or less holds for all the different timber concerns in the country .
So I think to some extent what one needs to do is to try and get at the governments , rather that at individual timber producers .
erm Part of the project that we 're on is trying to look at the possibility of tracing timber through from the forest right through to the end user , or at any rate , the sale at the saw-mill , in the same .
But it 's going to be extraordinarily difficult to check that a piece of timber that you buy in a market here , or you buy down the road in a timber yard , is in fact , erm does in fact come from a particular forest in Ghana .
And there are all sorts of methods of sort of cheating the system , if you 're a timber industry in Ghana .
erm There are possible ways of introducing chemical or dyes , or something like this , which we 're going to investigate , but I think its , if you find that a particular dye does it 's job , it won't be long before .
erm I think the general pressure on tropical governments now from the environmental lobby has got to the point where they aren't they 're beginning to realise the problems .
Certain ones of them , for instance the Brazilians may not be taking an awful lot of notice , or may not apparently be taking an awful lot of notice at the moment , but I think the pressure is on , and that things are changing , and more and more countries are going towards policies that will in fact support , sustained yield production and timber from the forests , and the reservation of the forests for that purpose , erm I mean in many countries have a policy where they just let tribal institutes use the raw material , and the forest is not reserved , and it 's not looked after .
The other aspect is there are a large number of people a large number of these countries depend on their forest industries for producing foreign exchange which is particularly scant , a lot of the world , particularly Africa is suffering from debt problems , erm I worked in Uganda for 14 years and I found it really to get back there : the salary of a forest officer now is something , is worth in real terms something like 1 percent of what it was in 1962. erm His salary in 1962 was something in the region of six thousand a year in present terms , it 's now worth £60. erm He has to go out and get most of his livelihood from some other source , and Uganda 's an extreme case , but there are many other African countries where the position is similar .
erm If you further make things difficult from the point of view of actually banning imports of timber from Uganda you may in fact be able .
I'm not sure whether it will or won't .
But there is a school of thought that says that if one can make the forests economically or financially valuable to the countries then they 're more likely to look after them than if you don't .
So maybe what we need to do is to pay more for the timber , and be prepared to do that .
And one of the , again I'm harping on to this particular project we 're involved with at the moment , one of the objectives that we 're involved with at the moment is to look at who gets what in terms of financial gain , right the way from the people who live in the forest , if there are people who actually live in the forest , to the people who live around the forest , to the industries , to the governments to the importers and exporters and the rest .
Perhaps I 've said enough .
But I think it is it could well be counter-productive to put bans on buying tropical timber , particularly blanket bans , on the other hand , I think there 's a lot of case to be , a lot of point in asking people and pressing people to say whether the folk that the timber is coming from sustained yield forest .
Thank you very much .
Any questions or comments ?
Well , I'm in agreement with you , and I think most environmentalists are in agreement that sustained growth is the way forward , and they have to be sustainable for the economies of the people who actually live there to survive , and sustainable for the whole planet to survive .
But you were talking about , you did mention some statistics , could you ?
Am I right in saying is it one million hectares out of a thousand million hectares are actually sustainable at present .
Are actually as defined in this book , which is involves quite a lot of activity before felling and after felling .
It doesn't need me to say that we 've got a long way to go .
There is , there 's a tremendous way to go , in action .
Does the Oxford Forestry Institute have a programme of education for the ordinary members of the public to enable them to have this vision of their assets .
Because I have this feeling I often have this feeling that these global aspects the person in the street , their first priority is about their damp house and the rest of it , it 's very difficult to erm .
And I just wondered how you try and tackle this problem
Well , we 're basically a university department .
Sure .
We are part of the university department with a sort of world-wide interest in forestry .
erm We occasionally go on the radio , occasionally radio , occasionally , very occasionally on T V but not often .
erm We had a conference recently which dealt with the tropical forest and some interested parties came , the timber trade , Friends of the Earth , this was a couple of Sundays ago .
It was very good .
But we don't as a regular thing do much as far as the public is concerned but what we do do is training for tropical foresters , and during the summer vac .
we have something like 60 tropical foresters , and we have a management course , a research course , and erm a social forestry course , which is combining farming and forestry .
erm So that there are a large number of tropical foresters now who 've been here and gone back to their own country , and one of the things which I point out to them these days is the need for public relations in their own countries , and getting information across to governments and being able to talk to economists and finance people in their own countries .
But we don't do much beyond that , maybe we should .
Bob could I ask you , if I understood correctly , one is that really logging is not the main problem , cutting down rainforests , and two , if their really was efficient logging it might actually be better for the rainforests , the consequence of which if that 's correct would be that we should be concentrating on governments , rather than on timber .
Yes , I mean the main brute force of destroying tropical rainforest is population increase , pressure on land , and people going into forests , but a large part of that is determined by the government 's attitude , whether it in fact concentrates on trying to improve agriculture , or whether , under all sorts of pressures from the government to do that .
Sorry , I wanted to make two points , I think there 's a big difference between foresters like yourself and the people who 're actually out there logging , and you know , I have no doubt about the work you do at the Oxford Forestry Institute , and several of your tutors and lecturers have been to talk to us , and Friends of the Earth certainly is calling for sustainable management forestry .
But I think the actual situation in some of these countries is that erm the loggers especially say like in Sarouac , where the government 's only granted three year licences to logging companies , they 're just going in there , cutting everything down because they 've only got a short space of time , and they 're trying to maximise , obviously , their profit .
And I think there 's a big difference between you talking about what happens as far as forestry is concerned and actually what some of the logging companies are up to .
And I think the other thing that 's important to bear in mind as well as far as logging 's concerned is that a lot of the poor slash-and-burn cultivators that come in have come along roads that the logging companies have built , and these provide easy access , say straight into the heart of the Amazon or what ever .
And it makes it easier for the slash-and-burn cultivators to get in rather than sort of coming in gradually round the edges , there are now great swathes cut through tropical rainforest at Amazonia certainly , and the Trans-Scabon railway is about to be put through which again will make it easier for the sort of to come in , and I think that should be bourn in mind .
I mean , I'm not against foresters , but loggers seem to be a fairly destructive lot , I mean some of the forestry practice that actually goes on is appalling .
Yes , I agree entirely , I think some of the logging is awful .
erm And the cultivators coming down the logging roads , I agree entirely .
erm But it basically comes down to the attitude that people have , if the government was , or whoever owns the forest , private ownership , or whatever , controls what the loggers do , I mean it 's their forest it 's up to them to control what the loggers do and don't do , and whether they let cultivators in or they don't let cultivators in .
erm It may be that in certain places there 's so much pressure on land from the people that there 's not a lot they can do .
erm And even governments can't do much .
There 's a lot they can do though say to control the loggers in Sarouac .
I mean basically areas that are supposed to be sustainably forested
Well , I think Savac and Sarouac are bad areas at present , there 's a lot of peninsular-Malaysia all through this period , and has now got quite tough erm and is probably the nearest to sustainable management of almost anywhere in the tropics now .
Now they 're not applying the same rules and regulations in Savac and Sarouac , it 's the island peninsular , maybe their reaction to the Friends of the Earth is symptomatic of a certain degree of bad conscience that they have with the , with the other two .
Because we 're actually in quite close contact with Sarouac and Malaysia , which is close to the Malaysia , you know , we do have reports that they 've actually got great big arc lights on the slopes , and that the loggers are actually working 24 hours round the clock in some areas now , and that the forest you know is being completely chopped down .
Well , the other thing is the intensity of logging is much greater than .
And if you look at the , I 've got a few statistics on these two .
erm But if you look at the statistics , both Sathor and Sorarie are exporting huge quantities of logs which practically nobody else is doing .
So that is another area that if I was to put a ban on imports
That mainly goes to Japan I take it .
A large part of it goes to Japan .
Did you want to ask a question ?
I was going to say that in a lot of these countries the logging concessions are owned by government ministers and the elite .
You can't really ask the government to do something about the logging when it 's owned by themselves , I mean , or rather it 's controlled by the powers of the country and the only way to do something there is to boycott their timber , not to pressure the government , and we 're back to , you know , back to square one .
I think certainly the Environment Minister has in Sarouac 10,000 hectares , he 's actually got a license out there , and you know that 's pretty depressing when you realise that the Environment Minister 's got some of the licenses for logging .
Maybe there are cases when you can do nothing else than support the .
I would say that , I mean take Uganda as an example again , the permanent secretary who demanded a certain fee before he 'd consider a certain company got the push from government .
So it depends whether all your government ministers .
And if you put pressure on government , you may in fact achieve the result that you want .
Now , we 've moved on rather into sort of individual countries .
Yes , I think I mean if one goes into corruption one could spend an awful long time .
Did you want to ask a question ?
Sorry , I keep seeing your hand .
Well thank you very much , it 's obviously a totally different point of view to what we 'll hear perhaps in a few minutes .
It was really interesting to hear from a personal view , as well , actually , you know , I mean rainforests are to most of us just something we see on the television or we see pictures , it 's sort of a rather romantic idea , or a mythic idea , it 's lovely to talk to someone who 's got a much more overall view of the whole problem .
Thank you very much , please do stay with us either for the whole afternoon , or certainly for the next
erm Are you having the sort of other case first or ?
I don't know whether it 's the other case , I'm hear to tell you about our first of all , which I don't think is the other case .
That 's fine , I 'd had , on the subject of this boycotting timber , erm I know of two instances at least where Oxford City Council are still using tropical hardwoods , and I wonder , I mean , you know , obviously it goes against the grain of the signing of the tropical hardwood .
I was wondering if we ought to find out who 's decided to start using it again , and whether they really checked , I have been told they check on the source , but it 's like we 're slipping back gradually , and I thought if we said , if we pledged that we 're going to boycott timber , we should really keep to it unless we make a decision
Could you give the offices some details , rather than having it all out in public , thanks .
chase up what 's happening .
Because yes , we did say we were n't going to use tropical markets , erm perhaps in the view of some of the things Bob Plumtree 's been saying , perhaps that was a little bit premature , perhaps we would want for some countries tropical woods , might want to reconsider , but erm I think that 's something for the future , that 's not for this afternoon .
I think we 've actually had a resolution through council
Yes , yes .
And therefore if we are doing , thinking one department 's doing something that you know that it ought n't to I think it would be very helpful if you .
It 's partly a misunderstanding along the line somewhere , it would be very useful if you could actually check it up .
Thank you .
erm Well , welcome !
We may have heard from you , but erm please do tell us something about the Oxford Rainforest festival .
Yes , erm I'm sorry to disappoint you this isn't going to be the other side of the coin .
This is just what we 're doing , erm in Oxford this summer , from May 19th to June 5th , a ) to raise public awareness about the rainforest , and the causes of its destruction , and what individuals can do to help .
We 're actually trying to let people have fun while they 're doing this , instead of maybe hectoring them erm we stand on enough picket lines as it is outside D I Y stores , so they 're probably fed up with seeing us there .
erm This rainforest festival is actually being carried out over the country .
It 's under the auspices of Arts for the Earth , which is the creative branch of Friends of the Earth .
It 's happening in major cities , local groups are getting involved , so you might find a village firm somewhere is organising a sponsored walk .
But we 've actually got a festival which is upwards of 30 events .
And we 've tried to get something for everyone , we 've got 2 classical music concerts , for instance , the Johannis Piano Trio , and then a specially sort of brought together rainforest orchestra , where professional musicians all over the county can come together to create a programme .
Now those are all happening at the Holywell Music Rooms .
We 've got Rory Bremner at the Apollo , and our projected profit on that if we sell all the tickets is £15,000 .
We 've got a lot of educational stuff for children , erm we 're running a series of what are known as Pittstops , which is workshops for children at the Pitt Rivers Museum , all on a rainforest theme , erm rainforest collage , rainforest dance , rainforest masks and rainforest stories .
But we 've also had an artist from the Art Week event , which the Rainforest Festival overlaps with going into a chosen school , with a member of Friends of the Earth , we give them a talk about rainforest , and they do the , I don't know if you 've seen them in the buses , the sort of advertising slots , we 've got 80 of those slots on the buses throughout the rainforest festival , and the children are actually drawing pictures for them .
And there are also 20 huge panels that are going on the sides of the buses , that kids have also painted .
So we 've been doing that with children as well .
The Special Needs Unit , attached to the College of Further Education , is actually decking their Special Needs Unit out as a rain forest , both before and after , so there 's the rainforest in all its glory , and then the rainforest after it 's been chopped down and destroyed in the next room , so the Special Needs Unit are really enjoying that .
We 've got a broad-sheet on the three main areas of the world that has tropical rainforest , Latin America , Africa and also South-East Asia , and then we 've got broadsheets like on the genetic diversity , we 've got a broad-sheet on extracting preserves versus cash crops , and that kind of thing .
So , because in this Festival we will be reaching people we normally do not reach as a group , for instance we 're having two pop concerts , the Rory Bremner thing , we 're going to be reaching people we don't normally see on our D I Y .
picket , or people who come to our lectures that the rainforest campaign , we could be meeting thousands of people we don't normally see , so we 've tried to produce an information package that will get them interested .
So because we 're doing something from our normal end of the spectrum as it were right through to trying to involve everybody in the city , erm we 're hoping to get the issue across to a lot more people , and also raise money while we 're doing it .
The project we 're hoping to sponsor , there 's now Friends of the Earth in Ghana , erm who 've Doctor Plumtree quite rightly said , Ghana are working hard on re-forestation schemes , and a scheme that Friends of the Earth is doing is a community re- forestation scheme , because a lot of the re-forestation schemes are from the top down , and they don't actually get the villagers involved in whatever , so we 'll actually be funding community reforestation schemes , several species of trees , particularly those which help to regenerate the soil , especially if it 's been degraded because the trees have been chopped down , or what-have-you .
And so that the village benefits from the wood in some way , erm like there 's a teak plantation they 've got going at the moment , and in ten years time , the teak will be used to carry electricity , so that the village can have some electricity as well , I mean it 's to do with giving the village something as well as trying to help the environment .
And our other project will probably be in Malaysia , where we 're hoping to be able to fund lawyers to go and visit the indigenous tribes , and educate them about the Malaysian process of law , because at the moment I'm sure you 'll know that various indigenous people have been blockading the logging roads that go on to their demarcated territory .
erm Because the loggers have been , as I said earlier , logging 24 hours around the clock , and they 're supposed to be logging over a 70 year cycle , and they 're not because the companies have only got three year licenses , and basically the indigenous people have just had enough , so they started to block the logging roads .
But they were then held in remand in prison , and didn't really know how to defend themselves , so this project will be sending lawyers into the Long Houses of the indigenous peoples , trying to educate them about the process of Malaysian law , and work it into their system of customary law , which is known as ADAT , whereby within the Long House , all the community leaders and the members within the community debate disputes over land rights , the forest , the use of it , and try and get them to use their customary law with a knowledge of the Malaysian legal process in order to form associations and fight being thrown into prison because they 're trying to defend the forest .
A worrying thing at the moment is as I said we 're in close contact with is that the Malaysian Government is sending representatives over to visit the European Community Ministers in May , to try and say that there 's absolutely nothing wrong with what 's going on in their country with the logging , and they 're saying that people like Friends of the Earth are calling for a ban on timber , not because they care about sustained yield , but because we want to be able to sell our own wood , and this is to depress their trade .
And if as far as what 's happening in Sarouac certainly is concerned .
This isn't true , the logging practices were atrocious , and even tribal burial grounds have been uprooted by the loggers , and the number of deaths last year , in 1989 , logging deaths was 94 , because they 're sending loggers up even steep slopes to get the timber than they would normally , so there 's actually a lot of bad practice going on , so we 're hoping to fund Friends of the Earth , Malaysia in their environmental programme to help the indigenous people defend themselves , and therefore the forest better .
So that 's where the money 's going , and we 're hoping that we make enough money in sponsorship so that the money we earn , people will know that it 's all going out to help the projects we want to , and it 's not being wasted on administration , especially after there 's been erm a bit of a debark over Sting 's money , where only 5 % went to the Indians and also the Rainforest Foundation has since collapsed , so our head-office is going to be absolutely stringent about making sure that the money is spent where we 've asked it to be spent .
erm I don't know if there are anything else I should be telling you .
Oh yes , I mean , if anybody would like to come to the presentation tonight , I do have an invitation .
And also , it 's not just Oxford Friends of the Earth who are involved now , it seems to be touching everybody , and people are just getting involved , and it 's generating a really nice air of enthusiasm and care , and I hope that people feel it 's beginning to be their rainforest festival .
We 're having a launch on May 7th , and the City Council have been very good to give us a rainforest tent at the Fun-in-the-Parks at South Park .
And we 're also having a sponsored Tree Best , where we 're hoping that lots of children will come along dressed up as trees , and have raised at least £10 sponsorship each and we 're having performances on a rainforest theme , and a dancer who will be doing a dance for rainforest , and there 's some rainforest type music and things like that , and there 'll be prizes and certificates for the children who are trees , and there 'll be an exhibition that head office are launching .
So there will be quite a rainforest theme to May 7th , which is where we 're sort of hoping to launch everything , and start selling tickets for the events , things like that .
I do have info .
I'm afraid only six each , just a leaflet about rainforests , just in case anybody 's interested .
There 's also one about rainforest conservation in the timber trade , dare I say it , so there 's six of these each .
Plus there 's invites for anybody who 'd like to come along tonight , I know it 's late notice .
It sounds really good fun !
It is , it is .
Oh , and I forgot to tell you yes , there 's quite a lot of visual art as well , and one of the really exciting things is our mail art exhibition , and that 's M A I L , where we 've invited people from all over the world , and within the community , to send in art on the theme of the rainforest .
It can be no bigger than A4 , and it must n't project more than 3 inches , but at the moment they are pouring into Rosie Headers house , and we 've had stuff from Japan and America already , and also from artists in the community , but anybody can enter for Mail Art , so if anybody 's interested in a Mail Art sheet , I can get one for you , but those exhibitions are going up in Freud 's , which is our sort of Festival Centre for the two and a half weeks during the Festival .
We hope on Cabaret there every night , and we 've got two rainforest exhibitions going on there , so the Mail Art 's really exciting actually .
Especially for Rosie , who 's getting all the post .
I was just wondering if later on , I mean there 's a lot of work goes into it , later on , if you want to sustain a programme on this whether we could use the Town Hall , because often other .
erm And in fact , you can just continue .
The other thing is the Information Centre where lots of visitors go , and if you 've got an information pack , if you want us to buy it , that 's fine , and we 'll put it in there , you know , What 's On ?
You 've got a What 's On list ?
Yes , we 've just produced a diary .
The problem at the moment is , we 've been on Word Processor up to now , but the designer is designing a programme at the moment , so I don't have a programme to show you because it 's with the designer , erm all we 've got is the diary , that we 're kind of like again on the word processor , that we 're producing tonight .
But , also Tony Abora , who did the poster for your conference is
That was lovely .
is , well we 've asked him to do something like that , well anyway , Tony Abora is working on the posters and the logo and things like that , all for free .
And the lady that does the Watershed programme from Bristol is also doing our programme for free .
We hope we 've got a deal going with Oxford Mail , where they 'll maybe deliver to 20,000 doors in Oxford the programme , door- to-door .
So we are going to give it a lot of coverage , and obviously put it in places like the information centre .
I think , if you send it in , I 'll make sure that we do get it in there , because everything 's paid , and that 's that .
But sorry I can't show you any sort of programme , or anything , but that 's because it 's
No , When you do , I mean , we 'll do that .
Because everything 's still growing !
I mean .
I keep , apart from the fact that we 've got an enormous number of deadlines , but David keeps saying , ’ we must stop’ , and then people ring us up and say’Oh , I , can I do this’ , and we 've , you know people say , ’Oh , well , I play the saxophone’ , and then we find out that he 's got a huge band and he 's very famous , and they 've just rung us up to say , you know , can we play for you for free .
I mean , it 's been absolutely marvellous , the response we 've had and the energy and enthusiasm of everybody getting involved .
erm And as I said , we 're trying to , not that I'm giving the opposite view to Doctor Plumtree , as I said , we 're trying to fund the people on the front line , you know , the foresters in their back yard , as it were , we 're trying to preserve it , and we also feel we 're not being patronising , it 's not like we 're writing out a large cheque and saying’ here you are’ , we 're actually putting a lot of time and effort into this , I mean , it 's now become a full time job for me and certainly for Dave Kester , and all the other people working on it .
And we 're not being paid , I mean , we 're doing it as volunteers .
So we 're not being patronising with it .
We 're saying , we 're trying to help you by raising this money , erm it 's not sort of lecturing them or anything , we 're trying to focus on communities and empower them by giving them money for projects they want to happen , it 's not anything we 've decided .
Anybody for some comments any questions ?
Would anybody like an invite while Yes , 7.30 till 9.00 , University Museum , wine and canapes .
I'm making the canapes , I don't know whether that tempts you or not .
haven't you got enough on your plate ?
Yes , and does anybody want to give
Will you have a What 's On tonight .
Yes , there 'll be a brief diary there , while the programmes being
Are you sort of circulating a programme that the events sort of
Yes , yes , it just has n't been designed or printed yet .
Lovely , thank you very much .
No questions , no but you 've obviously covered everything , you talk about it with such enthusiasm .
Yes , and we 've got the window in Dillons , and we 've got the window in Dillons as well during the festival .
They 're going to put up our posters , and the diary , and things like that .
You know , we 've worked hard on trying to get it in everywhere , into peoples ' notices and we 've linked up with Art Week quite well , as well .
Well , thank you ever so much for telling you about it .
And we look forward to seeing some more publicity , between us we have fingers in many pies , and the more we know about it the more chance we have to spread the word around .
You can come along tonight !
It 's actually a very difficult time for us , with elections coming up .
Oh , of course , of course , sorry , sorry !
I'm sorry , do you mind if I leave , because I 've actually got to go and make the canapes .
Thank you very much , for this very nice time .
Thank you both very much .
It was very interesting erm Let 's spread our wings a bit further round the environment , and have a look at our Friends of the Earth Environmental Charter .
You 're not going to talk about all of that .
Not at all , I thought you might , you remember you had a quick preview of that , a few months ago , and you 'll be pleased to know that the Chief Officers have now decided that the best way of dealing with it is for each , no first of all they decided that they 'll recommend two members for the signing of the charter , that 's the first step , it 's quite a step forward , remembering they .
Then they felt that the most effective way of dealing with it would be for each main committee to look at the various aspects in detail , rather than take the and miss everything , best for each of the main committees to look in detail at each part .
Now the response , what they have done is they 've had a look , we have looked briefly at some of the aspects , overall aspects and you 'll find that in a number of these things , Oxford City Council is already quite heavily involved .
And that 's good , and that 's to be encouraged .
But other things will have to be worked through .
We will be needing , we 've been to the rest of the committees , I think , perhaps you can carry on
Yes , it 's been to all the committees now , bar the Public Affairs Committee .
erm If you look at page 14 of the agenda , it tells you what the committees , up until the Highways and Traffic Committee 'd agreed .
Since then the personnel committee have considered the report , and they agreed to the recommendations in paragraph 7 ( a ) , 1,3 and 4 , but the third paragraph , 7 ( a ) ( 2 ) to .
The Health Committee also considered it and they made a number of points .
They noted and endorsed the reservations about the various areas of policy development and ways of implementing the policies expressed in the report .
They asked the officers to submit a detailed report on the programme of research to be undertaken by the Association of City Councils , in advance of the issue being considered by Party groups .
They asked the individual chief officers to prepare reports to the committees on action that could be taken on the detailed recommendations of Friends of the Earth .
They agreed to adopt the Friends of the Earth information set out in paragraph 3.1 of the report .
And that the future reports to the committee should consider green implications , including the financial implications of green issues .
The report then went to Finance Committee , and I believe it actually referred the whole of the Report to the Party Groups , now .
That 's right .
I was sort of working out number B there .
That is true , so in a sense what you have is two aspects .
The charter has dare I say it , got the green light , yes , yes alright .
We shall therefore be talking to the local chair of Friends of the Earth , whose name just escapes me a minute , yes , we shall be talking with him , thinking about a day .
In relation to the association of District Council 's erm proposition , that was a development package , and obviously groups want to meet in time to look at that , so we 'll see if we can find some more information on that one .
I think it 's really quite heartening to see so many aspects that the City Council are already taking notice of , and really are already putting it into their policies to view the environment as something precious , something we 've got to look after , but you 're warning us not to be too complacent aren't you ?
We haven't got all the answers ,
Oh yes .
We haven't got it all right .
It 's very heartening that the A T C are actually looking to us to do some work with them , and that they actually think that Oxford is moving forward in the right direction , and that they actually want to come and share some of our knowledge .
erm Obviously , as it 's being passed on to groups , we can't make any decision at the moment on whether we think it 's a good thing or not , we don't get the opportunity to endorse it all , like today .
But it 's certainly really is a feather in the cap for Oxford , and specifically of the environment county department .
I 'd just want to say a word of thanks .
I mean , we 've been quite aware that Oxford City Council 's quite a good , always been quite a good environmental council , and erm the fact that this is going through is good news .
I 'd like to thank Peter for his enthusiasm , and all the rest of the council for taking it on board .
No , but the working out of the details will come through this so
And just note the situation at the end
We 'll have to find a suitable date for instance
Presumably , it , once we 've found a date the notes for this committee will be
Oh yes , yes indeed
Item 9 .
Didcot Power Station visit .
That brings to mind the fact that at that meeting , two people at least , at least two of the co-opted members asked if there was a pollution sub-committee during this year , you know , during the year that finishes in May , and I'm afraid they were told no , because it wasn't in Council Diary .
This is the date of today , it wasn't in .
I'm sure I told you there wasn't another meeting when you asked me , and I gather there 's been a bit of a problem as well for other people .
It 's because it wasn't printed .
So I do apologise for the confusion .
It 's also confused a considerable number of other people back at because very few have come down today , but I'm sorry that we 've .
Page 15 .
Very , very concise .
It 's good isn't it !
Really good this .
But a few mistakes .
Do we need to correct them , or do we just leave them be .
Up to you really chair , I mean they 're not signed in any way , so if you want to I can you know get them amended .
I think it would be better if we did , because these are , so
It was silly little things , like the top of page 16 , little 's ' , and the sentence is certainly Catherine , not Cerainly .
Actually it 's funny , it 's nice to know people are human ! erm page 17 17 , Nationa erm sort of half way down , it should be flue gas rather than fuel .
It 's the typewriter got .
And we rather assume that item 3 immediately under that was again F G B and not S D G , because nobody could work out what S D G stands for .
F G B , yes , the same as the shortened form we used before .
There 's one on page 18 , it 's a quite serious mistake , second sentence says’ Didcot was being considered for the installation of FGD equipment’ , I think they said it wasn't .
Yes , that 's right , I 'd like to raise a separate point on that later on rather than the accuracy ones for this , do the accuracy ones first .
But for those other people who were actually at the meeting agreed Didcot are not considering this step .
I think from my reflection , they did say they were at some stage in the future , they 've not ruled it out .
It depends on you , in what context you 're looking at it , the timescale of that , but they haven't ruled it out completely .
I think the answer is , not in the foreseeable future .
Ah , yes .
Basically , they haven't got the space anyway .
That 's right .
Can I perhaps to that point raise an issue that we discussed at the meeting , and that was this whole point about de-sulphurisation , and use of low sulphur coal .
I don't know if you 're aware that using low sulphur coal , reduces only by 50 % whereas if you use the other method it reduces by 90 % , and what , in fact , Didcot are doing by that , is really not giving us a very good service .
And to top it , they are actually importing their coal which comes from Africa , which is another aspect .
However , whatever , the reason why I mention it , I do notice that Green Peace are thinking of , perhaps some members saw it in the press , did you , that Green Peace are making a formal complaint to the European Commission about switching from de-sulphurisation to importing low sulphur coal , and it may be something that we should focus in on as well .
Perhaps we should contact our M E P , I don't know if we 've ever done that .
What a good idea , ask him what their view is , ask him what his view is .
And he ought to be terribly concerned about the acid rain that 's falling on Europe as well as what 's happening
I think that 's right
And there 's also something else that I forgot to bring up and that is that they 're trying to find new ways of removing the gases , and they reckoned that in 2 years there 's going to be an electrical method , an electrical filter , and the lab is 99 % efficient .
So I don't know if there 's any way we can pressurise
Instead of using this flue gas desulphurisation ?
Yes , because the snag is with that is that it means the vast amount of , and then the gypsum that is produced has got to be disposed of has n't it , so that the limestone is mined and then they 've got to get rid of the gypsum .
Well , it is used in building .
Yes , but this implies that it 's the consumption of limestone and gypsum mentioned in number 7 here .
So many labs require that gypsum is produced .
Britain was actually given a lower standard check , on the basis that we would be using in many places our own coal , which has a quite a high sulphur content , or de-sulphurisation , we were given a lower standard , or a higher standard , or whatever it is , it was more relaxed for Britain , and that 's why I like the idea of taking this up with the M.E.D. , how it 'll happen , how it will square in his mind .
So , we shall have to get a letter out to him .
Yes , can we do it by this committee , or do we have to go though .
No , we 're not spending any money are we ?
We are on a stamp !
Well , if we could find the money within the department , could you ?
Just like to clarify the figures , the view , the figure for reductions is 30 % .
Well , sorry Jack , I was going on the previous figures which
What did they say for Didcot , they 'd bring the sulphur down from 1.9 % to 1.2 .
At Didcot , yes , that 's what they said .
Which , erm if you work it out for Didcot , it means they 're reducing their sulphur output from 300 tonnes , to 200 tonnes a day , which , the figure of 200 tonnes is still erm terrifying .
I 'd just like to reiterate Peter 's point , they have started importing coal from probably South Africa , to use at Didcot , it would be in the south , we 'd be using coal from South Africa at Didcot .
The Oxford Schools Acid Rain Survey ?
erm Yes , I 've got the report of the Pilot Study , some quite interesting results have come up .
erm Mainly analyzing it with meterological data , you find that after the dry spell , when the rain does finally arrive it 's more acid , and it 's affected in .
erm And also , I 've managed to find some relationships between wind direction and and that shows that the long distance sources of pollution affect the City of Oxford as well .
When the wind comes from the East it gave a high acidity , and also one day it was coming from the South , which maybe is local fall-out from Didcot .
I must emphasise that these conclusions are quite tentative , because of the lack of data , hopefully as we carry on , and maybe get more schools involved , we 'll get a bigger set of data , then we can actually do some statistical analysis , and , to be more certain of the results , but it shows general patterns that we 'd expect , so it makes , it shows that it 's quite easy for the schoolchildren , and it fits in very well with their geography courses , and the new G C S E curriculum .
erm So now we started up the long term survey , and we 've now got 10 schools taking part , and they 're starting next week , and they 'll be carrying on in the same way as they were the pilot survey , taking the same measurements .
We were originally going to do weekly measurements , but I found on my own monitoring that you won't get much variation .
It provides us with the data , but school children will probably lose interest , so I 've decided to keep them going with the , and they 're quite happy about that .
And we 're also going to set up our own site , which we 'll be able to carry on on a daily basis throughout the year , so obviously the schools can't do it during the holidays .
erm There was also some interest shown by the Radcliffe Met .
Office , who are setting up a permanent acid rain monitor as well , so then we 'd have to , so then I 've got to get back in touch with that person .
The Pilot Survey showed some monitoring , further standardisation of the equipment was essential , mainly though , I'm going to make sure all schools have got the same pipes and connector and I'm going to give them some solutions to test because there was a bit of variation between schools , and there will be variation geographically , so I want to be able to have a measure of any error that will be involved as well .
And I then want to be able to collect information on sources of pollution around their sites , if they notice particularly busy roads , things like that .
Thank you very much , I'm sure the committee would like to join with me to congratulate you both on the survey and on the very interesting report that you 've actually provided .
It really must make the school children feel that they 've really done some important research .
The , for us as members to have all these beautiful diagrams , it really makes a tremendous difference .
It really is very nice ,
It means you can understand it without a science degree !
Yes well , it 's very pretty .
And I gather that it has n't cost the department too much money .
don't know about that !
It 's about £20 a school , or just under really , for the equipment .
Can I make a suggestion ?
You give some blanks for them to check on ?
Is it possible to arrange that they be given blanks and don't know which are the blanks and which are the real , because otherwise there 's a risk after you 've done this the schools will suspect that they 're low , and therefore they will add a little on to their blank or something like that .
Yes , well , it 's just work thinking about , you might be able to eliminate that risk .
I'm very pleased to see this report .
I originally had this idea through the workers union in Manchester , and I was wondering if there were any comparative studies that were happening at the same time , and that would be really interesting to see how Oxford compares to other areas .
There are , yes
Are you going to mention your idea of the environmental day ?
Oh yes , that was another thing .
I though it might be useful to get the school children together to discuss the results .
Wonderful !
I don't know if this is a good space to do it , or when you 're in the middle of setting up .
But we were discussing the results from the Environmental Day at St Edwards .
There 's a problem really , of separate , the schools are all separate .
Sometimes I don't get time to go anywhere properly , you know , it 's all enthusiasm at the start .
They do get a copy of this , don't they ?
Each school gets a copy of this report .
Yes .
Well , what will happen is that they 'll use that to analyse this next time .
That 's it .
I thought it was very interesting indeed all the information , and obviously I think one question is which schools are now going to be called in that were n't here before , and will that lead to a better distribution of collection points across the city ?
I notice that we had two stations in East Oxford , whereas in fact this one left West Oxford out of it altogether .
And you had one close to the City Council , one is very close to the St Edward School one , was that for deliberate reasons .
I didn't know if you were comparing it at the end .
It 's who we managed to get contacts with .
This one has got just about every secondary school in Oxford , county secondary school on it , so it 's just where the schools are really .
So are we going to in West Oxford now .
Can I let you know .
I'm trying to think where is the secondary school in West Oxford .
Well , there isn't , I mean that 's the problem .
You are using Middle School sites aren't you ?
There 's various middle schools in West Oxford , so maybe I should try and contact the school and get them
Otherwise , I mean , the possibility otherwise is Oxford City Council having a site in West Oxford , to fill that gap .
I 'll investigate that .
Chair , the point about the schools is that we could put that information in the minutes for the next meeting , schools that are participating in the survey .
So we could be aware of which ones
You could put it in the Bulletin , how about the Bulletin , in the City Secretary 's Bulletin .
Yes , I mean you could put it in the minutes , but also it would be quick at the next meeting of this sub-committee is after the election , it 'll be some time in June , so a quick way of dealing with it would be to put it in the bulletin , yes , but also , but I 'll put it in the minutes , as well .
Yes , it has a wider circulation , other members read it .
There is a school in Ferry Hinksey Road isn't there , a middle school I think , so that 's the only one I know .
The thing I 'd really like is a glossary of terms .

Hello , and welcome to this review of the week from Independent Television News in London .
I'm Brenda Rowe and these were the headlines .
A second American hostage is released in Lebanon .
Lithuania mourns its martyr for independence .
And the space shuttle places the Hubble telescope in orbit .
First , an American hostage , Frank Reed was freed in Beirut after more than three years in the hands of pro-Iranian kidnappers .
His release came only eight days after another American hostage , Robert Polehill was set free .
Washington sent a special team to West Germany to await Dr Reed 's arrival at a military base there , he was handed over by his Shia Moslem captors to a Syrian army officer before being driven to Damascus to be met by American Officials .
President George Bush thanked Iran and Syria for their roles in securing Dr Reed 's release .
Nick Gowing compiled his report on Monday .
It was a re-run of events before the Polehill release eight days ago .
The Syrian Foreign Minister emerged to predict a release within a few hours , underlining that such a delicate operation is being handled jointly both by Syria and Iran .
Syria and Iran have been continuing their efforts to secure the release of other hostages .
The release was first signalled by two notes and three photographs sent to a newspaper and newsagency in Beirut .
The claim came from a previously unheard-of group , calling itself the Organization of the Islamic Dawn .
They specifically denied they were the Arab Revolutionary Cells Group , originally believed to be holding Mr Reed .
But the continuing confusion of the hostage situation , in Beirut and the Lebanon , was underlined by the claims of former hostage , David Jacobsen today , that Frank Reed had been held in a neighbouring cell and had tried to escape .
I had knocked on the wall in code , one knock for a , two for b , and I knocked Dave Jacobsen , A U B , and the response came back , Frank Reed , I C .
I was told by released French hostages that he did attempt to escape , that he was beaten very badly , and that basically his spirit at that time was , was , was broken ; he didn't want to talk with the other hostages in the room and he pretty much had withdrawn .
The Syrian President , Assad the release was aimed at reinforcing his determination to improve relations with the United States and the West in general .
The same can be said for President Rafsanjani , Iran 's moderate leader who remained determined to fend off the radicals and to end Iran 's isolations .
While Frank Reed 's relations waited expectantly in both Damascus and the United States , there were however , ominous signs of the power struggle continuing in Tehran over the hostage issue .
As Mr Reed 's release seemed imminent , an unsigned statement on Tehran radio commenting on events since last week 's release , said ‘the United States has failed to reciprocate the goodwill shown by Polehill 's captors ; in view of Washington 's position , resolving the hostage crisis is much slower than previously expected’ .
A further sign of pressure from Islamic radicals came today from Hussein Mussawi , in the middle here , a senior Shiite leader closer to Hezbollah fundamentalists , he opposed the release of another American and questioned the loyalty of those doing it .
One view is that Frank Reed 's release , the second in a week , may be the last for some time .
Twenty thousand people took to the streets of the Lithuanian capital , Vilnius , to mourn a man who became a martyr for the Republic 's bid for independence from Moscow .
The Lithuanian president , Vytautas Landsbergis , told the crowd that the dead man , Stanislovas Jamaitis was the first victim in the Republic 's struggle for independence .
Mr Jamaitis had set fire to himself in a Moscow square .
Lithuania 's deputy Prime Minister Romualdas Ozolas said the Republic was not prepared to suspend its declaration of independence , although it would negotiate on laws passed since , which have angered the Kremlin .
Robert Moore , one of I T N 's Moscow correspondents reported from Vilnius on Monday .
The body of Stanislovas Jamaitis was flown in from Moscow , received by his family .
No hint at the airport of the outpouring of emotion that was to come .
At the cathedral square in central Vilnius , it was clear his suicide was being seen by fellow Lithuanians as the act of a martyr .
His death has affected a nation which is already facing a crisis of identity , as Moscow refuses to recognize its independence .
Among speakers , a new bitterness , some said the suicide was a cry of despair as the west turns its back on Lithuania .
It 's the only statement which Lithuania can make now .
We are abandoned by the United States , by Great Britain , by Germany , by France , what else is left ?
The centre was brought to a halt as the procession made its way to the National Parliament .
Few here had ever set eyes on the man they were mourning , but they saw in his act the ultimate sacrifice for their dream of independence .
They responded in their thousands hearing President Landsbergis call Stanislovas Jamaitis ‘an idealist’ .
His memory providing Lithuanians with a renewed sense of purpose as they continued to build their nation .
I T N obtained an exclusive interview with the K G B in which the Soviet Security Department admitted actually stepping up their activities since President Mikhail Gorbachev came to power .
But in the new spate of glasnost , or openness , one of I T N 's Moscow reporters , Bill Meely became the first European journalist to be shown inside the Lubyanka , the K G B 's headquarters .
K G B headquarters .
For decades , a symbol of repression in the Soviet Union and espionage abroad .
In its prison cells , dissidents have been murdered .
From here , an army of agents spied on the west .
Today , the K G B is showing a new face .
We were invited inside .
The openness that has swept through every layer of Soviet society , has finally reached its Secret Police .
Today , it admitted to the crimes and executions plotted in these corridors and carried out by its men under Stalin .
Convenient scapegoats perhaps , but the K G B was open about today 's activities too ; Major General Alexander Karbalnov of the K G B revealed for the first time that seven hundred thousand people have been executed for political crimes since the revolution and that three-and-a-half million have been repressed .
Since Gorbachev came to power , thirty spies have been arrested in the Soviet Union and all but a few executed .
Under Gorbachev , the K G B is busier .
‘The more the activities of foreign spies have increased’ he says , ‘the more our activities have increased , and over the past five years , we 've uncovered more agents than in the previous fifteen’ .
As for internal dissent , ‘We keep files on criminals , but mass files on ordinary people simply don't exist .
You can say what you like against the state now , its what you do that 's important’ .
The K G B 's key task is State Security , but it 's now cracking down on smuggling too .
Officers showed us two-and-a-half thousand Russian icons which they seized in two swoops on illegal exporters .
The haul , valued at one-and-a-half million pounds is one of many such seizures ; of church property , of drugs , of guns , the K G B is now cooperating with foreign intelligence agencies against Mafia and drugs barons inside the Soviet Union .
You 're watching a review of the week 's news from I T N .
The caretaker Prime Minister of Israel Yitzhak Shamir , was invited to form a new government following the failure of the Labour Party leader Shimon Peres .
Mr Shamir said he would stick to his promise not to make concessions to the Palestinians over the occupied territories .
Mr Peres had tried for six weeks to persuade just one legislator to join his labour-led coalition ; in the end he failed , but said ‘it was worth the struggle for peace’ .
Vick Aiken compiled this report on Thursday .
Shimon Peres ' best chance of forming a government probably came and went when two members of an orthodox religious party caused an uproar in parliament while renegeing on a promise to join the Labour Party coalition .
Since then , the fortunes of the party and Mr Peres as leader have gone downhill .
The initiative has shifted to Yitzhak Shamir , and his right-wing Likud block .
The caretaker Prime Minister will try to form a government this week .
Mr Shamir has been hard at work consolidating his right-wing support and trying to win over independent conservatives ; he has reiterated his determination to keep the P L O out of any peace talks and has steadfastly refused to consider any deal which would involve giving up territory for peace .
Mr Shamir 's building of new settlements in the occupied territories has also angered Israel 's main ally , the United States .
In the West Bank and Gaza , the uprising continues , people throughout the region were celebrating the end of the Moslem religious festival of Ramadan .
The demonstrations soon turned into confrontations with Israeli police and army units , a number of youths were killed and hundreds of people injured .
Mr Shamir now needs the support of small religious groups .
The formation of a government can literally hang on the defection of one of these religious leaders to one party or the other .
But the price of political loyalty is high .
They want Sabbath laws strictly enforced , and a host of other minor legislation .
That has started to alienate the secular sections of parliament as well as many voters .
The right-wing Contra rebels in Nicaragua appeared reluctant to disarm even after the new American-backed President Violetta Chamorro was sworn in .
They were angry over her announcement that a leading member of the outgoing left-wing Sandinista government would be retained as head of the army .
The supporters of Senora Chamorro said the decision was vital to stop the country from sliding back into civil war .
Derek Williamson compiled this report on Thursday .
The United Nations reception centres for Contra rebels to return and lay down their weapons , opened for business in an atmosphere of hope rather than anticipation .
The disarming process was due to begin from the moment of Senora Chamorro 's inauguration and be completed by the tenth of June .
But the commander of the estimated eight thousand rebels in Nicaragua _ Israel Galeano — now says his men will refuse to give up their weapons .
The reason ; President Chamorro 's refusal to cite this man as head of the army , he 's Umberto Ortega , brother of the out-going president , Daniel Ortega , and as inaugurations go , it was an inauspicious first day in government for Senora Chamorro .
Some supporters of her National Opposition Coalition , known as U N O cheered dutifully , others booed her announcement that although she would take over as Minister of Defence , General Ortega was staying on .
Earlier , Sandinista supporters threw water bombs as her motorcade arrived in the baseball stadium for the inaugural speech .
Police tried to subdue the more unruly elements of the crowd .
Outside , other Sandinistas denounced U S support for the new administration ; Washington is refraining from public criticism of its first major decision .
I'm not going to second guess her decision , we will work with her and we will work with her government .
Privately , it 's believed Washington put great pressure on President Chamorro to rid herself of remnants of the Sandinista administration .
Clearly , her first attempts at national reconciliation have impressed no-one .
China announced that it was ending martial law in the Tibetan capital Lhasa .
It was imposed fourteen months ago , following nationalist protests in which about fifty people died .
But Beijing pledged to continue fighting what it called ‘foreign forces’ plotting independence for the Himalayan region .
Foreign residents in Lhasa said later that many of China 's troops have been withdrawn and the security situation was more relaxed .
Gaby Rado compiled this report at I T N on Monday .
Violent anti-Chinese demonstrations in the Tibetan capital Lhasa , during which the people took control of the city for at least a day .
But inevitably , the authorities regained control by force , it was a foretaste of what was to happen three months later in Tiananmen Square .
Martial law was declared in Lhasa , enforced by a hundred thousand Chinese soldiers who made sure there was no repetition of the scenes on the anniversary last month .
And now Beijing has announced that social order has returned .
The exiled Tibetan leader , the Dalai Lama has had a high international profile since he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last year ; resenting this , the Chinese authorities may be looking for propaganda points of their own for lifting marshal law .
And on a more mundane level , they may well want the tourists back , before martial law , Lhasa was becoming a sought-after destination for western travellers and for their dollars .
There is growing controversy in East Germany over the future of the underground bunker in which Hitler is believed to have committed suicide forty five years ago .
The bunker is situated on the Eastern side of the Berlin Wall .
Some Berliners want it preserved as a historic site , others fear that it could become the focus for neo-fascist demonstrators .
Ian Glover-James sent this report from Berlin on Monday .
Beneath the skyline of modern Berlin , half hidden in a grassy wasteland , all that 's left of the bunker where Adolf Hitler committed suicide .
It stands right by the wall in a rabbit-infested wilderness , the no man 's land between East and West .
Most of the bunker was dynamited to build new apartments , inside lie some thirty underground walls on two levels .
Here Hitler spent his final weeks as the Third Reich collapsed .
Overhead , Soviet troops swarmed into the Reichstag , but at the bunker , all that remained was Hitler 's charred corpse .
For years , the bunker lay buried , German officials on both sides of the wall simply didn't like talking about it ; these ruins are now entombed beneath new apartment blocks in East Berlin .
But one section remains , jutting above ground by the wall .
Rocker Schmisch was among the last of Hitler 's bunker staff to escape from the ruins , fifty years ago ; an S S sergeant , he was a telephone operator and bodyguard in the bunker .
Now the Berlin wall is coming down , and with the two Germanies uniting at this very point , the big question is — what to do with the bunker ?
I think it should be maintained .
History is history whether Hitler was a criminal or not .
This was the end of his life , here he committed suicide .
Others are wary , like this East German border guard responsible for the bunker .
I think it should be left as it is , but this is a matter for the historians .
It must n't become a new focus for fascists .
How should today 's young Germans treat Hitler 's legacy — should his bunker be bulldozered for good , or preserved as a warning of the evils he stood for ?
Either course will spark protest and that 's why fifty years later , the ruins remain — a perverse tribute to the ruined state to which Hitler left Germany .
You 're watching a review of the week 's news from I T N .
Fears grew for the tens of thousands of pelicans which are in danger of dying of thirst in Australia , as the country began recovering from devastating floods .
An estimated two hundred thousand birds , eighty percent of the country 's pelican population , have made an unusual detour in their migration , stopping at Lake Eyre in south Australia .
There the waters are evaporating and supplies of fresh fish are dwindling .
Chris Clark compiled this report at I T N on Monday .
Australia 's newest and largest pelican colony in the normally dry saltpan of Lake Eyre in inland Australia .
Filled for the first time in twenty years , Lake Eyre became a rich source of food , attracting tens of thousands of birds whose closest usual breeding area is five hundred miles to the south .
But now the water 's evaporating , killing the tiny fish that brought the birds here in the first place , and as the food source disappears , many birds are dying .
The young , unable to fly away , must rely on their parents making a two hundred and fifty mile round trip to other lakes and rivers to find food .
Fresh water from the recently flooded east coast of Australia is heading towards Lake Eyre , but this will take months to arrive and it 'll be too late for many of the thirty thousand chicks in the colony .
If the food supply runs too low , many of the adults will be forced to simply abandon their young .
This mass migration to the inland has only been recorded three times in the past century , and scientists are tagging thousands of birds , you attempt to get a log of the pelican 's travels and try to understand what makes them leave their normally safe havens .
The Hubble telescope was put into orbit from the American space shuttle Discovery .
Its two solar rings will give it power for fifteen years to send back the closest and clearest pictures of the universe ever seen .
Ken Rees sent this report from the United States on Wednesday .
For astronomers around the world , it was the moment of the century .
It may have been seven years late and a billion dollars over budget , but the Hubble space telescope was lifting out of the shuttle cargo bay and on its way to orbit at last , ready to look back across the universe to the very beginnings of time .
Before the telescope could be deployed , two huge solar panels had to be unfurled .
Houston to Discovery .
It looks like motion 's stopped with just about one panel showing .
Two astronauts stood ready for their space walk and repair mission , but the problem was solved and the solar rays rolled into position .
It 's now being moved into its final orbit , three hundred and eighty miles above the earth .
The telescope is powerful enough to detect the glow of a firefly ten thousand miles away , but it will detect light from fourteen billion years away , close to the presumed creation of the universe in a giant cosmic explosion .
Discovery , go for Hubble release .
Okay we have a ‘go’ for release and we 're going to be a minute .
Soon the telescope should begin sending back extraordinary pictures of other galaxies .
It 's the biggest step forward in astronomy since Galileo first used a crude telescope four hundred years ago .
Now , our special report in which we take a closer look at a topical issue .
Architects and developers are submitting ambitious plans for what 's become one of the most valuable stretches of land in Europe .
One hundred and forty kilometres long and up to eight hundred and fifty metres wide , the no man 's land between the east and west sides of the Berlin wall is now available for development .
There is controversy over what should be built on ground which includes sensitive sites from Berlin 's war time history .
I T N 's arts correspondent , Fiona Murch reported from Berlin on the search for suitable ways to link the two very different halves of the city .
This century alone , Berlin has had an extraordinary history — a natural , social , cultural and political centre , because of its location at the crossroads of east and west Europe .
The wall which divided the city limited its development .
Now Berliners aim to realise the potential that 's eluded them since the war , and the development of no man 's land is crucial ; the practical realisation of unification , and it 's fraught with problems .
Just as the wall belongs to every Berliner on both sides , East and West , so does the entire site which , which now is left fallow so to speak .
At the time of division , the two halves of the city were very different ; the Soviet east hung on to the imperial Prussian centre , the West acquired the western shopping and residential areas .
Either side of the wall , architectural development matched politics ; the free-thinking west versus the conformist east .
The capitalist West of the city is happy to embrace the socialist East , but worries about the latter 's commercial naivety .
There 's concern that the authorities in the East might be exploited by foreign investors racing to acquire parts of the increasingly valuable empty sites .
To protect their joint interests , the West Berlin summit has detailed Rainer Emmenlauer one of their own development consultants to act as an advisor to their colleagues in the East .
Our advice is to take time to find out what they really want before they give away the sites to the private investors , because when they have done this , they can't erm participate in what is really developing .
The Reichstag , once the seat of government in a united Berlin , dominates one end of the most valuable tract of land under discussion .
In the land behind me , in what used to be no man 's land is hidden the bunker where Adolf Hitler and Eva Braun committed suicide at the end of the war .
There are still rooms underground .
Ignored until now , redevelopment is forcing Berlin to confront its history practically .
Build over and forget , or preserve and remember , there are dangers in both .
It 's an emotive issue and raises questions like whether it 's appropriate that a company such as Daimler-Benz which played a major role in the Third Reich , should be allowed as they want to , to build their headquarters near Hitler 's bunker .
Controversy rages , but there is at least agreement that the sensitive sites should be preserved .
Just in this area which has been the centre of terror of erm the nazis and of the Hitler regime .
erm We should make our history visible .
But before any dreams can be realised , there 's the question of land rights to be resolved .
Potentially the most valuable site in Europe , there are many claimants .
For the area on the west side , we have different owners , erm but also erm the state of Berlin has an owner and for the east side , we also have different owners erm just like the others and this is a very acute legal problem for East Berlin and G D R .
Architects on both sides of the wall are worried that racing to provide the new capital , the politicians are not taking time to consult Berlin 's architects about the problems on either side of the wall .
There 'll be a competition to design the new centre , but the architects feel they should help establish the winning criteria .
Just as the architecture built in the last thirty years in East and West Berlin reflects the different societies , so will what is to be built , play a part in determining the future of the united city .
And so those architects who remember the Third Reich are fearful of the politician 's desire to build on an imperial scale .
But the pressure is on to re-create past glories , to think big like the extraordinary Grand Hotel in East Berlin , built just a few years ago .
Ultimately , the decision rests with politicians , and they want a city that could be a great capital of Europe .
That was a review of the week 's news from I T N ; from London , goodbye .
Hello and welcome to this review of the week from Independent Television News in London .
I'm Brenda Row , and these were the headlines : widespread protest in Israel and the occupied territories after Palestinians are killed by an Israeli ; allegations of fraud as National Salvation Front wins Romanian elections , and seven die in an upsurge of violence in South Africa .
First , there 's been an increase in tension in the Middle East after an Israeli gunman shot dead seven Palestinian workers outside Tel Aviv at the weekend .
At least fourteen more Palestinians were killed in subsequent clashes with the security forces and eight hundred were wounded ; the clashes spilled over from the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip to Arab areas of Israel .
The army imposed curfews on the occupied lands , and one and a half million Palestinians were confined to their homes .
In the Jordanian capital Amman , a Palestinian armed with a pistol and a knife attacked a group of French tourists , and the Jordanian police shot and killed two youths during a protest by tens of thousands of Palestinians .
Brent Sadler sent this report from Israel on Sunday .
Palestinian shock at the unprovoked killings quickly turned to anger .
An eruption of violent anti-Israeli protest spread throughout the Gaza Strip where the Arab victims lived .
Thousands of Palestinians fled their jobs in Israel and returned home , denouncing the shootings as a massacre of innocents , and calling on Arabs to observe three black days of mourning .
Clashes with the army escalated rapidly ; curfew orders were defied as stone throwers confronted army vehicles and pelted low flying helicopters with rocks ; parts of Gaza blackened by burning protest tyres , were out of control .
It was no different in the occupied West Bank where the protesters soon came up against army reinforcements .
The Palestinian death count grew steadily , at least four were shot dead here in Gaza , and a line of stretchers , with hundreds more wounded Gazans piled into local hospitals .
It was the bloodiest day in two and a half years of Arab protest against Israeli protest against Israeli rule , triggered off when a twenty one year old Israeli machine-gunned seven Arabs to death on a sandy road embankment outside Tel Aviv .
Survivors thought their vehicles had been stopped for a security check ; the shock of what they 'd seen sent this young Palestinian into deep trauma .
All the victims were shot from close range in the stomach and chest ; the crime of a single madman according to Israel 's Prime Minister .
I hope that the Palestinian-Arab population will not erm utilise this atmosphere for increasing violence and bloodshed .
No sooner had he spoken than Israeli peace activists enraged by the governments right wing policies , clashed with police in Jerusalem .
The spectre of re-ignited conflict inside Israel , with Palestinian sorrow and fury outside , threatening to escalate violence and putting back the chances of Israeli-Palestinian dialogue still further .
Several countries condemned the level of force used by Israel in the occupied territories .
The American State Department said the lack of a viable peace process in the Middle East increased the danger that such incidents would provoke a spiral of violence .
The United Nations Security Council met in special session to discuss the crisis .
Liz Donnelly compiled this report in London on Monday .
Israel 's relationship with the United States is , just beneath the surface , under considerable strain .
For the time being , the American peace plan has been killed off by the Labour Party 's failure to form a government .
Yet the United States subsidises Israel to the tune of four billion dollars a year , and Congress recently voted an extra four hundred million dollars in aid , to help settle the influx of Soviet Jews .
The leading Republican Senator , Robert Dole caused uproar in Israel when he suggested this money should n't be taken for granted , but there 's no sign the Bush administration is prepared to use this muscle .
It is the lobby , in Congress and outside of Congress , it 's still strong , the pro-Israel lobby , although now it 's more divided than in the past , not unconditionally supporting everything that Tel Aviv does .
On the other hand there 's a certain inertia principle operating , it is always easier for an administration to do less than to do more in dealing with the Middle East , and especially with the central Palestine problem .
Yitsak Shamir looks set to form Israel 's next government ; he 's likely to take a hard line .
Former Defence Minister Ariel Sharon discredited during the war in Lebanon , possibly back in a prominent post .
President Mubarak of Egypt warned that the continued emigration of Soviet Jews to Israel , could spark a new war in the Middle East .
He said the influx threatened the march towards peace , putting the whole region on the verge of a new bloody confrontation .
Tim Ewart reported on Friday on the reasons behind the large scale emigration of Soviet Jews to Israel .
Morning prayers at the Jewish synagogue ; morning lessons at the Jewish school which operates on the balcony above .
For years Judaism was suppressed in the Soviet Union , practised behind closed doors , and often in fear .
The school was allowed to open only nine months ago .
Glasnost has given Soviet Jews new freedoms , new confidence and new fears .
These men are members of the anti-semitic Russian Nationalist movement , Pamyet , or memory ; groups like this have benefited from Glasnost too .
Prejudices , which in sterner communist days were officially taboo , have now burst into the open .
It 's a country where everybody hates everybody , for erm national erm point of view of your nationality , it 's a hopeless situation .
And so with most immigration restrictions now lifted , the Jews are fleeing .
Fifty thousand went to America last year , the stricter regulations there have switched attention to Israel , which expects three quarters of a million in the next five years .
They 're fleeing a country where there are now frequent rumours of pogroms , and where Jews routinely suffer open abuse .
On the wall opposite our windows there was an ins , an inscription erm made in English by the way — kill Jews .
English teacher Natasha Kopilov , her husband Misha and fifteen year old son Yuri , leave for Israel next month .
Defending a Jewish school friend has taught Yuri all about anti-semitism .
His classmates started , started to curse erm to curse him and to humiliate him I think from the first or the second grade , and erm he was my friend , I had to , to fight for him .
And so as their freedoms increase , their numbers dwindle .
There remain just two million Jews in the Soviet Union ; some predict that before long , there 'll be hardly any at all .
You 're watching a review of the week 's news from I T N .
Official Romanian election results have confirmed a landslide win for President Ion Iliescu and his National Salvation Front .
But the main opposition party say they may take legal action because they suspect fraud .
International observers say the election was free from serious malpractice .
Paul Davis reported from Bucharest on Monday .
Celebrations began at the headquarters of the Salvation Front as the exit polls predicted more than eighty per cent of votes had been captured by Front leader , Ion Iliescu , in the three candidate race for the presidency .
As counting got underway , the election was being given qualified approval by international observers .
Five months since the most vicious dictator in Europe was in charge here , it 's not surprising they didn't move to anything which was electorally perfect .
I think it 's a step towards the democracy the people in this country want .
Present party leader Yon Ratiu continued to complain of dirty tricks by the Front .
Cheating , I mean out and out cheating , that 's what it is .
In Bucharest 's university square , scene of anti-front demonstrations for more than a month now , the debate continued with more accusations of electoral malpractice by the front .
Judging from December , they , they started to lie , and they lied us again and again .
In their encampment in the square , the hunger strikers said they would continue their protest against a new administration they describe as merely the old regime under a different name .
Despite all the protest that his Salvation Front was too closely linked with the old communists , President Iliescu now almost certainly has a clear mandate to govern Romania .
The first test of his promise that the bad old days are gone will be the manner in which he treats people like these , who continue to exercise their right to criticise his government .
Nelson Mandela , the deputy president of the African National Congress , warned that efforts to end apartheid would collapse , unless the South African government ended violence by the security forces .
Mr Mandela was speaking after the killing of seven blacks by police in a township near Welkom , in Orange Free State .
Welkom has become a flashpoint in a nationwide confrontation between militant blacks and whites over President de Klerk 's reforms .
I T N 's Southern Africa correspondent , Kevin Dunne , reported from Welkom on Monday .
As the death toll rose from yesterday 's police shooting , there were renewed clashes in Welkom 's tense black township ; youths burned and stoned vehicles , police responded with shotgun fire .
Several more protesters were wounded , and a former local councillor was murdered by a mob for his association with apartheid authorities .
Blacks accused the police of acting against them and not against armed white vigilantes .
These erm white guys were shoot , were pointing firearms at our people .
Instead of stopping them , they shot at our people who were not fighting .
So all I mean is , erm these police are actually fighting us , in favour of the vigilantes .
It was the appearance of the vigilantes in Welkom 's white neighbourhoods , which heightened racial tension two months ago ; blacks responded to vigilante attacks by boycotting white businesses , then last week on the goldmines , the flashpoint for tension — two white mineworkers were killed by black miners .
The whites of Welkom buried those men today .
It is in communities like these , Afrikaaner , deeply conservative , that opposition to President de Klerk 's reforms is growing .
So too is the threat of paramilitary force from whites who want to cling to apartheid .
The violence and the killing are fuelling extremist factions and providing a pretext for men like vigilante leader , Hennie Muller .
erm I think there 's a war going on in Welkom now .
In the black townships there is so much black on black violence , I think we can call it a war .
And is there black against white warfare ?
erm Not at this time , but erm we expect them .
Tonight the black township was sealed off to whites , but the potential for further clashes remained high .
The government 's fear is that there may be many more Welkoms waiting to happen , and if racial conflict does spread in South Africa , it could seriously unsettle a delicate process of change which is underway .
The United Nations Secretary General , Javier Perez del Cuellar asked the Security Council to hold talks on a decision by the Nicaraguan Contra rebels to postpone their demobilisation .
Meanwhile the new government of Violetta Chamorro successfully defused a week-long strike by leftist opponents .
Rochelle Wilson reported last Thursday .
It 's estimated that some fifty thousand workers took part in the strike , which paralysed the country and threw the new government of Senora Chamorro into crisis .
Factories were closed , industry shut down and central government came to a halt ; there was no transport and the supermarket shelves emptied .
The government accused the opposition Sandanistas of orchestrating the strike ; they lost the February elections after ten years of socialist rule , but they still have supporters in key positions .
Three days before the agreement was reached , the government tried strong arm tactics declaring the strike illegal and threatening to sack workers unless they returned within twenty four hours .
But Senora Chamorro back-tracked and offered talks ; the former left wing President welcomed the move .
We are not interested in the collapse of this government , we 're interested in the stability of Nicaragua , but not at the expense of the worker 's interests .
The national situation is very tense with these flights ; if they keep putting kindling under the pot , it might explode .
The talks produced a package including a one hundred per cent wage increase for public sector workers and a commitment that no strikers would be victimised .
But the dispute also made it clear to President Chamorro that the Nicaraguan left is still a force to be reckoned with .
Clashes between police and radical students broke out in the South Korean city of Kwangju .
The demonstrations marked the tenth anniversary of an uprising when at least two hundred people were killed by the security forces .
Student leaders vowed to continue anti-American protest because of Washington 's alleged role in condoning repression .
Caroline Finnigan reported on Friday .
At least a hundred thousand people took part in a peaceful rally on the streets of Kwangju , marking the army 's suppression of the nineteen eighty uprising .
After the march came the violence as groups of students and other protesters confronted police ; tear gas was used against them .
At one point , a crowd ten thousand strong was involved in the clashes , petrol bombs and stones were thrown .
Scuffles continued through the night .
President Roe Tae Woo is not only facing such demonstrations , but an economy that is under severe pressure .
Fifteen thousand car workers went on strike this week , the stockmarket fell to its lowest point in eighteen months and property speculation has forced rents beyond the reach of many .
Massive economic growth made the country think it was going to be the next Japan .
Public expectations ran high ; consumerism reigned .
Now workers say management created South Korea 's problems by not investing profits into expansion ; management say workers wanted too much money .
Economic unease may be fuelling discontent , but ten years ago , the Kwangju demonstration was sparked by a crackdown on political dissent .
The protest spread to the capital Seoul and other parts of the country .
Officially the death toll was two hundred ; unofficially it was estimated at thousands .
Animal rights campaigners in the United States say fashionable breeds of dog are being mass-produced in kennels which are more like factory farms .
They claim the animals often suffer from deformities and illnesses , and bitches are shot when they 're no longer able to produce puppies .
Ken Reece sent this report from the United States on Friday .
The American Kennel Club registers one million new dogs a year .
All , like these picture perfect Labradors , going to new owners who believe their dream puppy came to them from a caring environment .
But most people never visit the actual kennels , buying their puppy in a pet shop , often on impulse ; the original doggy in the window .
Now a shocking report has revealed that most of these dogs are mass produced in hundreds of rural puppy factories , conditions have been likened to concentration camps for animals .
The dogs live in appalling conditions , open to the weather , walking on wires , lying on excrement , they rarely exercise and often make pathetic attempts to escape .
The woman on the right is rescuing a dog from a factory breeder , her vet found a listless , zombie-like animal with multiple problems .
The ears are thickened , they 're cracking , they 're bleeding , they itch and they hurt ; she almost scratched a hole on the outside of her ear because it hurt so much .
As these little guys walk on , on solid ground , their nails push their wrists back , hyper-flex that wrist , and that is , that 's almost crippling , they can hardly walk .
And the puppies produced this way often have genetic defects from in- breeding .
Thousands of illegal immigrants in Japan have surrendered to police and asked to be deported , before a new anti-immigration law comes into effect .
The law will impose three-year jail terms and heavy fines .
Every day , anything up to a thousand illegal Asian workers are crowding into Tokyo 's main immigration bureau , asking to be deported .
Many have been living for years in a shadowy , illegal world , doing the jobs that affluent Japanese now shun .
For them , Japan was a magnet , promising them wages many times what they could earn at home , but according to one Pakistani worker who yesterday decided to speak out publicly , the reality was very different .
They saw us just like we were jungle animals , jungle animals they treat us .
We have no rights here , we have no liberty here , we have nothing here .
But many Japanese industries are desperate for Asian workers , decades of economic growth have left the country with a severe labour shortage , the construction industry in particular , wants Asians to be allowed in legally , though many ordinary Japanese are horrified at the prospect of that .
The annual frog-jumping contest in America 's midwest suffered a plague of imposters this year .
One owner imported giant African frogs to compete with the humble local bullfrogs .
But as Roger Livingston reported on Friday , the final results surprised everyone .
The Callaveros County frog jumping contest was immortalised by the American novelist , Mark Twain .
They measure the total distance of three jumps by the frog , it doesn't matter how far the owner leaps .
When the giant African frogs appeared , everyone thought this years contest was a foregone conclusion .
Many feared they 'd simply eat up the opposition , and with feet the size of human hands and powerful legs to go with them , the records looked set to be broken .
But under pressure to perform , they flopped .
All but three of the down-home American bullfrogs leapt further , creating waves of excitement .
The eventual winner — Mr Wizard , his three leaps totalled just under six metres .
Now our special report in which we take a closer look at an issue in the news .
The latest problem to befall Mr Gorbachov 's struggle to promote peristroika , or restructuring , has arisen in the vast Soviet agricultural community .
Farmers in one of the most important regions are threatening a strike unless Mr Gorbachov meets their demands for higher prices .
They also want more state investment in agriculture and an end to central planning .
The farmers are the latest group of workers to threaten industrial action .
David Smith reported on Monday from the farmlands of Yarislavl north of Moscow , where the unrest began .
The old Russian city of Yarislavl once the country 's cultural and religious capital ; today a farming centre .
This part of the Soviet Union , has always been self-sufficient , now people talk of hunger , even malnutrition .
Shortages have become a way of life here , to find these people queueing for staple products shows just how desperate the situation has become .
It 's a crisis about to get worse , because the farmers of Yarislavl are set to go on strike , if their demands aren't met , then one of the largest agricultural centres in the country will cut supplies of milk , poultry and meat .
It 'll be the first farmers strike in the history of the Soviet Union , and it 's already prompting strike calls elsewhere ; in the farming capitals of the Caucasus and the Ukraine .
The main reasons over their peasant 's strike are : it is unjust , unfair prices , because the prices for the agricultural products and goods are too low and the prices for technics are too high .
This is the Kratolsov collective farm , the biggest in the Yarislavl region .
What 's happened here is typical of the crisis peristroika has created ; the farmers are caught in no mans land , between the free market and old style Marxism .
Two years ago , such farms were told to be self-sustaining , self- financing , many state subsidies were withdrawn , yet here today they 're still working to a central plan which dictates how much they produce and how much they 're paid for it , so decades of mismanagement are compounded by a lack of funds .
Pavel Penkin is the strike leader , what farmers want he says is a massive injection of state investment to enable them to compete in the new free market and improve their lot .
If they don't , then he says the countryside will be stripped of it 's most important resource — people to work the land .
Speaks in Russian .
The peasant class , the backbone of any revolution , feels exploited , and that 's the basis for this revolt .
Plus this means that the strike committee can go public with it 's grievances , and in the past few days , the farmers and the authorities have been debating the issues on local television .
The man representing the government washed his hands of responsibility , he could do nothing to meet the striker 's demands , he said , because Moscow wouldn't let him .
Speaks in Russian .
If there 's one hope in the farming community these days , it lies in the private tenant farming , which began under Gorbachov .
The private farmers pay more for everything than the collectives , labour materials , taxes , yet they 're beginning to turn a profit from the soil .
In Yarislavl the cooperative farms now supply the small private markets that have grown in the past year , the quality and variety of the produce on sale here , clear evidence of the sad truth , that hunger in a place like this is a scandal .
Yet even the cooperative farmers say they 'll now support the strike .
A year ago , it was the miners who went on strike , today it 's the farmers who can wait no more .
That was a review of the weeks news from I T N , from London , goodbye .
Hello and welcome to this review of the week from Independent Television News in London .
I'm Christabel King and these were the headlines : Boris Yeltsin wins crucial vote to become President of the Russian Federation ; the I R A kills two Australian tourists in the Netherlands , and the opposition takes the lead in Burma 's elections .
But first , Boris Yeltsin the man sacked by President Gorbachov as Moscow Communist Party Chief , has been elected leader of the Russian Federation ; Soviet Union 's largest and most powerful Republic .
Mr Yeltsin secured the required number of votes in his third attempt in four days , just as President Gorbachov flew off for a visit to Canada prior to his summit with President Bush in America .
The result confirmed Mr Yeltsin as the leading figure among radicals who want to speed up the process of reform , and who believe President Gorbachov is not moving fast enough to dismantle the old system .
Boris Yeltsin , a political outcast two years ago , was swept back into high political office ; a unique and turbulent political career , capped now with the presidency of the powerful Russian Republic .
Outside the Kremlin he was mobbed by supporters , for many , disillusioned with the system , cynical about Gorbachov 's intentions , Yeltsin is their last hope for real political change .
Supporters tearful , this woman saying that Russia had been reborn , that she 'd never known such happiness .
The vote , when it came , broke five days of deadlock for a post that will give Yeltsin no executive powers , but huge authority and the opportunity to help set a new political agenda for the Russian parliament .
He responded with a warning and a promise ; a warning he 'll defend Russia 's interests , a promise of dialogue with Gorbachov .
If erm they would continue confrontation , erm it would be taken very badly by the population .
If they , they demonstrate good consensus , they will both win in the public opinion enormously .
Just off Red Square , crowds gathered to celebrate .
Many expressed the feeling that Gorbachov is now more vulnerable than ever before , and that Yeltsin has a unique platform from which to attack the Soviet leadership .
Whether Gorbachov 's tattered image at home will benefit from his visit to North America , is increasingly in doubt ; for those here , nothing can hide the failure of his domestic reform programme , and the economic part of that programme was again under debate in the Supreme Soviet .
This parliament , which represents all fifteen Republics , voted to delay any decision to liberalise the economy , evidence again say Gorbachov 's critics , that reforms are going nowhere fast .
For the fourth day the Soviet Prime Minister Nikolai Ryskov , was still pressing deputies to accept a huge increase in prices as a painful first step .
And so as the Soviet President left Moscow , shaking hands with Politburo members , he leaves behind a political challenge and an economic crisis ; it threatens everything he 's fought for .
President Gorbachov left many other domestic troubles at home as he flew to North America .
In the republic of Armenia , more than twenty people died in clashes between Soviet troops and Armenian nationalists .
The clashes turned celebrations to mark Armenia 's independence into a day of mourning .
The worst trouble was in and around the capital Yeravan ; Armenia declared itself independent in nineteen eighteen , but was annexed by the Soviet Union two years later .
Derek Williamson compiled this report in London on Monday .
The civil war in Armenia has now lasted over two years , and some Soviet commentators make bitter comparisons with Lebanon .
Most of the latest casualties were civilians , shot by anti-riot forces sent in by the Kremlin , in advance of Monday 's Independence Day celebrations .
But instead of preventing bloodshed , their presence seemed to provoke it ; two soldiers were also reported killed .
Most of the deaths occurred in Yeravan 's southern suburbs as Armenian militants tried to stop the advance of tanks and troops .
Doctors who tried to help the wounded were caught in the crossfire , and in some places ambulances also came under attack .
The mayor of Yeravan used his official car to evacuate some of the wounded .
At the railway station in the centre of Yeravan , workers cleaned up after violence at the weekend ; six militants died here in a shootout with troops .
Tanks now patrol the city centre , and instead of a celebration of their Independence Day , Armenian nationalists were holding a day of mourning
The Irish Republican Army admitted responsibility for the killing of two Australian tourists in the Netherlands .
A spokesman for the I R A said its active service unit had tragically mistaken them for British soldiers .
Dutch police believe the attackers had been confused by British licence plates on the car .
Robert Hall reported from Roermond in the Netherlands on Monday .
The party of young Australians had been out for a meal , and had stopped to take photographs , when Roermond 's market square echoed to gunfire .
Stephen Melrose and Nick Spanos died within minutes as a gunman fired at least twelve shots at close range .
One man was outside , two were sitting inside , the men were completely black , so black trousers , black hats and they had a black cape over it , over their faces so you could n't see who they were , and one of them just had this gun in his hand , and fired at this Citroen here located .
The stolen Mazda getaway car was found burnt out two hours later .
It had crossed the border into Belgium before police could seal the town ; at a press conference there were denials that border security had been lax .
Against erm murderers of this type where a certain insanity isn't erm far away , it 's erm not very easy to erm protect ourselves .
This attack will re-awaken criticism over the army 's decision to issue service personnel with UK civilian style number plates ; a scheme intended to offer extra protection , but which critics claimed would lead to civilian casualties .
The military government in Burma said it would hand over power to the pro-democracy opposition which took an overwhelming lead in the elections for the National Assembly .
The main opposition group , the National League for Democracy , said it expected to have an absolute majority when the final results are compiled in about three weeks .
Rochelle Wilson in London reported on Monday .
The first National Assembly elections in thirty years appear to have given the opposition an overwhelming lead .
The military leader , General Saw Maung said he 'd abide by the outcome .
Whoever wins , that 's not my business , .
But the military were accused of intimidation by the opposition ; their role in putting down the pro-democracy uprising in nineteen eighty eight , has n't been forgotten .
The election watchdog commission rejected the charges .
We are confident that our elections are free and fair ; it 's nobody business outside Burma .
Nonetheless , the opposition 's most prominent figures were banned for standing .
Aun San Suu Kiy the popular leader of the National League for Democracy , was kept under house arrest , though she was allowed to cast her vote in a sealed envelope .
The military place strict limits on the size and location of election rallies , and campaign speeches had to be approved by government centres .
You , you could call it fair , but erm it 's rather restricted .
Oh we can't do the campaigning like you do in the west .
The opposition are by no means confident that the military leadership will hand over power once the results are through .
They 've promised to do so as soon as a new constitution has been written , but western diplomats say that could take up to two years .
You 're watching a review of the week 's news from I T N .
The winner of Columbia 's presidential election has promised to continue the war against the country 's drugs cartels .
Cesar Gaviria , the candidate of the ruling Liberal Party , won forty seven per cent of the vote ; the right wing National Salvation Movement had twenty four per cent and the former left wing guerrilla group M-nineteen , came in third with thirteen per cent .
Colline Johnson reported on Monday .
The relatives of the President elect were testing out their new roles at the victory party ; Senor Gaviria now has a clear mandate to continue the crackdown launched by the outgoing President .
In his acceptance speech , he called on industrialised countries to take steps to reduce worldwide demand for cocaine , he also ruled out pardons for drug traffickers , and said he 'd maintain extradition agreements .
This has been the bloodiest election campaign in Columbian history ; in the last nine months , some two thousand people have died , including three presidential candidates .
Several hundred thousand soldiers were deployed at ballot stations around the country , but less than half the eligible voters turned out .
In a surprise result , the left wing M-nineteen group , led by Antonio Navarro , polled third place .
If the government opts to include these former guerrillas in a National Unity Administration ; the President will be free to concentrate efforts on dealing with the cocaine traffickers .
But in the drugs capital of Medilline , the daily killings continue , the drug cartels are reportedly planning a fresh offensive , before the new administration can tighten its grip on the country .
The South African President , F W de Klerk , accused the country 's leading right wing movement of becoming irresponsible , undemocratic and dangerous .
His attack on the Conservative Party followed the biggest ever rally in support of apartheid ; tens of thousands of whites gathered in the capital Pretoria to denounce Mr de Klerk 's reform programme , they called for elections to test its popularity .
Kevin Dunn reported from South Africa on Saturday .
In the shadow of their ancestors , right wing Afrikaaners muster to protest at their governments so-called betrayal of the white man , but the man responsible , President F W de Klerk , was himself being welcomed from a successful tour of Europe , where he said ‘South Africa 's commitment to reform was believed’ .
But beneath the monument to Afrikaanerdom , the racist right wing were staging their biggest demonstration yet .
This is the culmination of a campaign to mobilise white opinion against President de Klerk 's reforms , and to launch what they 're calling the third freedom struggle of the Boer Nation .
Their ideal is a white fatherland , the consecration of apartheid in their own nation , and they pledged to fight for it .
We shall not accept the threatened destruction of our nation 's freedom , but will fight to restore that which has already been unjustly , been given away .
The response then of these people to reform and negotiation — a resounding No .
The leader of the Palestine Liberation Organisation , Yasser Arafat , accused the United States of providing flagrant support for the settlement of Soviet Jews in Israel .
At a meeting of the Arab League in Baghdad , he attacked America for tightening its own entry policy , forcing the Jews to emigrate to Israel .
Up to five hundred Soviets arrive every day , and it 's the Israeli government 's policy of settling them in the occupied territories of the West Bank that cause most Arab hostility .
Brent Sadler reported on Tuesday .
Within twenty five years , these Palestinian babies could live in a society where Arabs match Jews , one for one .
Gaza women give birth on average , nine times , one of the highest birth rates in the world .
Jewish mothers have no more than three children on average .
Every one hundred thousand Soviet immigrants delays by one year the deadline , soon they will be pouring in at the record rate of twenty a thousand month .
Danny Yushiskin and his wife in Tel Aviv await their parent 's arrival from Leningrad ; their home will be in the Israeli town of Ariel , a settlement town in the occupied West Bank .
But according to Israeli officials , most of the Soviets choose to live here in Tel Aviv or Haifa in Israel proper , and that only a fraction , less than one per cent , go to the occupied territories .
But even a trickle of new settlers like the Yushiskins , argue the P L O , is a serious threat .
There will be a war between the Arabs and Israel ; they are a threat to the Arab world .
So that 's the danger of these people .
Israel is thrilled at the pace of absorption , and accuses the Arab world of manufacturing false conflict and fear ; a conflict that is whipping up greater hostility among two peoples who claim the same land .
You 're watching a review of the week 's news from I T N .
Olympic officials in the United States have warned athletes that a wonder drug they 're using to boost performances , could be lethal .
It 's been described as the perfect drug for cheats , but the International Olympic Committee has banned it .
Ken Rees reported from the United States on Friday .
Most athletes win honestly , but some will do anything to finish ahead of the pack , even using illegal drugs .
Erythropoietin gives the cheaters a new and potentially deadly weapon ; the synthetic hormone is used to treat kidney dialysis patients .
It 's ability to boost the production of red blood cells can also have an extraordinary effect on an athlete , increasing his aerobic capacity , and dramatically improving speed and endurance .
I think it 's a potential nightmare on the horizon .
I think erm it 's going to supersede erm anabolic steroids .
Swedish researchers tested the drug on volunteers , like ten kilometre runner Manos Flink .
I erm run about erm ten kilometres and with this E P O , I run about two and a half — three minutes faster than before .
Such an improvement would rewrite the record books , taking perhaps ten minutes off a runner 's marathon time , but E P O can also be deadly , leading to heart attacks and strokes in apparently healthy people .
The mystery deaths of at least seven leading Dutch cyclists , led to speculation that some of those deaths might be linked to E P O .
But now a test for the drug is years away , and for those athletes desperate enough to win , only their own sense of honour would stop them using it .
Ken Rees , I T N , Washington .
Immigration officials off the north coast of Australia have stepped up their efforts to intercept boat people arriving from Vietnam .
In the late seventies , the authorities allowed many refugees to stay , but now they 've adopted a tougher policy .
Roger Maynard sent this report from Sydney on Thursday .
Australia is used to refugees seeking sanctuary ; thousands made their way here after the Vietnam War .
Now , after a lull of several years , the boat people are heading for Australia again , this time from Cambodia .
In the past few months , nearly two hundred have successfully made the dangerous voyage south ; most head for the north-western Australia port of Broom , where they 're interviewed by immigration officials .
They have to prove they left Cambodia for political , not economic reasons , before being allowed to stay .
It 's a process that can take up to six months , but all this has not deterred hundreds more refugees from attempting the hazardous journey south .
Australian coastguards make daily air patrols in an effort to spot incoming craft .
Now with the monsoon season over , and several more boatloads of Cambodians reported on their way by Indonesian officials , Australian immigration authorities are preparing for yet another major influx of refugees .
Fifty years ago , the British expeditionary force fighting the German army in France , was driven back to the beaches of the town of Dunkirk .
An armada of small private boats and a flotilla of naval vessels sailed to the rescue ; more than three hundred and fifty thousand men were saved , men who were able to return to the battle against Hitler 's armies in Europe and Africa .
Veterans of the evacuation held a commemoration ceremony on Sunday , and I T N 's Robert Hall was with them .
Fifty years ago they would have said this trip was impossible ; crouching on beaches , men in their teens and early twenties had believed they would never see another dawn .
Today , the near miracle of Dunkirk drew its pilgrims back to face their memories .
erm It means a lot to me , the people we lost , and erm this is why it is a pilgrimage , for myself .
On Dunkirk 's sunlit main street , Sid Carter marched again with five thousand of those who did make it back ; old friends reunited , new friendships established , and all remembering a very different June day .
Off Dunkirk 's beaches , a unique sight ; fifty years on , the little ships were back , forming a circle to stage their own remembrance ceremony .
Prayers too for those who were lost ; the fire tender Massie Shaw , paying her own tribute .
At the edge of the sands , men who were rescued , turning their heads towards the fleet and recalling once more lost comrades .
Now our special report where we take an in-depth look at an issue in the news .
The World Cup Soccer Championship begins in early June in Italy , and an I T N investigation has revealed that hooligans are planning big trouble .
One of the main battlegrounds is expected to be the island of Sardinia , which will host England , the Netherlands , Ireland and Egypt .
Groups of thugs , especially from England , openly boast that they 're going to the World Cup to fight their rivals .
I T N 's Robert Parker went to the Netherlands , England and Sardinia to compile this report .
Are you going to Italy ?
For the Holland game , yes .
I mean , do , do you think there 's going to be trouble ?
I hope there is .
You hope there is ?
Italy are going to be defending their territory , they 've got all these teams in their country , and like , some of them ; England , Holland , German , they 're going to like be there on Italian sort of territory and they don't want that , they 're going to be , there 's going to be trouble I think .
English fans have at the moment , the reputation of being the top boys in Europe , and there will be others from Holland , Germany and erm let 's face it , also Italy who 'll be out to knock them off their pedestal .
At the moment , most attention is focused on the island of Sardinia , where in Caliari , England will play Ireland , Holland and Egypt in the first round .
The supporters from three of these teams have a history of violence ; in Cairo , riot police are nearly always on hand , and even referees need protection from death threats .
In Holland , supporters often use firework bombs , which have caused serious injuries ; the violence of Dutch football supporters is just as great as anything in England , and with these two teams meeting , the expectation of violence is high .
Contact has been made between the Dutch and the English hooligans and arrangements are in hand to erm effect meetings in Sardinia , yes .
Is that a nice way of saying that there 's going to be a lot of fighting , is that what they 've been planning ?
Yes , yes , our intelligence is that erm planned meetings , in other words , planned violence is in the pipeline for Sardinia , which means the Dutch and English fans .
But when we went to Holland , a rather different picture emerged .
The Dutch are relaxed about many social issues , including it seems , football violence .
At one of the most notorious ground in the Hague , fans have been allowed to celebrate the violence of the game in a graffiti art form around the north side of the ground .
The fans are equipped with baseball bats and knives ; the club 's symbol , a pelican has a bomb attached to its foot , and this presumably rival supporter has had his eye gouged out .
Surprisingly , the supporters who occupy these terraces , anticipate much less trouble than English supporters .
I think they just want to see the football , I don't think there are going to be any riots ; there 's no organisation , no just going for the fun .
I mean , it 's said that some English and some Dutch fans are getting together to plan trouble .
You haven't heard of anything like that at all have you ?
No , don't think it 's true .
I think it 's rubbish .
It 's not just the Dutch fans saying this ; amongst every Dutch crowd are plain clothes policemen , known to troublemakers .
Information gained from this open contact suggests that no trouble is being planned , and there is no evidence , as the English police say , of any plot between the Dutch and English .
We have information that the Dutch are planning trouble with the English , and my feeling is that erm that erm amount of Dutch supporters that could cause trouble will not be very high .
But back in England , the view amongst English supporters is very different , for they seem to think that the Dutch regard the English fans as the number one target .
What I hear , which was straight off the phone last night , is that the Dutch fans will team up with the English fans , and back the English fans on to the beach and they will try and drown a few of the English people and they will throw bombs at them .
For the hooligans like , jealous of the fact that English hooligans have got all the erm the headlines over the years , and that , now they , they sort of think , well lets show them we can do it .
Because of concern about the trouble , the British authorities have gone to great length to prevent hooligans getting to Italy .
A government anti- hooligan committee has been sitting with the Football Association ; they 've drawn up a great body of information collated by the police football intelligence unit based in London .
The unit has pulled together information from undercover work by police forces throughout the country , like here in Manchester .
The police and football authorities now say they have a good picture of who 's who in the hooligan world .
The plan is that none of these people will be able to purchase any of the seven thousand tickets available to England for the first round matches .
These tickets will only be available through the Football Association , or through a special package holiday purchased through two official travel agencies , the cheapest of which will cost about five hundred pounds .
The Football Supporters Association says that the majority of English fans will travel to Sardinia without tickets and with nowhere to stay .
If there 's insufficient space for the army of fans , many of them might end up on the beaches , which the Italian police have expressly forbidden .
The thousands of English fans arriving here hope to buy tickets from the Italians ; if they succeed , that means they will all end up in areas reserved for rival fans , another pointer to problems .
Perhaps the worst problem will come with the Italians fans themselves , on whose home ground the World Cup is being played .
In nineteen eighty five , they fought with the English at Heysel , and this year , in their domestic league , a number of people have been killed ; it doesn't bode well .
That was a review of the week 's news from I T N , from London , goodbye .
Saddam Hussein claimed that God was on his side .
Tornadoes devastated the American Mid West .
First , Iraq has threatened to attack Israel and Saudia Arabia with missiles and bombs if war breaks out in the Gulf ; the Iraqi News Agency said the warning had come from the country 's Air Force Commander .
In Washington President Bush said he would try to persuade other countries to help pay the cost of enforcing the United Nations sanctions aimed at making Iraq withdraw from Kuwait .
But moves to find a peaceful solution to the crisis continue ; in Jordan the United Nations Secretary General , Javier Perez del Cuellar held talks with the Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz .
Meanwhile Baghdad radio reported that two hundred and thirty seven Western women and children were preparing to leave Iraq , twenty eight others said they wanted to stay with their men .
A first group of western women and children was moved out of potential war targets to a hotel in Baghdad .
In his first interview with American television , President Saddam Hussein told C B S News that he didn't want war with the west , but he claimed that God was on his side and said that Iraq would come out victorious in any conflict .
We apologise for the technical quality of the interview with President Saddam in this report ; which was filed by Alistair Stewart from Washington on Thursday .
For C B S this was the greatest coup in the coverage of the crisis .
Dan Rather asked if Hussein would withdraw from Kuwait .
Kuwait is part of Iraq .
Forever ?
We have said this .
So did he fear a U S air strike to force him out ?
So , yes , the United States Air Force may be able to destroy cities , plants , installations and people , but it will never be able to be decisive in concluding the battle .
And would Iraq 's response be the use of chemical weapons ?
I haven't said this .
What I'm saying is that Iraq is an independent state , an independent sovereign state , and whoever attacks Iraq to change the government or to destroy Iraq , then they should expect that Iraq is not going to be an easy bite to swallow .
Rather asked Hussein about the pressures on George Bush and the prospects for any negotiations .
If we were to have dialogue , if dialogue were to be opened between us and I am now talking about dialogue and not of debate , then erm it is only erm , I'm certain that there would be a great deal to , to say to him from us on our part , and I am also sure that he will have a great deal to say .
Two senior Senators gave their reactions to Saddam 's message .
My own view is that the President and the other nations are to help Saddam wind up his regime , I would hope the Iraqis would do that , but if not , they , then we , that is the United Nations .
The notion of removing Saddam Hussein is a more probable outcome if in fact we continue to move as a world effort rather than a U S effort to unilaterally move in military
Do you think that ?
The White House view is that talk is still better , but force is available if need be .
Alistair Stewart , I T N Washington .
The European Community has approved emergency food aid for the tens of thousands of refugees arriving in Jordan from Iraq and Kuwait .
Jordan is facing immense difficulties trying to provide food and shelter for the evacuees .
Many Egyptians have left for home , but as they departed , a new wave of Asian refugees from Iraqi occupied Kuwait arrived .
I T N 's Charles Hodson reported from Jordan on Tuesday as the Jordanian government urged countries to repatriate their nationals more quickly .
Nearly four weeks after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait , the flood of refugees continues .
Up to twenty thousand a day are being allowed to cross into Jordan from Iraq , but thousands more are said to be waiting just across the border .
A quarter of a million are expected in the next ten to twelve days , and the overall total of refugees from Iraq and Kuwait may amount to a full million .
Foreign assistance has taken some of the strain off the Jordanian authorities ; with Canada now pledging two point two million dollars in aid , and the European Community committing itself to sending a further three point seven million dollars in food aid .
But police here say they 've had growing problems in regulating the tide and have even ordered groups of refugees to return to the border post to allow time to clear bottlenecks further down the five hundred mile route to the Red Sea port of Aqaba .
Refugee camps here in Amman are said to be crammed to capacity , the authorities are growing more and more concerned about the numbers of Asian refugees , Indians , Bangladeshis , Pakistanis , Philippinos and Thais .
There are now forty five thousand in Amman alone .
Jordan is now expected to press Asian governments to act more vigorously to help repatriate their nationals , meanwhile reports that Iran is willing to open its border with Iraq to refugees , have been greeted with relief here , although it 's still not clear whether the Baghdad authorities will cooperate with this .
And a report that a Polish plane has conducted the first ever direct evacuation from Kuwait of a hundred refugees , have further raised hopes here .
Charles Hodson , I T N , Amman .
Kuwaitis left stranded in Britain following the invasion of their country at the beginning of August are helping to form a national resistance movement ; in some cases , small groups of men have gained access to Kuwait to fight the occupying Iraqi forces .
They claim that opposition to Saddam Hussein 's troops is growing , as Tim Friend reported on Wednesday , one of the resistance fighters has recently returned to London after being wounded .
Less than a month ago , Nasser al Marri was an investment analyst in the city .
Now he says he 's a veteran of the Kuwaiti resistance movement , with battle scars to prove it .
In Kuwait , the resistance , we are not trying to kill them , we are trying to destroy their tanks , to destroy their erm bases , to take their weapons , and to bring them to our sides for to send them to Saudi .
He says he was shot in a gun battle with Iraqi troops but escaped to Saudi Arabia .
He claims the resistance movement is growing , using weapons bought from disaffected Iraqi soldiers .
In every street in Kuwait there is a resistance , there are young guys , women , kids , you know there are many different kinds of resistance not to carry their weapons , but to say no to them .
The campaign to keep the Kuwaitis plight in the public eye is organised from a semi-detached house in central London .
In the kitchen they write news bulletins for a daily radio programme for exiles .
Among the campaigners is this Kuwaiti princess , in London when the Iraqis invaded , she doesn't want to be identified because she fears for her life .
I have to be very careful , not for myself only , it 's for everybody else , every other Kuwaiti .
Is it a realistic risk though , that erm you could come , you could be killed here ?
Well , considering the security here in Great Britain , I hope that they have taken a precaution for that , but then we 're dealing with a person who does not go by the book .
The campaign headquarters has helped hundreds of Kuwaitis stranded here , like fourteen year old Isham Fadel on holiday with his family and running out of money .
Help has come partly from donations , but cash for a resistance movement in a drawn out conflict could come from the Kuwait investment office ; it has a hundred billion dollars in foreign assets .
Tim Friend , I T N central London .
I T N would like to hear from anyone who 's shot video pictures in Iraq or Kuwait since the Gulf crisis began .
If you can help , please contact the foreign desk , Independent Television News , 48 , Wells Street , London W1P 4DE Telephone : London oh seven one — six three seven — two four two four , that 's oh seven one — six three seven — two four two four .
And now the news from the rest of the world .
More than twenty people were killed and hundreds injured when tornado storms struck the American Mid-West .
Although the tornados struck south of Chicago , they did most damage in the nearby town of Plainfield .
Rochelle Wilson compiled this report on Wednesday :
Three tornadoes left a trail of devastation as they swept through the small town of Plainfield .
Rescue services dug into the rubble to bring out the survivors and the bodies of the dead including the principal of a Catholic school .
Half the school is just completely rubble .
There are , there are people in there , they found almost everybody , they 've found two people that the principal was buried with , they finally had dug her up — she 's dead .
Ten of the twenty four who died were in a block of three storey flats ; children were among them , their bodies found in a nearby field .
Officials say that nearly three hundred were injured in the storm , which reduced buildings to matchwood .
But the counting of the dead and the search for survivors goes on , the residents of Plainfield , less than four thousand of them , are familiar with this sort of havoc ; in nineteen sixty seven , a tornado killed thirty two people .
Those who 's homes were damaged , were just thankful to be alive , for many , there was nothing left at all , and they were moved to emergency shelters .
The destruction area , spread across five miles , taking in some of the suburbs of Chicago itself .
You 're watching a review of the week 's news from I T N .
Right wing soldiers in the Philippines have written to national newspapers saying they intend to launch a bloodless coup against President Corizon Aquino , and to replace her with a military junta .
The move comes after a spate of bomb attacks in the capital Manila .
President Aquino has urged village leaders to fight what she calls the psychological terror spread by right wing rebels .
This report was compiled in London on Tuesday by Gerry Armitage :
Corey Akino has survived six previous coup attempts ; the most serious was last December when more than a hundred people died and six hundred were wounded before loyal troops finally crushed the revolt .
This latest open letter from the rebel leader , cashiered Colonel Gregorio Honason appears to confirm the government 's belief that he no longer has the ability to launch another military uprising .
But a string of bomb attacks in Manila in recent weeks has led many people to believe that a new coup attempt can't be far away .
With business confidence in Manila at rock bottom , President Aquino is in a specially weak position ; power shortages and blackouts are crippling manufacturing industry , and oil sanctions because of the Gulf crisis are exacerbating her problems .
Defence Secretary , Fidel Ramos , says any reports the Philippines two hundred and fifty thousand manned armed forces would oust Aquino , are absurd .
He claims dissident soldiers didn't have the ability to launch a coup , but he warned they could mount attacks against government officers and business establishments to cripple the economy .
The five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council have agreed on a peace plan that could end more than ten years of civil war in Cambodia .
All five members , the United States , the Soviet Union , Britain , France and China have at various times , armed and supplied rival factions in Cambodia .
It 's now hoped that China having fallen into line with the other four , will end its support for the notorious Khmer Rouge guerrilla army .
This report was filed from Tokyo on Tuesday by James Mates :
One of the Khmer Rouge leaders , Khieu Samphan was in Beijing last week , discussing China 's future support .
Its been men like Prime Minister Lee Phung and others in the leadership who have kept his army in the field ever since Vietnam invaded Cambodia back in 1979 .
Since that time , little has changed on the battlefield ; with a plentiful supply of Chinese arms and money , and bases in Thailand from which to operate , the Khmer Rouge was strong enough to resist the Vietnamese , But when Vietnam pulled out last year , the stalemate was broken ; Britain and the United States who 'd been backing other less murderous guerrilla factions , began to tire of the war and withdrew their support .
Cambodia 's Prime Minister , Hun San backed by the Soviet Union , said he 'd settle for elections if the U N organised them , which left just the Khmer Rouge blocking every avenue for peace .
But there 's a long way to go yet ; U N observers were in Cambodia earlier this year , but without unanimous support , they achieved very little .
The new peace plan envisages one of the biggest U N peace keeping operations ever mounted , and that again will require the support of all factions .
But if China really is now backing peace and free elections , the signs are more hopeful than they 've been for a decade .
The freed Irish hostage , Brian Keenan has called on Britain and America to start negotiations to try to get other western hostages out of Lebanon .
He said ‘there is willingness , why not talk’ .
Mr Keenan was speaking during a news conference in Dublin in which he gave a moving account of his four and a half years in captivity .
This report from Andrew Simmonds was sent from Dublin on Thursday :
Free to speak his mind , Brian Keenan wanted to tell the world his graphic and compelling account of life as a hostage .
Mostly it 's a crucifying aloneness , there is a silent screaming slide into the bowels of ultimate despair .
I feel no desire for vengeance , I feel no desire for retribution ; I don't see those as positive .
And Brian Keenan 's return after four and a half years of captivity , carried this message for western governments :
Time to talk , it 's obviously time to talk .
There is a willingness — why not talk ?
His most emotional words were about his fellow hostage and friend who he called John boy .
How can I forget Johnny McCarthy whose humour , whose mimicry , whose abundant love of life on so many , on so many times seemed to diminish almost to extinction , those grinding moments of hopelessness .
Now our special report where we take a closer look at one of the issues made from the news .
In Johannesburg , in South Africa , the white-run council has voted to allow all races to live together in the city .
The move challenges Pretoria 's view about the pace of reforming apartheid .
President de Klerk has said the city should not apply to become an apartheid-free zone before the relevant race laws are scrapped , probably next year .
But , as one of I T N 's southern African correspondents , Mike Hannah reports : ‘this move by Johannesburg doesn't begin to address the root of the problem ; the acute housing shortage for hundreds of thousands of black squatters , working in white areas’ .
In a final bid to stop the bulldozers destroying their shacks , the women of this illegal squatter community stripped to the waist .
But their plea and their protest is futile .
It 's a scene that 's repeated throughout South Africa and here , as on many other occasions , violence is the inevitable result as police disperse the squatters with tear gas .
More than seven million people in urban areas live in what is euphemistically described as informal housing .
At the root of the problem is the process of urbanisation ; the mass movement of people from the impoverished rural areas to the cities .
But it 's a problem accentuated in a white ruled society that for decades regarded migrant blacks as temporary sojourners in urban areas , and little was done to accommodate them until influx control laws were removed four years ago .
It was madness to begin with , the only trouble is , it took forty years for the government to discover it 's own craziness and to begin to dismantle it , we are now reaping the legacy of that , of , of the , the accumulated folly of forty years is now bursting upon our cities .
And as the pressure mounts , squatters are encroaching on what was once idyllic whites only areas and the residents of Hout Bay near Capetown are made increasingly aware that in this time of political reform , they are no longer sheltered from the reality of life in the black townships .
There 's no toilets , nothing for them , I mean they 're doing everything in public , I mean it 's not right , it 's making life bad and this is meant to be a holiday resort .
Well , I think they must get out , I mean they can't live like that .
They can't live like that , neither can we live like that .
But the squatters are adamant they will not be moved and argue they are testing the good faith of whites who profess to want change .
We are also forcing the white people in the communities now to take a stand on the whole thing ; they 've always ignored us .
We want to have a new South Africa .
That 's why we want to stay in Hout Bay and most of us are working for them here in Hout Bay ; they should know that .
They should also give their people a place to stay here in Hout Bay .
It 's a deep dilemma for a community that has traditionally regarded itself as liberal .
The local residents organisation says it 's opposed to laws that segregate residential areas on the grounds of race , but at the same time it accuses the state of appearing reluctant to apply laws governing squatting .
So this is not a question of colour we 're not against squatters , we 're against squatting ; there 's a big difference .
We 're not against people , we 're against what they 're doing , and they are breaking the law .
The bulldozers are increasingly ineffectual , as soon as they leave , new shacks spring up like mushrooms .
For the de Klerk government it 's a political as well as social problem and controlled black urbanisation is to the white right wing , a vivid example of the evils of political reform and will be a dominant issue in any election or referendum ; but there appears to be no alternative .
As temporary shacks turn into permanent dwellings , it 's clear that the drive of people to have a home in the area they choose is unstoppable , and the cost of insufficient planning to this and future governments is incalculable .
Mike Hannah I T N , South Africa .
That was a review of the week 's news from I T N , from London , goodbye .
Hello , and welcome to this review of the week from Independent Television News in London .
And once again it 's been a week in which the events in the gulf have dominated the headlines .
I'm Julia Somerville and these were the main stories .
Refugees from Kuwait and Iraq threatened by disease and starvation .
British evacuees return home after a gruelling journey across the desert .
And , the leaders of North and South Korea finally shake hands .
But first .
Conditions in Jordan 's desert camps worsened dramatically this week as internation aid agencies launched their biggest relief effort since the Ethiopia famine of nineteen eighty-four .
More than one hundred thousand refugees from occupied Kuwait and Iraq are stranded in makeshift camps , where there 's a desperate shortage of food , water and medicine .
The majority of them are from Thailand , the Philippines and the Indian sub-continent .
Crown Prince Hassan of Jordon said his country was facing a severe economic crisis .
He accused the West of ignoring the plight of the Asian refugees and concentrating instead on the Western nationals held in Kuwait and in hotels in Baghdad .
Thousands of evacuees are now being moved out of the appalling desert slum at Shaalan as the authorities try to ease the tension .
Getting supplies to this place two hundred miles out of Amman has also proved a nightmare .
Many are now being shifted to a new camp closer to the capital .
Rachma'an or ‘Mercy Camp’ as it is in English has been established by church organisations and Save the Children to provide more comfortable conditions whilst these people wait for repatriation .
But the volunteers have had to borrow one hundred thousand pounds so far to set it up .
The response is coming through slowly , but we 've had to take a lot of initiatives on our own and we are hoping that others will come and support and back these initiatives .
Two more camps will be open by Monday with room for fifty thousand more .
At last operation Airlift is beginning to work..
A Russian , the first of nine charter flights due to ferry in nine hundred tonnes of rice over the next two weeks .
In return they will fly nearly three thousand people back to Bangladesh .
In Amman , the lucky ones clammer to see if their names are on the list for repatriation .
But the emergency is by no means over .
I wouldn't say the worst is over .
I wouldn't say that because still the problem is on the other side of the border and I have no indications of how many people will move , are on the move , are perhaps waiting to come in .
The relief organisations are now preparing to house and feed a constant population of well over a hundred thousand every day for at least the next three months .
The estimated cost of this operation is over sixty million pounds .
So far they 've got barely half that amount .
Jeremy Thompson , I T N in Jordan .
Two hundred and fifty British women and children who escaped on a convoy out of Kuwait , arrived back in Britain to be reunited with their families .
the convoy had been organised by British embassy officials in Baghdad , with the backing of the Iraqi government .
As the group arrived back in Britain , President Saddam Hussein said that Westerners trying to leave Iraq without permission could face life imprisonment .
Western men are being forced to stay in Iraq and are being sent to strategically important targets to deter any attack from the multi-national force in the Gulf .
Joan Thirkettle reported on the women and children 's return on Friday .
Home at last through the terminal building and straight into the arms of their loved ones .
Deborah Hodgetts was a stewardess with Kuwait Airways .
Like all the others she had no idea if she 'd see her family again .
Now you soft sod .
Outside there were tales of Westerners hiding in cupboards and vivid descriptions of Kuwait as a city under siege .
I was able to travel quite freely for about a week , and then after that , I wasn't able to go out at all .
So how were you getting food and water ?
erm People were bringing it for us , friends were bringing it into us .
There was a lot of looting , erm a lot of burnt out buildings , erm ministry buildings , erm looting in those buildings .
A lot of homes have been raided erm and I believe a lot of people have been taken , of all nationalities .
Had to stay , stay away from the windows .
Once when I was looking out the back of the palace and shots around the back and a shell hit the palace , so it came in my eyes and it hit
Are your eyes alright now ?
Yes .
The family of Captain Nash , who accused the government of issuing the wrong advice to Britons living in Kuwait , also got back today .
Got the whole family home now .
Did you feel that you were going to get out ?
Eventually , but it might have been in a couple of years I thought .
Jane Copley , sister of Joanna Copley who set up the help line was in no doubt about what must be done now .
It 's wonderful to be back but it 's also very sad because a lot of people are still in Iraq and Kuwait and they need to be got out .
There 's no prospects for instance for the men at the moment without strong negotiations .
About fifty people due on the flight today were stopped at Baghdad airport by Iraqi authorities , it 's not clear why they 're being held .
Joan Thirkettle , I T N , Gatwick .
President George Bush and President Mikhail Gorbachev will meet in Helsinki this weekend to discuss the Gulf crisis .
The Soviet government indicated that Moscow would be willing to provide troops for a U N peace keeping force in the Gulf , but urged Washington not to take unilateral action .
Sarah Spiller in Washington examined the prospects for improved Soviet-American cooperation on the Gulf crisis and sent this report on Friday .
To date the U S have been able to count on diplomatic backing from the Soviet Union over its stand against Iraq ; but Bush would like them to take a more active military role in the Gulf .
The Soviet Union has sent some naval forces , but that 's about it .
On the other hand , the Soviet Union have good cause to be worried about the military build up of troops in Saudi Arabia .
Some inside the Soviet Union say the troops show the U S remain ready to use its military might .
And there are problems closer to home .
Any de-stabilization in the Middle East will extend to the Soviet Union 's already restless Muslim population in Central Asia .
Mr Gorbachev may not have the authority to send Soviet troops to non-Russian parts of his own country at this point , so it 's very unlikely that he could or would try to send ground forces to the Persian Gulf .
But while the two sides seem to have considerable ground to make up , both countries are aware of how much they still need each other .
There 's been talk of the United States sponsoring a joint western effort to provide fairly substantial economic assistance to the Soviet Union in return for a more active Soviet role in the Gulf .
That 's possible , although I think not likely , and if that happened , it would be a major development .
However unlikely some kind of trade-off might be , both leaders are acutely aware of the possibilities of this summit .
The most Bush can hope for is Soviet agreement for more help for the military blockade ; what he 'll probably achieve is yet another condemnation of Saddam Hussein .
I T N would like to hear from anyone who 's shot video pictures in Iraq or Kuwait since the Gulf crisis began .
If you can help , please contact the foreign desk , Independent Television News , forty eight Wells Street , London , W1P 4DE , Telephone : London oh seven one six three seven two four two four , that 's oh seven one six three seven two four two four .
Other news now , and it 's more than a thousand days since Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza strip began the Intifada or uprising which has cost hundreds of Arab lives .
The Intifada has been eclipsed by the crisis in the Gulf and the Palestinian support for the Iraqi President have strained relations with western countries .
Louise Bates compiled this report on Wednesday .
The Palestinians deepest fear that their cause an independent Palestine was lost in world politics was just one reason for the launch of the Intifada nearly three years ago .
Since then , around seven hundred Arabs have been killed and thousands more injured ; but when one Palestinian falls there 's always another ready to take their place .
Israel 's well-equipped military has managed to keep a lid on the uprising degenerating into chaos , but it has n't defeated the armies of stone-throwing youths .
More than a million and a half Palestinians live in the occupied territories , their treatment prompted repeated accusations by western governments as well as those in the Middle East , that Israel 's crackdown has been too harsh , at times undisciplined ; one image of violence by Israeli forces aroused world-wide condemnation .
The situation in the Gulf may now dwarf the Palestinian issue , but no Middle East crisis can be seen in isolation ; a thousand days of protest has assured the plight of Palestinians has rarely been off the world agenda .
For the families the dead have left behind though , that 's little consolation .
The South African President , F W de Klerk announced he would meet President Bush later this month in the first visit to the United States by a South African leader in four decades .
Meanwhile , in South Africa , Mr de Klerk held talks with the African National Congress to discuss the A N C 's decision to suspend its armed struggle .
The meeting took place against a background of increased factional fighting between supporters of the A N C and the conservative Zulu Inkahta movement .
Mike Hannah reported from South Africa on Thursday :
The suspension of the armed struggle just over a month ago was seen as a break-through , but within days , peace seemed as far away as ever .
And what began as apparently inter-tribal friction developed into an on going township war between the A N C , the Zulu-based Inkahta movement and the State Security Forces .
Within days too , came different interpretations of what ‘suspension of the armed struggle’ meant .
Nelson Mandela 's wife , Winnie angered the government by saying that it merely meant contemporary end to armed action and that the A N C reserved the right to reactivate its armed guerrillas at any time .
Putting further strain on the talks are the hawks within government ; in particular , Defence Minister Magnus Malan has been excluded from both the official meetings between the state and the A N C .
He 's been quick to make capital out of what he regards as the A N C 's incomplete suspension .
The Prime Ministers of North and South Korea shook hands in the South Korean capital , Seoul , in the highest level meeting since the country was divided at the end of the second World War .
Unification if it happens , is likely to be a slow process , but the fact that the visit took place at all is a dramatic break through on one of the last frontiers of the cold war .
James Mate sent this report from Tokyo on Tuesday :
North Korea 's Prime Minister Yon Hyong Muk stepped across a border normally so secure that neither letters nor telephone calls are allowed through .
Symbolically , it was a significant moment , but it doesn't go much beyond symbolism .
The chief reason for this visit happening at all is that the Soviet Union wants it to ; Soviet Foreign Minister , Edouard Sheverdnaze was in North Korea , putting pressure on his fellow Communists to reform ; the Soviets are fed up with subsidizing them and anyhow , want economic help from the capitalists in South Korea .
This week 's talks may lead to some reductions in American troop levels in the South , even to a scaling down of the military exercises that so infuriate the North , but it 's unlikely anything will happen about the border itself , which will remain the most heavily fortified in the world .
The North Koreans can't afford to open it .
To allow large numbers of Southerners into their highly regimented society could unravel everything the Stalinist regime there has created in the last forty years .
While Kim Il Sung , the self-styled Great Leader still rules what he calls ‘Paradise on Earth’ there 's virtually no chance of the two Koreas following the path of the two Germanies .
Protests by French farmers against low-cost imports of foreign meat have become increasingly violent .
In one incident near Limoges in central France , farmers slaughtered nearly four hundred animals from a British lorry and dumped their carcasses outside the home of a local politician .
I T N 's Vernon Mann sent this report from France on Thursday .
Evidence of the mounting anger and frustration felt by French farmers surfaced again today ; this time in central France .
Hijacked British lambs set loose in the streets of Bellac near Limoges .
A British truck from York , stopped by local farmers , the driver was powerless to stop them .
He is reportedly unharmed .
The sheep were driven into the garden of the local Prefect .
They were later slaughtered .
The farmers gathered then at the gates of the local authority offices and forced them open .
They dragged the carcasses inside , police doing little to stop them .
Perhaps wisely they didn't react either , as farmers gathered noisily in the streets .
Then the demonstrators set fire to a hedge and still the C R S kept their distance .
Sheep farmers from all over France are protesting at cheap imports from eastern Europe , Ireland and Britain , they want government help , and until they get it , incidents like this will no doubt continue despite British appeals for police protection for British livestock drivers .
Vernon Mann , I T N , Central France .
The launch of the space shuttle Columbia was delayed for the third time since May following the discovery of a fuel leak near its engines .
The American Space Agency NASA gave no indication of when the flight would be re-scheduled , and grounded the entire shuttle fleet pending an enquiry into the leak .
Colline Johnson compiled this report on Thursday :
We will be scrubbing this launch attempt for Thursday morning .
Columbia was only eight hours from liftoff .
NASA scientists had thought they 'd solved the technical problems which have dogged the Space Agency .
The hydrogen fuel leak is similar to one which grounded Columbia a few months ago .
I don't believe it 's a new leak , I think it 's one that 's been there all along .
The postponement was a crushing disappointment to NASA engineers who were hoping that a successful flight would restore Congressional confidence in the Agency .
Sure , we 're all frustrated .
We 'd be lying if we didn't say that .
But erm safety first .
It was also frustrating for the scientists who 'd been working on this project for more than a decade .
We were extraordinarily disappointed at first about the delay but a cancellation would be just about too much to bear .
Columbia 's payload has been waiting for a shuttle ride since nineteen eighty six .
If another launch attempt is not made in the next ten days , then it could face cancellation .
And now our special report .
Despite the Gulf crisis , petrol in America is still cheap .
But dependence on imported oil has concentrated American minds on whether the United States should increase its own oil production or just use less .
There are new oil fields off the American west coast , but environmental restrictions have made exploration and development almost impossible .
However the conservationists and oil companies both agree that President Bush must now come up with a viable energy policy .
I T N 's Alex Thompson went to oil-rich California where the debate — to drill or to conserve , is at its most heated .
Point Arguello on the Californian coast .
An oil terminal built by Chevron lies quiet and unused .
It 's completed , it 's ready to work , it cost two billion dollars and it 's idle .
Offshore , three oil platforms in the same state of readiness .
At the turn of a valve , all this hardware could bring America one hundred thousand barrels a day of Californian heavy crude , as much as the country used to import from Kuwait .
But California blocks any new oil development on environmental grounds .
This environmental movement today is really saying to all of us , erm in order to avoid building platforms off the coast of the United States , we are willing to risk sending our sons to the sands of the Middle East to die perhaps for the preservation of a life style , that some of us are unwilling to develop here in our own country .
Tell that to the people who live here on the coast in Santa Barbara .
They 've had oil exploration here for many years on a small scale , and this is the result : under every boulder , a thick coating of waste oil .
They 've decided they don't want any more oil exploration whatever .
Both the beauty and ecological importance of this area of southern California are clear enough and just three months ago , George Bush , a former oil man , banned further oil development here as part of a general moratorium that covered several coastal areas .
That was a gesture that took account of the political clout of America 's environmentalists .
Two hundred miles up the coast , near San Francisco , a conference on energy policy .
What if something changes in the meantime , like an oil crisis , like an economic downturn .
Because they 're concerned about America 's oil dependence , senior government officials have come to rub shoulders with the advocates of conservation and alternative power sources .
And if you want to see what passed for America 's energy policy , you 're looking at it .
Los Angeles .
Huge freeways , cheap petrol , one person per car and no public transport system worth speaking of .
Nobody cared and now nobody can even see clearly in Los Angeles where twenty-eight days spent in the city constitute a health hazard , and smog from car exhausts hangs over the L A basin from the San Gabriel mountains to the ocean .
Delegates at California 's energy conference point to various ways out of this chaos , from general policy to specific action .
The Bush administration is now considering national petrol tax to encourage public transport where it exists .
The oil crisis of the early seventies provoked a rush of decisions at federal and state level to find clean energy sources , and this is one result ; the four thousand windmills that line the ridges of the Atamont hills in central California .
There is now enough wind power in the state to light the whole of San Francisco .
Tower eight one seven 's on line .
A computerized control room alters the direction and output of the lines of windmills , and each one is numbered with a figure giving its output in kilowatts .
Inland , the Mojave desert now provides solar power integrated into the local grid system .
It 'll light half a million homes by the end of the year .
Across the country , its estimated wind and solar power could meet a third of America 's energy needs .
The Bush administration has undertaken a national energy review which will report by the end of the year , and that may be the first step towards the national action to end dependence on Gulf oil , and to start what 's always eluded this country — an Energy Policy .
And that was a review of the week 's news from I T N , from London , goodbye .

On 102 F M , this is the Fox Report , with Jane Markham
Tonight , three people are found dead at a house in Buckinghamshire .
The talks to end the ambulance dispute continue in London , and the crisis at Banbury 's Horton General Hospital ; the unit manager says there 's just no more cash , so operations have to be cancelled .
Also on the programme , a local teacher says an A-level Business Studies exam is too easy .
Upper Heyford 's plans for this year 's air show , and an Oxford chef bids to become young chef of the year , that 's all on the Fox Report with me , Jane Markham .
The 6.00 news , this is Annie Webster , Police investigating a triple murder in Buckinghamshire are tonight trying to persuade a man hiding in nearby woods not to kill himself , Paul Chandler reports :
The family , mother , father and their 16 year old son were found battered to death at their home in Upper Ridings , Beckonsfield .
Police are now talking to a 30 year old friend of the family , who 's up a tree in the nearby woods , threatening to jump off a branch with a rope round his neck .
Sergeant Allen Bovington Cox says specialist teams are involved :
We 've got our own trained police negotiators there at the scene talking to him , and also we have a doctor and a psychiatrist standing by for any assistance they can give us .
Police say the man is in a stable frame of mind , and they are confident of talking him down .
Paul Chandler , I R N , Buckinghamshire .
Gas Prices are going up in March by 7.5 % , another Building Society , the Halifax has put up its interest rates , although first time buyers are being spared the increase , and the Chancellor , John Major says the gloomy news isn't over , because inflation isn't coming down as fast as he predicted .
Neil Kinnock agrees ; he says high mortgage rates and the poll tax are bound to push up inflation rates even more .
But Mrs Thatcher has told him in the Commons the Government 's not to blame :
As the Right Honourable Gentleman is aware , our top priority is to get inflation down , and I would also hope that he would be aware that the aim of doing that in the longer term has to be by making the price of money more expensive .
If he doesn't know that I'm very surprised .
Americans will be able to make up their own minds about former president , Ronald Reagan 's testimony , in the trial of his former National Security Adviser , Admiral John Poindexter .
In video-taped evidence , Mr Reagan has admitted he approved the covert arms for hostages operation , that became known as the Iran Contra affair , although he says he didn't authorise his staff to break the law .
Now , as Nick Peters reports , the testimony is to be made public :
Federal Judge , Harold Green , ordered the immediate release of the transcript , saying the public has a right to know what the former president said .
Mr Reagan says he can not recollect many of the key events surrounding the scandal , which he says was as much news to him as everyone else .
Admiral Poindexter , charged with lying about his role in the affair , says he was acting under Mr Reagan 's orders .
His trial begins on March the 5th .
Nick Peters , I R N Washington .
Shell U K will have to wait until tomorrow to hear what sentence it receives for causing a 30 mile oil slick which polluted the River Mersey .
A judge at Liverpool Crown Court has adjourned the case after asking for details of Shell 's profits .
Vicky Henman reports :
Shell has admitted full responsibility for the spillage of a hundred and fifty tons of crude oil into the Mersey last August , and has apologised for the slick which killed 300 birds and injured 2,000 others .
The company revealed in course it expects to pay out £1,412,336 in compensation , as well as the clean up operation , which is still going on .
The court also heard that a decision by a senior manager to pump water into the leaking pipeline from Tranmere terminal , to the refinery at Stanmere Port , actually made the situation worse .
Nicky Henman , I R N , Liverpool .
The Court of Appeal has just ruled that councils that trade on the money markets with rate payers ' cash , are acting legally .
But the court says that deals are only allowed to protect rate payer 's money from fluctuations in interest rates , and can't be carried out for trading purposes .
Crucial talks are continuing in London between ambulance management and unions , with the resolution of the 6 month pay dispute at stake .
And the rail unions have begun pay rise talks where they 're asking for rises approaching double figures .
Britain 's newest T.V. satellite station , B S B , has announced a star-spangled line up for its launch in April , celebrities such as Mike Smith , naturalist David Bellamy , Juke Box Jury host , Jules Holland , will all be in the forefront of the drive for viewers .
B S B chief , John Gowe , says the stakes are high , and competition with Rupert Murdoch 's Sky Channel will be tough :
Difficult to know whether er Rupert Murdoch will want to sustain what is obviously going to be a fairly bruising battle for 3 years .
But I think if we don't get the audiences in 3 years , you know , we 'll go bust .
Independent Radio News .
It 's Thursday the 22nd of February 1990 .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in a bit more detail .
The Unit General Manager of the Horton General Hospital in Banbury says there 's no end in sight to the cash crisis which is about to affect patients in the area .
The hospital has overspent its budget for this financial year by £70,000 .
It means it will be no treatment for 150 routine patients over the last 5 weeks , and that starts on Monday .
Last August the hospital had to close 26 beds because it could n't afford to staff them .
Horton General Manager , Denis Baston , admits he 's again facing an embarrassing situation .
We 're very sorry to have to curtail our services er in this way .
We 're having with effect from next Monday to reduce er our service to urgent cases only : accidents , emergency cases , those that need urgent medical care , they will be dealt with , but patients who are awaiting this type cases , for orthopaedics , gynaecology , general surgery er will have to be postponed for a period of about 5 weeks .
Our budget er is at the present time overspent er something of the order of £70,000 , and we 're required by the Health Authority and by government , er to manage within our existing cash limited budget .
Do you accept that , regardless of the background , is poor management on your behalf ?
No , we have in fact done a great deal to conserve our resources here , er and as I say we have treated er something like 500 patients by the end of this year , addition to what we treated in er the previous year , and that can only be as a result of good management , both nursing and medical .
But nevertheless , there 's going to be a month period , plus there 'll be five weeks where people won't be able to be treated for routine operations here .
Exactly so , because we haven't got the money to do it .
Who do you blame ?
er Well it 's very easy to er blame government for not allocating resources , er but er the pure fact is that the health authority has insufficient resources to allocate to us to meet the increasing demands of this area .
Is there any guarantee that this situation might not be repeated er a year from hence ?
I think if we get the same budget next year , we will have to consider very carefully what work load we undertake in the next financial year , yes .
What do you hope you can do in terms of providing or possibly squeezing out at the eleventh hour , the cash that you need from the Oxfordshire Regional Health Authority , to try and stop er routine patients not being treated from Monday ?
Well , I don't think there 's any action that 's likely to be taken by the Regional Health Authority in time for next Monday .
Er .
Obviously if we get any additional cash allocation from any source , it will be deployed in er such a way as to treat the patients as soon as possible .
But we 're in the hands obviously of the Health Authority .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Banbury 's M P , Tony Baldrey says he 's also very concerned about the Horton 's cash crisis .
Although he claims nothing can be done immediately to prevent the cancellation of non-urgent admissions , he 's convinced the hospital will be one of the beneficiaries of the proposed N H S reforms .
The budget of the Horton generally puts day to day work has got to better reflect the fact that there 's a growing district Hospital , and has got to better reflect the size of the population it serves , and then also about a third of the patients that are treated at the Horton come from Warwickshire , Northamptonshire and Gloucestershire , but actually the Horton is funded as if every patient there comes from Oxfordshire , and that 's clearly crazy , and we 've got to make quite sure that cross-boundary flows of patients are better reflected by cross boundary flows of money .
And that will happen under the proposed N H S reforms , when the rather complex formula for allocating money within the N H S , is replaced by a much simpler formula .
So yes , er I mean the difficulties of the Horton are a reflection of the kind of crazy way in which we allocate money within the N H S at the moment .
And the Horton I think will stand to benefit as much as any hospital , by the proposed N H S reforms in insuring that er money follows the patients , and that we don't have these sorts of situations arising again , whereby when hospitals treat more patients they simply run out of money more quickly .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's 9 minutes past 6 .
There 's still no news from the talks in London which are trying to bring about an end to the ambulance dispute .
Nick Thenotsy is chairman of Oxfordshire 's NUPE , Nick do you think this is good or bad news that they 're still talking ?
er It 's very difficult to say .
I think er they 're still talking at the moment .
There may still be a few sticking points even at these late stages .
Er .
Having said that , if there isn't any pay formula included in this deal , er no matter what the percentage increase over the two years , I think er the strength of feeling across the country , people will not be happy with this and if it is balloted on it will be rejected .
Now , it 's the pay formula er that is that is the problem in your mind , er have you got any suggestion that they aren't talking about that ?
er Again it 's difficult to say , the information has been leaking out from the talks , er it doesn't look as though a pay formula is being included but Roger Pulne , er even on the onset of this dispute guaranteed the members er that any deal that was struck with management would include a pay formula and er if the deal doesn't come out with a pay formula after the ballot as I say , I think people are going to be very disappointed and let-down by our union negotiators .
Now what sort of pay formula would you like to see them come up with ?
I think er it 's got to be er linked certainly to the rate of inflation , er and in some way linked to the way that the fire service er has their pay formula , and they 're actually linked to 25 % of the top 25 % of schooled manual workers , er we 'd be looking at some sort of deal like that , or if it wasn't er tied up with percentage rates I think we need , definitely need an independent pay review body for the ambulance service .
So , even if the talks break up tonight , I say break up , but if they er if the talks have a positive mood when they finish , you 're saying that that might not necessarily be the end of the dispute ?
Oh no er necessarily not , because er depending on the details of the er formula that all the words that er come out of the discussions today , er it 's got to be discussed by the members at grass-roots level , and if we 're not happy with it , we will be sticking to the action er certainly up until when the ballot is taken and if it is voted against er any deal that is struck at the moment , we will continue the action , and I think this will be not only in Oxfordshire , but up and down the country , the strength of feeling nationally is very strong .
Nick Thenotsy , thank you very much .
All the routes out the city are very very busy this evening down the Botley Road , up the Woodstock Road , and down the Abingdon Road .
As usual for this time in the evening , it 's very very hectic indeed there .
The local area or the area run locally is the Stratfield Break its virtually bumper to bumper stuff there in both directions , that 's between the Kidlington Road roundabout and the Banbury Road roundabout .
Pear Tree , well , serious congestion there as well , it 's not getting away with it this evening .
Bad in all directions there , particularly heading north on that A34 .
Elsewhere the A401 still very heavy in both directions between Abingdon and Dorchester-on-the-Thames due to an accident a little bit earlier on this evening .
If you are thinking of heading on towards the Capital there 's no such problems there , the M4 the M40 and the M25 running quite nicely this evening .
Mark Newson , A A road watch .
British Rail tells us that the 5.51 Sheffield to Paddington train is 15 minutes late this evening , but I 've nothing to report so far on the buses .
Still to come , 8 men are found guilty of one of Britain 's biggest ever drug trafficking operations , and rail unions warn they 're prepared to strike over this year 's pay claim .
For a summary of today 's local news , here 's Lucy Bonner .
The Tory MP for Aylesbury , Timothy Raisin , is calling for a fresh look into the way the social fund is operated .
It follows a ruling in the High Court that the government 's guidance to officers that operate it is too strict , limiting awards of grants and loans to poor people .
But Mr Raisin says he doubts the Labour Party 's criticism that the budget itself is too small .
I'm not sure whether that 's true , I mean I think the argument er in this particular case is about the amount of money which a particular area of the Department of Social Security can operate , and presumably looking at this , Nichola Scott will have to er match up if you like the total quantity and make sure it 's effectively allocated .
It may be that some areas are running out of money er which clearly need money , maybe there 's other areas are in surplus with the demands on them that aren't so great , so the answer may simply be to find a way of operating with greater flexibility within the total cash limit .
Labour Councillors in Oxfordshire have been hitting back at Tory critics , who claim their actions have inflated Poll Tax figures .
The conservatives on the county council say the budget approved , which is supported by Labour and the Liberal Democrats , has forced Poll Tax charges above the government estimate of £278 .
The Vale of White Horse district council has become the first to set its Poll Tax at £412 .
But Labour Councillor , Tom Richardson , defending his party 's chosen budget says the problems with the Poll Tax have been the government 's own making :
If they 'd been wise and told their government that this tax should not happen , as indeed many of their former ministers , like Michael Heseltine said , they 'd said it was incredibly complicated although seemed sounding easy , and would in fact bring higher levels of taxation to the lowest income people , then er if the local tories had actually acted on that and put pressure on their central party , perhaps their government wouldn't be in such a mess about this issue now .
Any study on the effects of radiation should include Harwell , according to a Labour County Councillor .
Margaret Mackenzie says 4 children in the area have Leukaemia and the region around Harwell Nuclear Base should be re-examined , the last research was conducted in 1982 .
Ms Mackenzie first approached the Environmental Committee last May , but so far the result has n't been encouraging .
Well , they approached other authorities and other organisations er in order to find the funds , and the other authorities and other organisations refused to cough-up , because there had been a report in 1982 , er as a result of some research at that time .
I think that research is now out of date in the light of new information on Sellafield , Dounreay and Aldermarston .
The managing director of Oxford United said the club will fight on for a new stadium , despite planning problems .
Two proposed sites in Blackbird Leys have been included in the Green Belt , which could hinder the commercial development United says will be needed to help pay for the new all seater stadium .
But although recent decisions by Oxfordshire County Council and South Oxfordshire District Council have gone against the club , managing director , Pat McGere , says he 'll press on with efforts to have the club relocated from the Manor Ground .
Nobody wants er a stadium in their own back yard .
Er .
What we 're trying to do is to provide not only a stadium but something that everybody will want to use .
Er .
It will be an asset to Oxford and Oxfordshire , and will be enjoyed by er an enormous number of people , the local people .
That 's what we want to provide , and that 's what we 're going to fight for .
Fox F M news , Lucy Bonner reporting .
It 's 18 minutes past 6 .
Eight men have been found guilty of running one of Britain 's biggest drug trafficking organisations .
The convictions follow a 2 year joint customs and police investigation , code named ‘operation doorman’ , that spanned 8 different countries in Europe and Africa .
The men will be sentenced next month along with two others who 'd admitted the charges .
From the Old Bailey , Simon Israel reports :
For five years from 1983 , the organisation swamped Britain with more than £18 million worth of Cannabis .
There were 14 shipments in all from Africa , the drugs hidden in coffin-style bundles of wood .
Senior Customs Investigator , Michael Packham , says the breakthrough came with a tip-off :
The organisation had put in an innocent manager to take delivery of a consignment of wood .
They 'd rented a forklift truck which was incapable of actually carrying the wood .
And in the process of unloading one of the bundles , it split open and the manager found the cannabis concealed inside it .
The enquiry took officers to eight different countries , including the Ivory Coast and South Africa , where the drugs were packed for shipment .
The brains behind the organisation were 52 year old Roy Crack from Surrey and 42 year old Paul Newmann from South London , who both went from ‘rags to riches’ on the profits from the drugs .
Detective Inspector , Tony Smith from Number 9 Regional Crime Squad , says Newmann was able to finance his passion for top class motor racing :
He 's a very well spoken , he 's er a well educated man , speaks fluent French , er was living in a very large house , very much involved in the er racing fraternity er car racing , motor racing fraternity , was regularly seen at Brans Hatch , er mixed with er a lot of well known personalities in that field , er generally speaking his life style er was very good indeed .
All funded from drugs ?
We can't find any legitimate source of income .
Mr Packham says the organisation was highly sophisticated , using bogus companies and false names and addresses .
I would say this is probably one of the most significant police/customs joint operations that we 've er undertaken for quite some time .
The entire gang will be sentenced next month after customs officers apply to the courts to have the organisation 's assets seized , an estimated £3.5 million .
A solicitor who can not be named for legal reasons faces trial in the summer accused of laundering much of the drug money .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's 20 minutes past 6 .
An environmental pressure group in Oxfordshire is disputing the reasons for Harwell Managers closing two of the testing reactors .
The management says they were closed for commercial reasons .
Pluto and Dido will be closed by the end of March .
But the Banbury environmental research group which has given evidence to the select committee on energy over Harwell says the reasons for the shut-down are more complicated .
Their spokesman , Paul Mobbs , says the cost of replacing the reactors is prohibitive on safety grounds :
Well at the moment , the Harwell laboratories are having their exemption from Nuclear Survey at 1965 removed .
Er .
Because of that the reactors had to undergo a licensing procedure from Nuclear , Now that survey , which they have been carrying out for a number of months now , almost certainly would require that a number of major improvements be made to those reactors , and they just haven't got the money to do that at the moment .
Therefore , they were left with the option of investing millions of pounds or closing them , and perhaps looking at the building of a new reactor .
What Harwell 's saying is that it 's purely on commercial grounds that Dino and Pluto are to close .
Have you any evidence to gainsay that ?
Technically , it is on commercial grounds , and they can not recoup the money made from the everyday operation of the reactor to pay for the refurbishment of the reactor , that is true .
But , as we have evidence going back a number of years the reactor is in such poor condition that there is no way they could safely operate the current requirement of the modern government standard .
Why do you say that ?
Where 's the evidence ?
The evidence comes from a number of sources , for instance , the ex-head of reactor designer research at Harwell , Mr Denis Dorson , he on a number of occasions tried to institute a great number of changes into the reactors to make them safer .
For instance , these reactors are the only ones in the country with power over one megawatt which do not have an independent shut-down system .
They are one of the few reactors in the country which , if anything went wrong with the core in any way , could not be shut down .
So , do you see as the real reason for the shut-down of Dido and Pluto really a win for the arguments long standing of the environmental lobby .
er Not exactly of the environmental lobby .
I myself would seemingly represent the environmental lobby , but there have been others , many ex-members of Harwell , who have been campaigning for a long time now , many years , to get these reactors shut down , and it has just been a very long slog , and eventually the truth has had to come to light to shut these reactors down .
You are listening to the Fox Report .
Union leaders of the largest union in the Fox F M area are warning that they haven't ruled out the possibility of taking strike action in pursuit of their pay claim .
National Negotiations started today between the National Union of Railwaymen and the National Railway 's Board , in London .
Last year there were six weeks of stoppages for passengers before the union settled for an 8.8 % figure .
The Divisional Officer for the N U R , covering Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire , Phil McGarry says he 's looking for a fair deal :
We haven't put a figure on it , but our claim is for a substantial increase in basic rates of pay with a reduction in the working week .
Can you be more specific than a ‘substantial claim’ ?
Well , no , we are governed by our Annual General Meeting , but it 's not unrealistic to ask for double figures , because basically we were talking in that vein last year , and of course we eventually settled for 8.8 .
But surely you can't expect the government , now that the ambulance dispute in the public sector is in its sixth month to get what you 'd call a substantial , possibly double figured settlement ?
Well , with the greatest respect , the ambulance workers ' argument in the question of a pay review er is a different argument totally .
We have got a well established machinery instituted , we work under that auspices and I believe it is not unreasonable to ask for a substantial wage increase , because after all , a lot of our members depend on family income supplement and rents and rates rebates .
Some of the councils who have set the poll tax budgets in relation to the government 's community charge is far in excess of their estimation , and you know it 's absolutely ridiculous .
I don't know how working class people can manage to survive .
We have got to depend on state hand-outs to live , and I think that 's shocking to say the least .
Last year there were six weeks of industrial action , and if needs be , are you prepared to do the same again ?
Well , we can not rule out that possibility .
It 's early days yet to say what er we are going to do .
I think it all depends on what the British feel the response is going to be , either today or in the future .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
There 's still deadlock between British Rail Managers and Oxford City councillors over access for the disabled at the city 's station .
The council 's planning committee is urging major alterations , including lifts between platforms .
Otherwise they say both the able bodied and the disabled will face severe problems .
But chairman of B R , Bob Reid , who 's disabled himself , has intervened , a move that was welcomed by the council .
There 's to be a meeting with directors from Network South East .
Meanwhile , Labour 's John Power , who 's head of planning on the city council says there are major problems to overcome :
British Rail have refused to put lifts in , we 've managed to persuade them to put ramps in so that people could actually carry luggage up the stairs , and people could be wheeled up the stairs .
They 've now taken the ramps out , which is a breach of the planning condition again , so we intend to pursue them on that , and they are offering , believe it or not that disabled people can be taxied from one side of the station to the other side of the station .
How seriously are British Rail treating the problem ?
Well , up until we 'd received this letter from er the new chairman designate , er Bob Reid , not seriously at all .
We put immense pressure on them , we tried everything we could , we raised it with the Transport Users consultative committee at National Level , we wrote to the minister and all kinds of and they didn't budge at all , you wouldn't think they were a public body .
It now seems that because there 's a disabled managing chairman , they 're now prepared to talk to us , and we 've got to talk to the director of Network South East about these problems .
And I hope they can now be resolved .
What is their reason for not complying with these regulations ?
They claim that it would cost £300,000 extra on the station .
Now I find that nonsense , because the planning committee have just approved a major development station , which is for a 150 bed hotel on a housing development .
And by any estimate that 's a development that 's worth £20 million at least to them .
I don't know the exact figure , but certainly several million pounds , and if you can't find £300,000 for the disabled , it seems to me quite shocking .
And particularly when British Rail have a declared policy of improving access for the disabled .
Now if you don't improve access for the disabled when you build a new station , you 'll never improve it .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's 28 minutes past 6 .
Well , those traffic lights on the Stratfield Break 's definitely giving us problems again this evening , of course , there 's road works going on there , traffic is still virtually bumper to bumper up there , very , very slow indeed .
Also Pear Tree roundabout , in all directions , particularly heading north , er from the A34 and continuing on that A43 up towards the Kidlington roundabout .
Very , very slow moving there indeed , and it 's going very very slowly heading out on to the A40 .
Usual congestion down the Botley Road still , and down the Abingdon Road , that 's nothing unusual for this time in the evening .
And if you 're coming in towards Oxford City Centre on the A40 , coming in towards the Headington roundabout , you 'll find at the moment that it 's er about a mile and a half to two miles of very slow moving traffic approaching the roundabout itself .
The A415 still very heavy in both directions between Abingdon and Dorchester-on-the-Thames , due to an earlier accident there .
Once again , all the routes running towards London are running normally , the M4 , M40 and that stretch of the M25 in Buckinghamshire and Berkshire .
Mark Newson , A A road watch .
British Rail tell us they 've no problems or delays at the moment .
On the buses , everything is running smoothly , except for buses heading down the Headington Road out towards the Green Road roundabout because of the accident there .
It 's 6.32 .
Police investigating a triple murder in Buckinghamshire are tonight trying to persuade a man hiding in nearby woods not to kill himself .
The bodies of a couple and their teenage son were found battered to death in their Beckonsfield home .
Gas prices are going up in March by 7.5 % and the Halifax Building Society has put up its interest rates , although first time buyers are being spared the increase .
Meanwhile the chancellor , John Major says the gloomy news isn't over , because inflation isn't coming down as fast as he 'd predicted .
The Unit General Manager at the Horton General Hospital in Banbury says there 's no end in sight to the cash crisis which is about to affect patients .
The hospital has over-spent it 's budget for this financial year by £70,000 .
It means it will be no treatment for 150 routine patients over the next 5 weeks .
That 's starting on Monday .
Last August the hospital had to close 26 beds because it could n't afford to staff them .
And Shell U K will have to wait until tomorrow to hear what sentence it receives for causing a 30 mile oil slick , which polluted the River Mersey .
The weather in the Fox F M area , well , exceptionally mild weather will continue for another 24 hours at least .
Tonight 's going to be dry , with variable amounts of cloud , and temperatures will fall no lower than 7 degrees celsius , that 's 45 degrees fahrenheit .
Still to come , the W I protest about food irradiation , but first , Oxford teacher , Chris Seawright is claiming that the A V A-Level exam in business studies is too easy .
He says he can guarantee a student will pass after just 3 weeks cramming .
Chris , who runs the Oxford School of Learning , says he 's had some students who 've passed the exam in a week .
I think there 's two things here .
If somebody studies A-Level Economics , then business studies A-Level is quite possible within one week or two weeks tuition .
And that is happening currently with people in schools in Oxford , who come to me for Business Studies , for just about one or two weeks tuition , they then go and pass .
Alternatively , you can study Business Studies from scratch in four weeks , providing you have Maths or English G C S E grade B or above .
It 's a fact , whether or not it seems easy depends on how it is approached , how it is taught .
And remember , this is not education , this is very fast cramming .
Would you say that , perhaps it shows a flaw in the examination system if someone could do this ?
To do A-Level Business Studies can take a year quite easily for even the averagely competent student .
And yet it is the same level at the end .
This would suggest that Business Studies , along with other subjects such as perhaps Sociology and History , perhaps have to be re-evaluated , compared to other subjects such as Maths and Physics and Chemistry .
Would you say that the current system is perhaps unfair , and that it should be reviewed quite urgently ?
Well , it must be remembered that the Business Studies that I'm talking about is A E B , which is Associated Examining Board .
If one studies for the Cambridge Board , that is much harder , it is modular , it involves a project and involves a Maths paper .
I think it is time for people to look at again at the pass rates , the standard of teaching , the standard of students who actually do this Business Studies .
If people can get a grade A after one week , which is what has happened , because they do economics , then the system is weak somewhere , yes .
You are listening to the Fox Report .
Hundreds of members of the Women 's Institute have been lobbying MPs at Westminster today over their fears about food irradiation .
The protesters say they want to know more about the process , and that it 's a mistake for the government to legalize irradiation without proper research .
Clive Mirey reports :
The protesters want the government to carry out more wide ranging and detailed research before food irradiation is legalized .
At the moment , the technique of bombarding food with ionizing radiation , similar to X-rays , in order to kill dangerous organisms to preserve the food longer , isn't allowed .
But if the government 's Food Safety Bill , which is currently before parliament gets through , the sight of food in our shops with the label ‘Irradiated’ on it , will become commonplace .
It 's a thought that concerns mother of three , Maureen Gerard , a Vice Chairman in the Women 's Institute :
Well , I'm a farmer 's wife as well , and the most of the farming community don't want irradiation either .
We say that if food is good and wholesome in the first place , we don't need irradiation .
It is all to do with , more to do with the food hygiene and the food preparations that 's causing the problems , and if that 's sorted out , we don't need irradiation .
We can't find anyone that wants it really , that 's the question that , we can't understand who wants irradiation .
Well , the British Nutrition Foundation does .
They represent the food industry , and say irradiation is perfectly safe and an excellent way of preserving food .
However the protesters lobbying MPs at Westminster today say they 're not convinced .
As it is because I have always practised ordinary , normal methods of hygiene , I feel that er fresh food well cooked is not a danger to anybody .
But if it had been irradiated , well , let us put it this way , I wouldn't buy food if I knew it was irradiated .
If you had to give your husband or family food that was irradiated , you 'd be concerned .
I would most certainly be concerned .
I would not do it if I had the choice .
If I go to buy some fish , for instance , and it 's been irradiated , it won't smell .
That 's very basic .
Er .
There is a poison in potatoes that turns them green , which is very dangerous to pregnant women .
And the green won't be there if it 's been irradiated .
So they 're very ordinary signs that ordinary people can understand .
That frightens me .
We don't know what it can do to us , that 's the worrying part .
Yes , things that we were told 20 years ago that were perfectly safe , it 's now being proved that they 're not safe .
Oh , I stood outside the primary school this morning and spoke to the other mothers , and none of them want anything to do with it .
You know , I think that 's the general feeling , we 're the people that buy the food , really , women , aren't we ?
Meanwhile the Food Safety Bill created in the wake of the recent food scares , concerning salmonella and listeria , continues its passage through the commons .
This is the Fox Report , it 's 22 minutes to 7 .
Still to come , a French Chef , from Oxford bids to become Young Chef of the Year , and a new twist in the mystery surrounding the disappearance of band leader Glen Miller during the war .
Financial Report , in association with Barclay 's Bank , Oxford 's business bank .
The U K stock market was in a lethargic mood today , despite an encouraging start to Wall Street .
A few optimistic features managed to pull the Footsie One Hundred Index out of an initial 8 point fall to end the day up 9.5 points at 2269.9 in a very quiet turn over .
At five o'clock , only 396.6 million shares had been traded , and Wall Street stood up 22.08 points at 2605.63 .
Sterling seemed to mirror the stock market , ending the day unchanged at $ 1.7145 and up 0.7 pfennig , at 2.865 DM .
I C I , which many regard as a barometer for the general market , reported final figures ahead of market expectations , helping bolster market sentiment and lift the shares 14p to 1040 p .
News that the French insurance giant , U A P , has been suspended until Monday , pending an announcement , lifted the U K insurance sector , which has been anticipating a European bid approach for one of its companies .
Elsewhere , Midland Bank reported profits much in line with expectations , helping the shares to a 4 pence rise to 351 pence , while Courtald lost 5 pence to 377 pence on concerns over their proposed textile de-merger plans .
Amongst the major shares today , Abbey National were unchanged , at 176 .
British Aerospace stayed at 502 .
British Airways were up 1 at 198 , B P up 2 at 341 , British Gas down 1 at 219 , British Steel up 1 at 133 , British Telecom up 1 at 296 , Rolls Royce up 1 at 169 and T S B up 1 at 136 .
With a look at what 's been happening on the sport 's front today , here 's Andy Smith :
Ireland 's Aiman Darcey has broken the course record to take the lead in the Dubai Classic .
37 year old followed Ampey 's record breaking round in Portugal last week by firing a record 64 .
That 's 8 under par .
Australian Peter O'Marley set the early pace with a 4 under par 638 .
With the first test against the West Indies just two days away , and after the humiliation suffered last summer at the hands of the Aussies , in regaining the ashes , the Test and County Cricket Board has launched a scheme of excellence so that the country 's test prospects can be spotted that much earlier .
The basic idea is to try and form the nucleus of England 's test team , and with the players in their teenage years .
With plenty of youngsters , ability already known to county and country life , It will be so much easier for England 's Chairman of Selectors , Ted Dexter
This time , the Test and County Cricket Board which is really the professional armour of the game , have seen the need to combine with the National Cricket Association , er to streamline the opportunities for these young players .
To coach them better , to give them better opportunities , to give them better opportunities to play at a higher level , to be more competitive rather earlier in their lives .
Ricardo Betrasey and Belgian Tiary Bootson , are testing the new formula one engine , which is being fitted exclusively to the cars of the Didcot based Williams team .
The new engine , known as a V ten R S O two , which is lighter and smaller than its predecessor could make Williams a leading force to the McClarens this season .
Tragedy marred the opening race at Folkestone this afternoon , when runner-up Diddy Seat , collapsed and died after a heart attack in the winners enclosure .
The Grey , trained by Colin Campbell , and ridden by Stephen Deasley , was taking part in his first race for nearly 2 years .
Wales have arranged a friendly against World Cup qualifiers Costa Rica , the game , the first ever between the countries , will be played at Ninion Park at Cardiff at the end of May .
The F A saga continues for Abingdon town , with their first possible entry into the sixth round still eluding them .
After 4 attempts to play the 5th round tie , the match with Hythe eventually went ahead last night , ending in a one all draw , so Abingdon face a trip to the Kent Coast on Monday at 7.30 .
French number 3 seed Janek Noah made an early exit from the Stuttgart classic A T P tournament today , complaining he was finding it hard to stay motivated for top class tennis .
The 29 year old world number 14 was convincingly beaten 6:2,6:4 by Sweden 's Jona Spenson ranked 30 places below him in the second round of the $ 1 million event .
And schools in Thame are to get more help encouraging pupils to play more football under the Oxford United School Community Programme .
It 's being helped by a £1,000 donation from Leyland-Daf , based in Thame .
The money will pay for promotion material and prizes , as well as encouraging women to take up the sport .
Fox F M Sport , Andy Smith reporting .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's a quarter to 7 .
A singing teacher says the problems of the world could be solved if international leaders sat
peaceful and relaxed and enables you to go deeply within yourself and to feel very much in harmony with yourself with others who you do it with , and with the world in general .
Do you think it would help world leaders if they did some ?
Oh , there 's no question that it would .
It would enable world leaders if encountering opposition world leaders to come into harmony before they started .
Er .
It would enable them to really allow the greater selves in themselves to be the people representing their people , their country , er so it would allow them to become statesmen in a sense , you know , it would allow the wise part of them to come forth , and for them to be in harmony with each other .
And it would allow them to be in tune with higher forces , and er the better principles of the world .
Can you really see President Gorbachev and Mrs Thatcher chanting round a table , though ?
Well , I think it would be a great idea , yes , I think it would be the best thing .
Er .
You know , some pre-literate tribe somewhere , with the medicine men of the tribes meeting an opposing medicine man of a tribe , they would have done some kind of ceremony beforehand .
er Mrs Thatcher and Gorbachev don't .
Er .
But traditionally such people would have done , er and perhaps in earlier times you know , er maybe Mrs Thatcher does say some prayers , I don't know , but maybe prayers would be said .
And this is a way of doing it without having to , you know , log-in to er a specific tradition , but to invoke , sort of a wider , more general principles .
Well , there you go .
Now we know .
The forty-five year old mystery disappearance of American band leader , Glen Miller , has taken a new twist .
A Bedfordshire housewife 's memories have persuaded author Martin Beaumann to believe that Miller was linked with a top secret propaganda campaign .
In a new book , the ‘Bedford Triangle’ , Beaumann alleges that brain washing messages were sent out to German listeners in Miller 's radio shows .
Bob Weinberg reports : bw : On December the 15th , 1944 , Captain Glen Miller vanished .
Author Martin Beaumann :
The general legend is that he took off from Twinwood 's airfield , flew over the channel and was lost over the channel ; his plane iced up .
But there have been stories that he actually landed , Bovingdon is one place that 's mentioned .
He got out , some the plane went on without him .
There 's no records actually published of the actual aircraft used .
There was a missing aircraft report issued , I think about 8 days after he actually went down .
Now that report usually had to be filed 48 hours after he went down .
60 year old Connie Richards , who grew up near to the U S depot where Miller was based clearly remembers meeting an American photographer at a Glen Miller dance .
My mother used to do the washing for the Americans , and er we had a photographer friend of ours that used to bring the washing-up to the house , which the story is in the book .
He wanted to take me to the dance , you see .
I then told him how old I was , and he thought I was older than I was , so that was the end of that relationship .
Er .
But I did meet him down there .
Years later , Connie was told by U S officials that her photographer friend didn't exist .
I tried many many times , and hundreds and hundreds of ways to find him , and the man just doesn't exist , or I 've been told he doesn't exist .
But I 've got a photograph of him , and I know he after the war was over he went back and married a nurse .
er sent us a photograph after the war was over , but since then , since we 've tried to find him , we 've been told the man 's never existed at all .
Martin Beaumann believes Miller 's disappearance may be tied up with secret activities at the Bedfordshire base .
I would guess that he originally came over for morale of the troops .
He then probably went into the propaganda warfare .
Because he did a programme actually on the B B C called the ‘Vermarkt Hour’ , which was beamed at German troops , and then possibly the third phase was the possibly the psychological warfare .
That we don't know too much about , but the assertion that one or two people have made is that his music was being used in the subliminal message under the music technique .
Now , after 6 years of research , Beaumann believes one of the great puzzles of the Second World War will never be solved .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's 10 minutes to 7 .
Traffic still very busy on all major routes going out of the city , it 's not as bad now , though as it was there the last time I spoke to you , but still , very very busy this evening .
Pear Tree roundabout 's still congested in all directions there , particularly heading up the A34 on the North bound carriageway .
So it 's still about a half a mile of very slow moving traffic approaching it .
Stratfield Break , well , it 's very busy there again , virtually bumper to bumper stuff , it 's very slow moving there indeed this evening , owing to the temporary traffic lights there , and because of the road works — that 's between the Kidlington roundabout of course , and the Banbury Road roundabout .
Still busy coming in on the Headington roundabout there , the A40 from the direction of Wheatley , and continuing along down the A41 full too .
As far as traffic is concerned , heading towards the capital , there 's no delays there on either the M4 , the M40 or the M25 , at the moment .
The A415 , that 's the Abingdon Ring Road , that 's very busy there this evening , the junction with Colwell Drive there 's reduced ( ? ) there because of the road works , and also very heavy traffic in both directions between Abingdon and Dorchester on the Thames owing to an earlier accident .
Mark Newson : A A road watch .
And I 've nothing adverse to report on either the buses or the trains .
Details have been announced for Sky Pageant 90 , this years open day at R A F Upper Heyford .
The event , which is set for Sunday May 6th has extra significance this year , as it coincides with the 20th anniversary of the United States ' twentieth tactical fighter wing being based in Oxfordshire , and master sergeant Bill Fonten is predicting even more crowds will turn up for the day when the U S base throws open its doors .
At present we 're scheduled to have about 30 different aircraft that will be on static display , we will have er aircraft er Upper Heyford 's own F1 11Es performing simulated airfield attacks on the station .
It 's just going to be a great day for families , if you are an aircraft enthusiast , or a flying enthusiast a great fun day .
What exactly will the mock attack involve .
I mean , is it going to be dangerous in any way ?
Oh , no , no .
We 've got to realise that there 's going to families out and about , and what we 'll do is the aircraft er I haven't seen the scenario on paper , but just off the top of my head , I can tell you that the aircraft will make their approaches to the base as if it were a real target .
The aircraft will not be armed in any form whatsoever .
Our safety regulations er dictate that they be a certain distance from the crowd , so that if anything did go wrong , the aircraft would be able to er get out of the way , but no , there is not going to be any danger at all , they 'll make their approaches to the base as if they were attacking , and then we 'll have simulated ground bursts , a large fire as it were , on the ground , it will be going off , providing the sound effects for it , but it 's going to be just a great thing to sit and watch .
Now , as well as actual planes flying in the skies , are there going to be anything else that people can actually feel and touch and see ?
Yes , we 'll have , at present we 're scheduled to have about 30 aircraft on static display , and these are aircraft from er the third air force bases , the bases within the United Kingdom , you 're just about assured of being able to see an F15 , up close , an F16 up close , an A 10 , and some other aircraft that are stationed in and around er Europe .
As I said before , there 's aircraft from the United Kingdom .
And then some NATO aircraft too , of course , we 're in Great Britain , so it wouldn't be fitting and proper if we did not have any of the aircraft from the Royal Air force .
Er .
And quite possibly some non-NATO this year .
Er .
We 're still in the process of finalizing everything and making invitations , or receiving answers from invitations from countries , so er it 's going to be a great day !
A young chef from Oxford has been chosen as one of 30 top chefs to take part in the final of the Young Chef of the Year competition .
Tomorrow , he 's going to be travelling to Birmingham to cook a meal in front of a panel of experts .
Tierrie Molignengo , who is 23 , works at the 15 North Parade restaurant , and he hopes he 's going to win through to the National Finals which take place in April , with his menu for four , which has by the rules of the game , to cost less than £35 .
I 've got to cook the meal in three hour and to ( ? ) in Birmingham in the College of Food , and it will be ( ? ) ,
I think , T V I hope .
So , er tell us what the menu is .
I'm dying to know !
My menu is ( ? ) by a fish , a meat course and a sweet .
The fish course is Dover Sole , souffle with Morel mushroom on an orange , er the meat course is a trilogy of meat , which is beef lamb and veal , with a port sauce , and the sweet is a citrus terrine , with a mint cream sauce .
Have you practised this er menu ?
er I practised it er twice already , and I er have to do it in front of the jury .
Are you hopeful ?
Do you think you 're going to win ?
I will have some chance I think , but er everybody is quite good at this er level of the competition , because we er only 30 top chefs er selected and 2,000 , which is quite good , I think .
Do you think being French helps ?
It helps maybe in this country , because France is regarded as er the best country in the world who produce good food .
But what I think now is France want only French chefs , but England you have selected er sort of chef from all over the world , which is good , and we can't compete .
How long have you been cooking ?
I 've been cooking for 7 years now , including my school , my cookery school .
Is it something you 've always wanted to do ?
I always want to do it , and er well , I'm a food lover if you want .
And we wish him the very best of luck tomorrow in Birmingham .
Finally a look at today 's main stories once again , the Unit General Manager of the Horton General Hospital in Banbury says there 's no end in sight to the cash crisis which is about to affect patients in the area .
The hospital 's overspent its budget for this financial year by £70,000 .
That means there 'll be no treatment for 150 patients who were expecting to have routine operations over the next 5 weeks starting from Monday .
And police investigating a triple murder in Buckinghamshire are tonight trying to persuade a man hiding in nearby woods not to kill himself .
The bodies of a couple and their teenage son were found battered to death in their Beckonsfield home earlier today .
And that was the news for Thursday the 22nd February , 1990 .
Join us again for another Fox Report tomorrow night at 6 o'clock .
That will be with Andy Smith .
The seven o'clock news , this is Annie Webster .
Police investigating a triple murder in Buckinghamshire are tonight desperately trying to stop a man who 's threatening to kill himself .
The bodies of a couple and their 16 year old son were earlier found battered to death at Beckonsfield .
A 30 year old man who 's a friend of the family is now threatening to hang himself in woods nearby .
A neighbour of the victims , ten year old Alexander Ray , has seen the drama unfold :
There 's this man on this tree , it 's about 50 feet tall , the tree , and he 's er he 's just crouched on there , sitting there now , with a blue rope round his neck , and it 's tied on to the tree .
And he said that he 's threatening to jump off and er I haven't seen the bodies of the dead people though .
Ten year old Alexander Ray .
Gas prices are going up in March , by 7.5 % .
Another Building Society , the Halifax , has put up its interest rates , although first time buyers are being spared the increase , and the chancellor , John Major , says the gloomy news isn't over because inflation isn't coming down as fast as he predicted .
Talks between Ambulance Management and Unions to settle the 6 month old pay dispute have become bogged down , but as Peter Russell reports from the Whitley Council Meeting , both sides are still cautiously optimistic .
Management and unions have been talking throughout the day , they may be talking into the night as well .
The chief union negotiator 's press secretary , Lynne Brian is being cautiously optimistic .
Well , they 're in detailed discussions , and negotiations are likely to go on for some hours .
Have they got bogged down ?
I can't go into that , they 're negotiating , and they 'll continue to negotiate .
The unions want not only a pay rise but a proper pay mechanism for the future , and that 's where the talks could still fail .
Peter Russell , I R N , at the Whitley Council Meeting in South London .
A beautician has been telling a court she thinks Olympic javelin thrower , Tessa Sanderson , is a bitch for stealing her husband .
Mrs Jule Evans said she was devastated by the affair , she thinks her husband was mesmerised by the athlete , who he saw as the woman of his dreams .
Simon Israel reports from the High Court .
Mrs Evans says she had no idea at the time of the nights Ms Sanderson and her husband Derek spent together .
When she did discover they were lovers , she was bitter .
‘I thought Tessa was arrogant’ , she said .
The athlete has told the court that the Evans ' marriage was completely over before she became involved , but Mrs Evans said she had no right to comment , since she was an adulteress , she added that Ms Sanderson is going around schools parading before children : ‘If there 's any of the children 's fathers there that she fancies , will she take them’ , she asked .
Ms Sanderson is suing Mirror Group Newspapers for stories which quoted Mrs Evans as accusing the athlete of being a marriage wrecker .
Simon Israel , I R N the High Court .
Americans will be able to make up their own minds about former Ronald Reagan 's testimony in the trial of his former National Security Adviser , Admiral John Poindexter .
Video taped evidence , in which Mr Reagan admits he approved the covert Arms for Hostages operation , that became known as the Iran Contra affair , is to be made public by the trial judge .
Independent Radio News .
And it 's just after 7.00 Thursday night on Fox , thank you for choosing us for tonight , now until ten .
You 're going to love the music .
er The overnight low , 7 degrees celsius , 45 fahrenheit , Friday remaining dry , cloud amounts rather variable , and we might see a little hazy sunshine as well , especially in the centre of Oxford , and especially to the east as well .
Temperatures reaching 14 degrees , 57 fahrenheit .
Here we go :
The 6 o'clock news , this is Howard Hughes , the official report into the Marchioness river boat disaster is blaming the crash on the failure of the look-outs on both boats .
The document which has been leaked says they didn't spot the danger in time , and the noise from the disco on the Marchioness prevented the alarm being raised .
It also says three earlier accidents had been largely ignored because there had been no fatalities .
Ian Philpot , whose girlfriend was one of the 51 people who died , says Transport Secretary Cecil Parkinson must now call a public enquiry .
It is no trouble now for Cecil Parkinson to turn round now and say ‘okay , we 've made a mistake , let 's have a public enquiry’ .
He would help the families of the bereaved immensely , and he would guarantee the future safety of people travelling on the river Thames .
A savage rapist who preyed on blondes is beginning a life sentence for the murder of Austrailian heiress Janie Shepherd 13 years ago .
St Albans Crown Court heard how 50 year old David Lashley raped and killed the 24 year old leaving her body dumped in the Hertfordshire countryside .
Peter Plisner reports :
Dubbed ‘The Beast of Shepherds Bush’ for a string of sex attacks on blonde women in 1969 , Lashley expressed no emotion when the guilty verdict was read out .
It took police 13 years to bring him to justice .
Charges were eventually brought after he confessed to fellow inmates while serving a prison term for another offence .
Janie vanished from West London in February 1977 .
It was over 3 weeks before her body was discovered dumped on wasteland in Hertfordshire .
Janie 's distraught mother Angela Darling explained what had been going through her mind during the case :
Just praying er just praying that it would happen for her .
Jailing him for life , the judge told Lashley : ‘You are an appalling and dangerous man’ .
The Home Secretary , David Waddington , has told Parliament a special war crimes squad is being set up to investigate alleged atrocities committed by nazis living in Britain .
He made the announcement in the Commons as he moved the second reading of the War Crimes Bill which makes prosecutions possible .
A former Manchester policeman jailed for 17 years for armed robbery and firearms offences has been freed by the Appeal Court .
Lord Chief Justice Lord Lane said P C Tom Cawley had already served 2 years for offences he certainly never committed , on fabricated evidence .
The court hear how detectives bribed convicted criminals to frame P C Cawley , whose conviction was declared unsafe and quashed .
Mr Cawley says his time in jail was sheer hell .
Clearly I'm gratified that the Appeal Court has cleared my name .
I have lived through a long nightmare and am shattered by what was done to me .
I will have to do what I can now to pick up the threads of my life .
It 's bad enough to be in prison for something you haven't done , but to be in prison and to be an ex-policeman as well is er something else .
First results from yesterday 's elections in 5 Soviet republics show reformist and separatist candidates have again done well .
The 2 Baltic states Latvia and Estonia appear to have backed Lithuania 's declaration of independence earlier this month .
Meanwhile the surprise winners of East Germany 's election , the Conservative Alliance have suffered a set-back in their plans to reunify the 2 Germanies .
They need the support of the Social Democrats who have rejected their offer to form a coalition .
A coroner has warned television programmers to be more careful following the deaths of 3 young brothers trapped in a freezer .
The day before Benjamin and Nicholas Dovey and their 3 year old half brother Ryan died an episode of ‘Neighbours’ showed a similar incident .
Tony Attwater reports :
The South Shropshire coroner , Tony Sibsey , said it would never be known whether the boys had watched the episode of ‘Neighbours’ when a young boy got trapped in a trunk trying to hide from his father .
But Mr Sibsey told T V programme planners to think carefully before showing scenes that might be watched by impressionable young children .
A Home Office pathologist told the hearing that the brothers would have died within minutes after the self-locking freezer door shut on them .
He recorded verdicts of accidental death and urged anyone who dumps a fridge or freezer to make sure the door hinges were smashed so the tragedy could n't be repeated .
Tony Attwater , I R N , Shropshire .
Independent Radio News
It 's Monday the 19th of March 1990 .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in a little bit more detail .
The family of murdered heiress Janie Shepherd are celebrating tonight after waiting 13 years to see her killer put behind bars .
Rapist David Lashley is beginning a life sentence for brutally murdering Janie in the Hertfordshire countryside in 1977 .
St Albans Crown Court heard how 50 year old David Lashley raped and killed the 24 year old after earning himself the reputation of a habitual rapist .
Police charged Lashley after he 'd confessed to fellow inmates in prison while he was serving 18 years for rape .
Peter Plisner was in court :
It took 13 years to bring Lashley to justice for the murder which he committed during 10 months of liberty while on parole from prison after a string of sex attacks in 1969 .
At that time he was dubbed ‘The Beast of Shepherds Bush’ .
The court heard how in February 1977 he 'd jumped into Janie 's car while it was parked in West London and forced her to drive to the countryside at knife point .
The Barbadian-born driver was a powerfully-built body builder when he raped , murdered and mutilated the Austrailian heiress .
When her body was discovered on waste ground in Hertfordshire her neck had been crushed with great force .
The breakthrough in the case came when Lashley confessed the murder to fellow inmates while still in prison .
The man in charge of the hunt , Superintendent Ian Winned , gave his reaction to the verdict after it was announced :
Very pleased .
It 's very satisfying after a very long investigation .
Not just by myself but by officers from Hertfordshire and the Metropolitain police .
A lot of officers have worked very very hard on this enquiry .
As time passed did you ever think you 'd catch anyone for this particular crime ?
I was always hopeful .
We never give up in any murder investigation .
How many officers were working on the case at the height of its investigation ?
Initially , in er 19 er 77 there would be a great number , but it was only 12 in recent times .
Was there a major breakthrough when this confession did come to light ?
Of course it helped , yes .
Janie 's mother , Angela Darling , clearly distraught , took time out to praise the police who 'd worked so hard on the investigation .
Oh , it 's er been absolutely fabulous .
And we could n't have had more support .
At all .
Mrs Darling , what was going through your mind when you were waiting for the verdict ?
er just praying er just praying that it would happen for her .
Passing sentence , the judge told Lashley : ‘You are an appalling and dangerous man , and the real issue is whether the authorities can allow you your liberty in your lifetime’ .
The reunification of Germany looks set to happen before the year is out after the Conservative Alliance victory .
East Germany 's entry to the Common Market looks a little less certain .
Mrs Thatcher said there 'd have to be a long-term transition .
Subsidised goods could n't be allowed to flood into the E E C as that would ruin western businesses .
Herr Lothar De Maiziere of the Conservative Alliance says he wants East-West German relations cemented soon with the introduction of the Mark .
Former Foreign Secretary and S D P leader Dr David Owen says the election result 's a personal triumph for West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl .
I think one 's got to give credit where it 's due .
He has seen right from the start that the majority of Germans wanted unification and that the pace of events was dictating a much more rapid move towards unification than most people , either inside , and certainly on the outside , had realised , and he put all his authority into the campaign , campaigned extremely effectively and has had a ringing endorsement .
Well obviously there is er an emotional drive for unification , but the mechanics of it are quite complicated .
Do you think it can be got through without too many hitches on either side ?
I'm absolutely convinced it can , and particularly now that you 'll have a government in East Germany which will be , on all the important questions , in total accord with the government in West Germany .
So there is now no need to have anxiety that a united Germany will be neutral .
It certainly will not .
And it will choose to be a member of NATO .
That 's one of the very important advantages of this election result , and personally I think the Social Democrats in Germany made a great mistake by being equivocal on this issue .
They really must realise that time and time again being equivocal on defence when you 're on the left of centre means that voters somehow don't vote for you , and I think they 've had to learn this lesson yet again and I only hope that by the er December elections in West Germany the Social Democratic Party who I 've got a great deal of er sympathy for on most social issues will be firm and clear about a united Germany not being neutral and within NATO .
The House of Commons is debating the War Crimes bill for the second time .
It 'll go to a free vote later this evening and if the bill is passed it 'll mean prosecutions could start against at least 3 alleged war criminals almost immediately .
Local historian Count Nikolai Tolstoy , who has himself given evidence in the war crimes trial of John Demianuk , says he 's in favour of prosecutions .
But he 's worried about the changes to British laws of giving evidence necessary if the bill is passed .
What I find very frightening is the campaign by Sir Thomas Hetherington in particular who erm as reported in the newspapers has said that there are er a handful , 3 or 4 people whom he has singled out , and he says the evidence is prima facie evidence against them , is so overwhelming that the law of England must be radically changed in order to bring a prosecution against them , and , as Lord Shawcroft said , well how , in such circumstances , could such people have a fair trial when we 've had the er Hetherington the former Attorney General saying , in effect , we know these people are guilty , we 're changing the law to prosecute them , and now you members of the jury must n't on any account er think er in er you must judge completely impartially .
You 're saying that you 're er fully in support of the trials of war criminals in this country as long as the evidence is good enough , as long as the evidence is convincing prima facie evidence ?
If it 's fairly done , yes exactly .
I mean for instance on the question of identification after 45 years it 's very difficult , I saw that in the Demianuk trial , to get satisfactory er evidence , but of course er I think British rules of evidence probably would simply mean it was excluded if that was the case , and it was fairly done and the law were n't changed and it was the law as it stands er then I 'd be in favour of it .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's 11 minutes past 6 .
I'm Jane Markham .
Still to come : alternatives to the Poll Tax .
A local Tory euro MP says European taxation systems should have been looked at .
And on the day that a massive increase in registered drug addicts is announced , we look at the situation in the Fox F M area .
Local news now , here 's Robin Powell :
Oxford Crown Court 's been hearing how a British Airways stewardess from Thame was threatened with death when she tried to end an affair with her boyfriend .
The jury heard how Lynn Harding of Glenholme Road in Thame decided to end her affair with Nustafa Assin who also works for British Airways and lives in Watford .
When Miss Harding decided to end the 18 month relationship Assin wrote her letters and poems and when these failed the prosecution alleged he made a phone call and threatened to kill her .
Miss Harding told the jury she was so frightened by the call she immediately rang the police fearing Assin had become unbalanced .
The trial continues tomorrow .
A leading brewery in the Fox F M area has confirmed it 's to offer financial help to pub managers faced with high Poll Tax bills .
But the majority of pub landlords and landladies look unlikely to receive similar treatment .
Jane Markham reports :
Morrells Brewery says it 's planning to offer managers at its pubs extra cash to cover the tax which is due to be introduced in just over a fortnight 's time , but the Oxford-based firm says it 'll only pay the equivalent of the initial government estimates for the charge , which in most cases falls well below the actual figure .
The brewery insists , however , that pub managers won't be out of pocket .
The situation for tenants remains the same with many facing bills up to double last year 's rates demand .
Businesses in the area are being advised to make sure their accounts are up to date before tough new rules on VAT come into force .
From April 1st anyone found not to have followed guidelines on making VAT claims and payments will be liable to a penalty that could cost them and extra 30 % plus interest on any unpaid tax .
Doug Gordon from accountants Grant Thornton says even ignorance of the new laws won't make a difference .
The problem can be quite severe , er we 've had a number of penalties introduced by customs and excise over the last few years but what we 're going to see from the 1st April in this year is interest being charged on overdue moneys paid to customs and excise and also a penalty charged where people make a mistake on their VAT returns , even where they make those mistakes quite innocently .
Police have recovered the body of a 21 year old Abingdon man who leapt into the river Thames 5 weeks ago .
Members of the Thames Valley Underwater Search Unit retrieved the body of Christopher Snuggs just north of Culham lock .
2 men sacked from Oxford-based printers Nuffield Press have settled the case with their former employers .
Bob Redman and Peter Stanborough , both members of printing union the National Graphical Association , were to ask for reinstatement at an industrial tribunal in Reading this morning after being sacked for refusing to sign new contracts .
But the 2 men are reported to have settled amicably with the Robert Maxwell-owned printers .
Oxford United player Les Philips has been banned from driving for 3 years by magistrates in Banbury after being found guilty of drink driving .
Philips was also ordered to pay a fine of 250 pounds .
The charge relates to an incident in February when he was stopped by police near Middle Barton .
A proposed rail link between Oxford , Aylesbury and Milton Keynes has moved a step nearer reality this afternoon with the decision by Buckinghamshire County Council to invest in the project .
The Council has agreed to a request from British Rail for financial help for the scheme .
Eleven middle managers in the Health Service in the Oxford region are among the first to take part in a new management training programme .
‘Managing Health Services’ is a management development programme arranged jointly by the N H S Training Authority , the Institute of Health Service Management and the Open University .
The first tutorial was on Saturday and someone who hopes to get something out of the course over the next 6 months is assistant medical administrator in Oxford Claire Flanagan .
It 's really good because management 's the same no matter where it is , but in the Health Service there are sometimes specific problems and this course is geared to people working in the Health Service and that can only be a good thing .
And what I'm going to get out of it , well I hope it 's a step towards me obtaining a degree at the Open University and hopefully I can get promotion eventually .
Fox F M news .
Robin Powell reporting .
It 's 17 minutes past 6 .
A local Euro MP says the government should have looked more closely at its European neighbours before introducing the Poll Tax .
In just over 2 weeks bills for the charge will start dropping on doormats across Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire and the Tory Euro MP for the Wantage area , Dr Caroline Jackson , thinks more time could have been set aside by officials at the Department of the Environment to look at alternatives .
Well I think any change from one system , a total system like rates , to another total system like the Community Charge er would have given rise to misgivings .
I mean , the real problem is that the rating system is out of date , it 's based on a rating valuation which was last updated in 1973 and has n't been updated since .
Consequently people are comparing the Community Charge which they 've got on their hands now er with an out of date rating system and they should probably add about 200 pounds to the rates they 're paying in order to get a better comparison .
Er .
But I also think that er the Community Charge as it is being brought in is probably being brought in too sharply which means that it isn't actually taking account of some of the marginal cases where people are going to face a very steep increase in Community Charge bill , er and the Community Charge itself is rather a blunt instrument .
I think that if we 'd been looking for some rather more er refined instruments of taxation , I nearly said torture , er from the continent then we might have looked er and found some rather better means of getting local money in to finance local government .
Do you think that there 's any scope for perhaps going down that road in the future ?
Well I think what people have said to me very often about the Community Charge is that they can see the er they can see the point of having a community charge which everybody pays and which actually brings in to the local taxation system the hundreds of thousands of people who were previously not paying any rates at all but were benefiting from local services .
The difficulty is that the Community Charge is insensitive to people 's ability to pay and I would like to have seen er some people go rather more into the possibility of a local income tax .
This is the Fox Report .
The nationwide protest against the Poll Tax has taken on historic proportions .
Yesterday hundreds of demonstrators marched on Downing Street following the same route as those in the Peasant 's Revolt which forced England 's leaders to drop plans for a similar tax .
That was more than 500 years ago .
Graham Magin reports :
The Peasant 's Revolt ended at the Tower of London .
Yesterday 's march , organised by the Borough of Newham , went to the Tower too , but there were speeches not executions .
However , local MP Tony Banks says they wanted to get across the same message .
It really isn't surprising that we 're following their footsteps because the only way in the end to get anything done in this country is to protest about it because this government seems to be totally oblivious to rules of natural justice or decency .
The only thing they 'll understand are people out on the streets demonstrating .
And that 's what they 're going to get .
Fellow MP Nigel Spearing agrees about the historical significance of the route .
That 's right , and it 's no coincidence because people in the east of London on the whole get it in the neck whatever happens , and particularly with this government .
So we 're showing it in a peaceful way because in the end of course we can destroy by the ballot and not the bullet .
About 200 joined the march along the Mile End Road .
Many said they were there simply because they wouldn't be able to pay .
I'm a one-parent family , I 've got 2 children , there is no way I can afford to pay er the Poll Tax .
It 's very difficult now with all the other cutbacks , I just don't know how I'm going to manage and whether or not I 'll have a roof over my head by the end of the year or what will be happening .
And I'm not the only one , there 's lots of other one-parents .
Unlike some Poll Tax demonstrations , this one passed off without any violence , protestors were satisfied with handing in a petition to Mrs Thatcher 's front door .
Mr Banks says they were warmly received :
She gave us an IOU for three million pounds and told us to get lost .
What you 'd expect .
Yes , get back to Newham you working class layabouts , she said .
Typical what you 'd expect from the Prime Minister .
Whether Mrs Thatcher really was at home no-one quite seemed to know .
There 's been a massive increase in the number of registered drug addicts in Britain .
Latest figures show a 17 % rise .
Many of the new addicts are on crack .
Graham Magin has this report :
No-one disputes that the real number of drug users is much higher than the official figure .
It 's estimated there are 150,000 addicts in the country as oppose to the 16,000 who have registered .
Home Office minister David Mellor says the fact that the official figure is starting to catch up shows that more people are coming forward for help .
We 've made a determined effort to try to get more er drug addicts to come forward , to accept treatment and so on .
We still fall well short of that , I mean er it 's bad news that anyone is addicted to drugs but what is important is that we should actually know who is and so we can help them .
So in a way I welcome the fact that these figures bear a little more relationship to the real situation er than last year 's did , but we 're still a long way short of knowing exactly what 's going on .
Another worrying figure is the increase in the use of the so-called killer drug crack .
It 's cocaine use generally that troubles us .
Of course er crack is just a form of cocaine , the worst form of cocaine .
But , you know , the real enemy is cocaine .
But certainly it appears that around 1 in 10 of the seizures of cocaine in Britain now is in the form of crack .
Er .
Of course if you smoke cocaine as crack it 's a much more potent way of taking the drug .
And obviously we are troubled at the experience in America on cocaine and want to try and make sure that we don't get that kind of problem in the U K .
The government 's soon to host an international summit on drugs .
Mr Mellor says they 're doing everything they can .
You 're listening to the fox report .
To coincide with these worrying figures , Oxfordshire Health Authority and Oxfordshire County Council 's Social Services department have published a report by the N H S Drug Advisory Service .
Nick Welsh is from the Social Services and Rosalind Green is the Drug Service coordinator in the county .
Rosalind , what is the situation in the Fox F M area ?
In Oxfordshire with regard to drug misuse , well , as it says in this report er the main drug of misuse is alcohol , and we also have quite a problem with minor tranquillizer dependents .
Er .
In terms of illicit drug use , cannabis remains the most er available drug and the most used drug , but having said that it doesn't present us with problems to the service .
We get one or two people who perhaps get er psychosis or paranoia from using it very regularly , but most people seem to be able to use it without too many difficulties , er amphetamines are probably the next most common drug , and that 's probably because it 's manufactured quite locally , er it 's quite easy to make , it 's quite cheap , and it 's very popular , particularly among the younger age group .
What we are concerned about though is the amount of injecting that goes on and obviously the sharing of needles and syringes because of the risks of H I V , the AIDS virus , and of course other health risks like hepatitis and abscesses er septicaemia , whatever .
Er .
Heroin is still er quite available in Oxfordshire , and tends to be injected more than smoked or sniffed , so that 's another area for concern .
Now are you seeing the increase that the national statistics are suggesting in this area ?
er No .
We 're not .
I think what those statistics indicate is that more people are being notified to the Home Office and that may well be that doctors are more aware of the need to notify .
Er .
These figures have always traditionally been very unreliable , but I'm hoping that it also might indicate that across the country and also in Oxfordshire we are developing what we call out-reach services and the idea is for people to get in contact with drug users who probably don't want a lot of the time to stop using drugs .
They may not be looking for treatment or rehabilitation but er what we can offer them is clean injecting equipment er free condoms , because H I V is transmitted sexually as well , probably more than , more often than in Oxfordshire , er and also we have been prescribing from an assessment clinic in the city centre .
So even people who don't want to stop using drugs can actually have a healthier drug-using lifestyle through contact with us .
Now that sort of policy does have its problems because some people would say that is allowing people to break the law , it 's turning a blind eye to people who are breaking the law .
Well , we understand that conflict , er but basically , at government level , it 's been determined that er the risks and the dangers of H I V the AIDS virus is actually more er more dangerous to society and the individual than drug misuse itself .
Now Nick what er can the Social Services department do about the problem in the area ?
Well we 've been very concerned to try and develop our policies and services and we find this report very helpful because it has given us a very clear lead as to the sort of things which are necessary , and in many ways it 's supporting the ideas which we 've had .
Er .
We 've been concerned on the AIDS-H I V front to try and develop home helps , home care services , and to get more social work help in with the general medical services that deal with these er diseases .
Er .
On the level of er drugs and alcohol though we 're concerned to provide more social work time and support for the voluntary er agencies that are working in this field and also to provide direct services to people who are using drugs .
Er .
They have a lot of family problems , a lot of other personal social problems , and it 's very important to see really the person as a whole and not just a focus on one particular aspect of their problems .
So that 's really what the Social Services department is trying to do .
Do you think enough is being done ?
Well of course , no , I mean more can be done all the time er clearly there are some quite difficult areas about priority and where people would choose to invest their money , but certainly in the long run AIDS H I V is a crucial issue facing society , drugs misuse or drugs use is an absolutely integral part of that whole problem .
It 's 6.31 .
The official report into the Marchioness river boat disaster is blaming the crash on the failure of the look-outs on both craft .
The document which has been leaked , says they didn't spot the danger in time and the noise from the disco on board the Marchioness prevented the alarm being raised .
A rapist who preyed on blonde women is starting a life sentence for the murder of Austrailian heiress Janie Shepherd 13 years ago .
St Albans Crown Court heard how 50 year old David Lashley raped and killed the 24 year old , confessing to fellow inmates while in prison on a previous rape sentence .
Home Secretary David Waddington has told parliament a special war crimes squad is being set up to investigate alleged atrocities committed by nazis living in Britain .
He made the announcement in the Commons as he moved the second reading of the War Crimes Bill which makes prosecutions possible .
A coroner in Shropshire has warned T V producers to be more careful following the deaths of 3 young brothers trapped in a freezer .
The day before Benjamin and Nicholas Dovey and their 3 year old half brother Ryan died an episode of ‘Neighbours’ showed a similar incident .
The weather for the area : the rain 's going to clear in the middle to late evening , and that 's going to be a dry night with cloud becoming broken .
The lowest overnight temperatures are going to be around 5 degrees celsius , that 's 41 degrees fahrenheit .
Still to come the future of the Jet project at Culham .
First , the Royal National Institute for the Blind is launching a wide-ranging attack on the government 's Student Loans Bill .
It 's due to receive its second reading in the committee stage of the House of Lords today .
Gary O'Donaghue who 's a blind student preparing to finish his final year at Christ Church in Oxford says the government 's plan will cause havoc if it 's given the go-ahead .
It looks like that not really a great deal of account has been taken of the extra costs that are incurred by visually handicapped people in courses of study , such as paying for er expensive , extremely expensive , computing equipment which isn't a luxury , it 's a necessity quite often for many people , especially doing science courses .
And other costs , such as readers and having to buy books because you can't borrow them for long enough from libraries to get them recorded or brailled , er those sorts of things really aren't taken account of and you 're simply going to have to borrow money er to pay for your disability in effect .
Does it surprise you that the government seemingly has got into a rather insensitive and delicate position over this ?
Well , I mean , it 's a sticky wicket for them anyway politically and I suspect as with a lot of legislation quite recently they simply haven't spent the time in committee and in consultation to iron out the details and they 've come unstuck when it 's come into the public domain and it 's been easy for people to throw up the paradoxes that are coming up from the legislation , the moral paradoxes .
And so yes I don't think , there doesn't , there wasn't a great deal of consultation before the Bill was published with representatives of sort of disabled students and that sort of thing , so in a sense they 've reaped what the 've sowed .
Meanwhile , Higher Education minister and local MP Robert Jackson has revealed that the government is to offer disabled students extra benefits .
The measures to be outlined in the Lords later on where the Student Loans Bill is at committee stage will mean they 'll be entitled to claim housing and unemployment benefits which others can no longer claim .
The student loans is going to replace entitlements to housing benefit and social security for er students but not for disabled students .
So disabled students will continue to get all their benefits and will get the loan on top of that .
They will be the only category of students , the disabled students , who actually have loan in addition to benefit , so the loan is going to provide considerably more money for disabled students while they 're studying .
Er .
I don't know whether that is widely understood but I think it 's quite and important feature of our proposals .
Nevertheless it is still a loan that of course has to be repaid .
Is it perhaps not more difficult for a disabled student even with a degree to get employment in order to be able to repay that loan ?
Yes , I think there is a fair point there but er I don't know whether you listeners appreciate that nobody at all , whether disabled or not will have to repay the student loan after they 've graduated if their income is below 85 % of the national average wage , which is currently 11,500 pounds , er we are recognising that they do face some additional costs er when they 've graduated and that should be taken into account and that will be one of the things in our concession .
But like all students , disabled students will benefit from being able to defer payments if their income falls below 11,500 pounds .
Rebel forces in Ethiopia have given permission for tons of food to be taken to thousands of starving people on the edge of death in the famine-hit country .
A group of aid agencies and churches have banded together and succeeded in getting the cooperation of the rebels and the government in the long running civil war .
Before , vital food supplies were n't allowed through by the rebels and the people were left to die .
Jodie Bordan from Christian Aid says thousands of lives will be saved .
A colleague from Christian Aid phoned me from Addis Ababa last night and he reported what had happened in the Red Sea port of Assab on Saturday which was when 15 trucks and trailers were loaded each with 22 tons of U N grain and there was a little ceremony as they left at 12 noon for Desai .
Those trucks belong to the Joint Relief Partnership which is a grouping of 3 church agencies — the Ethiopian Orthodox church , the Ethiopian Catholic secretariat and the Protestant church there .
And it is that grouping , the J R P , that have got agreement between the Ethiopian government and the Tigre People 's Liberation Front to move food for the first time from the Ethiopian government areas into the areas controlled by the Tigre People 's Liberation Front .
Now , it 's obviously very good news that all this aid , that is there it 's just not getting to the people that need it , that it is now on the move but it isn't as simple as that is it ?
It 's going to be a really tortuous journey .
No those 15 trucks and trailers will move from Assab to Desai and they should arrive in Dessi this morning , and then in Desai they 'll have to be transferred to er a certain amount of food to smaller trucks , and we think that the first group of trucks will be just perhaps 5 trucks that will really test the road from Desai up to Waldia in the area controlled by the rebels to see if there really is a safe passage agreement and to see if er there are bridges out on that road or whether there are land mines left on the road , to see if it is actually possible to move food across those lines .
The people involved in taking those trucks are taking quite a risk are they not ?
Yes , but the churches are quite convinced that they have got the Tigre People 's Liberation Front 's agreement to it , and that there will be no harassment from their side .
Everybody is very concerned to actually get food to people who are really absolutely desperate now .
Two local MPs are keen to see the Jet project at Culham extended for a further 4 years .
About 200 scientists are working on the project which is hoping to develop an alternative energy source which would use nuclear fusion .
Work is guaranteed there until 1992 , but it 's hoped that the experiments will now continue until 1996 .
Spokesman for Jet John Maples say although there 's no immediate threat to jobs he 's pleased that Michael Heseltine and John Patten have spoken up in Culham 's favour .
The Jet project is formally er continuing until the end of 1992 but in recent months we 've had some very great successes in Jet , the work we 've done is of very high quality and , and certainly world leading , and we can see the way ahead to building an experimental reactor after Jet but there are some very important experiments that need to be done before then .
And Jet is about the only machine in the world capable of really tackling these problems .
So we 've therefore put some proposals through to the Commission of European Communities , which eventually will go to the Council of Ministers to extend Jet 's experimental programme into the end of 1996 .
And on Friday of last week we had Vice President Pandolfi from the Commission here and he was very impressed with our work and we are therefore very hopeful , very optimistic that our work will continue until at least 1996 .
But obviously the support of these MPs and M E Ps is certainly welcome then ?
We are very grateful for their support and their continued interest in our programme and I think they were er conscious of the fact that Vice President Pandolfi was coming here and so they have contacted him saying how essential they think it is that the work should continue here .
Still to come : who needs God ?
And Charlbury 's station master gives a few tips on how to become station master of the year .
The day 's sport .
Oxford United 's new er 150,000 pound signing from Doncaster Rovers , Les Robinson , will be eligible to play in Wednesday 's home fixture against Leicester City , providing the proposed fee is received by the Football League by Wednesday morning .
Les , who spent his first training session er in Oxford , spoke to Mickey Unotta afterwards .
Well , it 's a lovely place .
I enjoy training and nice set-up .
I enjoyed it .
Now can you tell us a bit about yourself ?
Now you 're a versatile player .
That 's right .
I started off playing mid-field er and I was switched to full-back by Billy Bremner at Doncaster half way through this season , and I been playing full-back since like .
Still with football , news just in : Millwall have signed the Norwich City striker Malcolm Allen for 400,000 pounds .
The weather has already struck the Oxford Cheetahs .
Their challenge meeting away to Wolverhampton this evening has been rained off .
The Cheetahs lost 47 to 43 at Bellevue over the weekend , but despite that defeat hundreds of supporters turned up to see world cup er world champion Hans Nielsen in training last night relieved and smiling that their hero was staying in Oxford .
Well , including mine .
I mean I'm very pleased that I'm staying with Oxford .
I 've been very happy with Oxford the last 6 year I 've been racing for them .
And the supporters been treating me well , the promotion been treating me well , so obviously I never really wanted to move but we had a few problems with the negotiating with the contract and the financial terms wasn't quite right so but I'm glad to say we 've got it right now and you know we both sort of gave a bit and we came to a settlement er which I'm very pleased about .
And you had a good ride over the weekend as well at Bellevue ?
Yeah , not too bad .
We er we got very close to beating Bellevue at Bellevue which was okay I mean everybody 's a bit rusty so and we were experimenting with tyres and everything and er it was only a challenge , but it was nice to get the first meeting on the way and er I was very impressed by some of er the team members of what I saw , I knew er team mate Dean Bargger was doing particularly well scoring 11 points and er he 's really a promising er youngster which I think we can get a lot of use out of , and er in general I mean you know Ellis Stevens was doing particularly well as well , so if those two can keep doing well during the season , then okay mine had a few problems , she only scored 3 points , but that was just a one-off so yeah I thing we look quite strong on paper again now .
the West Midlands has hauled a seven and a half ton truck from Great Ormond Street hospital to Birmingham Children 's Hospital to raise money .
The Burleigh group set off from London on Friday morning and they 're hoping their efforts have raised up to a million pounds for the 2 hospitals .
Fund-raising organiser Anton Stewart says they proved a lot of people wrong .
A lot of people said no it can't be done , it 's a total impossibility , but er basically we 've hacked it , so we feel good about it , very good .
The only thing is now er the reason we 've done this is because the hospital that we 're standing outside now is er desperately in need of another operating theatre and in addition to that there 's a tremendous amount of work needs to be done at Great Ormond Street hospital .
Frankly there just isn't the money to go around , and kids are being made to suffer for long periods of time er for operations which really could be done if only they had the money .
Therefore we er we needed to do something that stands out from the crowd if you like to bring this to people 's attention .
122 miles you 've just pushed this seven and a half ton truck I believe yet what was the one moment that really stood out or really got you going ?
Okay , well the first , the first moment was definitely St Albans .
er There is a hill in St Albans , I think it 's called er St Peter 's Church hill , and it is very , very severe to say the least , and everybody said to us ‘oh you 're going up the hill ?
Forget it’ the A A said , ‘forget it’the police said , ‘forget it’ , everybody in the town said ‘forget it , it 's hard enough to walk up’and we took the truck up at a bloody run .
So er you know that 's another thing that we hacked .
And quite a few blisters bursting out all over as they say .
er Yeah , only a lot , only a lot , er but it was worth it .
Some guys aren't going to be able to walk for a week — they 've got tattered feet , but er nobody begrudges it , nobody begrudges it at all .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's 11 minutes to 7
The long arm of the law is reaching a bit too close for comfort if you 're taken short in sunny Singapore .
The authorities there are so obsessed they 've already got toilet detectives ready to pounce on and arrest anyone who doesn't treat public conveniences with respect .
Now they 've even topped that by installing special censors inside lavatory bowls which detect whether the user has flushed the loo .
As Di Webster reports from Singapore , if you don't flush you 're in hot water .
Music to the ears of Singapore 's Environment Ministry .
But it 's a tune authorities are apparently not hearing enough .
The government last year announced that those who forget to flush public toilets will be fined up to 500 U S dollars .
Toilet detectives were stationed at strategic points around the city to nab offenders .
Maybe it wasn't the most satisfying job in the world but the men on loo patrol will no doubt be distressed to hear they 're being replaced by a machine .
Unflushed toilets are already setting off censor-operated devices in the Environment Ministry building and some of Singapore 's open air sewage centres .
Authorities are remaining tight-lipped about how the censors operate .
Perhaps , say some observers , they follow the same principle as the elevator urine detector now in widespread use throughout the country .
Singaporeans caught short in the lift are electronically locked in until the police arrive .
Lift urinators are not penalised under the non-flushing law .
Government controlled Straits Times newspaper last year ran as an invaluable community service its own toilets of shame campaign listing each day the country 's most offensive loos .
Singapore has long been known for its campaigns against littering , smoking , spitting and jay-walking , but it may be the only place in the world trying to toilet train an entire nation .
‘Who needs God ? ’
That 's the title of a new book which is already a best-seller in the United States .
It 's written by Rabbi Harold Kushner who comes from Massachusetts .
He 's been visiting Oxford to promote his book and he hopes he won't just be preaching to the converted .
No I especially hope it will be read by sceptics , by people who have grown up with a kind of psychologically inspired dismissal of religion , people who 've become so sophisticated , so busy they have no time for it , people who are so bemused by technology , by the greatness of human achievement , the computers , the moon rockets , the medical advances , that in their worship of human talent they forget that there 's a point where human power ends and the power of God begins .
You are a Rabbi .
Have you written it totally from a Jewish perspective or are you aiming at a wider cross-section of the population ?
Well both Jane .
I er I can only write it from a Jewish perspective , it 's the perspective I stand at , but it seems to me that beyond a few superficialities there is no such thing as Jewish spiritual truth any more than there is Jewish mathematical truth .
Human nature is the same .
Human beings have certain needs , certain problems , and I think that all religions in their own way have found ways of coping with those problems as different languages may differ grammatically , and they 're all trying to help people do the same thing .
The basis of the book is that we are unfulfilled because we 've grown too sophisticated for God , we 're lonely , we 're morally confused , and I think God is the answer for this , it fashions , religion fashions the kind of community in which you 're redeemed from loneliness , it gives you the sense that when you come close to the end of your life you don't have to panic that you have wasted your life because religion can show you that you have made a difference to the world .
Oscar Wilde once said something marvellous , he said ‘the nicest feeling in the world is to do a good deed anonymously and have somebody find out’ er I believe from a religious perspective that every good deed I know somebody finds out and that it 's , it 's not really lost .
er We are living in a very sophisticated time , how can you , how can you make people see things more simply ?
Well I'm not sure it 's simple , it 's a way of getting back to eternal verities .
All I can do is offer them personal witness , and not just me .
But I would say to each of your listeners I sure you know people who find a tranquility , a centredness , a source of strength and confidence in their religious faith , they are the representatives of what religion can do , not the Ayatollahs , and not the fanatics , and not the people on television , but the people who spend their lives trying to be good and helpful , and one day they 'll look around and realise that happiness has snuck in the back door when they were n't even looking for it .
Those are the people we ought to emulate .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
British Rail 's Superstaff awards are to be presented in May and the Transport User 's Consultative Committee is taking nominations for the most customer care conscious employee .
Last year the award was won by Ernie Acker at Charlbury station , and we asked him what he thought of the awards .
Well I felt very honoured that er that people should recognise er the fact that you know you did the job and they enjoyed coming down here to travel from Charlbury .
But nothing , I didn't do anything different really , it wasn't anything exceptional really , it 's just I think people really want to er be treated properly and er and then get the service that they 're looking for , basically speaking that 's right .
So what was involved ?
Did you have to go , did you have to go and meet the Chairman of British Rail ?
Oh no no , nothing quite like that .
The local manager came down , the provincial manager , and er made the award or was present when the award was made by the T U C C , and er a presentation was , took place on the platform , and er my wife and I had a weekend , we er we er , we had a weekend in er in York .
What did the wife think ?
Very nice , yes , she thought it was great , yeah .
So , do you treat her differently ?
Oh , ah , that 's the problem see , yeah , she thinks that I charm people down here and er leave it all down the station .
So you have to watch it at home ?
Oh that 's right , yeah , yeah .
So , what 's you 're secret then Ernie ?
Well I haven't got one really , no , no .
It 's nothing , this is the way I deal with it , if I treat this job , if I go in to a shop or ask for any service I expect , you know , the same that I give , and basically speaking then I'm pleased .
And if I don't get that then well it 's depressing because it 's great to be treated as a person when you go into , in those places , and that 's really what I do .
So how do you manage to be cheerful all the time , even when the weather 's like this ?
Oh , I do have our off days .
So do you get on well with the passengers ?
Ah yeah , er they 're great .
They are .
I think people will respond if you treat them properly .
And have you got any message for this year 's winner ?
Well , I would suppose that the person they 're looking for is similar in character , but if they 're going to er if they 're looking for that person I think they 've just got to act normally , and it 's not a one-off thing , I think it 's built up over the years .
And that was the Fox Report for Monday the 19th of March 1990 .
I don't know whether he 'll win the award again , we shall have to wait and find out until May .
It 's 25 minutes past 6 .
A national report by the second largest teaching union says its members are being increasingly driven to drink and drugs because of stress .
The N A S U W T says about a quarter of its teachers face problems brought on by poor pay and extra responsibilities .
John Hollis is a member of the union 's national executive and the representative covering the FOX F M area .
Mr Hollis says the figures nationally are bourne out locally and he says he 's not surprised by the findings in the report .
The government 's own team have recognised that morale in teaching is low and that the position this year is significantly worse than last , yet the government have for this year ignored the findings of that particular report and it 's all tied up with the whole issue of pay , workload etc..
It may be that the government has a proportion of the blame but you 're not surely condoning teachers who have these problems being up in front of children in the classroom ?
Well I don't , you see this is where I think it 's been sensationalised .
I don't think for one minute that there are teachers who are drunk in charge of children in the classroom .
I don't think that there are teachers who pop out to the staffroom for the odd fix of some hard drug .
But what I do think occurs , and this is bourne out er in my own case , I mean I'm extremely reluctant to go into my staffroom simply because of the amount of smoking which goes on there .
I'm a non-smoker but er colleagues who do smoke seem to be smoking more than they did before .
Now that 's not particularly sensational , and that 's where the drugs and the alcohol abuse level comes across , and that is the emotive term , but what I'm saying really is the symptoms which that teachers are displaying of stress manifest themselves in an increase in er abuse of alcohol which could only be the odd extra drink , or the odd 5 cigarettes a day , and sleeping tablets , and that becomes an issue when you haven't got a teacher who 's not in control the following day , but you certainly have a teacher who 's not 100 % , and that 's where the effect on the child tends to occur .
You 're listening to the FOX Report .
The last and perhaps the most potent symbol of the division between East and West Germany is due to be demolished .
Checkpoint Charlie , the crossing point set up in the early 1960s between East and West Berlin is to be opened to millions of people on Wednesday .
The Tory Party 's prospective candidate for Oxford East , Mark Mayall , is in the city .
He says Berliners are now counting down to the historic moment .
Well I think it 's very significant .
We 're seeing the end of a long period of Cold War which effectively the West have won because they have kept their defences up , er and I think as Tom King , he was out here last week , has said we need to keep a strong force here to make sure that the Soviets keep their side of the bargain and er start a withdrawal at some stage .
don't you think it 's a little unrealistic now that the British aren't thinking more in concrete terms of bringing troops back home from Germany ?
Well I think that that may come , er certainly there are already rumours about that .
I think it would be a great error to start major troop withdrawals at this stage until we 're very sure about what 's happening in Russia , and indeed the state of East Berlin and East Germany .
Do you think there 's a danger that the West could undermine Gorbachev 's position particularly with the delicate situation over Lithuania , if it 's not prepared to support moves to try and get tension reduced between the two blocks ?
Well I think that we have shown that we 're prepared to support Gorbachev in so far as er peace reform in the Soviet Union , but I think we 've got to look towards our own security in the West and we 've done very well with NATO , with the defensive block NATO over the last 40 years or so , and until we can have cast iron guarantees that Gorbachev is going to be secure and that he 's actually going to carry out his promises we 've got to keep our guard up .
Prisoners still controlling part of the riot-torn Strangeways prison in Manchester have raised a banner on the roof of the accommodation block saying ‘no dead’ .
More than 100 prisoners are still on the loose in 5 wings of the jail though police and warders today regained control of some sections including the remand block .
Home Secretary David Waddington has been speaking of his sense of outrage at Saturday 's Trafalgar Square riots saying it brought some of the most ferocious violence ever seen on to the streets of London .
He said the savage and barbaric acts could be blamed on a hard core of trouble makers .
An earth tremor measuring 5.2 on the Richter Scale has shaken a large part of Britain including Oxfordshire , causing people to flee their homes as chimneys collapsed and windows cracked .
The worst hit areas were in North Wales , the north west and the Midlands , although no-one 's been hurt in the mini quake which was felt in districts as far apart as Devon and Scotland .
The Government 's hinting it could cut defence spending because of a reduced threat from Eastern Europe .
In a White Paper Defence Secretary Tom King says spending over the next 3 years will rise by only 1.2 % and after that it could fall .
However he says while everyone welcomes the changes in Eastern Europe , the West should n't get complacent .
Still to come : plans for a new swimming pool in Didcot , and job prospects at the newly united Culham and Harwell laboratories .
First , a new initiative aimed at giving practical support to East European young business people and politicians is being launched today under the patronage of Oxford University 's Chancellor and other prominent political leaders .
100 work placements will be provided in British businesses and political organisations for Czechs , Poles , Hungarians and East Germans under the age of 35 .
Chairman of the initiative Danny Finkelstein says the people involved range across the whole political spectrum .
We 've got all the political parties involved .
Not only have we got young people from all the political parties involved , but we 've also got Sir Geoffrey Howe , John Smith , David Owen , Lord Jenkins , in other words one senior representative from each of the major political parties has agreed to be a patron er so that shows that it is a cross-party initiative .
And you don't anticipate any wrangling .
Well , we haven't had a single row er between the political parties or between the young people involved so far .
There 's a tremendous er community of purpose amongst the groups , we 've very much enjoyed working together , it 's been one of the most fun things I 've done in politics , er and I think that all the other young people on the committee agree .
What 's in it for the businesses ?
What 's in it for the businesses is this : at the moment they can see Eastern Europe as an emerging market , but it 's very difficult to get in there because the hard cash and the skills that they need don't exist in those countries , but they want to do something , they want to demonstrate their interest , they want to make contact , and what Enterprise Europe gives them is the opportunity to make a good business contact amongst one the young generation of er of business leaders in those countries er in order , and keep those contacts in order that when they do have an opportunity to go into those markets they 've got some young people there to start off with .
Harwell Laboratories says there 's no need to worry about the possibility of job losses as a result of this weekend 's merger with Culham Laboratory .
150 people finished work there on Friday but Harwell spokesman Nick Hants says there are always jobs for qualified scientists and that Harwell is actually taking more people on .
He 's been telling FOX F M 's Robin Powell that most of the job losses have already occurred .
We have announced a number of job losses over the past 12 months which have arisen as a result of er an internal cost cutting exercise to make our research more er cost effective , and also as a result of decisions by the Government and the electricity supply industry who have cut down their funding for basic research into reactor technology .
The numbers involved are about 700 and most of these job losses have now happened and indeed the bulk of them happened on the last Friday of the financial year which was last week when about 150 people took early retirement .
So how many more jobs will be going from now on ?
I'm not sure of the exact figures but we have not declared any more than the 700 that we 've er announced in the last 12 months .
Most of these have now taken retirement , there are a few more to go , er but we are still recruiting specialists in the areas where we have work and where there are plenty of jobs going , so it 's not all bad news .
150 went on Friday .
Is it with any sadness that Culham and Harwell have seen these people go ?
Yes , it 's always sad to say farewell to colleagues that have been with you for a number of years , but all things have to come to an end , we say farewell with sadness and er fond memories to those who 've been with us for so long , but we welcome all those who are joining us and we can promise them a thriving future .
You 're listening to the FOX Report .
People in Didcot could be getting a new swimming pool .
It 's estimated that it would cost around 3 1/2 million pounds , and South Oxfordshire District councillors will need to discuss the possibility tomorrow .
A working party 's recommending that the existing outdoor pool at Edmunds Park should be shut and that an indoor one should be opened to replace it .
Ian Gill , who 's a Labour member on the Council representing the Didcot area and on the working party , says he 's confidant about the outcome .
Well I think there 's every chance that it will get the go-ahead er I mean obviously er there are money restraints but I'm sure that the District Council will be able to come up with the appropriate amount .
er As you know , it 's been bandied around that there 's the possibility that it could cost in the region of 3 to 3 1/2 million pounds , and obviously that 's down to the rate payer .
Is that value for money ?
Yes , it is value for money .
Er .
I mean we 've er the working party 's actually been around the country looking at various other swimming pools in the areas and er just to get an idea on what we thought Didcot would really like .
Er .
And obviously we 've come up with a plan which I hope that Didcot people would enjoy .
Are you confident the facility will be used ?
Oh yes , yes , highly confident .
Why 's that ?
Well , it 's something er I mean obviously a lot of people like the idea of going over to the Swindon Oasis , now er we 've had at the back of our minds , if it was at all possible to er put something similar at Didcot , obviously nothing as grand as the Oasis , but something quite similar , and obviously they would come to Didcot and not bother to go over to Swindon .
Still to come : rambling through Oxfordshire , and ‘Noises Off’ in Banbury .
The summer arrived at the weekend .
I'm not sure where it 's gone today , but for the energetic a new book of Oxfordshire rambles has just arrived in the bookshop .
Nick Channer has put together 14 country walks .
Nick , a ramble sounds a rather pleasant little loiter round Oxfordshire , how , how severe are these rambles you 've put together ?
They 're not really severe at all , I mean , they 're very much intended for , you know , the weekend er type of people , you know , somebody that just wants to get out on a Sunday afternoon with the children .
They 're not intended for the dedicated hiker .
Now this isn't the first book you 've put together of this sort is it ?
No , I 've had 2 other books published er previously by the same publishers , er one was in Berkshire , one was in Hampshire , very much along the same sort of lines , er I think the longest walk I did probably would be about sort of 7 or 8 miles with those , er just as , you know , er the walks in , in , in this particular book are no more than 7 or 8 miles .
So , you 're not totally local to Oxfordshire , how did you set about deciding where your walks would be , what you 'd do ?
Well , after the er publishers had approached me and , and asked me if I would be interested in doing this book er the next thing to do was actually get hold of all the Ordinance Survey maps for Oxfordshire , er you know , quite a big county , so er once we 'd done that er the next thing to do was to actually just work out exactly where we wanted the walks to be , and they 've obviously , for commercial reasons they 've got to be fairly evenly spread throughout the county , but you can tell quite quickly and quite easily by looking at an Ordinance Survey map , you know , where all the paths are , they 're all clearly marked , er public footpaths , public bridleways , that sort of thing , and the next step was to actually create from the maps , circular walks to fit in with the requirement .
Did you try out more walks than you eventually used ?
er Only a couple .
I was very pleased er when I came to put the book together to find that er most of er most of the actual walks corresponded with what was on the paper , which was nice , so I didn't have to waste much time .
You 've got all sorts of detail in the books , little historical facts and things
I mean , that takes a bit of research to find out these things ?
Yes , I mean that 's something that I enjoy doing , it 's , it 's quite a lot of fun in , in , in , in , coming to , to actually research each walk afterwards , er one for example , the Rollright Stones up on the Warwickshire border , that was particularly interesting because there 's quite a , quite a legend surrounding the Stones up there , er then there 's one at er a place called Hampton Gay just off the Banbury road , the Midlands-North railway line er goes quite close to the village of Hampton Gay , and towards the end of the last century there was a major railway disaster on that track killing about er 30 people I think , er so , you know , things like that which are perhaps not er that well known , you , you , you stumble across when you come to do the research .
Yes , people love a sense of the macabre , don't they .
Is it er
Adds to the atmosphere .
Is there a serious point behind these rambles at all , I mean , or is it just for fun ?
Not a particularly , er well no they 're not , they 're not just for fun , I mean , but there isn't a particularly serious point .
What I'm , what I'm trying to do is , is just er highlight er paths where they are , and , and , and drawing people 's attention to er to , to rights of way in the county , er obviously a lot of people probably wouldn't be , maybe people that 've just moved into the area , that sort of thing , people like myself who were n't too familiar with Oxfordshire before , er those sort of people probably wouldn't be aware without a book like this that there were a lot of paths on their doorstep , and some very pleasant countryside as well .
Do you have a favourite amongst the 14 ?
er I 've got several favourites , er the one at Thrupp , Hampton Gay which I mentioned , where the train disaster was , that 's a particularly nice one because it 's along very nice stretches of canal and river , I like the one er up at er the Rollright Stones , and , and I like the ones in the Chilterns as well , there 's a couple in the Chilterns , one at er Watlington Hill , just outside the town of Watlington , and er one which goes through the grounds of Stonor Park , but er superb scenery up there obviously with the beech woods and so on .
Nick Channer , thank you very much indeed .
Thank you .
On Wednesday the Banbury Cross Players take to the boards with Michael Frayn 's hit comedy ‘Noises Off’ .
It ran for 6 years in London 's West End and is still being performed professionally .
The Banbury company is one of the first amateur groups to be allowed to get to grips with it .
It also marks director Tony Neil 's 25th production for the Banbury Cross Players .
I asked him a little bit more about the play .
It 's about a professional company , theatrical company , not of the best , who is embarking on a tour of Weston-Super-Mare , Goole and Stockton-on-Tees .
Now why those places should be funny , and we have to apologise to all the people who live there , but it does sound funny , and they er they just er the trials and tribulations they have when their own rather complex personal lives get mixed up with the play they 're doing .
The play that they 're doing is a play called ‘Nothing On’ and has all the horrors you might think of a play with that title .
Now you 've been doing this for 25 years , that 's quite a long stint isn't it ?
Well , well , more than that .
This is the 25th production .
My first production was in 1959 , so er it 's more than 25 years .
What was that ?
That was a short play by John Mortimer called ‘What shall we tell Caroline ? ’ .
Have you ever been tempted to go professional ?
No not really .
I 've now retired but I was a lawyer , a solicitor , and er I enjoyed doing that and er when I was a lot younger I had lots of er friends who er were all interested in the theatre , and some of them went into it professionally and some er some stuck with the amateur world as I did .
But the ones who went into it professionally , I see them often on the telly advertising things and I don't really want to do that .
So , when is it all happening , when can we come and see it ?
It starts on Wednesday , and , you know , I'm taking time off from searching for props at the last minute and dress rehearsing to come and talk to you .
It 's all very much on the go at the moment .
Yes , I'm very impressed 'cos these things always get rather fraught nearer the end .
Ah yes , this one 's been , we 've all been very organised on this , you know , so it 's been better than most , but , 'cos er you were , er you 've seen it and your listeners who 've seen it will know it 's a very complex play , so it 's made us get more disciplined to start with .
It must be quite an interesting thing to rehearse because you 're rehearsing a play about the back-stage life of another play , it 's almost like a mirror and a mirror and a mirror
That 's right , and , and the first act of the play is a rehearsal and it keeps stopping and the director keeps sort of straightening them out and they 're dealing with little problems , and when you 're actually rehearsing it you find yourself sort of repeating the play because it 's so ac Michael Frayn who wrote it has so accurately observed what happens er when you 're directing a play that er you find yourself re-enacting the play and , and suddenly find a discussion you 've just been having has part sounds as if it 's come out of the script .
The London marathon approaches , would you believe , and one of those who 'll be taking part is Clive Guthrie from Bicester .
It 's the first time he 'll have run a full marathon , but he 's jogged into FOX F M this evening .
Clive , why on earth did you decide to do this ?
Well , like I say , it 's not erm an ambition really of mine it 's a challenge of a lifetime because I 've never liked running and I decided that as I started running two years ago that er the marathon was the ultimate , and as it 's the ultimate challenge I thought what I'm asking and why I 've asked to come in to FOX F M is to er ask the businesses of Bicester to help me er raise money for the er Bicester Health Centre , and also for the Bible School boys sponsoring me .
I'm sending this letter out er to every business that I can possibly get one round to .
Yes , I 've heard that you 've been doing more than sending it out , you 've actually been taking it personally haven't you ?
Yes , my employer offered to er you know send this letter , the postage and everything , I said no , you know , if you help me I 'll er run round put these letters through the letter boxes it 'll , you know , assist me in my training , and if , you know , if I'm successful in raising over 500 pounds those funds will go to the Bible School for the mentally handicapped and children with learning difficulties .
Have you had any response from any of these people yet ?
Yes I have , I mean , firstly my colleagues have been very supportive , and my company , Sea Search Editions , but the er local businesses , the other local businesses have started to respond and although I 've only put , I 've got piles of envelopes at home to deliver still , I am getting some success , I'm rapidly getting near that 512 pounds .
Oh well that 's not bad , so the jogging has served a double purpose so far , or I should n't call it jogging really , it 's training isn't it ?
Well yes , training , I mean it 's more of a jog , I 've had a little injury problem with a knee , but er like I say er , it really is a challenge and I'm not going to let anything get in my way .
I'm having physiotherapy as well at the moment .
Any of my old school friends in Wallingford that know me er well they 'll just never believe that I can run 26 miles because I don't know if when you were at school , but when er when we used to have a cross-country run I was the one at the back and usually the P E instructor used to go round and whack us with a slipper , you know the slow ones and I was unfortunately one of those , but er now I 've been running with the Bicester Road Runners for what 2 years , er half , I 've done a few half marathons , nothing anywhere near 26 miles , I 've , my furthest run until yesterday was 16 miles , and yesterday , injured , with a bandage round my knee , I managed 18 miles , and I'm pleased to say it 's still holding out and I'm quietly confident that I'm going to complete this , and like I say , if I can er well , just get the local businesses in Bicester interested and to support me , I say however small , just a , you know , if they , a penny a mile from just a few of the businesses in Bicester and , well , the Bible school could have , you know , a few pounds coming to them , which I'm sure they 'd be , you know , greatly received .
You sound as if you 're a bit of a masochist really after all this .
Well , crazy , I suppose I'm crazy , I 've always thought runners were crazy , I 've always , you know , said friends and colleagues that used to run were mad , it only started off to get fit for skiing , and well , I hit , you know , I 've got the bug , and er well it 's going to be my first marathon and it 's definitely going to be my last marathon .
So you 've made , you 've done 18 miles , now , erm you 've got another what 8 miles to stick on the top of that .
Are you er convinced that you 're going to make it ?
I'm absolutely positive I'm going to make it .
I mean , now I 've got several hundred pounds resting on it if I have to walk in the last few miles I will , but er pride I'm sure I 'll keep going .
Well , we wish you all the best .
How many , how long is it till the marathon now ?
It 's well just under 3 weeks now .
Well , in those 3 weeks I hope you er leap ahead in your er training , and er let us know how you get on .
Will do .
Thank you very much Jane .
Tonight , Lord Scarman hears the first submissions to the independent enquiry into the future of Rover at Cowley .
Our job is to listen to everybody , and in the end find some formulation of some policy which the Council can adopt to deal with the problem .
Douglas Herd on the importance of English in Eastern Europe :
Our aim , Ladies and Gentlemen , is to replace Russian with English as the second language throughout Eastern Europe .
And also on the programme , Rainbow 's Jeffery , Bungle , Zippy and George visit Oxford after 18 years together .
It 's a strange sort of er family really ; a hippopotamus , and a bear , and a Zip .
The 6 O'clock news , this is Annie Webster .
Customs Officers have revealed that company officials from Sheffield forgemasters are among those arrested today over the Iraqi supergun affair .
Senior staff from a Midland Steel firm are also being questioned over an alleged attempt to illegally export the huge weapon .
James Matthews reports :
A swoop by customs officers has netted up to 15 people so far .
A number of others are still being held for questioning .
The operation follows the seizure at fort of supergun parts bound for Iraq .
Those detained include at least one senior member of staff from Sheffield forgemasters .
A designer with the company has already appeared in court in connection with the affair .
Three officials with the firm Walter Summers , based near Birmingham , are also being questioned .
It has supplied a with equipment , Its engineers believe may have been used to make the supergun .
President Bush is to visit Lithuania to get a first-hand report on the situation in the rebel Baltic republic .
The White-house says the meeting on Thursday with the country 's Prime Minister doesn't signal a change in U S foreign policy .
Meanwhile President Gorbachev has been booed and jeered out of Red Square today during the first May day parade not controlled by the Communist party .
There was a noisy popular march through the square with demonstrators calling for freedom for Lithuania .
From Moscow , Sue Jameson :
‘Freedom for Lithuania’ shouted the demonstrators , many of whom carried the yellow , red and green national flag of the republic as they marched past Morsoleum .
The President and his aides watched tight-lipped while the television coverage ended abruptly about 15 minutes into the unofficial march .
Some carried painted blood-stained banners denouncing the Party , and cried ‘shame , shame’ .
Today 's radically different May day parade means the communist party domination of the event is clearly at an end .
Sue Jameson , I R N , Moscow .
Mrs Thatcher and Neil Kinnock have clashed in the Commons over the poll tax , but there 's still no word from the Government on how or when it might soften the tax .
reports :
Mrs Thatcher told M P 's that the Government was looking at possible adjustments in the community charge .
‘Will you change it in this Parliament ? ’ said Neil Kinnock .
‘When in fact we have a statement to make we shall make it .’
‘We 'll certainly have more details than you have given about the roof tax’ she said .
The Labour leader told her that no matter what changes she had in mind , nothing would make the poll tax fair .
‘It must be got rid of even if it means that the Prime Minister goes down with her own flagship’ .
It was a good knock about but no-one is any the wiser at the end of it .
I R N , Westminster .
Defence Secretary , Tom King , is denying that Britain 's Shackleton early warning planes have been grounded because of a technical fault .
Ten R A F crewmen were killed yesterday when one of the Shackleton 's crashed into a hillside in the outer Hebrides .
The R A F says its other Shackletons aren't flying today , but Mr King says that 's out of respect for the dead crewmen , not because of any technical problems .
A high court judge has halted the trial of two veteran peace campaigners accused of springing soviet spy George Blake from prison in 1966 .
In an unprecedented legal move , Mr Justice Hodgson ordered a judicial review of the case to decide if Michael Randall and Pat Pottall should stand trial .
From the high court , Simon Israel :
It 's the first time the high court has stopped a criminal trial from going ahead .
It was due to start tomorrow .
The two men argued that 's it 's an abuse of the legal process for the case to come to court 24 years after they allegedly helped the soviet double agent escape from Wormwood Scrubs , but Mr Randall has mixed feelings about their victory .
My feelings are ambiguous about it .
We would really like to see this thing over and done with one way or another , and to be able to put our case .
Both are pessimistic about the outcome of any review and could face a maximum of 7 years in jail if found guilty at a future trial .
Simon Israel , I R N , The High Court .
A jury has decided that a man accused of going on a shooting rampage at a seaside town in which 1 person died and 17 were injured , is mentally unfit to stand trial .
Newcastle Crown Court had earlier heard that Robert Sartan suffers from acute schizophrenia .
Sartan was arrested after the shootings after the shootings at Whitley Bay in Tyne and Wear last year .
A former Swindon town football Manager , Lou Macarr , is being questioned by police in Bristol about an alleged plot to defraud the Inland Revenue .
Club captain , Collin Cauldewood , former Accountant , Vince Farrow , and former Chairman , Brian Hillier , were also arrested .
Independent Radio News .
It 's Tuesday May 1st , MayDay 1990 .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in a little bit more detail .
Thousands of soviet radicals have jeered and booed President Gorbachev in Red Square during the first non-communist MayDay celebrations .
There were incredible scenes with people shouting ‘shame’ and ‘down with the empire of red fascism’ .
Reporting from Moscow , Sue Jameson :
Well we started off traditionally enough except it was distinctly in low key .
departure indeed from last year where the official parade went on for around 2 hours and there was really very little hint of even a bit of descent .
Well this year all that has changed quite dramatically .
Not totally unexpectedly though .
The official parade was cut back to just under an hour and it was preceded by speeches from workers and politicians .
And after that came this unofficial parade organized by Trade Unions and also , Moscow Voting Associations , so we had this peculiar spectacle of this radical Mayor of Moscow , newly elected Gavrielle Popov , standing up there , shoulder to shoulder with President Gorbachev and Yigor Ligicharf and er Defence Minister , Mick Dimitriargo , amongst others .
Well after the official parade .
The unofficial parade started to come through .
We 'd been told there would be no anti-constitutional slogans or ones that er that called for violence of any kind .
However what happened instead was the cat-calls and the boos and the jeers started almost as soon as this procession came came into Red Square , and there were plenty of banners calling for freedom for Lithuania , there were cries of ‘shame , shame’ .
Many carried the red , yellow and green banners ; the national flag colours of Lithuania .
And President Gorbachev stood up there for about 15 minutes or so before the television pictures were cut .
They really only showed the official part of today 's procession and cut it pretty speedily , in fact as the more alarmist banners started to come into view .
President Gorbachev then left , as the boos and hisses reached the Podium , but in fact it isn't absolutely clear that he was only going to stay for part of the demonstration , or if he was only going to stay for part of the demonstration or if he really was only going to be there for about 20 minutes .
You 're listening to the FOX report .
The cause of the plane crash in the outer Hebrides yesterday which killed the ten-man crew of and R A F Shackleton aircraft , may never be fully known for the plane is too old to be fitted with a black box flight recorder .
A board of enquiries begun its investigations into the tragedy on the Isle of Harris .
Reporting , Mark Leashman :
It 's become apparent that had the plane been a few feet higher it would have hill .
It crashed into the peak and flipped over , although the tail section is recognisable , wreckage is scattered down the hill over a wide area .
People in nearby northern village , felt their homes shake .
Alexei Campbell says he knew the plane was in trouble :
It kind of sounded like a car with no exhaust , you know , but much , much louder , you know .
And so you opened the window to have a look and what happened then ?
Well I could n't see anything , er because there was a lot of cloud , and then I just heard this sort of bang , and then it was just silent .
Flying officer , Alan Watt , who was one of the rescuing team , was one of the first men on the scene .
He realized some of his best friends were among the men dead on the ground .
Well obviously it 's er really hard-going when it 's you 're own people from your own station , er very er close station and obviously we know a lot of people er who have been involved in the accident , but the moral of the men is excellent .
They just want to get the job done then ?
Basically we want to do the job as fast as possible , and er our feelings are for the people back at .
An R A F enquiry team is now sifting through the wreckage .
They could be there a week .
The men are undertaking their grim task in blazing hot sun , but the weather is far removed from their mood .
You 're listening to the FOX report .
Local Government Minister , David Hunt , met Tory Councillors in the trouble-torn West Oxfordshire constituency today in an attempt to some of the fears surrounding the Poll Tax .
Two months ago , 18 disillusioned Conservative Councillors left the Party in mid-concern over the combined affects of the Poll Tax and reinforced rise in Council rents .
At the Witney Conservative Club , Mr Hunt explained why he made the trip down to Oxfordshire :
Well it 's part of er nationwide tour I 've been making , putting across the message that if you 're fortunate enough to have a Conservative Council , it costs you much less money .
If you 've got a Labour or S L D Council , it costs you a lot more money .
What I am seeking to do is to go and support Conservative candidates up and down the country and I'm supporting many of them during this local election campaign .
What do you think of those resignations though ?
Well I was very sad about them at the time and if you may remember , I did say publicly er that I very much hoped the Conservatives would think again and rejoin the Conservative Party .
Since then I'm very pleased that two of them have done so , and I very much hope that the others will as well and I 've always made it clear I'm perfectly prepared to explain any situation to any Council or Councillors who want to talk to me — my door is always open .
Do you think though , perhaps you could have done more to keep them in the Party ?
I don't know , they didn't ask to see me before they made this decision .
It may well be that some of them regret having made the decision .
As far as I'm concerned , I would ignore that er I'm perfectly prepared to talk to anybody who wants to talk to me and to explain why , certainly in West Oxfordshire , the problems are caused by an over-spending Labour/S L D County Council that accounts for 90 % of the .
West Oxfordshire accounts for just 10 % and West Oxfordshire has always been a prudent careful Council , and if Oxfordshire followed West Oxfordshire 's policy , then the community charge would be very considerably less than it is under Labour/S L D over-spending policies .
But also , City Councillors have said , in Oxford , the safety nets put £50.00 on the top of the Poll Tax bill there .
What do you think of that ?
I think there 's some misunderstanding about the safety net .
for many years there 's been what 's called the ‘Rate Equalization Subsidy’ which has gone from areas of high rateable value to areas of low rateable value such as the middle of Lancashire — central Lancashire , and other parts of the country .
With the move to the new system , we 're abolishing that subsidy , but we 're doing it in two goes : 50 % of it this year and all of it will go next year .
Now some people call it a contribution to the safety net .
What it is actually , is about half the subsidy being phased out in these two goes .
You 're listening to the FOX report .
It 's 11 minutes past 6 .
Traffic 's still very busy at the moment , and all the major routes leading out of Oxford and Oxford City Centre still busy .
Abingdon , Aylesbury not so bad now , but do watch out for traffic on the A34 ; that 's still pretty busy there .
A41 that 's also busy and the A40 .
M4 , that 's pretty busy too , although traffic is slowly starting to ease up along there .
Ascott , there 's a race meeting there tonight and the Police tell me that it 's chock-a-block , so obviously try to avoid that if you can .
In Reading , Wokingham Road , that route is closed because of a fractured gas main and it 's gonna be closed until about 8 ‘o clock this evening .
Got to find an alternative route around there .
A34 , there are road works at the Cheavley interchange , that 's junction 13 of the M4 , and that is causing delays in both directions but nothing too bad .
The A43 to Northampton , that 's busy at the moment but nothing untoward .
The A34 , Oxford/Woodstock , that 's the Luke farm roundabout .
Grapes roundabout at Yarnton , busy there but no major problems .
The Banbury Inner Relief Road ; various restrictions for road works on the junction of the A41 and the A422 .
So allow a little extra time for your journey there .
This is Joanne Zorin , A A Roadwatch .
British rail tell us that the Scotland to Brighton train which is due to call at Oxford at 5.35 is running 2 hours late this evening , but I have nothing to report to you from the buses .
Still to come a look at the opening shots in the Independent Enquiry into the fate of Rover 's Cowley works and the questions that Bicester 's friends of the earth say you must ask any candidate in the local elections .
First a look at today 's local news , here 's Robin Powell .
Oxford East M P , Andrew Smith , has challenged Mrs Thatcher over the Poll Tax in Prime Minister 's Question Time today .
Mr Smith asked her to outline the Government 's plans for the community charge and whether she took responsibility for the effects of the tax :
Does the Prime Minister accept responsibility for the chaos and confusion at the heart of Governments over the Poll Tax ?
doesn't she owe it to this house and to the people before they vote on Thursday , to give a straight answer to a straight question : what precisely is she going to do about the Poll Tax ?
Meanwhile Oxford against the Poll Tax is holding a meeting tonight .
Speakers of the meeting in the Northgate Hall in St Michael 's Street will include the city councillor for south ward , John Tanner , who stated that he will not pay the tax .
David Scholls acting secretary of the organization says the meeting will help focus action :
It 's basically going to be on the Poll Tax in the elections and how Oxford against the Poll Tax sort of considers to be the most important element sort of determining people 's decision when they go in to vote on Thursday .
We will hopefully be informing people about Oxford against the Poll Tax , which is you know very important at this time with Poll Tax bills being sent out next week and it will be hoping to basically raise the profile of the campaign with the elections in mind .
Two men have been arrested following a break-in at the Kenton Theatre in New Street , Henley at lunch time .
The two are being held in custody at Reading Police Station .
A cyclist has been taken to Oxford 's John Radcliffe Hospital after an accident on the A423 , north of Kidlington this afternoon .
He is believed to have collided with a lorry near the Wise Alderman pub and the ambulance service is asking parents to warn their children about the dangers of climbing trees .
The plea came after a child broke his leg after falling out of a tree at St John 's School in Cherwell Heights in Banbury .
Fire crews have been tackling a blaze at a company in the Old Station Yard at Bicester .
An acre of grassland and 100 railway sleepers caught fire but now have been put out , however the rest of the building is understood to be on fire .
The new headquarters of the actuarial education service have been officially opened by the Lord Mayor of Oxford .
The service has been relocated from London to Mafier House in Worcester Street .
Spokesman Ken Gardiner says Oxford was the natural choice .
First of all it 's a very civilized place to live , which is not an overriding factor , but it certainly pleases me .
Also , we are an academic institution and Oxford 's reputation as an academic town is of course unique .
There also is the possibility in the future of combining with the University .
And finally a 40 strong choral group from Oxford have been singing their hearts out today in a bid to win a place in a national competition .
The teenagers from Cherwell School are up against some stiff competition from 11 other schools in the regional final of a national choral event being held at the Wytham Theatre in Swindon , and although confident they 'll do well , choir mistress , Anna Haxworth isn't assuming her score will win a place in the London final next month .
Depends on what the competition is like .
We 're a school choir — if there are many youth choirs , who can draw from several schools around the area there then the chances of our getting anywhere are slim but if it 's large school choirs then I think we probably do stand a fair chance .
FOX F M news , Robin Powell reporting .
It 's 17 minutes past 6 .
The Independent Enquiry into the proposed closure of Rover 's Cowley works is now underway .
Public hearings are being held in Oxford Town Hall for the next 3 days , chaired by the industrial relations expert , Lord McCarthy of Headington .
It 's thought that up to 10,000 jobs could be lost if British aerospace close the Plant .
Rover has provided written evidence for the Enquiry but won't be represented at the hearings .
Steve Wright reports :
The Enquiry is backed by the city council and other local groups .
It 's expected to look at the affect of the closure and what can be done about it .
Although Rover will not be represented at the hearings , chairman Lord McCarthy says the Enquiry is valid .
Our job is to listen to everybody , not just Rover , but everybody ; the unions , the city council and in the end , find some formulation of some policy which the council can adopt to deal with the problem .
The first speaker , Canon Ron Mitchinson , industrial commissioner for the of Oxford , says he 's concerned about the effects on the families involved .
The way the work-force has been treated over the last few years , the uncertainty that 's been created and the lack of consultation , the impact on their lives of such a closure on people who have been expecting to be there until they retire — their jobs may well go , and the impact on that , both for their own lives as well as their families .
Many city councillors are involved in the campaign to prevent the closure .
It 's not clear what notice will be taken on the results of the Enquiry which will be published in the Autumn , but leader of Oxford city council , Barbara Gatehouse , is worried what will happen if the plant is closed .
I think it 'll have drastic effects on the life of Oxford and the quality of life for the people that live in it .
The hearings will continue all week with various bodies represented including the University and Oxfordshire Health Authority .
John Power is Chairman of the Planning Committee on Oxford City Council , he was at the Enquiry today .
John , what was discussed on this the first day ?
Well I think you 've heard some of it already in your programme , but in the afternoon session which was extremely interesting , the City Council and Oxford University and the Vale of White Horse District Council and West Oxfordshire District Council have jointly financed some major research for independent research bodies and that research was put forward yesterday , this afternoon rather , to the Panel , and it concerned the economic order , social order and what should come next and so on and so forth , and those academically research papers , not politically prejudiced papers , showed that there would be a loss of 6,150 jobs if these plans went ahead , with an estimated loss to the Oxford economy of between 8 and 17 million pounds a year .
So it 's an impact outside of just closing down the car factory , and on the question of the effects on the community .
The conclusions of one other major research was that it had substantial social implication of personal family in community lives so these papers were discussed in great detail .
Many questions were asked on these papers by the Panel , and the other thing that I thought was very revealing , is one point that I 've been hammering away at , is the fact that they actually produced these figures for U K car registrations over the last 10 years , 10 years ago there were one and a half million , last year there were nearly 2 and a half million .
I mean — it 's almost a 60 % increase in the market over the last 10 years and that market is growing and here we have the one and only major car company owned by the British being threatened with closure when all the Japanese and the Germans and the French and the Americans are trying to expand to meet this growing market and it doesn't make sense and that point came out very very strongly this afternoon .
We 're not dealing with an old dying structure industry like the steel industry or coal , we 're dealing with a mass consumer industry with high technology and in the middle ; in our town we have British Rover closing a company which was financed for 14 years by public money ; by public of this town paying their taxes to keep that company going and now in the middle of a massive boom for cars they want to propose closure and that point was dramatically highlighted this afternoon .
Why do you think Rover has chosen not to appear in person ?
Because they 've got something to hide , that 's why .
Because I have on good information and I 'll say it for the first time on this programme , I intend to give this in my evidence tomorrow , that Rover intend to close not the south works first , but the north works first .
The north works will close first in order that they can put his whole assembly process over in the Body Plant and that has major implications .
They 've something to hide which is why they won't turn up and indeed they did submit , they have submitted er as a mission to the structure plan ; try to get the County Council on their side .
The structure plan is essentially about where jobs and housing should be , not what sort of jobs and housing , and they 've made this submission to the structure plan .
They could have easily made that to us the local planners who have to determine what kind of jobs go where and we could have discussed it with them .
They have something to hide .
And the other reason they don't want to turn up is primarily because they do know that we have compulsory purchase powers and the planning — the paper put forward by the Chief Planning Officer today was a vindication of wage for a good many years , a good many months rather , that we do have compulsory purchase powers and we are able to use them and it was specifically asked at the Panel today , by both Monty Finnist and Sir Monty Finnist and Tony Christopher , why doesn't the City Council market this site and use its compulsory purchase powers and that 's one question to address tomorrow as a politician who could make that decision .
Now there are 3 days of the Enquiry , what do you think will come out of ?
Well , one thing I think will come out of it is that the Enquiry will say that this closure will have fairly cataclysmic affects on the economy of this city , I think that 's clear , and I think that will come out of it .
In the paper prepared by the Trade Union Research Project which the Panel considered , they outline 5 options , one is a new model , two is a switch to high technology industry and the Panel will come up and say well they either support one or two or three of these options and then the council will have to consider which of the options they adopt , and then have to consider what their planning powers are in relation to it .
But it must become clear , I 'll make this point clearly to the taxpayers and the people who live in this city , it must become clear , at some point this company must talk to this planning authority .
John Powell , thank you very much .
How the devil are you ? er looking a little grey around the wallet .
Why not have a free financial health check from Abbey Properties , Eynsham .
As a pointed representative introduces of Allied Dunbar , their resident representative will look at the mortgage , pension and insurance you 've accumulated over the years and sniff out the costs , sneezes and snivels that could be costly .
Britain credit details from Abbey Properties , Eynsham on Oxford 880697 .
Call in at Abbey Street , Eynsham for a free financial health check .
Your home is at risk if you do not keep up payments on a mortgage or other loans secured on it .
The language barrier lesson 1 : how to ask for motoring assistance in French .
R A C
Correct , and now in German .
R A C
Right again .
If you let the R A C sort out your motoring insurance holiday , they 'll book the best ferry crossing , fix your accommodation and ensure you 're looked after if you run into any difficulties .
So let 's recap in French , Spanish , Italian , German
R A C
Word perfect .
Visit the R A C offices in Summertown or call Oxford 53443 .
It 's twenty five minutes past six .
Foreign Secretary and MP for Witney , Douglas Herd , wants English to be the second language in Eastern Europe rather than Russian .
On his trip to Poland he 's announced Britain will be giving £400,000 towards training so that Poles can become English language teachers .
Mr Herd says that the people of Eastern Europe are crying out to learn English .
Our aim , Ladies and Gentlemen , is to replace Russian with English as the second language throughout Eastern Europe .
That is our aim and it is the aim of the Government 's and I believe the people 's in the countries which I have visited and certainly here .
The British Council is well known here and already has a substantial programme .
Mr Chadwick is here to answer any questions about it .
I can announce today , a new scheme of the Know How Fund on top of the ordinary British Council programme to help Poland on the ambitious Polish aim of achieving 20,000 new English language teachers by the year 2,000 , and as a contribution ; as a help , an immediate help to that scheme er we ; the Know How Fund will provide on top of the British Council programme £400,000 for the teacher training colleges in Poland .
I can announce the second scheme on the industrial side ; a joint scheme financed by the CBI ( Confederation of British Industry ) .
British firms and her Majesty 's Government .
This is for 300 man years of training ; industrial training beginning with 60 managers ; Polish managers training this year alone .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Voters in the City of Oxford , Cherwell and West Oxfordshire will be going to the Polls on Thursday to elect 50 District Councillors .
Bicester Friends of the Earth who describe themselves as politically neutral are trying to encourage all the parties to improve their green records .
They have come up with a list of questions to ask candidates when the come canvassing to your door to check how green they are .
Catherine Beader from Bicester Friends of the Earth , what are these questions , what should you ask ?
Well we have 5 questions er I 'll go through them if you like .
The first one : do you use public transport and do you promote it ?
We 're asking the Councillors if they actually get out of their cars and get on buses and travel to and from council meetings and er shopping , that sort of thing for public transport .
er the second one : do you promote recycling and do you use recycled products ?
There are a lot of ways that er both the Councillors can get into the habit and recycling is quite habit forming of recycling and from that er home use of recycling they will learn that there is a lot of products they can use in their councils ; recycled plastic makes very good er roadside signs that don't rust and don't need painting .
Number three , do you encourage energy efficiency in your home and in the work place ? er becoming aware energy efficiency at home turning down the heat so that we don't live in a it 's hardly appropriate today is it ? — er we don't live in hothouses : spins off from their place of work , and if they 're being energy efficient at work , they 're being energy efficient with our money .
Number four , do you avoid tropical hard woods and are you aware of the variety of alternatives ? ; there 's huge alternatives to tropical hard wood er again recycled plastic makes a very good alternative to er tubs for plants in the public er parks .
Number five , what are you and your family doing to protect the environment ?
What we 're really asking voters to do is ask searching questions of their candidates to really find out how they feel and how they personally feel about the environment and how that spin-off would become part of their council thinking .
Now there are other issues involved in this elections .
er if they don't give you what you consider to be the right answer to those questions , are you saying that you should totally disregard the other issues that are
Well no , voting is when somebody goes to the polling booth they have to weigh all the pro 's and cons of all the information that they 've been told .
We 're asking that you test the temperature of your politicians that offer themselves up to stand on the councils , and we believe that being a good environmentalist aids all of their political life and er saving the environment now will save money in the future .
I would think all political parties realise the value of greenness , er have you been canvassed yet , have you had to try out any of these questions ?
Well actually the ward that I live in , we 're not having an election but there are in the Bicester area electors , so I haven't actually been approached .
er sorry I forgot the question you were going to ask .
Sorry I asked if you 'd been approached , so you 've answered that .
No I haven't been approached , but obviously the candidates are going around asking people and I would like them to ask them .
er how the candidates feel really about environmental issues , there 's a lot of lip service paid to environmentalism er popping green petrol in your car is not the way to save the planet , it helps but it 's not the only answer .
There are a lot of ways .
Only ‘cause looking at your first question : do you use public transport or do you promote it — there are of course all sorts of arguments sort of for and against that sort of scheme that people have to use their cars .
They have to for some journeys yes , but there are a lot of alternatives and I think if the councillors were actually to rely more on public transport they maybe would feel more comfortable about putting subsidies into buses instead of subsidies into car parks .
In the centre of Bicester we have a car park that is subsidised .
er perhaps if they took that off and subsidised the buses then er it would be a little happier for people travelling to Bicester .
Confuseurs say many hands make light work , I say Feros Lighting , Banbury make light work ; make little joke .
Absolutely .
At Feros Lighting , Parsons Street , Banbury , you 'll not only see the largest selection of domestic lighting in the area , they can also advise you on the best way to light your office , so if it 's one lightbulb , your whole home or a complete office , for the complete look go to Feros Lighting in Parsons Street , Banbury .
It 's Spar 8 till late week .
Until the 7th May there 's lots more happening at your 8 till late .
Lots of big savings , lots of fun .
Buy the Daily Mirror every day except Sunday and get money off coupons on popular products .
Take them along that night between 8.00 and 10.00 to your local Spar 8 till late and enjoy the savings .
They 'll be fun too for all the family .
The kids will love the free balloons , hats and badges .
You 'll enjoy the advantages of Britain 's most local and convenient stores with opening hours that suit you and a huge range of all the products you 'll need .
We 'll be open late , so don't miss out on the savings .
The traffic is very slowly starting to ease up now .
Oxford City Centre getting a little bit easier and Abingdon , Aylesbury ; no problems to report there .
M40 , East and West bound ; no problems reported , no serious delays .
The M4 ; the same .
A34 ; do watch out for that problems at Yarnton where they 're re-surfacing but no reported problems though it might just cause you a little bit of delay .
There are road works at Cheavely interchange junction 13 of the M4 and that is gonna cause just a little bit of delay , it was a bit chock-a-block earlier er that was during the rush-hour but it should be easing up .
It 's affecting traffic in both directions .
In Reading , Wokingham Road is still closed and is likely to remain so until 8 o'clock this evening , and Ascott race meeting ; still lots of traffic around that area .
If you know that you can avoid that then you 're advised to do so .
The A43 ; still running well to Northampton .
Banbury in the Relief Road ; no problems reported there but do take care as you approach the road works at the junction of the A41 and the A422 .
This is Joanne Zorin , A A Roadwatch .
British Rail tell us that the train that should arrive at Oxford at 5.35 from Scotland is going to be two hours late this evening but I 've no problems to report to you from any of the bus companies locally .
It 's 6.33 .
Customs Officers have revealed that company officials from Sheffield forgemasters are among those arrested today over the Iraqi supergun affair .
Senior staff from a midlands steel firm are also being questioned over an alleged attempt to illegally export the huge weapon .
President Bush is to visit Lithuania to get a first-hand report on the situation in the rebel Baltic republic .
The Whitehouse says the meeting on Thursday with the country 's Prime Minister doesn't signal a change in U S foreign policy .
President Gorbachev 's been facing his worst Mayday parade and the first one not to be completely controlled by the communist party .
He was jeered and booed out of Red Square by angry demonstrators demanding freedom for Lithuania and an end to communist domination elsewhere .
A high court judge has halted the trial of two veteran peace campaigners accused of springing Soviet spy , George Blake from prison in 1966 .
In an unprecedented legal move , Mr Justice Hodgson ordered a a judicial view of the case to decide if Michael Randall and Pat Potell should stand trial .
The weather ; it 'll be a warm and sunny evening .
The night 'll be dry with clear skies , however it 's gonna tend to become rather misty during the early hours possibly with the odd patch of fog around dawn , especially in the Banbury area .
Lowest temperature ; 9 degrees celsius with light winds .
A local animal rescue worker is calling for people in the Fox F M area to lobby his M P 's or her M P 's in an effort to bring about a dog registration scheme .
Last night , a move to introduce such a scheme was defeated by just a dozen votes .
Organizations like the R S P C A say they 're disappointed but promise to continue their battle for a scheme to be introduced .
They claim thousands of dogs are currently having to be put down after being found wandering on the streets around the country .
Albert Honey , who works for Thames Valley Police , agrees and thinks the regions M P 's should be made more aware of the problem .
I know that the R S P C A will be campaigning vigorously to get this through Parliament .
The only thing that I would ask everybody in Oxfordshire is to write to our M P 's here because er yes it 's true that I don't know what the returns are from last night 's voting , but I do know that er the only local MP that I can see on the voting on the last occasion was John Patten , here in Abingdon , and he voted no .
Er .
An R S P C A Inspector , Chris Simpson and myself had an audience with the then Home Secretary , Douglas Herd , last August .
er we both met him to try and make a plea to him to try and change his views and it 's fair to say that he doesn't know or didn't know what was going on in his own backyard and John Patten I feel is the same as is the rest of the M P 's in the Oxfordshire area .
They do not realise what is going on in their own backyard .
Once and if they learnt of what was going on in their own backgardens , they may change their views .
So I would urge everybody in Oxfordshire that our responsible dog owners ( because that 's the only people that are going to help this campaign ) is to write to their M P 's so that we can stamp out and take away the mess that their in with stray dogs because we are in a mess .
You 're listening to the FOX Report .
St. Tiggywinkles in Aylesbury , the hospital for sick animals , has been awarded at the title of Lauriot in the International 1990 Rolex Awards for Enterprise .
It 's actually been given to Les Stocker who runs St Tiggywinkles .
I 've always loved the name Les , where did it come from ?
It was just out of the blue really .
After Beatrix Potter 's Mrs Tiggwinkle and er the St Bartholomew 's and St Thomas 's hospitals for humans , why not St Tiggwinkles for old hedgehogs .
Well congratulations on your award .
Thank you .
What did you win it for ?
It 's the title on the , it 's for establishing Europe 's first wildlife teaching hospital which is what we 're building at Haddenham pretty shortly .
So you 're even more like St Thomas 's in that case .
Yes , yes , yes .
It 'll be much nicer though .
It 'll be a hottish hospital .
So who will you be teaching ?
Well it 's to teach everybody really about caring for wildlife .
Nobody really knows anything about it .
er what we 've learnt over the last 12/13 years is that there is no records of wildlife care .
We 've learnt a lot er and people can come along to the hospital for courses for various standards of course to learn the techniques we 've learnt and we can learn off them .
You know , it 'll be er people er R S P C A Inspectors , VETS , whoever you know , anyboday that wants to come really .
What sort of techniques are we talking about ?
Well just the sheer handling of for instance hedgehogs .
I mean I get phone calls everyday all day long from VETS who are saying I 've got this prickly ball , what the hell do I do with it , you see , and I can explain to them how to try and unroll a hedgehog and then what to do when you get inside the hedgehog .
You know this sort of thing and all British wildlife has got its own little characters , every species is different er and you know thousands of animals we 've taken in over the years we 've just learnt different things about different animals that suit different animals .
What sort of animals ?
I mean hedgehogs obviously , but what other animals have you given help .
Well for instance deer are a classic .
We are getting a load of deer at the moment .
We 've discovered that if you don't give — when a deer comes in ; a road casualty or anything , we don't give them a massive shot of steroids , it 'll die , so we can advise people giving them massive shot of steroids and er the deer live then you can start worrying about his injuries erm baby birds ; there 's classic ways of rearing baby birds which are very , very important at the moment 'cause there 's thousands of them around .
er we learnt from America that er a lot of birds that have been caught by cats , die , and everybody 's always assumed it 's shock but the Americans were doing some tests and they found it 's septicaemia from the cat 's teeth .
So we can now advise people that if they take a bird in that 's been injured by a cat , they give it a shot of antibiotics — great , cures the septicaemia .
All little things like that , you know little tips .
Still to come a look at the day 's financial news and er sports news .
Starting with the sport , Oxford United Manager , Brian Horton is confident his side can end the season on a high note .
Away to beaten Littlewoods cup finalists Oldham athletic tonight .
Micky Yornutta is not so sure , so he asked Brian what exactly he expects from his side and Brian , as ever , decided not to sit on the fence , but the main concern being for his side to pass the ball as opposed to kicking it , but first Brian says that long ball to John Durnin is all wrong .
But there 's times when we can go say from our middle third dink over the top for John Durnin .
That 's where he grabbed the ball .
He ran off side 7 times in the night .
7 times .
He should run off side once and if he gets caught , he should be able to run across the line and get to .
I'm not being critical of him , I'm just saying now that he 's got to pick his time to go over the top .
There 's times when he can go over the top .
The ball from Gascgoine to Ball the other night when he scored his great goal was a little dink just over the top , outside of his fort and it was a little one over the top of there wasn't it ?
One touch in the net .
That 's a clever ball over the top .
Not a great big 60-odd ball that is gonna be straight on the centre of the Z .
That ai n't over the top that 's — that 's a crap ball .
Get back to playing it , get back to playing it smartly , look for mid-field players first before you 're gonna clonk that ball , that 's your last option .
If mid-field players are on it , give it to him .
If the wing is on , give it to him .
If Mark Stitton 's onto his feet , give it to him .
Your last option , if everything is closed off , is knock it on the top and try and lead into chase .
Your last one .
I just want us to go there and maybe we can come back from there with a win and make people think well they ai n't so bad are they .
I don't want them to pity them , we can get hold of them and win .
I 've been there before and played well , and Dunwell , Withall ; there 's no reason why not and then bring Port Vale back here and give them a good — they 're a good side Port Vale , they 've done exceptionally well .
Miles better probably than the Manager ever anticipated ; he 's delighted they 're up there , I tell ya and you know , it 's my old club and I'm pleased for them in that way , but I wanna see us finish off well , but pass the ball .
Once you start kicking it you 've no chance , you 've got to pass the ball .
You 're listening to the FOX Report .
Also playing are Witney Talent to bulldock in the second division of the Beezer Homes League while Abingdon town makes the short track to Maidenhead United in the Vauxhal League division to Falf .
Cricket ; excuse me , and in the Benson and Hedges Cup , the Combined Universities team are 170 for 7 after 51 overs in this first match of their round group .
They 're chasing Lancashire 's 210 with 4 overs to go .
Financial report ; In association with Barclay 's Bank , Oxfordshire 's business bank .
The Stock Markets shrugged off yesterday 's worries and staged the best rise for more than 5 weeks .
Trading volume was fairly healthy and by 4.30pm 367.7 million shares had been traded .
At the close of business the Footsie 100 index was up 14.5 points at 2117.9 while Wall Street opened stronger up 7.89 points at 2664.64 .
On the foreign exchange market the pound was stronger in quiet trading against the dollar , it firmed 0.4 of a cent to $ 1.640 whilst against the Deutschmark it rose to DM2.7568 .
Ellis and Everard , the chemicals distribution group fell 16 pence to 180 pence after announcing a 29 million pound rights issue and the acquisition of 2 companies in the U S Elsewhere , S T C firmed 9 pence to 243 pence after a favourable Annual General Meeting statement .
advanced 4 pence to 939 pence on hope that it will shortly sell the Crest Hotel 's chain and a favourable Broker 's recommendation .
Other shares on the move today included Rolls Royce which benefited from continued overseas demand and British Steel which rose on news of a major contract with Iran .
Amongst the major shares , Abbey National were up 5 to 184 ; British Aerospace down 6 at 518 ; British Airways down 2 at 195 ; B P up 1 to 305 ; British Gas went up 4 to 191 ; British steel were up 2 at 138 ; British Telecom , they were up 5 to 250 ; Rolls Royce , up 2 to 200 and T S B they were up 1 at 126 .
Now the European Community is hoping to phase out the green pound by 1992 , along with the M C A 's .
Angus Charmers is from the accountants : Grant Folton .
Angus first , we saw often here about the green pound but what actually is it ?
Well , I'm going to keep it simple .
I certainly don't want to lose anybody , especially me .
er if I go back one stage to the E E C and talk about the common agricultural policy .
er this is really aimed at controlling agricultural prices and trying to have a stable market within agriculture .
er as suggested in the title it 's common to all countries and it therefore has a common denominator which is the European currency unit .
er all agricultural prices are set with the B C U and er what we 're er hold on do we just try and organize myself .
I knew I 'd lose myself somewhere .
er yes , so we 've got the European er currency units and all agricultural prices are set by this unit and in fact the green pound er is used to translate this er E C U into pound sterling .
er this rate is fixed and can only be changed by agreement with Brussels er and as we 've seen in the last few years , our normal currency exchange rate has fluctuated quite a lot er and in fact has er become fairly weak , but the green pound has stayed the same so there 's quite a difference between our exchange rate and the green rate .
So it 's not very popular with the farmers basically .
No , it 's not , no .
It 's er what this means it means is that the guaranteed price in this country is a lot lower than it is in other European countries .
What about these mysterious M C A 's I mentioned .
Well M C A 's are really connected with the green pound .
They er they try and compensate the difference between the intervention price in one country with the intervention price in another country .
er so for example , in this country our guaranteed price is quite low and in Germany it 's quite high er so what it does was whoever exports or imports between the two it tries to level the prices up .
Does it work ?
er it 's very complicated and it 's very cumbersome .
er the E C has really bought upon itself with the common agricultural policy a big animal that is very slow to move and it 's not really any advantages of each individual .
So what difference will the fact that it 's likely to be phased out , make to farmers in Britain .
Well the farmers for the last couple of years have been arguing that they want this green rate devalued er to try and bring it line more with the market rate er and what this would do would er increase our guaranteed prices in this country and in fact on Friday this happened er the green rate was devalued by 60 % . er and so I 've done a few calculations er and for the farmers that are listening and er may understand this er if he was selling his grain in November 89 he would be getting about £99 a ton , whilst if he sells it in November this year he 'll be getting £110 a ton .
So really it 's given a 9 % increase to farmers which I think is long overdue really .
Er .
I think we can take it one step further on er with a growth margin basis .
If the price goes up 9 % and his costs stay about the same maybe up 5 % or so , er his actual bottom line is his income at the end of the year will in fact increase by about 60 % .
So it 's good news .
It is , it is good news .
Angus , thank you very much indeed .
Do you fancy a big bottle of bubbly for just answering the phone ?
Put your name , address and the number you 're gonna be at between 10.00 and 2.00 on Sunday on a postcard and send it to me , Adrian Love , Fox F M , Brush House , Pony Road , Oxford O X four two X R and then keep running with the Fox .
Do it today , 'cause we 're talking magnums .
Traffic 's slowly beginning to ease up on all major routes coming out of Oxford , Abingdon and Aylesbury and no major problems to report in the centres either .
M40 running well East and Westbound the M4 , the same but do remember that there 's an Ascott race meeting tonight and traffic is very , very busy around that whole are .
It should be er finished by about 8.30 this evening , so you should be alright after then , but until 8.00 tonight , Wokingham Road at Reading will be closed er that 's because of a bust gas main so allow some extra time for your journey .
If your following that particular route , find an alternative route .
8.30 , 4 roadworks at Cheavley interchange ; not causing any problems at the moment but they have cause delays earlier , so approach that area with caution .
A34 not causing any problems at the moment although traffic is steadily moving round those road works .
The M25 , that 's very busy now between junctions 16 and 15 , that 's the M40/M4 sheer weight of traffic and an earlier accident causing a lot of congestion around that area , so allow extra time for your journey if you 're heading that way .
Do remember you can't get on at junction 18 .
This is Joanne Zorin , A A Road Watch .
Nothing to report to you now on the buses or the trains .
Many British managers are workaholics .
A nationwide study has revealed that the managers surveyed are of those Managers nearly 80 % don't take the holiday their entitled to .
These revelations come from talking to Personnel managers who admitted they often have to force over-stressed employees to have time off .
The survey was carried out for Personnel Today magazine and its editor , Adele Kimber , says holidays are a good thing .
Talking to our readers , Personnel Managers , we find that they 're having to force most of Britain 's bosses to take time off over less than a quarter of British managers regularly take all their holiday entitlement .
Now when you say bosses , do you mean Boards of Directors , Chairman , Chief executive and so forth , or are you actually talking about the Managers below them ?
We 're talking mainly about the Managers below them .
And why aren't they taking their holidays ?
er mainly because of workplace pressures .
They 're finding er as business becomes more competitive , targets are harder to meet and they 're finding they 're becoming more reluctant to stay out — to get away from the office , to take time off .
Why this reluctance ?
Do you think that perhaps in many cases they 're frightened of losing their jobs ?
er partly and there 's also some evidence that they don't trust others to carry without them .
You mean they 're not capable of delegating ?
Yes , I mean there is some evidence to suggest that senior staff we found are very rarely completely away from the office .
Over 80 % are contactable by phone even if their on holiday in Britain .
I thought a good Manager was supposed to be able to delegate .
Exactly , I mean that 's what they should do , but this evidence suggests that they 're not doing that .
Now is it just the Managers , what about the rank and file of the workforce ?
Most rank and file workforce are taking their holidays .
We found over 80 % regularly take all their holidays .
You 're listening to the FOX Report .
Today scenes of celebrations in the centre of Oxford to mark May Day .
Tradition dictates that pubs open in 5.00 in the morning .
Morris men take to the streets around Carfax , and Magdelen College choir sing their hearts out .
This year , FOX F M was there for the first time and Phil Angel managed to catch Dr John Howard to explain what it all meant .
It 's got a long history , lots of it confused as you 'd expect in Oxford of course .
er it goes back at least 300 years er possibly longer than that , it may be that when they finish the tar they had services up there to celebrate it or to remember one of the benefactors .
But certainly by the end of the 17th century there was a huge concert up there at this time of the morning going on for an hour .
Then in the 18th century , either the choir was awful or the weather was awful , er nobody 's too sure which , but they then settled for just seeing the one thing they knew by memory which was this Eucharistic hymn : Todaym Parchym that they sang in the hall every night as a grace , and that 's how it 's gone on .
er it got terribly out of hand in the 19th century ; people throwing eggs from the top of the tower , the choristers and the people from the town blowing trumpets and all sorts of things , really riotous. er so it was reformed in 1844 er no more rotten eggs then and we do it very much as then ; facing the rising sun which was beautiful
There you go .
Finally Rainbow is in town at the Apollo Theatre .
Jeffery , Zippy , Bungle and George will be doing their stage show every afternoon this week .
Abbey Donalds spoke to Jeffery and Bungle who were looking forward to their stay in Oxford .
I always look forward to doing the show 'cause we meet all our friends that watch us on television , don't we Jeffrey ?
You 're right we do .
And you like to be out and about do you ?
Oh it 's lovely isn't it ?
Meeting everybody .
How do you like Oxford ?
I 've not been here before , but it 's really , really pretty and there 's some very old houses aren't there Jeffery ?
Very old Bungle .
In fact I'm gonna take you around the city later on .
Ooh .
On one of those buses ?
I saw some buses Jeffery , with no roof on .
They 're sightseeing buses .
A whatseeing ?
Sight seeing .
Ooh can we go on one of those then please ?
Of course we can , yes .
Ooh .
So you 're gonna have a nice time here then ?
I think so , yes .
If Jeffery 's good to you .
Oh well he 's always good to us .
He 's very , very kind .
Except when he gets cross with us sometimes .
But that 's usually when we 've been naughty isn't it ?
Are they naughty very often ?
er most of the time , yes .
They 're difficult to control are they ?
Very difficult .
That 's why I thought we 'd have a quite afternoon after the show .
Go along by the river and the pond , it 'll be nice there .
Oh it 's a boat is it ?
A boat , yes .
Oh , ohh that 'll be fun I can splash Zippy .
No .
No playing about on the — it 's dangerous on the river .
You 've got to be very careful , sit still .
Oh alright Jeffery .
So we 'll get an ice lolly .
And they you 'll punt us .
I 'll punt you .
Oh doesn't he treat you well .
He 's wonderful .
I wouldn't want to live with anybody else .
So you like living with them , do you ?
Yes .
Are they alright to handle ?
er well it 's a strange sort of a family really ; a hippopotamus , and a bear and a Zip .
But somehow we get by , don't we ?
I suppose you could say going from the Magdalen choir to Jeffery and Zippy , we 're going from the sublime to the ridiculous .
And that was the FOX Report for Tuesday May 1 , May Day 1990 .
Join me tomorrow , I 'll be back with another FOX Report at 6.00 .
Tonight Oxfordshire tycoon Richard Branson warns hundreds of Gulf refugees will die without more aid , and local charity Oxfam launch their appeal and say the situation could get worse .
The fear is that people will start to flood out of Iraq at the same time , in which case we could be talking about up to 2 million people leaving Iraq through Jordan .
Scientists at Chilton release a report on X-ray radiation and a couple describe how the Beatles have destroyed true love .
To be honest it 's been seven months of hell .
As much as I love her I didn't realise what I was taking on , she 's absolutely obsessed with Paul McCartney..
The six o'clock news , this is Howard Hughes .
The British women and children seized in Kuwait yesterday while trying to join a convoy to Baghdad are now being transported in a fleet of buses to the Iraqi capital ; from there I R N 's James Baize reports .
It 's now thought a hundred and eighty people were detained by the Iraqis as they made their way to the pick up point for the last British convoy from Kuwait .
They 're now being taken in Iraqi buses to Baghdad and are expected here in the early hours of the morning , the authorities say they 'll then be free to leave the country .
Meanwhile tomorrow another British convoy again of about a hundred and eighty women and children is expected to make the long hot journey from Kuwait to Baghdad .
And an Iraqi airways jumbo chartered by the British Embassy is expected to fly the three hundred and six people who are already here in the Iraqi capital , to Jordan .
James Baize I R N Baghdad .
Virgin Airways chairman Richard Branson says hundreds could die waiting to get home from Iraq because the international relief effort is not working .
He was speaking after one of his planes with just over a hundred Britons on board left Jordan with more half the seats empty because of diplomatic red tape .
Saddam Hussein is calling for an Islamic Holy War against American forces in the Gulf and their Arab supporters .
He wants the Arab people to rise up in revolt against rulers like King Faed of Saudi Arabia and Hosni Mubarak of Egypt .
In a message broadcast on Iraqi T V , Hussein speaking through an interpreter has urged all Arabs to support him .
We call upon all Arabs each according to his potentials and capabilities within the teachings of Allah and according to the Moslem Holy War of Jihad to fight this , this U S presence of non-believers .
Soviet miners are going to Scotland Yard tomorrow to give the fraud squad details of Arthur Scargill 's alleged mishandling of a £1 million gift .
Mr Scargill says the Soviet pitmen 's present was intended for international purposes , but the Soviet democratic labour movement says it meant to ease the hardship of striking British miners .
Sergei Koslov who 's leading a four-man Soviet delegation to Britain is accusing Mr Scargill of betrayal .
I think Arthur Scargill 's handling of the affair has been despicable and I feel that he should be brought to justice for acts which we consider to be verging on the illegal .
The money should be transferred to the N U M and if it is not longer needed by those families , we would suggest that they give it back to help the formation of the independent labour movement in Russia .
A man 's been remanded in custody for a week charged with the murder of two women found strangled in a car in London .
Thirty four-year old Michael Shorey entered no plea to charges that he murdered Patricia Morrison and Elaine Forsyth in Holloway in July .
A teenager has walked out of hospital a day after plunging 200 feet from the Severn bridge in an accident that killed two of his workmates .
The three men were working on the bridge when a cradle supporting them collapsed ; nineteen year old Mark Seaton from Chepstow in Gwent says he knows he 's lucky but what he feels most is anger .
Extremely , you know I mean if , if it had been checked over regular maybe or something like that , I don't know how often it gets checked over or anything but you know er that gantry 's supposed to be you know , kind of really safe , so many sensors on it which are supposed to stop that from happening .
I'm lucky , very lucky indeed you know just to come away with bruised ribs .
Last winter 's storm damage pay outs have battered profits for the big insurance companies , and that threatens to push up house cover premiums .
Half-year profits for Sun Alliance show the firm £119 million in the red compared with £191 million in profit at the same time last year .
And Eagle Star has been badly hit for the same reason ; their profits are down 170,000,000 to just 9,000,000 .
Gay men and women are staging a so-called kiss in this evening beneath the statue of Eros the God of Love at Picadilly Circus ; they see it as a challenge to public decency laws .
The organisers say current legislation is offensive to homosexuals and to lesbians .
Independent Radio News..
Its Wednesday September 5th 1990 .
First a look at today 's main story in more detail .
More than fifty British hostages were on a freedom flight from the Gulf to Gatwick airport today for an emotional reunion with relatives .
The women and children were among ninety two Westerners on board a Virgin Atlantic plane from Jordan sent by Oxfordshire tycoon Richard Branson .
Peter Stewart was at Gatwick to see the homecoming .
Yesterday Virgin 's Gatwick-based 747 , the Scarlet Lady the flagship of their fleet , left Britain with 30 tons of medical and food supplies for refugees on the Jordanian-Iraqi border .
The plan left Amman , Jordan 's capital , just after midnight and landed at Gatwick shortly before eight this morning ; on board 57 Britons , 29 Americans , 4 Australians and 2 Canadians .
Seventeen year old Ritu Vasudeva spoke of how her family sheltered in their house for a month for fear of being taken to one of Saddam 's guest hotels , then they had to forge exit papers to enable them to escape .
Well we travelled through the night mostly , we got to erm no we got to no-man 's land that 's when it got bad .
It was really hot and dusty .
Did you have to hide in your flat in Kuwait ?
Yes and that was four weeks
How did you survive ?
We had friends who were able to — like a Lebanese friend I 've got , he was er arranging — he used to bring us the food and water and things like that .
The man who flew the hostages out , Virgin Chairman Richard Branson spoke of the human misery at the airport .
Just ten minutes from the airport you 've got erm thousands and thousands of Bangladeshis wanting to get home er and it 's embarrassing I find , being erm and the press find , being er at the airport er seeing all the attention on a few you know , western faces .
And Virgin 's boss says there 's a great deal that has to be done to stop more deaths in the crisis zone .
You 've got a hundred — a hundred degrees in the day time and you 've got freezing conditions at night and literally just , people are lying , lying on the floor shaking at night time , erm they 're beginning to lose children , they haven't had an er epidemic of disease yet , you know they 're definitely going to get one , er and then the other big problem is er to coordinate a massive air lift , and it 's going to have to be an air lift , you know as , as big as say the Berlin air lift .
And he says the mood on board the freedom flight , the Scarlet Lady was a mixture of relief and regret .
And some people , you know they , they managed to , you know they didn't have their husbands there and they were going home and they were wonderfully relieved and for others obviously it was , you know there is still a lot of emotion .
On their return , children played with toys and games in private rooms at Gatwick airport , while their parents underwent debriefing by Foreign Office officials .
You are listening to the Fox Report .
As British women and children continue to fly out of the Gulf , the Oxford based charity Oxfam is trying to increase awareness of other foreign nationals they 've left behind .
Oxfam says the problem is that while wealthier nations can afford to bring their citizens back in large numbers , there are poorer ones who can't .
It 's particularly concerned about conditions in Jordanian refugee camps which two of it 's Middle East staff , sent on a fact finding mission , have described as grim .
Ramsay Jameel who saw the camps at first hand , has been telling Robin Powell that refugees are putting up with appalling circumstances .
They are living under loose tented accommodation , some of them don't have tented accommodation erm the , the country is hot , erm there is a shortage of water , not just at the camps but also to er Jordanian towns themselves at the moment .
In the border zone camps the situation is very much more grim ; er there is an acute shortage of water although the Jordanians are trucking water in 24 hours a day , it isn't at the moment , enough to keep those camps going .
erm it 's very very hot , it can reach 40x or 42x centigrade , sand blown , inadequate shelter and at the moment , something like 10,000 more people coming across the border each day than are leaving the country .
Who are these people generally — where are they from ?
The vast majority of them are non-Kuwaiti nationals leaving Kuwait , erm Bengalis , Thais , Sri Lankans , Phillipinos , erm never mind Arab nationals who have been leaving to Egypt , Sudan , Lebanon , Syria and Jordan themselves .
erm the fear is that people will start to flood out of Iraq at the same time , in which case we could be talking about up to 2,000,000 people leaving Iraq through Jordan .
How long can they reasonably be expected to last in conditions like that ?
The Jordanians are doing a magnificent job , keeping , keeping the show going erm people in those camps in many cases have been there for 4,5 or 7 days .
We 're hoping to help the authorities upgrade water supply and storage and shelter to those camps , er it 's hard to say , but the situation is grim .
There is a shortage at the moment of food and medicines , er a lot could be done by governments I think to help the Jordanians in that , at the same time perhaps wealthier governments could help poorer governments bring their people home .
Meanwhile Oxfam has launched it 's own appeal .
This is correct .
We 've launched an appeal , at the same time we are sending out large stocks of water supply and water storage equipment , shelters and blankets .
What would be your message to people thinking of helping ?
Lobby the governments to help poorer governments bring their people home..
It 's a little bit slow on the A43 this evening at Weston on the Green , it 's because of the roadworks which are going on tonight ; other than that , no serious delays to report , just between the city flow of traffic around the ring road , certainly around the Oxford City centre as well as out on to the A43 , the 423 , the 34 as usual .
Roadworks may affect your journey if you 're travelling through on to the 423 at Bunkers Hill , there 's lane restrictions there plus some temporary traffic lights in operation this evening .
Also if you 're moving through to Wardington on the 361 , resurfacing again has left some temporary traffic lights , that 's just to the north of Banbury there , between in fact Banbury and the Daventry road .
Er .
If you 're moving also through Banbury , of course we have our usual restrictions ; the high street is affected and also if you 're moving through finally on to the A422 , I would mention , in Warwickshire , the Stratford to Alcester road , that has some temporary traffic lights at Taylor 's wood .
A bit sluggish on the motorways ; the M40 , the M4 especially at the Thames Valley interchange with the M25 , there are some delays there , it 's making heavy traffic eastbound on the M4 , also we 've just heard an accident on the clockwise carriageway of the M25 at the M4 interchange and there are delays both ways , clockwise and anti-clockwise .
Nigel Ansell , A A roadwatch .
And I 've nothing to report on either the trains or the buses .
Still to come ; a chemical weapons expert warns London could be an Iraqi target .
First with a look at the day 's local news here 's Robin Powell .
A former Chief of Staff of the United Nations , now living in Oxfordshire is calling for a peaceful resolution to the Gulf crisis .
Brigadier Michael Harbottle from Chipping Norton wrote a letter to the Guardian newspaper which was published this morning , asking for an Arab alternative to war in the Gulf .
He 'll be explaining his views at a meeting on the crisis at Oxford Town Hall this evening .
I think that there is every reason to suppose and hope that that kind of approach is what most people want and er even er Mr Bush and Mrs Thatcher and others have said that er the last thing they want is a war .
There is always a danger of war when you have a face to face confrontation that is building up in the Gulf at the moment .
A west Oxfordshire firm charged with causing a pollution scare , has pleaded not guilty .
The National Rivers Authority is prosecuting Harcross Building and Timber supplies over an incident in March in which a quantity of timber preservative was detected in a tributary of Stutfield brook at Childury .
The case has been adjourned until November 7th .
A man 's been taken to Oxford 's John Radcliffe hospital following an industrial accident at Bicester in which his arm was badly injured in machinery .
The man underwent initial hospital treatment this afternoon , ambulance service spokesman Brian Chambers explains the situation .
The job is now finished , but er when we got the call in the control room , we immediately dispatched two paramedics to the scene .
How long is the man likely to be kept in hospital ?
That is a question I am afraid that is impossible to answer at this stage , that won't be known until he 's had a thorough investigation by the surgeons at the hospital who er probably won't be able to answer that for a day or two yet .
Final preparations are underway for an Oxfordshire convoy heading for Roumania at the weekend .
Churches in the north of the County have joined forces to provide relief supplies for people left in need after the revolution there .
The organiser of the convoy is the Reverend John Evans who 's a priest in charge of 3 churches in the Bicester area , he says the project had humble beginnings .
We started off just looking for a few cuddly toys and a few pounds to send them across to the folk in Roumania because we were all very touched by the need of the children there .
And the thing just snowballed and we 've managed to accumulate something like £6,000 and about 40 tons of gifts in the form of children 's clothing , children 's toys er medicaments of one sort or another , various creams recommended to us by pediatricians , er shampoos and other things like antibiotics and so on which we 're taking over on behalf of er a medical team from Banbury .
And finally Oxford Cheetah speedway stars have made a taped message which it 's hoped will bring a little boy out of a coma .
Ten year old Dean Goldsmith fell off his bike last week and is now in the intensive care unit of the Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford .
His parents hope the tape which was taken to the hospital this morning by the Cheetah 's co-promoter Peter York will help Dean regain consciousness .
Fox F M news , Robin Powell reporting .
It 's a quarter past six .
One of the country 's foremost experts on chemical warfare is warning that London could be attacked by Iraqi terrorists using the deadly weapons .
Evelyn Lachennes widow of a British war-time spy , Pierre Lachennes has devoted the last ten years to studying the effects of chemical weapons on civilian populations wherever they 've been used .
Defence correspondent Paul Maurice asked her just how much of the threat to Britain had increased since the start of the Gulf crisis .
I would say it 's gone up 100 per cent , where before there was a logical argument to say that it 's negligible , that argument no longer exists ; it is not negligible , it is there , it is upon us now , and it is likely to er lead to considerable er hazard for our civilian population and civilian populations of all NATO countries if we do not address it .
It is therefore time now that the policy about this be reassessed and that the government acknowledges that this threat now exists and must be addressed .
Do you think it 's possible the Iraqis here living in this country could have some of these nerve gases that they could explode if the situation in Iraq gets very bad ?
My immediate reaction , my automatic feeling to that is yes .
Er .
These agents are unfortunately fairly easy to come by and the Iraqis have already proven themselves to be masters of er subversive acquisition , er given that they are also now fired with a certain amount of fundamentalism , and should they find their backs to the wall , that even be accelerated .
Er .
I , I fear that the use from any stockpiling that might have taken place er in this country is a very real hazard .
So how much would it take to cause tremendous damage in this country — would they need gallons of it or not ?
No not at all , er for the nerve gas tabun for example , if you had a litre of that , and you 've only got to look at erm a container of milk to see how little that is , er on a very busy day in London , that could possibly wipe out about a quarter of a million people .
So you are talking of something very substantial there .
Have other European governments taken precautions ?
er France has erm not a bad policy towards this , it 's er though half-heartedly , er nonetheless over a period of er perhaps since the war it 's had what I call a tick over policy of making quite sure that every year they do produce a bit , do produce a bit .
So from that point of view they are in a better position er than we are , er but of the European erm powers , or countries , er the two er neutral countries of Sweden and Switzerland , er they are what I call classic examples .
Er .
For the last twenty years it has been the government policy in both countries to er protect their civilian populations against these weapons and the potential use of them by er terrorists or a hostile force .
And er they have got it now to a state of what I would imagine almost perfection , and that is that every man , woman and child of the population of those two countries er has got adequate protection and even a woman er who wishes to go out and do shopping in the contaminated er environment has the possibility of , of suiting up and putting a special er cover on the pram of her child and actually pushing this child with a special ventilator out .
Er .
So that 's er quite erm a success story for those two countries .
You are listening to the Fox Report .
A former United Nations Chief of Staff will be addressing a forum of peace campaigners in Oxford this evening , calling for a peaceful resolution to the Gulf crisis .
Brigadier Michael Harbottle along with other local experts will put forward alternatives to a war in the Middle East at the meeting organised by the local peace group — Campaign against war in the Gulf .
One of the organisers of the meeting , Nuala Young says it 's important that people realise the seriousness of the situation .
We were concerned that er what 's happening now in the Gulf isn't a simple issue , and it needs to be dealt with very carefully .
Er .
The core issue really is the control of natural resources and as the resources become scarcer , then there 's a greater possibility for conflict .
We use oil in so many different ways in our lives that our lives are going to be affected by any crisis in the area where the oil is produced .
We are concerned in fact that er the western nations didn't rather deplore earlier er Hussein 's actions against his own people using chemical weapons , and we think it 's a shame for us that we 've only come in at this point , and we must come in carefully I think .
What are your main concerns what , that would be discussed tonight then ?
Well , we 're anxious that there isn't an escalation of this crisis , that it may be dealed with as Brigadier Harbottle has written in a letter to the Guardian today , dealt with , er more through first of all an attempt by the Arab nations to come to some agreement amongst themselves and agreement which will satisfy them and be a more long-lasting one .
Er .
Then secondly this should be supported by the United Nations who , if this fails , may have to intervene then .
So you 'll be discussing all this tonight , and is it open to the public ?
It 's open to the public yes , and we 'd like to have as wider range of views , we 're all open-minded at the moment because we need to be informed , and this is what the meeting is for .
And the meeting is open to the public and starts at half past seven at Oxford 's Town Hall .
It 's twenty one minutes past six .
Patients across the country are receiving widely varying doses of radiation during X-rays according to a report out today by the Oxfordshire-based National Radiological Protection Board .
The N R P B at Chilton has produced the report with the Royal College of Radiologists , and it 's revealed patients in one region , may receive up to twenty times the radiation dose of patients in another region .
As a consequence , the report is calling for more attention to the reasons and procedures governing X-rays .
Doctor Paul Shrimpton at the N R P B says it 's sometimes a question of updating equipment or simply revising procedures , but he 's stressing patients who are X-rayed aren't in any real danger .
We estimate that er of the er the current level of collected dose from medical radiology , about half of it could in fact be reduced by implementing the recommendations of the report .
In half the cases examinations could have been carried out using less radiation .
But we have to say that the er the individual risks to patients from the radiation used in examinations are very very low .
Has your survey shown that hospitals are performing X-rays without any real justification ?
Well certainly examinations should only be carried out where er there is a benefit likely to accrue to the patient , and er this should always be greater than the risk from the radiation itself .
Now we find in fact for the levels radiation that used , the risks to the individual patients are very very low indeed er generally less than one in a thousand chance of some adverse effect .
But you are saying that hospitals must pay more attention to the justification of , for performing an X-ray ?
Yes , the Royal College suggested that maybe twenty per cent of all examinations that are carried out er maybe don't have benefits for the patient , and in that sense are unjustified .
And if this er component were reduced then this would er give a considerable saving in a collective dose .
But if patients aren't in danger , why have you done this report at all ?
Well I think it 's a case of just er being prudent and keeping all risks and doses down to the minimum possible .
At the levels er that we find in diagnostic radiology , the individual levels of risk are very very low .
But if we can get the same information for an even lower level of risk , then that is really what people should do .
You are listening to the Fox Report it 's twenty four minutes past six .
The National Rivers Authority has been celebrating it 's first birthday today in the Fox F M region .
The twelve months have been fraught with pressures from nature , such as flooding and drought as well as artificial problems from chemical pollutions .
It regards itself as the guardian of the water environment and has successfully prosecuted thirty polluters so far , with many cases still pending .
I asked Les Jones , the region 's general manager whether despite success in prosecution , the courts were still enough of a deterrent .
Clearly if , if the fines were more that would help , but I do think now because of the consciousness of the general public and because of the involvement of the media in , in the environment , er that firms are not keen and the third parties , whoever they may be , are not keen to be fined in court for pollution , because public opinion is such that it 's very much disapproved of .
And I think the weight of public opinion is a great thing in our favour in our battle against pollution .
It could be argued that people in our region have actually lost confidence in their water , they 've suffered from cryptospyridia , blue-green algae , we 're now in a drought period , how would you reassure the public ?
Well I mean I can assure them that the , the National Rivers Authority in the Thames region is monitoring rivers on a daily basis throughout the year and that we would hope to deal with pollution incidents as they occur , and we would hope with our monitoring and the pressure we put on third parties to er actually over the years , to improve things from what they are at the moment and to make things better .
So you would agree that there have been significant hiccups this year ?
I mean there have been the usual number of pollution incidents and they seem to increase every year , er and a lot of those to deal with er as you say , I think one of the things which is , which is good is that public consciousness has been raised and people are much more aware of what they drink and what 's in their rivers .
That can only help us in our jobs .
Why do you believe the incidents have become more frequent ?
I think it 's the pressure of modern living .
The Thames region supports about 12,000,000 people , er and just the pressures of modern living are adding pressures to the environment , I mean that 's happening all around us .
The local council in Banbury have just recently passed the planning application for the Coca Cola canning plant there , is this something you would welcome given problems with pollution up in Banbury anyway , before ?
I mean what we would do is , is very rigorously look at er more of whatever was going to be discharged from any company who , who came into our region .
We would then give them a consent to discharge into the river and we would make sure that that consent if it were complied with , did not deteriorate river conditions , river quality conditions .
And finally , I you looking forward to the next year ?
Oh yes !
I mean er we , we have er a great job to do , I mean we 're all about improving the environment , we 're all about working with very pleasant things like rivers and we 're all about doing important things like protecting people from flooding .
Oh yes , very much looking forward to it .
This is the Fox Report .
More than a hundred scientists from around the world have gathered at St John 's College , Oxford , for a major conference .
The scientists hope to compile an electronic data base of human genes , so doctors around the world can have locations and descriptions of all known genes .
Doctor Ian Craig the organiser of the human gene conference told John Walmsley what it hopes to achieve .
Well this conference has been assembled to bring up to date our information concerning the position of human genes in the human chromosomes .
We have about 140 international specialists in human gene mapping coming together to use a new data base system developed at the John Hopkins university in collaboration with people in London at the I C R F Labs and that data base will provide information on all those genes we have already identified and mapped .
There are something like 50,000 individual genes providing the genetic blueprint for each individual , and our task is really to find out where each one is on human chromosomes and to isolate them and to characterise them .
So far , we 've actually managed to characterise about 1600 of that 50,000 and so we 've got a very long way to go .
Is the first time the scientists have all come together for one specialist meeting ?
No indeed , this is in fact er about the twelfth meeting in a series , the first meeting was in 1973 , where 75 scientists came together to deliberate about 50 genes which were known at that time .
Here we have 140 scientists , who are deliberating about 2,000 genes .
So this is er a milestone if you like or a watershed in the development of human gene mapping , but we have got er a very long way to go in the future .
So once you 've characterised all the genes , do you hope to stamp out deformed genes ?
I think it 's almost an impossibility to stamp out deformed genes , new defective genes are arising in the population all the time .
What we are doing is providing information for perhaps clinicians to act on , we also in the future hope to develop the information we have into something useful , and in some cases the information we have already .
So certain genes enables us to do just that , because knowing the gene enables us to manufacture the product which the gene should make normally in people , and in those people who can't make it normally , then you can supply the defective product to them .
Mainly er an accident and incident free night through the Fox F M area this evening , certainly no serious accidents er reported , nothing from our Fox patrols either tonight .
We 've had a steady flow of traffic away from Oxford City centre , indeed through Banbury and out from Aylesbury on the A41 , the A413 .
Just a case of reminding there were some problems it 's been a little bit slow because of roadworks on the high street in Banbury as usual because of that water board work that 's continuing .
Also more roadworks may well affect your journey to the north of Enstone on the A43 , that 's because of some resurfacing work , and if you 're travelling through on the 417 at East Hendred er near the Hare public house , there 's more temporary signals in operation too this evening .
Bunker 's Hill , the A423 there resurfacing and lane closures and more temporary signals , apart from that , not too bad , the motorway routes still continue to run well ; the M40 is certainly looking good .
The M4 has been a bit slow although only eastbound , and the M25 is still a bit sluggish at the Thames Valley because of an accident , mainly on the clockwise carriageway by the M4 interchange , it 's just er a little slow with a couple of miles queue either side of the M4 interchange itself .
Nigel Ansell A A roadwatch .
British Rail tell us that the 6.30 Aylesbury to Marylebone train service has been cancelled this evening , while the buses continue to operate a trouble-free service .
It 's six thirty one .
The British women and children seized in Kuwait yesterday while trying to join a convoy to Baghdad , are now being transported in a fleet of buses to the Iraqi capital ; authorities say they 'll then be free to leave the country .
Virgin Airways chairman Richard Branson says hundreds could die waiting to get home from Iraq because the international relief effort isn't working .
He was speaking after one of his planes with just over 100 Britons on board left Jordan with more than half the seats empty because of diplomatic red tape .
Saddam Hussein has gone on Baghdad T V to call for a Holy War against U S forces in the Gulf , and the overthrow of Saudi Arabia 's King Faed .
He blames America and Israel for U N sanctions which mean Iraqi children would die because they have no food , milk or medicine .
Last winter 's storm damage pay-outs have battered profits for the big insurance companies , threatening to push up house cover premiums ; half-year profits for Sun Alliance show the firm £190,000,000 in the red , compared with 191,000,000 in profit at the same time last year .
The weather : cloudy with light rain tonight , but becoming dry and clear later , lowest temperatures are expected to reach around 8x celsius , that 's 46x fahrenheit , and tomorrow should be sunny and windy but fairly cool .
Still to come ; gay activists are holding a demonstration in London tonight , but first there are calls for doctors and surgeons infected with the AIDS virus to be forced to declare their illness to patients .
A court in America has heard claims that a woman became infected with the virus after a visit to the dentist .
But Dr David Shanson , a senior consultant microbiologist at the Westminster hospital , says even if surgeons are infected , that should n't matter unless they 're incapable of operating .
If the surgeon though is unable to perform his duties properly , for example if H I V infects his brain and he 's demented or he 's coughing up tubercle bacilli because of pneumonia , of course these are extreme complications , and there 's no way a hospital would allow a surgeon to continue to operate under such circumstances .
But that er to actually get to the stage where every health care worker 's H I V status or every patients’ is made public knowledge is clearly not in anybody 's interest .
Are doctors and surgeons regularly tested for H I V ?
No , er perhaps they should be in the future in anonymous research studies , er just as at the moment er every patient is
But then how can you say it 's safe if they 're not regularly tested ?
We do need , this is a fair point , that we do need more data all the way through here , at the moment none of us is suggesting any compulsory tests for anybody .
All the time when there is an H I V antibody test it must be with informed consent from the patient or staff member .
Are the precautions that are carried out during surgery or general practice adequate — for example the wearing of three rubber gloves and gowns and so forth ?
Well the evidence for transmission in the operating theatre is very very low ; it 's strong circumstantial evidence that a patient , that certains are at high risk with certain types of surgery like wiring of jaws , or er very bloody major operations .
So we , the answer is we don't really know but it seems common sense to apply barrier precautions and to do everything you can to modify the type of surgery so that the chances of having an injury with a sharp instrument are reduced , and people have made some constructive proposals along these lines .
This is the Fox Report , it 's twenty five minutes to seven .
A delegation of Soviet miners is to meet officers from the fraud squad tomorrow over Arthur Scargill 's alleged mishandling of funds donated during the year-long pit strike .
The four-man team from the democratic Labour movement claim more than £1 million given by Russian miners , was intended for their striking British colleagues .
Speaking through an interpreter , the leader of the delegation Sergei Koslov accused the N U M leader of betrayal .
The money that er we raised in the Soviet Union was intended for the families of miners who had suffered as a result of the strike .
And what do you thing of the way Arthur Scargill has handled the affair ?
I think Arthur Scargill 's handling of the affair has been despicable and I feel that he should be brought to justice for acts which we consider to be verging on the er illegal .
This is a wide er feeling and er a feeling of great anger er because only recently we have been told the truth of how this money was used .
Mr Scargill has blamed the Soviet miners for the confusion over this whole affair , could that be correct ?
That is totally incorrect ; there is a quite clear position of the miners .
We were told that this money was being collected for the families and we gave this money through the official trade union for that purpose .
The money has not been used for that purpose .
So what should happen to the money which is now held by the I M O in Paris ?
The money should be transferred to the N U M , and if it is not longer needed by those families , we would suggest that they give it back to help the formation of the independent labour movement in Russia .
And what will you be doing to ensure that the money doesn't stay in Paris ?
er We will be er speaking to the police and will be giving evidence er that we have collected .
This the Fox Report .
Around a hundred homosexual couples will risk arrest tonight by gathering in London 's Picadilly Circus for a kiss-in .
The demonstration arranged by the Lesbian and Gay Direct Action Group , OUTRAGE , is to challenge public decency laws which it claims are being misinterpreted to criminalise public shows of affection between gay couples .
One of the organisers Peter Tatchell told Clare Martin that the weight of public opinion is behind the demonstrators and it 's time the laws were changed .
We 'd like to see the er government give a very clear signal to er the police that they want these laws not to be enforced in this prejudiced and discriminatory way .
We 'd like them to say that the laws like the 1986 public order act , which after all was introduced to combat football hooliganism , and not to control people 's sexuality , should not be used to drag lesbians and gay men before the courts simply for showing their love for each other .
Have there been instances then , when this has happened ?
Yes there 's been many cases where lesbian and gay couples have left a gay bar , have given each other a goodnight kiss at a bus stop or at a tube station or in the street and they 've been arrested under public decency laws and dragged through the courts and fined up to £200 .
Er .
There 's also been a particularly extreme case ; last year in July when a Northampton man was sentenced to 18 months imprisonment for merely kissing and fondling another man in a churchyard in the middle of the night .
Now I think that the way the law is used in this country against the gay community is really making Britain the laughing stock of Europe .
We are the only country anywhere , east or west , where lesbians and gay men are criminalised in this way .
Your plans to hold this demonstration of public affection between homosexual couples have already drawn criticism .
Is this really going to advance your cause ?
Well I think the first thing is , we have to bring out into the open the way in which the law is being misused .
You see , none of these laws actually mention homosexuality at all ; they 're all interpreted by the police and the courts to criminalise our affection .
And we really have to in the first instance , get public opinion to realise the way in which our lives are so pervasively subject to criminal prosecution , that 's the first step .
The second step is that really frankly the history of all great civil rights and human rights movements has sadly been that it 's often only through challenging the law , indeed even breaking the law , that injustices are put right .
And we 've been campaigning for years to try and get these laws changed , no-one seems to have been listening very much and that 's why we 've adopted this more upfront direct challenge to the law .
We think it 's the only way we can actually show the seriousness with which we believe we are being criminalised and persecuted , and in order to draw public attention to the need to change these laws .
Still to come the day 's sporting action , but first financial report in association with Barclay 's Bank for your financial needs .
In spite of a heavy fall in Tokyo overnight , the London market proved resilient this morning with bear closing a firm future 's market and the weight of institutional cash providing support .
The one hundred share index was 17.4 points higher at one stage , but finished the day well below it 's best level , 4.2 points higher at 2152.2 , at 4 o'clock the volume was mediocre at 321.7 million shares .
On the foreign exchange market sterling made progress against both the U S and German currencies , rising 2 cents against the dollar to £1.8945 and 0.27 pfennigs against the Deutschmark to 2 Deutschmark 9690 .
Amongst the majors , Abbey National up to up 10 , British Aerospace up 4 at 544 , British Airways down 1 pence at 169 , B P up 1 at 370 .
British Gas was up at 1 , at , up 1 at 223 , British Steel was down 1 at 125 , British Telecom was up too at 284 , Rolls Royce was down too at 187 and T S B was up 1 at 130 .
Moving on to sport now and Oxford United face Reading at the Manor tonight in the first round , second leg of the Rumbelows League Cup , the of a one-goal advantage from the first leg at Elm Park ; covering the match this evening is Mickey Inotta who saw Oxford 's bubble burst on Saturday as they went down 3-1 to Nott 's County .
And there does seem to be some speculation about who will now play in goal .
Mickey , do you have the latest team news ?
Yes I do , there 's still injury doubts over Alan Jedsa , Paul keeps his place in the side , he didn't have a particular good game against Notts County ; one horrendous effort — error there , but he has played well generally and especially the same side that started that match at Notts County , so we can expect to see both full backs pushing up and really hopefully an open game like the one against Port Vale .
And of course Oxford supporters don't need reminding that last season they led Fulham 1-0 after the first leg and they lost 5-3 at home .
Do you think history can repeat itself ?
Well there 's that awful saying in football Lucy that it 's a funny old game , it often bears the truth .
If the same thing was to happen tonight , I wouldn't mind being a fly on the wall in the Oxford dressing room .
But really I don't think so , although I did speak to the Reading manager Ian Porterfield a few minutes ago and he does seem relaxed and so do his players , so you know I am a little worried now , now we 're getting nearer kick-off I'm beginning to get a little more worried .
Thanks Mickey .
And one other match taking place this evening is the preliminary round F A Cup replay at Railway Cuttings between Banbury United and Solihull Borough , and if you 're thinking of popping along , the message from Banbury is to get there early as another bumper gate is expected .
Oxford Cheetah 's Ace , Simon Wigg is urging Oxford speedway supporters to get behind their team for tonight 's Sunbright League clash against Bradford at the Oxford Stadium .
The Cheetahs supported by Fox F M , are facing the indignity of finishing bottom of the British League after winning the championship last year .
We 're out there riding as hard as we can and if that gives any of the supporters any sort of er consolation , I don't know if it does or not , but it — we 're really giving our best all the time and er win , lose or draw you 'll always find us every time we 've got a doing our best and er although often some people might shout and scream and give us a hard time , er it 's not for , for lack of trying , I mean nobody wants to finish last and er me even more than most , so just get behind us and shout and scream and we 'll try our hardest .
Tomorrow at Christchurch sports ground Oxfordshire County Cricket Association take on Warwickshire in the final of the National Cricket Association 's County Championship .
Warwickshire are the current holders of the Championship , while Oxfordshire have won it once in 1979 and were runners up in 1984 .
Leading Oxfordshire as ever we 're with the England amateur captain Phil Garner ; Phil , tomorrow 's match — with the weather unsettled , can we expect to see the spin attack of Rupert Evans and Ian Curtis turn the tables again ?
Well I should think you 'd see that spin attack turn the tables whatever the weather was really , and we 've also got Peter Bradbury who 's taken more wickets in the Cherwell lead than anybody this year , so we 've got three first line County standard off spinners er or rather two off spinners and a left arm spinner .
And I'm sure you 'll see them in operation tomorrow , we 've got six bowlers in all so we 're fairly confident that we 'll er bowl whatever the conditions .
So it 's looking good .
Well how difficult a season has it been so far , I mean for instance , in the minor County Championship a lot of matches were drawn I think that last season you probably would have won ?
Yes , the difference of course is that in two day cricket you can't necessarily guarantee a result er and forcing wins was what we didn't quite manage to do , it was er it was a season of what might have been for the County Cricket Club er a very good season but not quite as successful as last year .
Now in this particular game it 's a limited overs game ; fifty overs a side , one side will win tomorrow er so there will be a definite result , and we think we 've got a strong side .
Er .
We finished erm a close second in the semi-final of this competition last year so we 're looking forward to playing this er last year 's winners and this year 's
Tonight , Winnie Mandela is charged with kidnapping and assault .
A British expert says it could put pressure on Nelson Mandela 's negotiations with the South African government .
To be an acute embarrassment to Nelson Mandela and to the National Executive Committee of the African National Congress .
Atlanta , Georgia is to host the 1996 Olympic Games , the city 's mayor shrugs off the disappointment of the Athens contingent who were hot favourites .
We 're going to put on the Olympic Games in ‘96 , we 're going to make everybody including Athens proud .
And a new exhibition of water colours at Oxford 's Old Fire Station , but what inspired the artist to take up painting ?
Sitting on a beach in Cornwall and being utterly bored , wanting something to do .
24 hours a day on 102.6 , this is Fox F M .
It 's 6 o'clock , this is Annie Webster .
Petrol prices are on the way up again with Shell pushing prices at the pumps to more than £2.34p .
The latest increase of 3.2p a gallon takes effect from tomorrow and other oil companies are bound to follow suit .
It means prices have surged by an average of more than 30p a gallon since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait .
Shadow Energy Secretary Frank Dobson says the treasury has made a killing out of the increases .
The government 's er oil revenues have gone up by £345 million , er that 's an average of £7.1 million a day , since the Gulf crisis started , and er they 're now running at over £13 million a day more than they were before the crisis commenced .
Atlanta Georgia will host the 1996 centennial Olympic Games .
The International Olympic Committee rejected bids from Manchester and the sentimental favourites Athens , in favour of the Southern American city .
Tim Knight reports on the surprise choice from the I O C meeting in Tokyo .
Atlanta .
An Olympic movement looking ahead rather than reflecting on it 's noble past was how one I O C Committee member described Atlanta 's win over Athens , Bobby Charlton part of Manchester 's bid wasn't so sure .
It 's not so long since it was in the United States and er I'm quite shocked really , but I'm er I mean Manchester did a terrific job really .
Manchester was unlucky to be in the strongest ever field of candidates for an Olympic Games , Jim Knight I R N Tokyo .
Manchester MP Tom Pendry says the selection process ought to be tougher next time and based on merit not money .
Mr Pendry one of Labour 's sports spokesman isn't claiming foul play by Atlanta , but he says the rules at the moment can easily be bent .
I think we should press for the International Olympic er Committee to look at their rules and see that er to ensure that you can not buy the Games , you , you win the Games on merit .
And I think that 's got to be part of the British Olympic Association 's er philosophy , to ensure that we have an even handed approach to it .
I'm not saying Atlanta did anything untoward , but I think the rules are so open that er you could if you wished .
Security forces in Ulster have recovered the body of Constable Louis Robinson near Crossmaglen .
He 'd been kidnapped and shot by the I R A at the weekend ; from Belfast , David Stokes .
The body of Constable Louis Robinson was removed from the roadside in South Armagh late this afternoon after a day-long security operation .
A statement from R U C headquarters tonight says that no words can fully convey the feeling of the force and all decent people at the manner of the murder .
Not for the first time says the statement have the killers shown any trace of humanity or respect for public opinion .
Meanwhile the I R A in a statement from Dublin have admitted they shot and seriously wounded an army careers officer in North London yesterday evening , and they 've warned of further attacks in Britain .
David Stokes , I R N , Belfast .
Nelson Mandela 's wife Winnie has been charged with four counts of kidnapping and four of assault ; the charges follow the death of the teenage black activist Stompie Moeketsi .
The government has ordered an investigation into procedures used by Social Services over the handling of allegations of the Satanic abuse of children in Rochdale .
Seventeen adults were arrested , but even though police now say there 's no case against them , many of the twenty children taken into care have not been allowed home .
And the government has lost a high court battle over the poll tax with one of the London charge capped councils ; the Court has upheld Lambeth Council 's decision to set the community charge at £521 rather than the £493 figure sought by the government .
Transport Secretary Cecil Parkinson is hitting out at the dirty habits of the British public ; he says mountains of litter dumped along motorways is forcing the government to spend £3 million a year cleaning it up .
Speaking at the motor show in Birmingham , Mr Parkinson said ‘5,000 tons of rubbish is collected every year from the motorways’ .
Independent radio news .
It 's Tuesday September 18th 1990 ; first a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
The African National Congress faces a new crisis with the charging of Winnie Mandela , wife of the A N C deputy leader on four counts of kidnapping and four of assault .
As David O'Sullivan reports from Johannesburg , the crisis comes as the A N C debates the future of negotiations with the government .
The A N C was locked in a crucial national executive meeting to discuss the issues of township violence and the possible arming of it 's members in the strife-torn zones .
It 's expected to discuss it 's future involvement , if any , in negotiations with the South African government on power sharing , if the government doesn't take emphatic steps to stop the violence .
But the meeting was only a few hours old when the news broke that Winnie Mandela would face serious charges arising out of the murder in January 1989 of 14 year old activist , Stompie Moeketsi Seipei .
Seipei 's killer Gerry Richardson was sentenced to death two months ago , during his trial , Mrs Mandela was implicated in the abduction of Seipei and three others and their subsequent assault at her Soweto home .
The A N C has reacted calmly to the charges ; it said Mrs Mandela should n't be given any special treatment , but western diplomatic sources in Johannesburg said earlier today , ‘the trial will place strain on the negotiation process’ .
It appears unlikely the A N C is to make a political issue out of the attorney general 's decision to put Mrs Mandela on trial .
When the Richardson sentence was handed down , a blaze of publicity focused on Mrs Mandela , appeared in the media .
Nelson Mandela was quick to condemn this and indicated his wife should be given the chance to defend herself .
They don't want to charge her so that she can have the opportunity of proving to the court that er she is innocent .
It is a method of making the press charge my wife before she is even found guilty by the press .
Mrs Mandela will appear in court on the 24th of September ; the attorney general says he has received an undertaking from her lawyer that she will cooperate with the investigation and she will not be taken into custody .
This is the Fox Report .
An expert on South African affairs says the charges against Mrs Mandela could be a problem for Nelson Mandela and the A N C .
Professor Jack Spence of Leicester university has just returned from a fact-finding tour of South Africa .
It would be an acute embarrassment to Nelson Mandela and to the National Executive Committee of the African National Congress .
It 'll complicate negotiations between Mr DeKlerk and Mr Mandela if at the same time as those negotiations continue , er Mrs Mandela is on trial which may of course be prolonged .
In a sense I suppose , er what DeKlerk 's government has demonstrated is that they are trying as it were to be impartial and not allow political considerations to influence their judgement about whether Mrs Mandela should go on trial .
When I was in South Africa the attorney general of the Transvaal who has brought the charges made it abundantly clear that he was not er going to be influenced by er political issues , and I'm not surprised that he 's taken the line that he does .
Except that it 's significant that she has not been charged with being an accessory to the murder of Stompie Moeketsi er some months ago .
You 're listening the Fox Report , it 's eight minutes past six .
The chairman of Rover cars has admitted the company is no longer a mass manufacturer .
Speaking at the motor show in Birmingham , Sir Graham Day said he doesn't want it to be .
In spite of recent disappointing financial results , Sir Graham says the company in now doing well , but he 's warning the workers there 's no easy ride ahead , suggesting there 'll be no reprieve for the Cowley operations .
It 's been too easy to stick a label on us in the past which says volume car maker .
Now we produce erm about half a million or 550,000 units a year , that is not volume in world terms er we acknowledge that we compete in some of the volume sectors , but increasingly as our new products are introduced , we 're very careful to put them in discrete market segments or in niches .
So in that sense , we are not a volume car producer and er the company historically , I mean back through the seventies and sixties was a not very successful volume producer .
We now believe we 're becoming a , a much more successful er niche player .
The H registration year has n't been a good one so far for the car industry , but you have some successes .
Can it go on , this sort of success ?
Well , we , we as you correctly say er with the whole industry had a , had a difficult August , I think the good news for Rover is that we fell less in volume terms than most of the competition , and indeed we marginally increased our market share .
So in comparative terms , we performed well er in August .
Er .
I think that the competition will continue to increase , I mean this is not an industry where one has a soft trick and a lie down as we used to say in shipbuilding , I mean it really is a grind and a slog , and I think it 's important for all of our employees to understand that er there never will come a point in time when we can say ‘right we 've got that done , we can lie back’ .
Generally busy traffic across the whole of Oxfordshire and west Buckinghamshire during the rush hour this evening , especially on the M40 though between junctions 2 and 7 , it 's very heavy traffic due to the various roadworks there in operation this evening , especially at junction 2 Beaconsfield where the contraflow is in operation .
On the Buckinghamshire section of the M25 clockwise traffic at junction 16 with the M40 is still very heavy and slow due to the amount of traffic that is on the M25 this evening , most places along 25 are quite heavy .
On the M4 junction 4b to 5 , that 's the M25 Langley interchange , the inside lanes are closed in both directions for overhead cable work , and on the A34 just south of Newbury , it 's down to single lane traffic due to the roadworks between Swan roundabout and Sandalford roundabout but traffic 's not too heavy there at the moment .
On the A41 finally , London road in Bicester in Oxfordshire , the roadworks there by the level crossing with the temporary traffic lights are causing a fair bit of congestion this evening in both directions .
Mark Rise , AA road watch .
British Rail tell us their services are running to schedule this evening and I 've nothing to report to you from the bus services in the area .
Still to come ; Atlanta Georgia is to host the 1996 Olympics much to the chagrin of Athens and Manchester .
First with a round up of the day 's local news though , here 's Robin Powell .
A reward 's now on offer for anyone who can help police track down a man who mugged a 64 year old woman paying respects in Banbury cemetery .
The incident happened between 1.30 and 2.40 on Saturday afternoon ; police want to speak to a young man seen on a pedal cycle in the area at the time .
He 's described as being in his late teens , 5 ' 8’ tall and of slim build .
P C Mike Patching crime intelligence officer at Banbury and head of the crime stoppers organization in the town , says it was a despicable crime .
Criminals aren't too bothered about the er problems they cause victims in the commission for their crime , but er as a general rule er they do draw a line somewhere , but I think to er rob a lady who is er presumably grieving over the loss of a relative , at the graveside , has got to be plumbing some new depth of er depravity and er I 'll expect the erm vast majority of the citizens of Banbury will think similarly .
A man 's been taken to hospital with a chest injury after a road accident near Bicester .
Two cars collided outside a service station at Baynard 's Green at about 2 o'clock this afternoon , one casualty was treated on the scene , the other was taken to Oxford 's John Radcliffe hospital .
A new traffic report published today says that the British public aren't satisfied with parking regulations and their enforcement .
Peter Jones who 's the deputy director of the traffic studies department at Oxford University and the author of the report says that people don't think the rules governing parking are strict enough .
It 's clear that the majority of not only motorists but other road users , pedestrians , cyclists , bus passengers do feel that there are serious problems in urban areas , that they do need to be tackled and that one major thing that 's necessary is better enforcement of existing regulations , particularly in two areas : one , drivers that drive badly and cause danger to others and secondly , the inconsiderate parker .
An Oxfordshire branch of a travel agency which has announced it 's going out of business says it 's continuing to trade .
Exchange Travel in Chipping Norton will continue to do business in the meantime .
But manager Andrew Taylor says the company is calling in an administrator .
Well the position which I 've been told by my company directors is that we are still trading , er a er an administration order has been taken out and we are continually , continuing to trade and er that er rules .
Er .
Trust fund accounts have been set up for the protection of clients and their , and their moneys .
Finally Buckingham MP George Walden is writing to Agriculture Minister John Gummer about the land war crisis , to tell him what local land farmers think about it .
Mr Walden has spoken to farmers in his constituency about the issue and has been explaining what he 'll be telling Mr Gummer .
My farmers are very responsible about this , they don't want counter demonstrations against the French here ; they certainly don't want a tax on French lorry drivers here , we 've had one or two of those .
Er .
They want the thing to be sorted out properly in Brussels and they want the French authorities to be told in no uncertain terms that it 's their job to control the activities of their farmers .
It 's a quarter past six .
The Southern American city of Atlanta has been chosen as the venue for the 1996 Olympic Games .
The announcement in Tokyo has shattered the hopes of hot favourites Athens and of course Manchester which had spent £2 million campaigning to be the host .
Roy Garner reports from Tokyo .
The I O C 's choice of Atlanta , Georgia to host the centennial Olympic Games has not only shocked and disappointed the Athens delegation here in Tokyo , it has brought disappointment to the team from Manchester who 'd worked for several years to fulfil the dream of bringing the Games to the U K for the first time since 1948 .
One of the leaders of the Manchester bid team David Scott told I R N that he also shared the concerns of some of the Greek delegation that the choice of a U S venue reflected the influence of commercialism and big business in I O C decision making .
er I'm slightly worried about the effect on the Olympic movement of Atlanta being chosen only in the sense that er that this is the , I think the sixth time in 25 years that a North American city has got it and it does look rather as if the er pressures are now , on the financial side , are now coming very much from the North American continent and I'm not at all sure that that 's really good for the Olympic movement .
But they won a fair fight and they took a tremendous lot of trouble and they really did a very good campaign , there 's no question about that at all .
The disappointment in the Athens camp has bordered on bitterness and I asked the mayor of Atlanta , Maynard Jackson for his reaction to the words of one Athens delegate who described the Atlanta decision as a win for Coca Cola and a loss for the Olympic ideal .
Well I'm sorry that the gentleman from Athens said that , but we have to understand that people right now are going through some very strong feelings and I'm sure they 're disappointed .
But Athens gave the Games to the world , and we 're looking at the next one hundred years and if the I O C wants to do something special with Athens in ‘96 and if Athens wants to do it , we assure them that Atlanta will support that effort one hundred per cent .
So the hundredth birthday party of the Olympics — Atlanta is the place for it ?
er I don't know how to answer that question , all I can say is we 're going to put on the Olympic Games in ‘96 and we 're going to make everybody , including Athens I hope , proud .
The I O C meet continues in Tokyo until Thursday when I O C president Juan Antonio Samange will give an address on the present status of the Olympic movement .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
As petrol prices are er reported to be rising again the oil companies are blaming the crisis in the Gulf .
There have been few new diplomatic moves though in Baghdad today , meanwhile the families of two women shown in a video recorded in Kuwait , are pleading with the Iraqis to let them bring their newly born children home .
Jenny Stenton and Christine Pedley were recorded by a Palestinian doctor who was invited into Kuwait by the Iraqi authorities .
James Baize reports .
The video was filmed by Muhammad Said , a Palestinian doctor who was invited into Kuwait by Saddam Hussein .
The Britons told him they want western governments to negotiate with Iraq .
I think my message really is quite clear .
I do hope that very shortly er the governments can get round the table and sort out this crisis er in a diplomatic way .
A similar message was given by Trevor Pedley from Dudley whose wife Christine gave birth to their first child at the weekend .
But Trevor 's brother Tony says the family doesn't believe he was allowed to speak freely .
We feel that er Trevor was virtually told what to say , er we don't think it was er a true picture of what er happened out there to be honest .
If you can understand what I mean .
What did he actually say in the video ?
Well he , he didn't really say a lot , er they asked him a question and er he , he just turned round and said er we hope , we hope it 's er a peaceful solution , that er virtually saying he hoped it didn't come to war , and Christine turned round and said ‘yes we want a peaceful solution’ .
And that 's all that was said on the video .
I believe er Christine is expecting a baby ?
er She 's had the baby .
My mother had a phone call from the foreign office and they just said that er Christine had given birth to a baby girl , er we don't know much more about it , and that they 're both fine .
He says he 's praying Suddam Hussein will show compassion and let the couple bring their baby daughter home .
I'm in the Flying Fox and I 've just spent some time hovering at just a thousand feet over Bicester and the town centre looking good there .
The two main approaches , that 's the A41 from Banbury
The United Nations Assembly is now deciding the future of Cambodia 's status within the U N .
The Assembly 's meeting in New York at the moment to decide whether Cambodia 's seat will be given to the newly agreed Supreme National Council ; a move which would please many people and organizations such as Oxfam and Christian Aid , who were opposed to the Phol Pot regime .
Today Andrew Smith , MP for Oxford east , Bruce Kent , prospective parliamentary candidate for Oxford west and Abingdon and Oxford authoress Margaret Drabble among many other well-known figures , showed their support for this measure in a full page newspaper advertisement .
Frank Judd chairman of Oxfam says he would like to see a number of new developments in the Cambodian situation .
Hopefully we will see er Khmer Rouge with it 's Phol Pot leadership removed from the seat at the U N , and the new Supreme National Council which is at least more representative of all the elements in er , er Cambodia , taking it 's place .
We 've launched this appeal today together with er Christian Aid , er Cafod , the Cambodia Trust and World Vision , er an appeal supported by many distinguished individuals including local people here in Oxford itself , distinguished writers and politicians .
And that appeal is really calling for three objectives : first that all member states of the United Nations do all in their power to curb Khmer Rouge military aggression and the terrorizing of civilians , secondly that the British government should take the initiative in urging member states and the appropriate U N agencies to give essential development and reconstruction aid for Cambodia and thirdly that the British government should do all within it 's power to help secure the safety of the hundred thousand Cambodian refugees in Khmer Rouge camps in Thailand , by calling for their transfer to neutral camps under U N supervision .
I might just add that what we are deeply disturbed by , is that as the fighting continues in Cambodia with Phol Pot trying once again to get into control , already a hundred and fifty thousand people have been displaced by that fighting and that er the number of amputees has reached something like a thousand a month which is twice last year 's figure .
You yourself have visited the camps out there , and what are these people going through ?
Well I 've visited both Cambodia itself and the camps , er first of all in the camps , the situation is appalling because there are very many people who do not want to be in those camps and are really in effect being held there against their will , and what has been extraordinary until this year , is that the people who 've been holding them there against their will have been the Phol Pot dominated so-called coalition government and on the basis of the people being in the camps , that , that , that regime has gone on to claim recognition at the United Nations ; an appalling situation .
So that we really do hope that when the news comes through today , it 's going to be positive and the international community , if I can put it this strongly , will have come to it 's senses and said this can not go on , we must have a more representative political presence at the U N .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Government inspectors are to investigate Rochdale Social Services after twenty children were taken into care following allegations of ritualistic abuse .
Seventeen adults were arrested in connection with the allegations , but Greater Manchester Police have announced there 's not enough evidence to bring criminal charges .
Health Minister Virginia Bottomley says the Inspectors will examine the overall practices of the Rochdale department and not the individual cases as the children are wards of court .
We 're looking at the policies and procedures adopted by the local authority because decisions about those individual children are entrusted to the High Court , the family division .
Those expert judges who make the complex and subtle decision about how best to protect the welfare of those individual children .
It would not be right frankly , for ministers to issue edicts about particular children , whether they or not they should or should n't be in care .
That is for the High Court to do , not for ministers .
But the police have announced that they aren't bringing criminal charges against er seventeen adults that were arrested in connection with these allegations .
Should n't the children be allowed to go home ?
It 's a very important distinction and one that isn't properly understood : the police have to have clear concrete evidence on an offence .
What the High Court or what the local authority have to consider is how do we protect the welfare of those children ?
Not only has there or has n't there been ritual abuse or sexual abuse or physical abuse , but the context of neglect , deprivation or support ; is this a child whose welfare will best be served .
Is it in that child 's interest for it to go home or is it in the child 's interest er for the responsibility to lie with the local authority or the High Court ?
The different test , our aim , our priority , the key job is to protect the child 's welfare .
But the parents believe this is another Cleveland .
They say their children should be , should be brought home immediately .
er Parents predicament is understandable , there have been many tragedies in the past where local authorities perhaps took too much notice of the parents and too little of the children .
Some of the cases where children lost their lives , Jasmine Beckford , Kimberly Carlisle , Tara Henry , where somehow the child 's need has slipped through the net .
It 's important to get the balance right , so we will be looking to make sure that the policies and procedures , not only follow our guidelines with regard to the welfare of the child , but do also make sure that the parents are fully involved er and informed about the process as it moves through .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
An Oxford scientist says new information about the H I V virus which leads to AIDS could mean that a vaccination won't be forthcoming for a long time .
Doctor Martin Novak 's team believes the virus doesn't lie dormant as had been thought up till now , but rather copies itself or mutates .
Doctor Novak believes that eventually so many of the so-called mutants are created , that the human body 's immune system can no longer fight against the disease .
It 's at this point that AIDS develops .
This new virus now might have been mutated in such a way that the er antibodies which are present at , at the moment , are not able to recognize and destroy this new virus .
And therefore the new virus can grow and the immune system again has to learn to suppress this virus .
It sounds as if the virus is com , is impossible to hold down , could there be a vaccine created for such a changing virus ?
The problem with the AIDS vaccine might be that if you have a vaccine which would be able to suppress a particular virus strain er which would induce immunity against a particular virus strain , then necessarily you do not have a vaccine which can provide immunity against another virus strain .
Is there a chance if it changes so rapidly , that there could never be a vaccine for the whole strain , for the whole H I V virus .
I think we have to learn a lot er of , of how to treat the AIDS virus , but er hopefully , er the scientists might succeed to find the vaccine .
I think it 's very difficult to assess at the moment whether or not it 's impossible , I wouldn't say it 's impossible .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Oxford 's Radcliffe Infirmary has developed new technology that could save lives : it 's called image link and it allows images from hospital scanners to be transmitted down the telephone line to a consultant at the Infirmary .
Richard Kerr is consultant neurosurgeon there , Richard tell me a bit about this , what , what sort of things does it allow you to do now that you could n't do in , in the past ?
It means that we can be involved straightaway with patient 's management when they 're admitted to hospitals within the Oxfordshire region , and so decisions can be made between the referring doctors and ourselves as regards the best policy of treatment .
So if for example , a patient was brought into Banbury , they could use the scanners there , and that , the images on their scanner , you could actually see ?
We can , unfortunately Banbury doesn't have a CT scanner , but there are many other hospitals in the region
That 's ' a good example .
And so we yes , we can use the information that we can see to advise on how best to treat the patient .
Now I know in some of the newspapers today it 's been suggested that you would be doing sort of long distance surgery as it were , but that 's not the case ?
No , it 's not the case , they are X-ray images that we are looking at and it means that we can have er real time conversation with the doctors at the other end to advise whether the patient should be transferred to us or stay within the , in the hospital where they are , er whatever 's best at the time .
I suppose in the past , this sort of consultation was done just verbally on the telephone was it ?
Yes , we would be dependent on the referring doctor 's interpretation of the X-ray films , and they would relate that to us on the telephone and we would then have to form a , a mental image of what the problem was and then advise on how we thought things ought to go on .
But this obviously makes it much easier for us to , to help straightaway .
I know I said at the beginning that it could help save lives , am I er overstating the mark there ?
No I think it could save lives , because it means that we have immediate access er to what 's going on and so on rare occasions , life and death decisions can be made down the telephone .
Now , now Radcliffe Infirmary has developed this , this er image link
It 's not a new idea , but there 's a , a electronics engineer and computer er enthusiast called Dermott Dobson who 's brainchild this particular technology is , and he basically put it together in his back room .
er and then came forth to us with it .
And it , it means that images can be transferred very rapidly , and the images that are transferred are of a very high quality .
So at the moment this is only available at the Radcliffe Infirmary , is there , is it likely to go to hospitals in other parts of the country ?
It 's , it 's certainly er available nationally and I know there 's been some international interest already as well .
So you could have done research of er very clever nature in his back room basically ?
Yes , he 's a very bright chap Dermott Dobson .
Now I , I mentioned that you , you 're a , a neurosurgeon , we were talking about neurosurgery , but does it have applications for other parts of , of medicine ?
Wherever CT scans or the new MRI scans or even ultrasound scans are involved in the management of patients , the images can be transferred down an image link .
Richard Kerr , thank you very much .
The motorways through Oxfordshire and west Buckinghamshire are quite er busy this evening , the M25 Buckinghamshire section at clockwise junction 15 to 16 the M4/M40 interchange has very heavy slow traffic on it at the moment , it would be best to avoid that section if you can er to avoid fairly major delays this evening .
On the M40 in Buckinghamshire , London-bound traffic is very heavy and slow approaching the M25 interchange , due to the weight of traffic travelling on it this evening .
On the M4 , junction 1 , that 's the Chiswick flyover , it 's very heavy indeed in both directions , and on the M4 , junction 4b with the M25 to junction 5 at Langley , the inside lanes are still closed in both directions for overhead cable work and currently traffic is very heavy and slow in both directions .
The A34 just south of Newbury is still down to a single lane due to the roadworks there , between the Swan roundabout and Sandalford roundabout and the A41 London road in Bicester has roadworks by the level crossing , temporary traffic lights there , expect some congestion which is reasonably bad at the moment , but it is beginning to clear in both directions .
Finally , in Kidlington on the A423 , Langford Lane at the junction with Banbury Road , the temporary traffic lights there for resurfacing work prior to the traffic lights being installed , are creating one or two delays this evening .
Mark Rise A A roadwatch .
But it 's not too bad if you 're on the trains or the buses , I 've no delays to report .
It 's six thirty four .
The cost of a gallon of petrol is going up again from tomorrow , Shell is increasing the cost of the petrol by 3.2 pence a gallon to more than two pound thirty-four pence and other oil companies are thought likely to follow suit .
The Southern American city of Atlanta has been chosen as the venue for the 1996 centennial Olympic Games , the announcement in Tokyo has shattered the hopes of the sentimental contender Athens and of Manchester which spent £2 million campaigning to be the host .
Security forces in Ulster have recovered the body of Constable Louis Robinson near Crossmaglen , he was abducted by the I R A at the weekend , interrogated and shot .
Meanwhile the I R A have admitted a serious of attacks on so-called soft targets in Britain , including yesterday 's shooting of an army sergeant outside a careers office in north London .
The victim , Bernard Cox is recovering in hospital .
Fox F M 's weather — it 'll be a dry evening and most of the night , but towards morning rain will spread in to the Banbury area extending down to the Berkshire Downs on Wednesday morning .
The minimum temperatures — 13x celsius , that 's 55x fahrenheit with moderate south-westerly winds .
It 's six thirty five .
Drivers who pass their test in Banbury in the next few months are being offered the chance to learn how to drive on the motorway .
Their instructors will be the real experts at the police driving school ; it 's part of a pilot scheme and if it 's successful it could be extended throughout the area , and it 's free .
At the moment most drivers have no official training on how to cope with motorway conditions , I asked Sergeant Bill Clarke from the Forces Driving School why it wasn't part of the driving test .
There are still many areas in Great Britain where there are test centres who are an awful long way from the motorway , and at the moment , Banbury is in that position , so the driving test would have to be at least something like 2 or 3 hours duration by the time they got out there and driven .
There are also pitfalls of training ; you can't just take someone on , on test and say ‘you are on test on the motorway’ , that there 's got to be training .
Now er as you appreciate at the moment , mum or dad can teach son or daughter to drive er without any real training other than what they 've received in the past .
Is this a good idea or is a bad idea , so there are problems , yes the , the test , some people will say the driving test is out of date but I think at the moment it 's the best we can offer given all circumstances .
Now how will people who have just passed their test know about your scheme ?
What we 've done in the Banbury test centre , everyone who gets the coveted pink slip will get a letter inviting them to ring us er on a telephone number where they can book their place on the driving course .
There has been coverage with such as yourselves and er the local papers , and we are getting word of mouth enquiries now , but we , we have said it 's for the newly qualified driver and since we 've started this scheme , I would put newly qualified in inverted commas , because we 've had two or three ladies ring us up who 've had four and five years driving experience as such and they 're frightened to death to go on a motorway and haven't been on a motorway .
It 's a very different style of driving .
Very different style of driving — not too difficult if you know the rules and the pitfalls .
Do you think people should have some form of training before they 're allowed on the motorway , because , I mean once you 've passed your driving test you can go out there on your own can't you ?
That 's right and this is one of the biggest problems that we 've got .
er Yes there should be some form of training , maybe people should be issued with a log book that they can cross off certain things .
How the heck we prees it , police that sort of thing , I don't know .
Still to come — sample a little cardio-funk in Oxford University Press relaunches a classic series of paperbacks .
First , financial report in association with Barclays Bank for your financial needs .
Continuing , continuing concerns over the soaring oil prices and the effect this will have on the U K economy dampened enthuses , enthusiasm on the U K exchanges this morning .
Small losses soon accelerated when the U S reported trade gap figures of 9.033 billion dollars , far worse than the city forecast .
At the close of business , the one hundred index had managed to rally from it 's low but still ended down 30.3 points at 2064 and volly remained light with only 379 million shares traded .
In the U S the Dow Jones opened sharply lower and dealers marking down stop , stocks on the back of widening def , the widening deficit figure .
At four thirty the Dow Jones Index was off 33.42 points at 2533.91 .
On the currency front , the pound enjoyed a strong flourish , gaining 1.4 cents against the dollar to 1 dollar point 9195 and pushing .87 of a pfennigs firmer to 2 deutschmarks point 9704 .
British Aerospace was amongst the features today when it lost 12 pence to four hundred and fif , five hundred and forty one pence on rumours that the Saudis had cancelled some Tornado options .
Amongst the major shares , Abbey National are down 1 at 212 , and as I 've just mentioned , British Aerospace went down 12 to 541 , British Airways were down 2 at 158 , British Gas were down 2 at 217 , British Steel down 2 at 119 , British Telecom down 9 at 276 , Rolls Royce down 5 to 175 and T S B down 2 at 119 .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , and senior employers in Oxfordshire have won a £7 million government contract to improve local skills and prosperity .
The contract 's been awarded to the Heart of England Training and Enterprise Council , which says the money will enable them to train local people and help them set up and run businesses .
Chairman of the Oxfordshire branch of the Council , Julian Blackwell has been telling Robin Powell that he 's delighted .
We 're very pleased , we put in about 18 months really hard work on this , we 've er done our development funding , we 've put in our plan which is said to be one of the best plans in the country , we worked very hard , we 're very pleased .
£7 million is not to be sniffed at , what 's that going to be spent on ?
Most of that will go on delivering the programmes er and most of that is existing funding and so we 're going to have to use a lot of it on that , but we want to do new things as well .
I think our real job is to change the attitudes of everybody from school governors , head teachers , teachers , parents , young people , employers and employees to education and training .
You see we 're way behind from about sixteen onward , we 're way behind the foreign competition , and you may say ‘competition , what competition ? ’ .
There may be now perestroika , everybody teaming up over the Middle East problem , but we are actually at war economically with all the countries outside this country and most of them , the young people are better trained , people , and better educated , longer educated , higher standards and also at work , there is much more training at work .
The Germans are a generation ahead of us with their apprenticeship and their meister or master system ; we 've got to try and catch up .
The government has been criticized in the past over training , that there is a skills gap between us and the rest of say the European Community .
isn't this an indication that the government is trying to do something for training in this country ?
Yes , they have been doing a number of things in the past , I think the Y T S or new youth training as it is now , was a good thing , it had a lot of criticism .
They have been spending a lot of money on training , but what they 're doing now is localizing it , so training for Oxfordshire , which is different from training for somewhere like Liverpool , it 's got a lot more unemployed , it 's now not in the hands of the old training agency or manpower service commission , and we are looking at it completely afresh .
You 're listening to the Fox Report ; sport now and starting with football , there 's a host of matches involving sides in the Fox F M area tonight .
In League division 2 , Oxford United are away to Plymouth Argyll , the manager Brian Horton may spring a surprise and include John Durning who is fit again .
The ewes have lost their last three League games .
In the premier division of the Vauxhall League , Aylesbury United are at home to Wokingham Town and in division 2 , er division 2,2 south that is , Abingdon Town meet Ruislip Manor at Culham Road .
Witney Town replay their F A Cup first qualifying round tie against Tilbury at Marriot 's Close , while in the same competition , two teams from the Fox F M area clash at Fort Meadow where Buckingham Town are facing Brackley Town .
The match is also our featured game in tonight 's Red Fox and covering the match is Mickey Ianotta .
Mickey what 's it looking at like , er up there at the moment , are the crowds arriving ?
They are indeed .
One of Buckingham Town 's biggest ever gates in their history is expected for this local Derby Cup Tie , jane gripping stuff indeed , and Buckingham , they start as favourites needless to say .
They 're beezer homes material whereas Brackley Town , they 're not .
But having said that of course , Brackley , they have nothing to lose ; looking at the two sides , the majority of the players would you believe it are ex of Banbury United a side , you can never keep out of the news Jane .
In fact I'm surprised they never made a bid to stage the next Olympics .
And also playing for Brackley , a name that won't mean much to you , is Clifford Heath .
He came up to me a few moments ago and said ‘Do you remember me ? ’
I said ‘no’ .
He said ' I was in 4j with you at Drayton Hall in Banbury’ .
So there 's a surprise .
Absolutely fascinating Mickey .
erm This is a replay am I right in thinking ?
Sorry Jane ?
Is this , is this a replay ?
That 's right , it is a replay .
So they , so they 've drawn before ?
Yes , they drew one all on Saturday with a nervy type of game , a player got sent off , so it 's all to play for again tonight .
Now er the Buckingham manager , Phil Lines was manager of Brackley and er apparently , as you 've told me in the past , he guided them to their best ever season .
Er .
Are the other side a little bit upset that they 've lost him ?
Well they are , it 's a long story , again it brings Banbury in it again because when Phil was at Banbury a few years ago , he left to join Brackley Town .
Not only did he take about half a dozen players , he took the manager , the tea lady and the backroom staff , and for all I know , the main stand , because that 's not at Banbury any more .
And he did the same thing at Brackley Town , he guided them to success , their best ever season , he 's gone to Buckingham Town , took a few players with him , so Brackley Town , they 're not too pleased and they 're going to be out to beat Buckingham Town tonight , but I'm going to sit on the fence and go for Buckingham 3 1 .
Well that sound like sitting on the fence to me Mickey .
We 'll hear from you again throughout the evening on the Red Fox and we 'll find out how it 's really going .
Rugby Union now , and Mark Eagon , the Oxford University rugby captain has invited Errol Norwitz who gained blues in 1988 and 1989 , to be his vice-captain for the coming term which includes the University 's pre-season tour of the Far East which began last week .
Catching up with the latest news of the boys here 's Mickey Ianotta again .
Business into liquidation and throwing people out of jobs .
Thieves steal historic chair from Stanton Harcourt Manor .
Monetarily , I haven't any idea what it 's worth , er it 's not everybody 's cup of tea , it is a cockfighting chair , but it 's very very interesting .
And an Oxford University academic says no to admitting students on sports ability alone .
The fundamental requirement must in the end of any prestigious academic institution , to be a place where academic standards are maintained .
The six o'clock news , this is Annie Webster .
Petrol prices are set to go up again ; traders in the world oil market still worrying over a war in the Gulf , today pushed their prices to their highest for ten years , at more than forty dollars a barrel .
The rise sent shares to new lows in the City only hours after dealers had cheered up briefly at Britain 's better than expected trade figures .
Although Britain is still well in the red , the latest deficit 's down to one point one billion pounds , that 's the smallest trade gap this year and a big improvement on the July figure of one point seven billion pounds .
Even so , Labour 's trade spokesman Gordon Brown says the figures are no comfort for the Chancellor John Major , who 's still facing huge problems with Britain 's economy .
The tragedy is , we 've done nothing about the exclusive reliance on interest rates , we 've done nothing about the continuing erosion of jobs , and particularly so in the regions , er and this government has er wasted the summer months ; when it could have taken action it has merely compounded the problems that are of it 's own creation in the mismanagement of the economy .
President Gorbachev has been granted extensive new powers as the Soviet Union prepares to switch to a market economy .
But once again , the Soviet deputies have postponed making a decision on exactly how the new system will be introduced .
From Moscow , Sue Jameson reports :
President Gorbachev will now be able to push through some of the most unpalatable parts of a programme to take the country into a new era governed by market forces .
He said the powers were necessary to make a real change in people 's lives even though earlier , deputies yet again failed to back immediate implementation of the five hundred day plan to transform the economy .
However , many in the Republics including Russian President Boris Yeltsin , will be wary of the powers and fear their burgeoning independence is under a new threat .
Sue Jameson , I R N Moscow .
The Environment Secretary , Chris Patten has suffered his most serious defeat yet in his battle with local authorities over poll tax levels .
The Court of Appeal has blocked his attempt to force Lambeth Council to obey government charge-capping orders .
Simon Israel reports :
The government had imposed a limit of four hundred and ninety-three pounds , but Lambeth , predicting that fifteen percent of people wouldn't pay , revised that level to five hundred and twenty-one pounds .
The three Appeal judges ruled that Lambeth was right and it 's Labour leader , Joan Twells says it 's an important victory .
Parliament did not give the Secretary of State the power to fix poll tax levels .
He 's told everybody he was fixing poll tax levels , and he hadn't got the power to do that .
The government was ordered to pay all legal costs and the Court refused the Environment Secretary leave to appeal to the House of Lords .
The High Court has appointed a senior judge to hear the cases of wardship involving twenty children taken into care after allegations of satanic child abuse .
From the Court hearing , Helen Costello :
Sir Steven Brown , the President of the High Court family division said the case involving the children had attracted a great deal of publicity .
He said Justice Douglas Brown , an experienced High Court judge would hear all cases involving twenty children and six families .
Solicitor for the families , Joanna Kay revealed after the hearing that two children would now be allowed access visits .
Just as regards two children , that was all agreed by the parties .
A date for the hearing has yet to be set .
Helen Costello I R N , the High Court , London .
A task force appointed by the government to balance the needs of tourism and the environment , has held it 's first meeting in Westminster Abbey .
The team 's looking for ways of improving tourist facilities at historic sites without causing damage to the environment .
And police in Paris have arrested an art thief who had a knack of strolling into galleries and then strolling out again with some of their most valuable works of art .
Tim Marshall reports :
Armed only with a false beard , a small knife and a lot of cheek , Mr Vendu would cut the paintings out of their frames and walk off with them ; he even took a Renoir from the Louvre .
When police raided his house , they found a fifteenth century Bastiano which he 'd stolen from a gallery in Venice last week .
After explaining his love of art , he gave the police the opportunity to see some classic paintings for themselves by directing them to his parent 's house in Lyons where they recovered the Renoir and several other works .
Tim Marshall , I R N , Paris .
Independent radio news .
It 's Monday , September the twenty fourth , nineteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories .
Oil prices are moving to a record high , the stock market is moving lower .
But there 's been better economic news today on Britain 's trade ; the trade gap in August was the smallest so far this year , just one thousand , one hundred and thirty million pounds in the red , nearly six hundred million better than last month .
Here 's Robin Amlow :
It 's a silver lining the Chancellor desperately needs amidst the current spate of doom and gloom , most recently this weekend C B I report showing industry in recession .
In some way , those trade figures reflect that recession ; they 've improved because of a drop in imports while exports are still rising .
It 's the first sign the Chancellor 's squeeze is actually having the desired effect , not just on industry , but on the country 's Achilles heel , and brings nearer the day when the Chancellor can cut interest rates , but probably not before Christmas .
Shadow Chancellor , John Smith says that 's both stubborn and short-sighted .
He says rates must be cut if Britain 's to avoid a slump and become competitive in Europe .
Our interest rates are almost double those of the Germans and almost double those of the United States .
How are we going to get the investment up for nineteen ninety-two ?
How are we going to prepare ourselves for that competitive market er if our interest rates are such that they 're starving industry of it 's investment and pushing business after business into liquidation and throwing people out of jobs ?
Liberal Democrat leader , Paddy Ashdown says the improved trade figures mean Britain should now join Europe 's exchange rate mechanism as soon as possible .
He says Chancellor John Major should ignore Mrs Thatcher 's prejudices .
The battle between the Prime Minister , the split indeed between the Prime Minister and the Chancellor which is a re-run of the appalling split between her and Nigel Lawson which is the origins of our present problem , is something that must be brought under control .
It 's a time when the Chancellor of the Exchequer must put Britain first and the Prime Minister 's private prejudices and the good of the Tory party second .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Well , those trade figures were better than expected , which was good news after yesterday 's warning from the Chancellor John Major that Britain could be heading for a recession .
Although that , the country is still well in the red , the latest deficit , as I mentioned earlier is rather better than the trade gap that was reported in July .
David Goldsworthy is from Halpern and Woolf ; David , what do these trade figures mean ?
I mean we 've got the Chancellor saying we 're going into recession , and now , now we seem to have some good news .
Where do we stand ?
We have some good news , yes , but it 's not going to have any immediate benefit on the man in the street — the local trader .
Er .
It did result in er an improvement in the share situation and in the er strength of the pound , but I understand the share prices have dropped rapidly again following further news of oil price increases .
As regards recession , it 's interesting the Chancellor is at least admitting that we 're close to it .
Er .
We at Halpern and Woolf believe the recession has been with us for some months already ; the C B I takes the same view and they 're pressing for interest rate reductions now to restore business confidence .
The recession really has crept up on us and it 's strangling companies and businesses at quite a frightening rate .
Are we talking about just small businesses or is it happening across the board ?
It 's happening principally with the small and medium size businesses because they 're the first to suffer .
They suffer principally because the companies whom they are supplying tend to take extended credit in paying their bills , er so that their problems are not entirely of their own making .
It doesn't mean they in themselves could not be profitable but simply that they have these cash flow problems .
Now we all know the word recession ; we 've heard of it before , but , but what does it actually mean ?
Recession — well , the classic definition of recession as quoted by John Major in Washington , is two successive quarters of reduction in production .
Right , so it 's er basically businesses aren't doing as well ?
Businesses aren't doing as well no , that , that 's the definition .
How do you , how do you feel about the future now , I mean we 've heard various people say interest rates must come down — you just said interest rates must come down , but when do you realistically think they could come down ?
Well , er the C B I and other bodies are pressing for them to come down at once , er John Major has said it 's only a question of time .
Er .
He is being cautious and hoping the suffering caused by his high interest rates is part of the cure for the inflation which was previously existing .
Now we also heard today that the oil prices are rising again , does it , does this have a bearing on the whole thing
It certainly has a bearing , er it , it has a bearing in two directions , it causes price increases and cost increases at the same time for the producers , so that at the same time as there are price increases , increasing inflation , there is a reduction in production .
So should firms be very alarmed by the figures now ?
I think firms are not going to take any great comfort from it immediately , certainly , I don't think any more alarmed that they have already been .
David , thank you very much indeed .
Britain is to send four ships which took part in the Falklands War , to carry the desert rats to the Gulf : Sir Tristram , Sir Galahad , Sir Bevedere and er Sir Bedevere and Sir Percival are expected to start picking up tanks from West Germany in the next few weeks .
The announcement of the new deployment came from the Gulf , from where our defence correspondent Paul Maurice reports : four landing ships haven't been used operationally since the Falklands War ; then Sir Tristram was badly damaged at Port San Carlos and at Fitzroy where her sister ship Sir Galahad was destroyed with the loss of more than fifty lives .
The four roll-on , roll-off military ferries have specially strengthened vehicle decks and are designed to put tanks and other armoured vehicles ashore on beaches in remote areas where landing docks and slipways are not available .
Although it 's not yet certain exactly where the British armoured forces will be deployed , the four landing ships are expected to join up with the twelve-strong Royal Navy patrol in the Gulf of Amman .
The landing ships are expected to be fitted with two twenty metre cannons each for the dangerous and vulnerable trip up to the Gulf .
But Tornado fighter bombers from Saudi Arabia and linked helicopters from the warships will provide the majority of the defence against attack from the air and the sea .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's ten minutes past six , I'm Jane Markham .
Traffic 's very slow-moving on the M four westbound at junction six and on the M twenty-five , that 's between junctions fifteen and sixteen between the M four and the M forty , traffic 's very slow-moving in both directions .
The M forty at junction two , there 's a contra-flow now in operation with two narrow lanes in both directions and you 'll find the westbound entry slip road closed .
The A four two three at Hopcroft 's Halt , there are temporary traffic lights and er on the A forty Oxford northern by-pass there are lane closures westbound between Marston flyover and Cherwell bridge .
And on the A four two two , Stratford to Alcester , there are temporary traffic lights at Taylor 's Wood which might slow you down a little .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
British Rail tell us the London Paddington to Liverpool train service which is , is due at Oxford at six fifty-five tonight 's going to be starting from Reading instead ; that 's going to confuse a few people .
Otherwise there are now further problems to report on the buses or trains .
Still to come , the Prison Officers Association warns there 's going to be more violence in our prisons , and thieves steal historic relics from Stanton Harcourt Manor in Oxfordshire .
First with a round-up of the day 's local news , here 's Paul Kirby :
Magistrates in Didcot have today been hearing more cases against non-payers of the poll tax .
South Oxfordshire District Council have prosecuted two hundred and fifty non-payers today .
Of these , two hundred and forty-four had liability orders issued against them , while six cases were adjourned .
Today 's cases are significant as the Court allowed the help of so-called Mackenzie 's friends in to the Court to give help .
Courts in Banbury , Woodstock and Aylesbury have so far refused to allow the so-called friends to give advice .
Police in north Oxfordshire believe the same thieves may have been behind two separate raids within a few miles of each other at Steeple Aston ; both raids were part of a spate of break-ins reported to police in the Fox F M area .
Abby Donald reports :
Detectives say they 're almost certain the same people were behind the two break-ins carried out in a north Oxfordshire village .
The first netted them a quantity of antique and model jewellery as well as silverware and oil paintings valued at over twenty thousand pounds .
The second , also this weekend , resulted in thieves getting away with a further five thousand pound 's worth of silver jewellery .
Officers at Banbury C I D say they 're particularly eager to hear from anyone who may have spotted people in the area this weekend .
A north Oxfordshire racehorse trainer has dismissed calls for tighter security at courses to crack down on race fixing .
The jockey club confirmed today that two favourites in this year 's St Leger at Doncaster had been drugged to ensure they wouldn't win .
Scientists believe the horses were doped at stables near the racecourse and want security stepped up , but Banbury based trainer John Webber thinks the jockey club has over-reacted .
I don't personally think that there 's very much wrong with the security , I don't see how you can increase it much more .
You can't get into the stables without signing in .
There 's always going to be a small percentage of people that are open to temptation isn't , aren't there ?
I mean after all , you can't say the British banking system is no use because occasionally a bank gets robbed .
Oxford schoolchildren have been taking a peek behind the scenes at Sainsburys today as part of the Green Consumer Day .
Thirty pupils from Lark 's Rise primary school were given a green tour of the store to see how they protect the environment , but Laura , Gregory and Rose were clear about the best part of their day .
The check out because we had a go on it and it was quite fun .
Going behind the doors that you 're not allowed to go through , go through and seeing what the Sainsbury is , has got behind the doors , the magical doors .
Fox F M news Paul Kirby reporting .
Winnie Mandela has appeared in court in Soweto to be formally charged on four counts of kidnapping and four counts of assault with intent to commit grievous bodily harm .
The case arises out of the death of fourteen year old activist , Stompie Moeketsi .
His killer who was one of Mrs Mandela 's bodyguards , was sentenced to death for his , for his murder .
During that trial , Mrs Mandela was implicated in an assault on Moeketsi .
David O'Sullivan was in court at today 's trial in Johannesburg .
Winnie Mandela was grim-faced as she and her husband arrived at the Soweto Magistrates Court .
A group of over a hundred supporters sang songs in honour of them : ‘Mandela , you are like no other man’ , they sang .
The court hearing lasted just over an hour .
Accused number eight , as Mrs Mandela will be known for the duration of the trial , muttered barely inaudible replies to the magistrate who made sure she was following the proceedings .
Nelson Mandela sat stony-faced in the front row of the public gallery .
The court hearing was taken up mainly by the formal reading out of the charges , and brief argument about when the trial should proceed in the Rand Supreme Court in Johannesburg .
The prosecutor wanted the trial to resume on October the thirtieth , but the magistrate accepted Mrs Mandela 's lawyer , Ishmael Eyob 's reasons for a later trial date .
Mr Eyob said he didn't have enough time to prepare the defence case , and Mrs Mandela will be overseas with her husband on October the thirtieth .
The magistrate set down a trial date of the fourth of February .
Mrs Mandela was released on her own recognisance .
The Mandelas were mobbed by the waiting crowd outside the courtroom , many were women from the A N C 's women 's league , wearing the A N C colours of black , green and gold .
If the Mandelas were feeling any strain from the trial , it wasn't evident ; they smiled broadly as they were escorted by the dancing , chanting crowd to their waiting car .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's seventeen minutes past six .
Prison officers are warning of violence in Britain 's jails on an even greater scale than Strangeways if the government doesn't give them more resources .
In a report , the Wolf Enquiry into this year 's prison disturbances , they 're demanding more officers , a legal minimum standard of accommodation for inmates and an independent omb , an independent ombudsman for prisoner 's complaints .
Since the problems at Strangeways , prison violence has rarely appeared in the headlines , but John Bartell , chairman of the Prison Officers Association says that doesn't mean violence in our jails has decreased .
We 've not had vivid examples such as Strangeways , but on a daily basis , er the violence within the prison system continues .
Officers continue to be assaulted , prisoners er continue to er commit suicide and almost every weekend there is tension in one part of the system or another .
We er teeter on the edge of er a crisis virtually at the end of every day and if action is , and strong action is not taken very very quickly , er we have no doubt whatsoever , that the already serious level of , of er incidents within the prison system will escalate totally out of control .
So in your recommendations to , to the Wolf Enquiry , what , what do you think is most important ?
Well , three major issues or three important issues : firstly the introduction of minimum standards , also the recruitment of the three thousand staff that we now need er to er complement our prisons and also the introduction of an ombudsman .
Er .
We believe it 's high time that both er prison staff and prisoners were able er to seek er an independent outside view , er whenever there are difficulties .
Clearly the riots and the er secrecy that the Home Office tried to surround those riots with , er show that we do have to have an ombudsman .
Now you seem to be laying a great deal of stress on the introduction of minimum standards , what , what 's the point behind that and what does it mean ?
Unfortunately , officers are in a position of sometimes telling a prisoner at the end of a week , that you can't have a bath or a shower and there is no change of clean underwear .
Obviously , prisoners do not like that and officers are on the receiving end .
We don't believe that 's our job or our function .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty minutes past six , I'm Jane Markham .
It 's six twenty one .
Thieves have struck at the home of Oxfordshire 's High Sherrif , stealing priceless heirlooms and vandalising property .
Raiders broke into the grounds of Stanton Harcourt Manor on Thursday night , the home of Sir Crispin Gascoigne .
They took a chair which belonged to the eighteenth century English poet , Alexander Pope who 'd lived there while writing the first English translation of Homer 's Iliad .
The Right Honourable Anne Gascoigne says the losses are irreplaceable .
From the chapel they 've taken the thing that we 're sorriest about , which is the cockfighting chair that Alexander Pope the poet used the two summers that he spent working here in what 's now called Pope 's Tower , translating the fifth volume of Homer 's Iliad .
And just how important is that piece ?
Well historically it 's very important .
Er .
Monetarily , I haven't any idea what it 's worth , er it 's not everybody 's cup of tea , it is a cockfighting chair and it 's not particularly beautiful but it 's very very interesting .
They 've taken three oil paintings ; two off the walls and one which was leaning up against the window sill , er the candlesticks and the vases off the altar , another very beautiful , very simple oak chair with cane seat and back .
Have you any idea what sort of people could have taken this and when it could have happened ?
Well we know that it must have happened overnight , er we were open until six o'clock on Thursday evening .
Everything was checked and locked up and it must have gone during the late night or early morning , Thursday night/Friday morning .
Do you suppose this is the work of antiques experts ?
I think they must have known what they were coming for and this I'm afraid , is one of the penalties of being open to the public .
But it does make one very depressed er that people can vandalise and er infiltrate er a sacred place and take all sorts of things which quite honestly are not of a great deal of value to anybody else .
Do you intend to keep the Manor and the chapel open ?
We have no choice ; when my father died in nineteen seventy-nine I had to come to an arrangement with the Capital Taxes Office , that , er for not paying the full value of the er death duties on the value of the contents of the house , I had to open it to the public , quite frankly , if then and even more now , if I had to pay the full amount , I 'd have had to sell everything which my family have collected over the last seven hundred years .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Well , we 're now well into the Party Conference season and the Greens are at Wolverhampton this week .
There 's been a mixed agenda today ranging from animal rights to the Palestinian question and Mike Woodin is the prospective parliamentary candidate for Oxford West and Abingdon , he 's been er at the Conference proceeding this afternoon .
Mike , what , what 's been going on there today ?
Well I 've just come out of the debate which has just finished on the Palestine and Israel situation and er we passed the voting paper which will become policy for the party , calling for er a non-violent solution recognising the P L O and urging the U N to facilitate negotiations between Israeli government and the P L O .
Er .
And this has been put in place alongside our position on the Gulf to complete our policy on the Middle East where we were condemning the hypocrisy of the western nations who have been supplying the Third World with arms and then going in there , fighting er just to maintain access to the oil .
We believe this is a resource war and er there should be in no way er national troops fighting about it , any action should be taken by the United Nations .
Now , was there a consensus of opinion , is , is the Green Party Conference a conference where people have , have active debates or , or was it generally er a peaceful affair as it were ?
We have a very lively time at Conference , we er conduct our business very differently from most of the Party Conferences , most of the work is done before the main debates in workshop sessions .
The papers are all subjected to these for several Conferences before they 're voted on and we lay great emphasis on achieving consensus on any motion , and I think today on the Palestine/Israel debate , which is obviously a very contentious issue , it went through in about half an hour , very calmly , very peacefully , because a lot of hard work had been done .
I think it was a tribute to consensual politics which is so rare of course with our other adversarial system that we have in Britain .
Now some people , even though the Green Party has er been an established party for some time now , might feel that er it , this is the Green Party perhaps coming of age because it doesn't sound like a Green issue , you 're , you 're discussing things across the board at the moment aren't you
Well , yes , I mean Green politics do go to every area of life , obviously er we can't devolve the er environment from the rest of our activities .
The way we run our economy is the prime cause of environmental damage , now what the other parties are failing to see is that if we want to live in a truly ecological society , one that really recognises the constraints , er that the environment imposes on us , we have to have a consistent approach to every area of policy , so for example , in the Israel/Palestine conflict er debate , we have laid great stress on our , er advocating our own approach to conflict resolution , consensual approach , negotiations condemning the arms build-up which is inspired mainly by the U S , and so er whilst we have also debated some other more overtly environmental policies such as reaffirming our commitment to phase out nuclear power , we do lay great emphasis on er developing economic policies , particularly in the light of the up and coming general election and we want to obviously present a complete platform of policies to the electorate .
Now there is another day to go on the Conference .
That 's right .
Do you know what 's going to be happening tomorrow ?
Yes , we have er debate on a major policy paper on natural resources and how to er conserve them , how to make sure that we get away from the madness of the consumer society that we have at the moment ; er laying down a strategy for the er the use of the earth 's resources er into the twentieth century .
We have obviously at every Conference a certain amount also of Constitutional motions , er an organizational motion , and some , and some of tomorrow will be taken up with that as well as the announ , er announcement concerning the elections for the various committees .
But we have a range of emergency motions and one in particular that er will be a full motion on the Gulf which will develop our policy er further so that we can put a clear message across .
At the end of the Liberal Democrats Concert , er Concert Conference we had all sorts of singing and er jollifications , do the Greens do this in , on their final day ?
er There is obviously a certain party atmosphere at Conferences , it 's the one big chance of the year for many many hard-working activists to get together and share ideas , it does engender er a certain amount of frivolity er around the edges , so we 'll see some of that , but we don't go in for this cult of leadership which the other parties do , you won't see any manufactured longstanding ovations for er leaders .
We don't go in for this , this cult er type of politics .
So our politics are serious and er we have good fun as well .
Mike thank you very much .
Thanks .
The initial results of an independent study on Oxford and it 's traffic problems have been put on show in the City today .
The study , commissioned by the Oxford Preservation Trust , pinpointed several areas of concern including high levels of pollution in the City centre .
The Trust hopes the survey , which is conducted by a transport expert , Dr Carmen Hausclau , will prompt more efforts to solve the notorious problems experienced by local commuters , as Moira Haines , the Trust secretary explains :
The middle of Oxford is a pretty unpleasant place to be , and we 're hoping very much that it 's going to be a sort of signpost er to the County Council 's greater study which was agreed last Tuesday .
Now there 's a number of recommendations in the study , and that includes the introduction of a twenty mile an hour speed limit , surely that 's going to cause more problems than it solves ?
Well , I hope not .
Of course it will be difficult because at the moment the er the legal minimum is thirty miles an hour in , in any city , but we 'd like to see Oxford as a pilot for a twenty mile an hour speed limit which is no good if you leave the roads as they are .
But if you widen the pavements and you differentiate the pavements from the roadway , and you use continental traffic calming measures which are not great big humps but which are perhaps little stretches of cobbles and things like that , then you should be able to bring the speed down to twenty miles an hour .
It 'll have to be enforced though .
What else do you think could be done to help improve the situation in Oxford which does have a reputation .
It does doesn't it ? er Well , the first thing to do , and as Carmen Hausclau says , there are far too many motor vehicles milling round the centre , is to make it more attractive to come into Oxford some other way .
She is not very enthusiastic about the light rail proposals , but er she sees the park and ride as an excellent idea , but as she said , it 's not exactly inviting to leave your car in er a car park which is not necessarily big enough , which has n't got a proper surface , isn't properly lit , isn't supervised , has great big notices up that say there are thieves about , and where the bus service stops at half past six .
So , what exactly is the next step , now you have these interim results ?
Well , the next step is , we would very much like the public to let us know what they think of some of her ideas , like turning Cornmarket into northbound only , like the twenty mile an hour speed limit and some of her ideas for High Street .
We have this morning put up a small display in the central library in Westgate , where people can pick up a leaflet er which summarises what she says and also consult if they wish , the whole report , it 's in the reference library .
Er .
And we would like people to let us know what they think .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's half past six .
Traffic 's very slow on the M four westbound at junction six , that 's the turnoff for Slough and on the M twenty five in both directions , between junctions fourteen and sixteen , there 's very heavy and slow moving traffic , that 's between Heathrow and the M forty .
And on the M forty itself at junction two there 's a contraflow now in operation with two narrow lanes only in both directions and you 'll also find the westbound entry slip road closed .
The A four two three , Hopcroft 's Halt , there are temporary traffic lights there which continue to cause delays , particularly to northbound traffic .
And on the A forty , Oxford northern by-pass , there are lane closures westbound between Marston flyover and the Cherwell bridge .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
The only problem I 've to tell you about from British Rail is the fact that the London Paddington to Liverpool train service which is due at Oxford at six fifty-five , is starting from Reading tonight instead of er London Paddington , otherwise no problems on the buses or trains .
It 's six thirty two .
Oil prices have soared above forty dollars a barrel , their highest level in a decade , which is almost certain to provoke another round of petrol price increases .
The price has doubled since Iraq invaded Kuwait and now it 's going up fast though with traders convinced that a war in the Gulf is inevitable .
Shares crashed to new lows in the City on the news , which came just hours after the release of Britain 's better than expected trade figures , though Britain is still well in the red , the latest deficit 's down to one point one billion dollars .
President Gorbachev has been granted extensive new powers to help the Soviet Union move towards a market economy , but deputies in the Soviet parliament have again postponed a decision about how to introduce the new system .
And police have suggested that soccer fans should be charged a hooligan levy when buying their match tickets , the money would go towards the cost of security at soccer grounds .
The weather for the Fox area : scattered heavy showers are gradually going to die away during the evening to leave the night dry with skies becoming mainly clear , so it will be rather cold with the temperature dropping to a dawn low of around five degrees celsius — that 's forty-one degrees fahrenheit .
Still to come : two students from the Eastern Bloc start courses at Oxford Poly today as part of the new scholarship scheme .
First though , a severely disabled woman from Oxford says every time she travels by train , she 's put in the guard 's van .
Sylvia Pedder from Headington in Oxford uses a wheelchair and despite efforts by British Rail to update their trains , she says often she has to travel for hours on end on her own .
Phil Kirby reports :
Sylvia Pedder sometimes has to go as far as Cumbria to see her relatives .
On one occasion she sat alone for six hours travelling up to Carlisle .
Sylvia says she finds the experience humiliating .
I'm put in the guard 's van and sometimes the guard doesn't even come to see if I'm alright .
She 's written to her M P , Andrew Smith , and at the start of this year , British Rail allowed her into the buffet car .
British Rail chairman Sir Bob Reid has written expressing his sympathy , but B R 's Brian Johnson said it 'll be a while before he can guarantee Sylvia Pedder won't have to travel in the guard 's van .
Well we 're at the moment in the process of er providing disabled accommodation on all intercity trains .
Er .
We 're about half way through the process at the moment , and as of today , it does depend which train she travelled on from Oxford as to whether it 's actually been converted with the disabled accommodation or whether er it 's not yet provided .
But the problem still exists and Sylvia 's carer , Barbara Waddington says she believes with so few trains apparently unable to fit the wheelchair on to the train , British Rail ought to ensure that Sylvia can travel in more comfort .
Well I feel that Sylvia should have the right as anyone else , as any other able person to travel in the right manner , as a passenger in the buffet car or , or or anywhere else on the train and not have to be , have to go in the guard 's van .
British Rail insist the whole problem though regrettable , will be ironed out within nine months .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
An Oxford academic is condemning plans to bring gifted young sportsmen to the University , because he says the academic level would suffer .
Dr Paul Hayes who 's tutor in modern history and politics at Keble College in Oxford said it would create an appalling precedent bringing students , as thick as two short planks to the University .
Dr Hayes ' remarks come in reaction to plans put forward by sports captains at the University , to encourage top athletes to apply to Oxford .
He says it isn't a good idea .
This would put applicants in a very false position , perhaps drive away very talented applicants who might think that there were fewer places available for them , but also to encourage people who might in fact be struggling to go to any university in the country , it might encourage them to apply and to have a reasonable expectation of success because their sporting abilities were outstanding , they would then be disappointed because they would not be admitted and if they were admitted at that level , they would probably have a very unfortunate time at Oxford .
They would be regarded by their contemporaries as people who should not er be there , who are only there because of their sporting abilities .
They would be perhaps regarded as thick as two short planks , er they would not be happy , they would be struggling to do work that was not honestly within their capacities , that being the case , they would almost certainly have to go down from the University .
don't you think a better class of sportsman , whatever their intellectual abilities , would give the University a higher profile ?
Well , it probably would ; it 's a question of what kind of profile one wants a university to have .
A university is after all fundamentally an academic institution , world famous universities of course have all sorts of other attributes er for example , er theatres er as well as er sports grounds and that is just as true in this country as it is for example in the United States or Australia or even in the non-English speaking world .
But the fundamental requirement must in the end , of any prestigious academic institution , to be a place where academic standards are maintained .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty two minutes to seven .
Two students from Eastern Europe have started courses at Oxford Polytechnic today .
Jana Bursa is from Potsdam near Berlin and Natasha Kaminskaya is from Moscow .
It 's all part of a new scholarship scheme which has been initiated to mark the parting of the iron curtain .
William Turner is head of international relations at the Poly — William is this your baby , as it were ?
I wish it were , but it 's actually the director 's baby and he came up with this wonderful idea er at the time when the wall was beginning to crack .
So , two scholarships , what sort of things , I mean er what sort of things will they be studying ?
Well , it 's only one scholarship for Germany , but er two girls , in fact one from as you know , Russia .
Er .
This particular young lady Jana Bursa is studying food science and nutrition with us er she 's already actually started her course back in Berlin , so this is a kind of continuation , a bit of a sandwich .
She will go back eventually to continue her studies there .
Jana , how long will you be in England ?
Only for this one year here .
A whole year ?
The whole year over , yes .
You 've started today , it , it must be rather frightening , rather different .
Yes , because er in the university when I was studying at home , we have not er this tutor system like here and so it 's really strange , but I think it 's a good idea of , er talking to your lecturers as equal people .
So , you , you , what happens in university in , in Germany , you , you have big classes , no , no individual tutors ?
No , we have er all students of one year studying one subject had er lectures together , and then we have seminars and er that 's why the whole students group of one year is divided in seminar groups and the seminar groups are about thirty people in , in one group and the seminars , when you have seminars there are only three people , and er
Now your English is very good .
I imagine that was very important , er otherwise you wouldn't understand what your tutors were telling you .
How , er was there a lot of competition for this scholarship ?
I don't know
But I do .
Was there a lot of competition ?
There was a fair amount of competition , so in fact she er was selected on merit and on her interests which matched very nicely with our course that we run .
So it 's , it 's a year , er what , what part of the course has , has Jana come in on — the first year or is she somewhere in the middle ?
Well , because we have a very flexible course , a modular course which is made up of units , it 's , it 's possible to almost fit anybody into our course , so in fact she 's met one of our specialists and the analysis had been done of what she 's done before , what she wants to do in the future to try and match up the whole thing ; only she knows exactly what she 's doing .
Brilliant , so , you , this is , this year , is this scholarship going to continue in future years or is it just a one off ?
Yes and no , er I , there won't be another East German scholarship because there won't be another East Germany er next year it will disappear , it will just not exist , which er I think what we 're really celebrating , the fact that we now have freedom of movement of young people from what was the Eastern Bloc will now just be Eastern Europe , er into the West in the same way that western students can travel around .
So what it might develop in , into is er wider scholarship for travel .
Well Jana , we wish you all the best with your course .
Thank you .
Still to come a look at the day 's sport , first financial report though in association with Barclay 's Bank for your financial needs .
The London market opened weaker today as the Chancellor John Major underlined his determination to keep interest rates high despite calls from the C B I to reduce them .
Further to this was the fresh rise in crude oil prices as the situation in the Gulf seemed to worsen .
The better than expected August trade figures removed some of the gloom in the market however there was no buying after stock prices were marked higher and the market started to drift ahead of Wall Street 's opening .
The Dow Jones opened thirty points lower in reaction to rising oil prices which called London , caused London to move below the two thousand level .
At the close at four thirty the Footsie one hundred stood at one nine nine O point three and Wall Street was down fifty-two point three points at two four six O point five .
Sterling benefited from the trade figures with a two point four five cent rise to eight point seven nine O and a one point six , a one point one six pfennig increase to two deutschmarks point nine three three three , Gilts were a quarter of a point easier .
Amongst the major shares today , Abbey National up one at one nine nine , British Aerospace down twenty at five three four , British Airways down one at one five oh , British Gas down , down two at two one seven , British Steel were down two at one one six , B T down five at two five nine , Rolls Royce , they were down five at one seventy and T S B ends the day up , er that 's up two at one one eight .
Sport , and with the new football season just over a month old , Oxford United Football Club probably feels they 've had enough problems to last them for a lifetime .
After Saturday 's four two defeat at home to arch rival Swindon Town , the U 's tonight face Port Vale in the first leg of the second round of the Rumbelow 's League Cup .
And they find themselves with a goalkeeping problem — Mickey Inotta is at Port Vale ; Mickey has this been resolved yet ?
Yes Jane it has , as luck would have it I was late arriving , had to run through the rain , ran into the main stand and by pure accident ran into the Oxford United dressing room and there was Brian Horton , he said ‘Hallo Mick , hows the poster Mickey’ as he always does , and in fact he gave me the team news and that is — Ian Walker makes his senior debut tonight with both Alan injured , also two other changes ; Jackson comes in for Gary Smart and one surprising one , Steve McLaren for Mark Steen .
But one thing I can tell you about Port Vale , the ground has vastly changed from last season , the terracing 's been improved , their seating , it 's pure luxury apart from the press box , because I still have to climb that suspect wooden ladder , and perched on top of the main stand is a shed where I'm speaking to you from Jane .
; Fjm Mickey , my heart bleeds for you .
It , it was , it was a disastrous weekend for the U 's , what on earth are they going to do tonight , are they going to be able to pull it out of the hat and , and
Hopefully Jane , hopefully , I mean it was a disastrous weekend for the U 's on Saturday .
Losing at home four two to Swindon , their arch rivals after being two in front , but I 'd just like to make one point clear ; don't blame manager Brian Horton because all of Oxford 's matches that they 've lost this season has been through their own fault : lack of character out there on the pitch , there 's nothing Brian can do sat on the bench .
He can tell them in training , but they 've got to perform out there on the pitch , and probably this game has come just at the right time , after suffering a defeat like that , this is the time to get out there and show the supporters what they can really do .
So are you going to make a prediction ?
Well the Fox prediction tonight is that Oxford United will draw and probably beat them at the Manor .
In fact I'm sure they 'll beat them at the Manor and go through to the next round where hopefully we can probably play one of the big teams like — Oh , Manchester United , Newcastle or probably — Oh , I don't know
Mickey you can
Scunthorpe .
Dream away , dream away , let 's hope your prediction is more accurate than your one on Saturday was which really was not too close was it ?
No actually I went for four to one Oxford , but tonight I'm going to go for Port Vale two , Oxford United two .
Right , there will be live reports from Mickey throughout the evening on the Red Fox .
We 'll also be keeping you in touch with the second replay of the first qualifying round of the F A Cup which is taking place at Fort Meadow between Buckingham Town and Brackley Town ; it 's becoming a bit of a saga , the previous two matches ended one all draws .
Looking ahead to the game , well , here 's Mickey again .
Whatever happens tonight , I'm sure both managers will be keen to see this Cup Tie settled .
So far three hours and thirty minutes of football has failed to separate the two sides .
Keith Pierce-Right , manager of Brackley says ‘It 'll be another physical match’ .
I would imagine it 'll be a very , very similar sort of game , er hopefully we 'll get the right result , but it 's good for the club to have a good run .
Buckingham 's man-in-charge Phil Lines is still annoyed his side failed to take their chances last week .
Probably should have won it on , about seventy-five percent of it , but we were n't as good , we , nowhere what we should have been , but give them credit , they worked very hard and er well there was only one goal in it , they kept doing their job and they done that quite well .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Speculation recently that the announced retirement of Nigel Mansell from Formula One motor racing might not be as imminent as at first thought .
Well , Mansell who run , won yesterday 's Portugese Grand Prix is believed to be considering several offers to tempt him out of that so-called retirement .
One of the team 's interests is , is the Didcot-based Williams ; as Clive Watts reports :
Although the top line seat 's already snapped up , that is apart from the Didcot-based Williams driver line-up , the speculation surrounding the Pit Lane at Esteril this weekend was the pending signature of Nigel Mansell to the Oxfordshire team .
It 's no secret that Mansell has more than just a soft spot for Frank Williams , and indeed has enjoyed lots of success at Williams in the past .
If Mansell does put pen to paper , our own local Williams team should be right on the pace come the first Grand Prix next year .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Experts say Turtle-crazy children could become teenage mutant monsters by eating the cartoon creatures ' favourite junk foods .
Manchester-based allergy scientist , Dr Keith Mumby is warning that too much junk food such as pizzas and chocolate can turn mild-mannered youngsters into violent aggressive menaces .
Melanie Brown reports :
Radical eating their way through piles of pizza and marshmallows risk turning into nasty copies of their Mutant Hero Turtles .
Dr Keith Mumby from Allergy International says children who eat too much starch-refined foods , suffer behavioural problems .
It 's scientifically proven that foods can make certain susceptible children very ill , and this can manifest itself in various ways , but one of the most common ways is that children behave badly ; they become aggressive and disturbed .
It 's very likely to turn some of these children themselves into sort of er mutant monsters , er some of them behave extraordinarily badly , and yet they 're very sweet children when they 're eating the right diet .
A major supermarket has just unveiled four new Teenage Mutant Hero Turtle pizzas and Dr Mumby says the way the foodmakers have jumped in on the Turtle band-wagon is wrong .
I object .
I think it 's not , I think it 's very immoral to , to tie in these sort of junk foods or poor nutritious substances with something that 's very popular among children at the moment .
The doctor says stores are wasting an ideal chance to redefine children 's eating habits .
Well what 's wrong in them doing er Ninja Turtle apples or Ninja Turtle wholemeal bread , why does it have to be pizzas and floury carbohydrate rubbish ?
That 's what I don't like .
But he 's not hopeful the warnings will change food industry policies .
Doctors are now been putting out warnings for many years , saying that certain aspects of our diets and health policy are very dangerous and destructive .
But there seems to be no move to actually control or regulate the food industry .
A spokesman for one of the giant supermarket chains stocking Turtle food , says as far as they 're concerned , there 's plenty of nutritional value in their pizzas .
But if Dr Mumby 's right , Turtle fans may find that rather than helping the good guys , they could instead get a cow bunger clobbering from the Turtle team by turning into the baddies .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's nine minutes to seven .
There 's still very slow-moving traffic on the M four westbound at junction six .
And the M twenty five is slow in both directions between junctions fourteen and sixteen , that 's from Heathrow up to the M forty .
On the M forty at junction two for Beaconsfield , there 's a contraflow in operation with two narrow lanes running in both directions and the westbound entry slip road closed .
On the A four two three at Hopcroft 's Holt , there are temporary traffic lights for resurfacing work and er that might slow you down a little bit .
On the A forty , Oxford northern bypass , there are lane closures westbound between Marston flyover and Cherwell bridge , and on the A four two two , that 's from Stratford to Alcester , there are temporary traffic lights at Taylor 's Wood .
Otherwise , no serious problems to report .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And it 's been a fairly good rush hour on the buses and trains .
The only problem was the London Paddington to Liverpool train didn't run from the expected start station , it started from Reading instead of from Paddington , so if you were expecting somebody on that train , well they may not have , may not have been on that one if they er were actually starting from Paddington , otherwise no problems on the buses .
An Oxfordshire couple are celebrating a different kind of silver anniversary tonight .
Sheila and Jim Smith from Abingdon have been fostering children for the last twenty-five years .
Oxfordshire Social Services are hosting a party for the remarkable couple who 've welcomed more than one hundred children into their family .
But Sheila says far from welcoming a break from the kids , she doesn't like to have too tidy a house .
It 's alright for a couple of days and I have had a couple of days er peace and quiet , and then er I don't like it any more after that .
I don't like when there 's only er me in the house all day long , I don't like it when the house , the house is too tidy , when er there 's no children around .
We 've grown up with it , there 's got to come a time when we say ‘put a halt to it’ , but er I don't know what we 'll do then
What do you think you 'll feel like when they tell you that you can't foster any more children , because er there 's going to come a time
I'm not going to give them the chance to say I can't foster any more , I know when I , I know now when I'm going to stop fostering .
They 'll know , they 're not going to give , they 're not going to be given the chance to say er , er ‘you can't have any more’ , no .
Looking back on the twenty-five years of fostering children , is there any one memory that stands out for you ?
The memories I like to remember is er when things have worked out for children and they 've gone back home and if they haven't gone back home , then they 've moved on er to nice adoptive families .
I like to see the children , you know er really happy er and settled .
Does it make you sad saying goodbye to children that you 've looked after though ?
Yes , that 's one thing I 've , I 've never been able to get used to , er it 's always , it 's the same , it 's hard to say goodbye .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Andrew Jones and Chris Gill from Oxford are shortly to set off to see the pyramids .
They 're going overland by motorbike ; it 's all in aid of SNAP the charity that stands for Support for the Sick Newborn and their Parents at the John Radcliffe Hospital .
Now originally the trip was going to take them through many middle eastern countries including Jordan and Israel , er have you had to change your plans at all Andrew , it sounds as though that might not be the ideal place to be going at the moment ?
er No , we 've er changed our route slightly as er we 're getting the ferry from Turkey into Israel rather than going through Jordan .
Straight to Israel , and then , er where would that route take you , down , down to Egypt ?
; Maj It 's , it takes you , takes you virtually down the coast er through Gaza Strip into Egypt , that way .
It 's , it 's a very long way to cycle , is it er , have you done anything like before Chris ?
No , it 'll be my first time to do anything quite like this .
Have you been that far abroad before ?
No , I 've only really as far , as er Portugal , nowhere quite like this .
So it 's all going to be a little bit different out there .
Have you , have you both had to do any specific training or anything to , to get you this far ?
Well , we should of , but we haven't no
I see , and when are you starting ?
Next Monday .
Right now , I mentioned it was in aid of charity , how , how are you going on , on the charity side of things ?
er Well at the moment we 've got er total of about three thousand pounds and that 's mostly through private sponsors , and we 've got er three companies , they 've actually put their names on us .
Tell me , it 's , it 's probably quite an expensive thing to do in the first place without having to , to , to bring home , home some money for charity in the end , how have you gone about doing it ?
Yes , well , er at the moment I mean , it 's cost me er personally er getting on two thousand pounds , er I don't , don't know how much Chris has spent .
Whose bike is it that you 're going on ?
It 's my bike .
er And , and what is it — is it something special ?
er Well , it 's , it 's a standard er model , it 's , it 's actually designed for desert racing , so it 's
You 'll still have to do a few miles ?
Yes , it 's , it 's about ten thousand miles , but er , er hopefully with a few adjustments , should be alright ,
So you 're , you 're both on the same bike , one , one of you is riding and one of you is riding pillion , is that right ?
Yes .
Has , have you ever done anything er on sand and in the desert before Chris ?
No I haven't , nothing like that , no .
We intended to do a little bit of er beach work to try and get something like that but we haven't been able to , so .
So , er it 's going to be first time you ever experience it , actually on , for real as it were ?
Yes .
Well we wish you the best of luck , and er well let us know how you get on when you get back .
And that was the Fox Report for Monday September the twenty-fourth nineteen ninety , join us for another Fox Report tomorrow at six , but er don't go away , the Red Fox is here after the news at seven .
Claire Thomas will be er in the hot seat as it were .
The price of petrol 's going up again ; Texaco are putting an extra seven point three pence on a gallon of four star from midnight tonight after crude oil went above forty dollars a barrel on the market .
Labour M P 's and environment groups are saying tonight that Environment Secretary , Chris Patten has come up with a load of waffle in his three hundred and fifty point plan to rid Britain of pollution ; from Westminster , Des Fahey :
three hundred pages of recycled paper set out hundreds of problems and possible solutions .
Cars will spew out fewer noxious gases , more forests will be planted and there 'll be grants to improve cathedrals .
Chris Patten says he 's launching a discussion we must all be part of .
The successful environmental policy , at a reasonable cost , does involve all of us participating and all of us taking part in it .
But the opposition says there are no spending commitments and no tough action ; Shadow Environment Secretary , Brian Gould says this is because Chris Patten lost the crucial battles in Cabinet .
He 's lost those battles , I think because he lost the interest and support of the Prime Minister .
Mr Patten says the government must move at a pace it can afford .
Des Fahey , I R N Westminster .
Former world boxing champion , George Forman goes into the ring in London tonight for another fight in his remarkable comeback at the age of forty-two .
Forman , now a priest and known as the punching preacher says he 's better now than he ever was , and he 's confident of beating opponent Terry Anderson .
I think better of myself today as a matter of fact , I am more of a confident fighter than I ever have been .
Now since coming back from retirement in ninteen eighty seven , you 're unbeaten in twenty-two fights , twenty-one by knockouts , a lot of people have said that those fighters were n't up to scratch — what would you say to that ?
I think they 're only saying it because it 's true .
Independent Radio News .
It 's Tuesday the twenty fifth of September ninteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
The government has published it 's promised White Paper on the environment ; This Common Inheritance , to a mixed reception .
It runs for some three hundred pages and looks at everything from energy conservation and controlling pollution to preserving our hedgerows and architectural heritage .
The Chairman of the Conservatives back bech comm , back bench committee on the environment , Robin Squire , is pleased with the White Paper .
All of us , including the critics , have got to sit down and read three hundred pages line by line , to make final judgments , but we 're looking at a programme there of the next decade .
Certainly the Secretary of State has indicated that , so there 's going to be quite a lot of time for legislation and , and more importantly , time for discussion about the correct legislation .
But on the money side , er the significant sums already committed in areas like er , er cleaning up water , what is it — twenty four thousand million in the next ten years ?
Last week , an announcement on er further steps on acid rain — six thousand million pounds ; I mean there 's big , big money in there already committed and I 've no doubt that when the need is shown , there 'll be greater money still spent — which will either be taxpayer 's money or customer 's money .
Looking at the carbon dioxide levels , there 's just one indication of where the government could feasibly have been tougher , at least er critics said that , they er could have been tougher .
The target is two thousand and five , why not two thousand as the Labour Party says ?
er I think a couple of things : first of all , the detail programme ; the government will have to produce for the forthcoming World Climate Conference in October/November , er the way in which they 're going to reach their target and secondly that will also discuss from amongst all the countries , what the target should be .
So I think there 's an element still to come out in , in that area , er but if you look at er , er the er issue generally , there 's a lot in the White Paper on er more than I expected actually , on energy efficiency , which I think is one of the keys to getting down er levels of carbon dioxide , and there is discussion about some of the many many ways in which the role of the motor car will affect er how we reduce our C O two .
But I think , you know to make perhaps an obvious point , the comparison is made with West Germany , it 's not made with what er Japan or , or er America for instance are proposing to do , which is less than us at the present time .
And West Germany of course , has had ten years of massive growth in nuclear power , I don't hear the Green movement pressing us to imitate that ; they want the end result but they 're not prepared to wield the means .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's seven minutes past six .
But the White Paper has been give a less than enthusiastic welcome in some quarters , Liberal Democrat spokesman Simon Hughes says he 's worried that the Environment Secretary 's announcements may be full of good intentions which won't be carried out .
What he said at the Tory Party Conference last year was that he was going to set the agenda ; the environmental agenda for the nineties .
I think he 's set the agenda , but governments are the people who are meant to take action on agendas , and that he clearly has n't done .
I believe in taking action on fact and not fantasy , but I think it was Lord Zuckerman who was the scientific advisor to the government , who said that government has never taken preventive measures that would prove to be unjustified , and if you always wait to the last moment before being convinced to do anything , that 's often a moment too late .
Sadly , the whole of the White Paper is an exercise in putting up ideas but then not doing anything about them , and it 's a tragically wasted opportunity .
Chris Patten was saying that he can't actually put a figure on how much all of this is likely to cost because he 's still in the middle of the public sector borrowing grant and , this is all part of his negotiation with the Treasury , but do you think he has actually lost the battle with the Treasury .
He has clearly lost the battle with the Treasury , he makes the argument , as we expected him to make , that in order to improve the environment , you , you best choose market levers , market mechanisms .
Now , to do that , it means you tax the polluter , you make the polluter pay and you encourage people to do good environmental things by giving them grants or subsidies , but they are financial mechanisms and there is no proposal in here that allows any financial mechanisms .
Presumably the Treasury said ‘No’ .
If the Treasury said no and the Department of the Environment was trying to say yes , then clearly again the Treasury have won .
The whole er test of whether this was or was not a successful proposal , was whether you marry the environment and the economy , and sadly it has n't been married , and sadly the Treasury has yet again won .
There is no new money — there is no new money .
Now the thing that seems to be the most interesting on the er face value of it , is er how it 's going to affect fuel consumption and transport , and he is saying that they 're considering whether further changes should be made in the taxation of er fuel and vehicles .
Do you think that that is a hint that perhaps the high litre cars — that is the four litre efforts and er the company cars might get taxed at the next budget round ?
Well we were led to believe that the concessions given to company cars would go , or would go in part in the White Paper , and we were led to believe that they would er make a decision that would say that the gas-guzzling , the higher expenditure cars would be penalized in terms of vehicle excise licence , road tax , compared to the small ones , and yet they 've gone back even from that .
Yes , they will go , but the government should do two things , and it should have done them in the White Paper announcement ; it should have said ‘we are proposing to get rid of all advantages for company cars in tax terms and we are proposing to make sure that people pay by paying more road tax or more petrol costs if they have high gas-guzzling cars’ .
They can't duck both issues and , amazingly , they have .
On British Rail and London Transport , er the White Paper says it will support high levels of investment , surely that 's encouraging ?
Well , it would be encouraging if the government changed transport strategy , but the sad tragedy is that Chris Patten 's lost the Department of Transport battle as well .
What is needed , is to increase public investment in public transport and there isn't any increased public investment , the increased investment is coming from higher fares and the private sector , and slashed the road building programme .
Every mile of dual carriageway eats up twenty-six acres of countryside ; the government are committed to fourteen billion pounds expenditure on a road-building expansion .
Unless you cut back on road building , you don't cut back on the car , unless you invest in public transport , you don't get people to use it .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's ten minutes past six , I'm Jane Markham .
Oxfordshire and west Buckinghamshire beginning to ease off with the rush hour traffic at the moment , not too bad at all at the moment .
The Oxford ring road is beginning to ease as is the A forty this evening .
The A four one three in Buckinghamshire at Dunton turn between Winslow and Whitchurch did see two mile tailbacks earlier on this afternoon , at that was Aylesbury-bound due to the accident involving a car on fire .
The tailbacks are now beginning to ease I'm told by Thames Valley Police , due to the accident being cleared away from the carriageway at the moment .
Not so , such good news on the M twenty-five in Buckinghamshire , clockwise between junction fifteen and sixteen , the M four/M forty interchange ; still fairly heavy traffic there at the moment .
And at Kidlington on the A four two three , Langford Lane 's junction with Banbury Road sees temporary traffic lights for resurfacing prior to the traffic lights being installed at that junction ; some fairly long delays there at the moment .
At Reading road in Shiplake , the A four one five five , there are some temporary traffic lights there holding er the , your journey up this evening , for road realignment work and er there are some delays there as I say at the moment .
The M forty not running too badly at the moment , although between junction two and junction seven there are a fair few roadworks which could hold you up throughout your journey .
Mark Rise , A A roadwatch .
British Rail have no problems to report and the local buses are running well as well .
Still to come : the oil price tops the forty dollars a barrel mark and a support centre is set up for women who 've had to leave their husbands hostages in Kuwait .
First , a round up of today 's local news , here 's Paul Kirby .
Safety officials at the Harwell laboratory near Didcot are denying staff have been affected by radio-active contamination following a recent accident .
Three separate incidents apparently occurred within a fortnight of the start of this month including one in which a vial of radio-active substance was spilt .
Four bags of toxic waste which were found abandoned on the Oxford ring road have been handed back to the company that lost them .
At one point , the fire brigade brought in their chemical incident unit to deal with the bags , thought to be hazardous asbestos waste .
A major Oxfordshire-based motor dealer is responding to claims that it doesn't have the area 's environment at heart .
Residents in Wootton near Abingdon say they 're concerned that Hartwells hopes to introduce a high-intensity paint spraying to it 's Wootton site .
Abby Donald reports :
Hartwells say they themselves are concerned with the environment and claim any additional and replacement equipment has been carefully selected with the environment in mind .
Local residents in Wootton have become increasingly worried that high-intensity paint spraying will bring unpleasant smells and health hazards to the area , and they 've been backed up by local M P , John Patten as well as the Vale of White Horse District Council , whose planning committee have voted to stop Hartwells expanding their Wootton site into what they described as an industrial park .
Burglars have made off with four thousand pounds worth of goods from a motorist 's shop in Aylesbury .
The robbers got through a rear window at Autoserve in Elm Park Road and police are anxious to trace a white box lorry seen in the car park at the time .
Oxfordshire District Health Authority has confirmed it will want to buy services from the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre if it achieves self-governing status .
The new-look Health Authority has been meeting to discuss the Nuffield 's application to become self-governing .
David Perry says he wants the Nuffield to provide good value service of a high quality , he 's particularly keen it continues to help the County 's Accident Service , but he has no doubt the Authority will continue to use it .
If the Nuffield becomes a self-governing er trust , this Health Authority will want to continue to buy er the same level of , of service for Oxfordshire 's population er as we 're buying at the moment .
Of course , er we er , the provisos must be er that the er , that the prices or the costs at the Nuffield remain as competitive as they are at the moment , and of course , that we get the same very high quality that we er , that we already have .
Doctors and nurses in Oxford are to learn how to become involved in management of hospitals .
A major new initiative is to take twenty four nurses through a pilot course which could then be adopted throughout Britain .
Nancy Henstead who 's a regional nurse from Oxford Regional Health Authority says ‘nurses already play a substantial role in the day to day running of hospitals , but until now , they 've gone unrecognised for it’ .
Ward Sisters are actually managing resources at the moment , and part of their job is to actually give patients the best possible care within the resources that they actually have .
And if we can encourage them to do that er more effectively and more efficiently , then that 's all to the good .
What they haven't done in the past is actually acknowledge the fact that they are managers .
Fox F M News , Paul Kirby reporting .
It 's seventeen minutes past six .
The news that oil prices had shot above forty dollars a barrel set alarm bells ringing in E C headquarters in Brussels .
Common Market Energy Commissioner , Antonio Carlosa Arquala has issued an angry statement saying the price escalation is unjustified and indefensible .
He blames speculators and traders for the shock waves and says the surge in prices can't be justified by the oil crisis .
For years we have er all , producers and consumers , we have supported the idea that a market would be a reasonable way to set up reasonable levels of price .
And suddenly , erm very probably , by er unreasonable behaviour of some of the operators , we are seeing the emission of shock waves to the market which actually are extremely negative for the economy of the community as a whole , and for the oil world er as well .
I believe that you accept that there 'll be the short-term gains by oil companies and traders , but in the long-term , the position could , could reverse ; the bubble might burst .
That 's true , er it would be also I think irresponsible for my side to point at oil companies or this or that operator .
This is erm a complex and overall process ; some people are behaving er in the wrong way , otherwise , market mechanisms do not justify forty dollars at this stage .
We all know that er if the crisis has a military er follow-up , er during this type of crisis , everybody will exp , expect this crisis , if it happens , will be short , erm well er would be abnormal but this is not the situation of today .
So I think forty dollars is completely out of line with the best provisions .
So , I believe that what you 're also saying is that even if there were war , that wouldn't necessarily mean that the tap would suddenly turn off and there 'd be no more oil coming out of the Middle East ?
That 's true , er the market , and I think , the general public must be aware that so far , the supply is kept at a reasonable level , the erm difficulty coming out of the erm interruption of Iraqi and Kuwaiti field has been replaced .
Refineries are properly supplied and the market works in proper conditions .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Since Saddam Hussein marched into Kuwait , more that nine hundred Briton , most of the women , have either escaped or been flown out of the Gulf .
Many have left their husbands behind to face an uncertain future , and some have arrived here with few belongings , little money and no accommodation .
The government has now set up a support centre to help such families : ; Fc Good afternoon , emergency unit .
When people are ringing about their relatives in the Gulf , er they just want to know what is the latest , are they coming out , this kind of thing .
We do have occasions where we 're having to say the same thing er over and over again , because nothing very much has happened .
Hallo sir , you 're calling about your daughter , Jennifer , erm I'm sorry , I don't really have any more information to add to what we told you on the twentieth .
Deep in the basement of the Foreign Office , a team of junior diplomats is on hand to answer queries and give advice to people returning from Iraq and Kuwait .
Jeff Higgins is one of the unit supervisors .
We have er six people taking telephone calls from members of the public , er these are enquiries about the latest in the Gulf er , the relatives in the Gulf , and then we have on the other side of the room , we have people who are handing out information that we have received to their relatives in this country .
We also have er a D S S team , Department of Social Securities er team to answer specific questions , er for that department .
The staff aren't trained counsellors and Mr Higgins admits they 're learning to deal with caller 's emotional problems as they go along , or refer them to other organisations such as the Samaritans .
Agony aunt , Claire Raynor visited the unit today .
What they 've done in a matter of a few weeks is put together a data bank of information that 's colossal , and they 're dealing with an enormous amount of , of distress and problems .
I mean , I know that a lot of the calls they get are practical , people have come back from the Gulf with no money , no home , I mean they 've lived there for years and years and years , without the family network sometimes to keep them going , or friends , friends , they 've , they 've lost all of their , and it 's , it 's not easy .
And a lot of them have emotional problems ; I mean one of the girls I talked to here who 's dealing with calls says it 's difficult , you get some people who get very angry with you because you don't have news for them .
And others who ring up just to talk , and they feel much better , and they cry and they get distressed .
I think they 're doing a great job , just listening , it 's er , it 's the best anyone can do .
She says ‘feelings of guilt will be a major difficulty for wives who 've left their husbands behind’ .
‘I went away and left him’ , now even if they went , went away and left and , because they had to bring the children home , or if they went away and left him because they knew it was the best thing for everyone concerned , because the foreign office wants as many people , we all need as many people to get out of the area as possible ; their guilt will be huge .
Er .
And that makes people angry , and , and hostile , because that 's what guilt has to er there will also be a lot of bottled up distress because they 'll think ‘well he 's there , I 've got no right to cry , I'm safe home’ , so they 'll be bottling up their feelings about it .
Sheer plain missing and loneliness , I mean , it 's awful .
You , you don't marry someone because you want to be on your own , you marry someone because you want to be together .
Er .
The loneliness will be colossal .
There 's still no indication from Iraq that British men , and in particular those that are seriously ill , will be allowed home , despite repeated appeals from the government and diplomatic staff in Kuwait and Baghdad .
The Green Party Conference drew to a close today and they certainly had something to talk about with the publication of the government 's White Paper on the environment .
Caroline Lucas from the Oxford Green Party has been at the Conference — Caroline , er what was the er the Conference 's impression of Chris Patten 's White Paper ?
Well , it was more disappointing than even we had expected .
There were very few firm commitments , the language is very much that of exploring , attempting , trying , hoping , when what we were looking for was a clear legislative framework .
But we do think that the fact that they chose to launch it on the last day of our Conference is quite a compliment ; it was after all the Green Party that forced the government to produce the White Paper as a result of our fifteen % in the European Elections last year .
And I think it does show that the Greens are continuing to set the political agenda .
Now it was a three hundred page document er have , have many of the delegates been able to have time to digest it at all ?
Well , we 're all looking at it at the moment of , of course , but some of our first impressions are that for example on global warming , there 's no commitment to , to a carbon taxation .
On er urban pollution , there are no firm plans to er increase investment in public transport .
On soil erosion , there 's absolutely mention of that at all , again with acid rain , there are no radical new commitments .
So we are feeling here there 's a lot of persuasive language but not very much action .
It is something though ; better than nothing perhaps ?
It 's certainly better than nothing , indeed it is yes , but there 's a long way to go .
Now , this was the last day of the Conference , er did you have time to talk about anything other than the White Paper ?
Yes we did , we were talking about our General Election strategy and er we 've been planning some campaigning and training workshops and so on , and I can tell you that we 've selected a Green Party candidate for Oxford west for the General Election ; his name is Mike Woodin , and the process is going on to select someone for Oxford east , so there 's certainly going to be a strong Green presence in Oxford during the General Election .
Now , er it 's , it 's not yet known when the General Election is , but er will you be ready for it ?
We certainly will , we also launched today our er campaign for two million pounds , our General Election campaign for , for the money that we 're going to need to stand candidates in as many constituencies as possible , so we 're certainly gearing up for it , yes .
What was your opinion of of the Conference , did you find it er a useful , a useful er talking shop ?
Yes it was , and I think it also er really put paid to the journalists that came along expecting to write our political obituary , because what did come over in all the workshops er and in the main plenary sessions , was that , that local , local parties are doing very well indeed and are getting a very good reception on the doorstep , in fact some other polls on , on er the Green strategy to the environment show that people actually do still trust the Greens far more than any other party .
But you 're still unlikely to make an impression at the General Election ?
I would disagree with that .
I think there are some constituencies er where we will , certainly will be making an impression , and I think that will be shown er when , when it happens .
Caroline thank you very much .
The new look Oxfordshire District Health Authority 's been meeting today , it 's the first time it 's met since the changes were made under recent government legislation .
The general manager of the Authority , David Perry says today marks an important step in the administration of health care in the County .
Well we 've had the government 's er White Paper , that 's now become an Act of Parliament , and in accordance with that er Parliamentary decision , all the nineteen ninety two District Health Authorities in the Country , er are newly constituted .
And that means er that they 're divided into what we call er Non-executive Directors ; that is to say , people who er have other interests and other jobs , but spend part of their time er as Health Authority members er and the Executive Directors of the Authority who are the full-time , er full-time staff .
What will be the advantages of the new-look Authority ?
Well , er first of all , it 's a smaller er Authority , er the er meetings of the Authority area are of course er going to be in public , just as er always , and er I think probably the key er advantage is going to be the new emphasis that we 'll be able to place on buying health care services .
Er .
The Health Authority 's main responsibility is to assess the health care needs of Oxfordshire 's population — nearly six hundred thousand erm for Oxfordshire .
And then to try and do the best they can to buy the full range of health care services for the needs of , of their own population .
It 's all new , is it going to take a bit of getting used to ?
Well er I think it is going to take a bit of getting used to , yes that 's , that 's right ; preparing agreements for Oxfordshire Health Authority , service agreements , we 're calling them , er with some er eighty or ninety health care programmes , health care services in our hospitals and communities .
That is going to take us a bit of time to put into place , but we 're , you know we 're moving just about as fast as our legs can carry us .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Pensioners from all over the Fox F M area have been meeting today , calling for a greater role and more recognition in society .
Trade Union officials , including former T N G leader , Jack Jones were at the meeting in Banbury , and called for greater financial and emotional support for retired people .
One of the speakers , Canol , Canon Ron Mitchinson says there 's a wealth of knowledge and experience that society could draw on .
My main concern is , that I think that over the years , as people have lived longer and as they became retired , we 've tended to neglect them , not so much financially and in terms of their conditions , though I think there 's always arguments about that ; I think we 've actually neglected their role in the community .
I think that old people , or people who are retired , rather than old people , have an enormous amount of wisdom about their community , they have certainly stories to tell , and traditionally I think often in older traditional communities , they , the retired people , the people who 've ceased work , have been if you like , the guardians of the wisdom and the guardians of the stories .
And I think they have a tremendous contribution to make , and I think what we ought to be doing with er people who retire , it 's not to say the end of their working life , and therefore they 're on the scrap heap , but that it 's a new stage in life and we ought to honour them and respect them and I think , give them some er affirm where they 're at , and use them much more as the guardians of wisdom and the guardians of the stories of the community , and use them in that sort of way .
Now , that may be very idealistic and it 's obviously not all retired or old people who 've got a lot of wisdom unless you want to tell their stories .
But there is a sense in which , because people are living longer , er we tend to think , ‘well , let them go on working’ .
I'm all in favour of early retirement , but actually acknowledging then , the people who retire , have that contribution , and I think we ought to be developing a way of our society to ensure that they 're able to live reasonably comfortably , and so that the pension should actually be a living wage , to enable them to be free , to make those sort of contributions .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's six thirty .
The motorways in the Fox F M area — fairly heavy this evening .
The M twenty five in Buckinghamshire around at junction seventeen anticlockwise , that 's at Rickmondsworth , traffic 's very slow there at the moment and clockwise between junction fifteen and sixteen , the M four/M forty interchange , traffic is very heavy there as well .
We 've just heard that in Berkshire , the M four , junction six to seven , that 's Slough on the A four , if you 're heading that way this evening , traffic 's slow there going westbound and obviously could cause you a few delays .
In Buckinghamshire on the A four one three at Dunton turn , between Winslow and Whitchurch , the tailbacks there caused by an earlier accident involving a car on fire .
are easing now and er should be clear in the next few minutes , due to the accident having been cleared from the carriageway .
On the A forty-three in Oxfordshire , just north of Enstone , some temporary traffic lights there are holding drivers up for the resurfacing work that 's going on there — a little bit of extra care should be taken .
And finally , on the A forty-one at Risecote avenue in Banbury , it 's completely closed southbound and the junction with Orchard Way for paving work , and there are some diversions to your journey there .
Mark Rise , A A roadwatch
And I 've still nothing to report to you on the buses or trains .
It 's six thirty two .
Soviet Foreign Minister , Edoard Sheverdnaze says the United Nations could sanction military force if Iraq refuses to pull out of Kuwait .
His warning comes as the U N Security Council prepares to vote in favour of an air embargo against Iraq .
Millionaire financier , Sir Jack Lyons has been spared going to prison after a court heard that a jail sentence could kill him ; the judge , Mr Justice Henry said he accepted the businessman was seriously ill .
Instead , the financier was fined three million pounds for his part in the Guinness affair .
The cost of petrol 's going up again to more than two pounds forty a gallon ; Texaco are putting an extra seven point three pence on the price of four star from midnight tonight , after crude oil went above forty dollars a barrel on the markets .
The weather for the Fox F M area , after a pleasant evening with some sunshine , the night 'll be dry with clear periods , these are going to allow mist and fog patches to form by dawn in rural parts of the area , especially along the Thames and Thame valleys .
A touch of ground frost is expected as temperatures fall to three degrees celsius — that 's thirty seven degrees fahrenheit .
Still to come : drunken giant wasps cause havoc in the south of England .
First though , plans to build new schools and improve existing buildings in Oxfordshire have been shelved ; twenty projects have been put on hold because the County Council can 's sell the land which would have er funded the schemes .
Labour councillor for Banbury , Jack Steer , say ‘government restrictions on the Council and land values have combined to work against the Council 's plans’ .
The County Council reallocates resources from things that it sells into things like new build , new schools ; if we sell a piece of a playing field or whatever , then we will put , plough the money back into capital resources within the education service somewhere else .
If you add that to the er problems that the government has created for this County , as with other County Councils , then the two things make it quite impossible for us to continue with a capital programme as we would like .
I mean , there 's no fun in sitting there saying ‘we 're not going to be able to do Bloxham Primary School to replace the temporary buildings they 've had there for nineteen years’ ; that gives nobody any joy , but in terms of priorities , it was one that was felt er did not have that prior , the same priority as some of the others .
Do you think the Council is providing an adequate service educationally ?
Both government and local authorities have failed to put money into capital projects for a long long time .
This County Council failed to do it from the time , time it was formed until eighty-five ; it failed even to address the problem , never mind do it , and we 've been trying to , to sort of do some catching up .
And it is very difficult , given the current economic situation .
For twenty projects to be deferred , wouldn't that suggest that there are problems within the er County Council ?
Well there are problems in the sense that we 've got to do it , in terms of management of the County Council , the control of the capital programme , no I don't think so , because if , if there was no control on it , you wouldn't now be picking up and saying ‘hey we 've got to do something about it’ .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Around twenty-two thousand people in Oxford live in rented accommodation ; the highest proportion of rent , er private rented housing in any city outside London .
Now housing organisations have got together to make a private tenant 's manifesto to push forward the rights of tenants to be protected .
They say that tenants should have their rents linked to the condition of the property they live in .
Jeremy Sparford from Oxford Housing Aid , who 's helped put the manifesto together , says that ‘all too often , the lack of choices open to the homeless , mean that their rights are abused’ .
The situation that , that a lot of people find themselves in nowadays , now er council housing is no longer available to an awful lot of people , is that they 're at the mercy of private landlords , and in order to have any kind of home they have to go along this sort of conditions and rent levels laid down by private landlords .
And what the manifesto is , is trying to do is to er set an agenda for about how the lot of private homes can be improved , and er fixing rent is one thing which the government er traditionally has had a responsibility for and which needs , er must be linked in with conditions because what we have at the moment is a situation where you get , in Oxford , a er a family living in one room being charged er over two hundred pounds a week by an individual landlord , and that 's clearly unacceptable .
There 's lots of myths about Rachmanite landlords — is that really the case or is it one huge myth ?
I think it 's easy to be glib about this , there are clearly an awful lot of landlords and landladies around who provide an excellent service and merely want a reasonable rent in return for offering a decent service .
However , it is sadly the case that it is still true that there are er a number of landlords around who tend to control a lot of property , who er are charging er absurdly and unreasonably high rents in return for an appalling service .
Now one would think that er they would go out of business because no-one would want to live there , but as a result of government policy , which has meant that Council houses aren't available to people any more , because a local authority isn't allowed to build them ; people actually have the choice : they either are homeless and on the streets or they pay exorbitant rents for appalling accommodation .
And unfortunately , unscrupulous landlords that are actually benefiting from this , and in a lot of cases , it 's not , people , people aren't paying , necessarily paying this rent out of their wages , it 's actually the poll tax payer who is paying these rents , er through housing benefit , and I think we should all be aware of the way in which we collectively are being ripped off
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty two minutes to seven .
Drunken giant wasps are causing havoc in Kent , Surrey and Sussex .
The swarms of Scandinavian median wasps resemble hornets and have a painful sting .
Peter Bateman of Rentokil says there 's a reason for their bad behaviour — they 've been getting drunk on rotten fruit .
It is a largish wasp , it is er in size between the common wasp and the hornet , and er so it 's fairly visible when it is around , but it doesn't er normally nest in buildings , it nests in , in low trees and , and shrubs and bushes .
So , it is unlikely to become a major pest problem .
What about the idea that these er wasps might be drunk ?
Yes , well these , all wasps of course , er tend to er hit the fruit juice at this time of the year , and that fruit juice is very often fermenting , and you get a particularly er waspish reaction , er naturally , when er somebody goes to pick up a fallen apple or windfall pear , and they pick up a handful of wasp , inadvertently , and I think this year , particularly with a shortage of water , more wasps of all species have been driven to attack fruit , er and are feeding on the er fruit juice , much of which is fermenting .
And so you get these , these somewhat stupefied er or one over the eight wasps rolling around , er and er you know , not , not being terribly active , but that , that is the time at which of course people do tend to tread on them or pick them up and get stung .
It does seem that there are a lot of wasps around this September ; there are always wasps around at this time of year , but er are , do you have any evidence that er there 's even more than usual ?
Yes we have , er I mean , the er there are wasps years recorded way back from Gilbert White 's time ; there have been certain , wasp years , but in terms of people wanting action against wasps nests , er our own pest control branches throughout the country , er did a telephone survey ten days ago , and er in many parts , they range from er forty percent increase to eighty percent increase to one hundred percent increase in some parts of the country ; this season compared with last season .
This is the Fox Report , it 's twenty to seven .
Still to come : Princes Risborough travels back in time to the summer of nineteen forty .
First , financial report in association with Barclays Bank for your financial needs .
U K market tried on several occasions to break through and remain above the two thousand level today , but confidence remains low and the Footsie one hundred index was unable to find support .
At the end of trading the U K market remained below the two hundred level at one hundred and ninety nine point two up eight point nine points , volume was moderate with four O nine point six million shares traded .
In New York the Dow Jones Index tried to regain some of yesterday 's lost ground , at at four thirty stood up two point seven two points at two four five five point six nine .
And sterling enjoyed another boost triggered by yesterday 's better than expected August current account figures and higher oil prices .
Against the dollar , sterling rose point three of a cent to one point eight eight three , against the deutschmark a gate , a gain of seven point five pfennigs was seen .
Amongst the major shares today Abbey National were up four at two O nine , British Aerospace up eight at five four two , British Airways down four at one four six , British Gas were down five at two one one , British Steel up one at one one seven , B T went down one to two two eight , Rolls Royce were up one at one seven one and T S B were up five at one two three .
Your listening to the Fox Report ; sport , and last night , Oxford United Football Club won the first leg of their second round clash with Port Vale in the Rumbelows League Cup .
It went some way to repairing their damaged pride after their defeat by Swindon Town at the weekend , Mickey Inotta was there ; Mickey it must have cheered you up a bit .
It did , what didn't cheer me up though Jane was the Press Box facilities .
In the second division in this day and age , I had to climb a wooden ladder , I had to go all the way to the very top of the main stand and there was a shed , and at the end of the match , surface water forced me to dry my socks off in the radiator in the dressing rooms afterwards .
But it also brought a smile to manager Brian Horton , and I was thrilled to bits for him because he 's taken a lot of stick over recent results .
But then again , I 've always believed that the players have to show that character out there on the pitch , they haven't , they learnt their lesson , losing four two against Swindon , that match will never be forgotten by the supporters , it doesn't matter if they win the Cup , it 'll never be forgotten .
But that match brought a smile to Brian Horton 's face and I'm very pleased about it .
It definitely did , and er I think probably this time he 's rather rev , relieved that his game plan actually worked .
It 's funny how it works , isn't it , I mean we 've just , it , it 's like us and er Swindon in a way because we 've just got it over on Port Vale haven't we ?
I mean , I'm saying that with tongue in cheek because they 've got to come to our place .
But the plan , which I , I was going to do has worked a treat .
We 've , we 've soaked up a lot of pressure without having too many goal attempts at us , and then we 've broke away and scored two goals ; the plan 's worked a treat and I was due to do something right .
It wasn't actually the most exciting match from the spectator 's point of view I understand .
Were , were there any outstanding performances worth going along to see ?
Three in particular , the first one , Ian Walker the goalkeeper on loan from Tottenham Hotspurs , he played a super game , made some very good saves and his handling was secure .
His dad was Mickey who keeps goal for Colchester United , I don't know if he was at the match , but he was , er had a very good game .
Also Martin Foyle , now of course , there , there is a rumour that Ipswich Town are after him , but at the moment he 's scoring goals for Oxford ; five in the last five games , he 's scored two , and also a mention for Steve McLaren .
Now we need somebody , a ball winner in mid-field , he came in last night and he did the job .
And the two-goal hero , hero you mentioned there , Martin Foyle , was full of praise for the young keeper , Ian Walker .
Well it 's always nice to keep a clean sheet , you know , especially away from home , but , you know , we just , just get a few League wins and er get the confidence back again .
And everybody 's smiling in the dressing room ?
Well yes , it 's nice to have a happy changing room to be honest .
You know I thought the keeper did ever so well , you know , made a couple of good saves in the first half and just changed the game for us .
Ian , a cracking debut ; first of all take us through that er first half save , you had nothing to do , conditions awful and yet you pull off a save like that .
The ball come across and er I see Bedford had his back to the goal , and I could see he was going to swivel and hit it with his left foot , and I 've just come across the goal and er , he just hit it down low to my right hand side and luckily I 've come the right way and pushed it wide .
Well that 's what happened last night .
There 's some local action tonight isn't there Mickey , what 's happening around er the area
That 's right Jane , I 'll be off to Culham Road shortly to cover the match between Abingdon Town and Brackley , Bracknell ; they 're playing in the Vauxhall League Division two south and some team news for Town — doesn't read very well , I'm afraid , mid fielders Kevin Connelly and Keith Appleton , they 've both been ruled out .
Connelly has a knee injury , while Appleton is out due to work commitments , so they 'll probably lose .
In Rugby Union , Chinnor and Swindon , they 'll be locked in combat in the first round of the Oxfordshire Courage floodlit Cup , and that match kicks off at the southern by-pass ground at seven fifteen .
Right , well I suppose the big sporting story of the evening has to be the boxing ; George Forman , who 's forty-one is about to go into the ring in er London 's Docklands arena .
He 's going to face Terry Anderson in yet another comeback fight .
You 're a bit of a boxing aficionado Mickey , what , what do you rate his chances ?
Well basically I think this fight , his chance is he 'll probably win , but this fight is a bit of a joke ; it does boxing no good whatsoever .
The British Medical Association , well they 'll have ample ammunition now to say that boxing is no longer a sport .
It doesn't do the name of boxing any good whatsoever , he 's made twenty two comeback fights , he 's won twenty-one inside the distance , but nobody is a name .
I'm just not happy about it at all , the match should never have been sanctioned , and like I said , it does boxing 's reputation no good whatsoever .
Mind you , Forman himself 's rather confident about tonight 's fight , and indeed his fitness .
I think better of myself today as a matter of fact , I'm more of a confident fighter than I ever have been .
I believe that if I'm given the chance to fight the George Forman of old , the George Forman of today would be the better .
Now since coming back from retirement in nineteen eighty-seven , you 're unbeaten in twenty-two fights , two one by knockouts .
A lot of people have said that those fighters were n't up to scratch , they were n't the most hard-hitting of fighters — what would you say to that ?
I'm going to put up a good fight .
I want all of you to go there , and tell all your friends to come see one of the wonders of the world .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
What 's green , measures eight by fifty-two inches and would burn a large hole in your pocket ?
The answer , well it 's a one million pound bank note that 's up for auction at Christies next month .
The note was used by the Treasury as a receipt for American funds donated to help Europe 's post-war recovery .
Jashav Barisna says it 's auction price will be only two percent of it 's original value .
It was connected with the Marshall Aid fund at the end of the war , er where the United States actually wanted evidence of the fact that funds that had been transferred to the U K Treasury , were being so to speak properly used by the Bank of England and that the Bank of England issued this er one million pound note as evidence that the funds were made available to the Bank of England by the Treasury .
The , the note is in fact er effectively the Bank of , could have endorsed it to , to a third party so to speak exactly as it would have done in any er any fiscal currency of the er of the type .
So at one time , it was worth one million pounds ?
Yes , it would have been used physically as one million pounds , yes it would .
It was , it has the face value of one million pounds in physical terms , there is , in fact it is thought that there was a ten million pounds as well based on the same , on the same er principle .
It would have been still worth one million pounds had it not been cancelled of course , and the item is actually cancelled , so consequently , naturally not .
Er .
It does say on it of course‘payable on demand’ and not ‘payable to bearer’in this instance , and that is quite an important difference .
And no one demanded the one million pounds ?
No , because it hadn't been transferred to anybody else .
It is not quite clear incidentally how this came out er , er into er be , becoming available to Christies for auction .
It is thought that there might , it might have remained in the hands of some diplomats who were transferring it , and there were two of these issues , there is one in a private collection at present , so this is a second one , and number eight which is coming out for sale , but the number seven did change hands er a couple of years ago , so at about fifty five thousand pounds I believe .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's ten minutes to seven , I'm Jane Markham .
Oxfordshire and west Buckinghamshire beginning to calm down after the rush hour this evening .
It 's all reasonably quiet now ; the Oxford ring road and the A forty is beginning to calm down a bit .
On the M four in Berkshire , junctions six to seven , that 's Slough and the A four , it 's heavy and slow-moving westbound there at the moment , and into Buckinghamshire , on the M twenty-five , anti-clockwise round junction seventeen in Buckinghamshire , at Rickmondsworth , traffic 's very slow there as well .
And clockwise between junction fifteen and sixteen , the M four/M forty interchange , it 's very heavy traffic there at the moment .
The A four one three at Dunton turn between Winslow and Whitchurch has now cleared , no major problems there any more going Aylesbury bound , after the earlier accident .
And finally on the A four one this evening , there is patching work on the A four one at various locations throughout the road this evening , which could hold you up as you travel along there .
Mark Rise , A A roadwatch .
And it 's been a fairly good evening if you 've been using public transport .
British Rail have nothing to report and I 've no problems to tell you about on the local buses either .
It 's eight minutes to seven .
Tomorrow lunch time , local author William Harley will be at a champagne lunch in London , he 's one of twelve finalists in this year 's Ian St James Literary Award .
He 's already picked up a thousand pounds tomorrow he 'll receive a copy of his short story — The Green Moustache , which er got him into the final along with the other eleven winning stories which are being published in an anthology , which is hot off the presses from the publishers Collins .
He 'll also find out if he 's in the top three , and therefore will receive a further cash prize .
Ian St James , who organizes and finances the awards , has made his fortune as a best-selling author .
He set up the prize to give aspiring writers a chance to step on the first rung of the literary ladder .
; Mij All twelve writers will come to a glitzy show biz type lunch at the Cafe Royal , hosted by David Frost , and that 's where we will know for the first time , who 's , who is the overall winner , the runner-up and the third place writer .
But , er the day has a number of er reasons , er it 's , a ) it 's a fun day , a show bizzy-type lunch .
The important thing though is that invited to the lunch are the top literary agents in London and therefore it 's an opportunity for these aspiring writers to meet top literary agents and of course , we 've got the biggest publisher in the U K there — Collins , and so it 's , what the awards all about entree ; giving access and extending a helping hand to twelve aspiring writers every year and giving them the most terrific flying start .
So , so in a way , the money is incidental , it 's really this , this platform as it were
Abso , absolutely , you see because if you take — last year we had er one of our winners er a lady called Liz Harris , who 's been knocking on the door and trying to get established as a writer for years and years and years .
I think Liz has written six full-length manuscripts and , and has just lived with rejection sh , slips .
Now Liz didn't win our first , second or third prize er last year , but she , she made it to the final twelve , er her , her full-length novel now , has now been accepted by Collins and that 's going to be published next February , there 's talk of a big American contract for Liz and Liz has now been floated away in to the world of big time professional writing .
And that 's what , that 's what it 's all about .
That 's brilliant .
So , so William you , yours was a short , well they were all short stories because that 's the nature of the competition , what , what are your aspirations in the future ?
Well , I just hope , I would like to get a novel published er the story of Liz , to my mind , justifies Ian 's project one hundred per cent and that 's , should be what it 's all about .
Er .
Myself , I 've got a novel almost finished and if somebody buys it , so much the better
Wish him all the best with that .
Tomorrow , Princes Risborough in Buckinghamshire will be travelling back to the summer of nineteen forty .
An exhibition 's already started at the library and tomorrow evening , a Vera Lynn look-alike and a sound-alike will be visiting the library with a fifty piece band .
Alec Kennedy is the area librare , brare , I knew I was going to have trouble with that , the area librarian who 's behind all this .
Alec , it 's a huge project , and er the band , where have you , where have you got them from ?
The band comes from er Princes Risborough Upper School , er led by er Jane Ashcroft who 's the music teacher from Princes Risborough Upper School .
Oh , so it 's , so it 's , it 's not even , it 's not people who are around in nineteen forty then ?
Oh no , the er , to , to maintain authenticity , the people in the band have to look as if they would looked in nineteen forty , which is why er Sally Edwards who 's the Vera Lynn look-alike er would be more authentic than Vera Lynn herself .
Is she a local girl ?
She is , she 's , runs a local firm in Princes Risborough and she 's one of my library users .
Ah so , what sort of things will they be singing ?
er I should imagine they 'll be singing ‘There 'll be blue birds over the White Cliffs of Dover’ erm ‘I 'll be seeing you again’and all the songs that I'm not quite sure of , but I'm sure that of my readers know well .
Yes we 're all far too young for that .
Now you 've got other things going on tomorrow er something 's happening at lunch time isn't it ?
er Half past one , there are about three hundred , or there will be about three hundred school children descending upon the library from Icknield Primary and Berryfields Primary er and er Monks Risborough School er they will be given a sweet ration — sweets for a whole week , which is less than they imagine they 're going to be .
This is actually three ounces of sweets .
So you 've bribed them along with a promise of sweets
er It was just to show what people had to put up with .
There is an er exhibition of rationed food , so people can see how , how much people left , lived off .
So they 're all coming in costume as it were ?
They 're all coming dressed as evacuees , they 've all been making cardboard boxes with bits of string and making suitcases extremely battered — all out of cardboard .
So in nineteen forty , I suppose evacuees would have been sent to Princes Risborough rather than being sent away ?
er Yes , I , I wanted er to find a judge for the competition ; somebody who was evacuated to Princes Risborough , but that was quite difficult .
Er .
So we have people who took in evacuees in Princes Risborough because , as you say , people would have been evacuated from London I suppose out to Princes Risborough .
It 's a fascinating project , because you 've also got all sorts of memorabilia lined up in the library .
Yes I put out an appeal to er my readers to search their attics and their er lofts and their garden sheds for all the things they might have left over from the second World War .
Er .
We had hundreds of er identity cards and ration books , all of which are on display in the library , coupled with some extraordinary things ; er a wedding dress made out of a parachute , and an empty incendiary bomb — I stress empty , I 'd hate to think it went off in the library .
So all this stuff is on display at the moment and er several mannequins dressed in costume of the Home Guard and of the Land Army .
This is an enormous project , why did you decide to pick the summer of nineteen forty ?
er Summer of nineteen forty is the fifty year er commemoration of the Battle of Britain , er and this began as a book display and spread outwards , out of the library and along the high street .
Some of the shops are also involved , they will also have window displays , several of Princes Risborough shops have taped up windows which looks quite extraordinary when you drive into the town .
People will wonder what on earth 's happening .
It , it does look quite strange , the library itself looks the strangest with it 's sandbags over the door .
So you 've got the children tomorrow lunchtime , you 've got the band tomorrow evening , but the library exhibition goes on a bit longer ?
The exhibition will go from now , will last from now until the twenty-second of October when all the memorabilia will be on show then .
Alec , thank you very much .
And that was the Fox Report for Tuesday the twenty-fifth September , nineteen ninety .
Join us for another Fox Report tomorrow evening for a round up of local , national and international news , but stay with Fox F M after the news at seven o'clock — it 'll be the Red Fox .
Tonight the man who commands British Forces in the Gulf is named , while the wife of an Oxford man who 's stranded in Kuwait says her family now face homelessness .
The housing aid said the only thing they could offer me is bed and breakfast .
Nigel Mansell says he won't retire after all but will race next season for the Didcot-based Williams team ; they are delighted .
His ambition and our objective jointly is to win a driver 's , world championship driver 's title before he retires .
And Oxfordshire 's children 's line is relaunched .
If you 've got a problem and want to talk , ring children 's line O eight hundred six two six thousand .
The six o'clock news , this is Patrick Muirhead .
President Bush says the world must look beyond the Gulf crisis to a new deal for the Middle East , and he 's hinting that an Iraqi pull out from Kuwait could lead to an end to the conflict between the Arabs and Israel .
But Mr Bush told the U N Security Council in New York that Iraq must put the right wrong it has done in seizing a nation to which it had no right .
In the waiting weeks , one of history 's most hopeful summers , the vast still beauty of the peaceful Kuwaiti desert was fouled by the stench of diesel and the roar of steel tanks .
And once again the sound of distant thunder echoed across a cloudless sky , and once again the world awoke to face the guns of August , but this time the world was ready .
A hero of the Falklands and the Iranian Embassy siege is to command British Forces in the Gulf .
Fifty six year old Lieutenant General , Sir Peter de la Beliaire was due to retire in November , instead , he 's preparing to fight a war .
Peter Russell has this report .
He 's Britain 's most decorated General ; a former Director of the S A S and a close associate of Mrs Thatcher .
Next month he planned to retire from the army , but says he could n't resist this call to duty .
I 've got no regrets about not retiring , I mean er I'm a professional soldier er and if you 're offered an appointment er and a privilege such as this is , then you don't throw it away easily .
Sir Peter 's served in Suez , Jordan and Aden .
It 's that Middle East experience which persuaded the M O D to appoint him overall commander in the Gulf .
Peter Russell I R N , at the Ministry of Defence .
British Rail maintenance staff have voted for a series of twenty-four hour strikes , starting next week .
It 'll mean delays for thousands of intercity passengers between Scotland , London , Birmingham , Manchester and Liverpool , the action 's also expected to hit commuter services at Northampton and Bletchley .
About three hundred and fifty overhead electric workers are protesting at B R 's plans to close three maintenance depots .
The families of two teenage joyriders shot dead by troops in Belfast are demanding to know why the checkpoint patrol had to kill them .
Martin Peak and Karen Brielly died when soldiers mistook them for terrorists when they roared through a roadblock .
But the families say the stolen car should have been stopped , not fired on .
From Belfast , Gary Duffy .
The families of the two dead teenagers say there must have been an alternative to opening fire .
But Maria Brownley admitted not even the fear of death could stop her brother driving stolen cars .
He knew that if he went out in the car , he , he knew that the next time he might , might n't come home .
Ulster 's Security Minister , John Cope says the teenagers only had to stop .
They were not shot for joyriding .
It 's an important distinction to make .
Ten joyriders have now been killed by the Security Forces since nineteen-eighty , while one soldier was killed when struck by a stolen car .
Gary Duffy , I R N Belfast .
Police in Hemel Hempstead are asking shoppers and pubgoers to watch videos of missing four year old Simon Jones which are going on public view .
They hope people will come forward with information about the boy who vanished in one of the town 's parks over a week ago .
Twenty-two poll tax protestors have stormed a Council Office in Northampton and held the Borough Treasurer hostage .
Police are questioning a number of women demonstrators and are trying to break down barricades to clear the others out of the building .
Shadow Education Secretary , Jack Straw has accused Cabinet Ministers of hypocrisy for sending their children to private schools .
He claimed only one Minister has children at state schools , and Mr Straw claims the government has always maintained that state education is good enough for everyone .
But he says their not practising what they preach .
They are clear the best for their children requires small classes , new science blocks , well-equipped laboratories , teachers who are properly rewarded .
But these same Ministers claim that for other people 's children , the best can be achieved in large classes , in crumbling buildings without sufficient books and equipment and with inadequately paid teachers .
Independent Radio News .
It 's Monday the first of October nineteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
The man who was in charge of the storming of the Iranian Embassy ten years ago is to lead Britain 's forces in the Gulf .
He 's Lieutenant General Sir Peter de la Beliaire , and as President Bush says , there 's never been such international cooperation against an aggressor .
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has ordered the release of nine Frenchmen who were being held hostage .
The move is seen as the latest in a campaign to crack western resolve in its stand against Baghdad , from the Gulf here 's James Matthews .
The nine set free had been detained at civilian and military sites ; some appeared to have Middle Eastern backgrounds .
Their freedom comes after Saddam Hussein has welcomed the Gulf peace plan drawn up by the French President , Francois Mitterand .
It also meets the French demand that any settlement be conditional upon the release of hostages .
For President Saddam Hussein 's apparent move to clear the way towards peace , is being seen here as a cynical bid to try to dilute western opposition against him .
Meanwhile today Muslim leaders have said an armed conflict in the Gulf will lead to a world-wide Holy War .
A delegation of the Islamic world 's most senior figures says the ominous call for a Holy War against western forces wouldn't be confined to the Gulf .
Dr Hassan Kunavi says Muslims world-wide would strike against western targets and people .
But it may er involve all sorts of thuggery from er powerful expression of , of opinion to = individual acts of resistance or aggression to an all out war .
There is going to be all forms of Jihad all over the world because there is a sacred element , there is an element erm of er which is the presence of a foreign non-Muslim force in the Holy Land ; this is a very explosive element .
The delegation has just finished a Gulf tour that included a visit to Iran .
It 's warned that in the event of any Gulf war , religious ties will lead to an alliance between Iraq and Iran against the west .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
The wife of an Oxford man who 's stranded in occupied Kuwait , is facing an uncertain future with no sign of her husband getting out .
Maria Harris has been staying with her parents at Wood Farm since returning to Britain just days before Saddam Hussein 's forces marched in , exactly two months ago .
Her husband Alex is now in hiding after an abortive escape attempt .
But with each week that passes , Mrs Harris says her concern increases for Alex 's safety and er for the welfare of her two young children .
My immediate concern is for my husband 's safety because , given that , our lives could then go back to normal .
It will obviously take some time , you know Alex is , must be going through a terrible strain himself and he must be concerned about us er as we are for him .
Now , at the moment you 're staying with your parents in Oxford , how long do you think you 'll be able to , to stay here ?
Well , I think for the children 's sake , I'm going to stay put until Christmas , but after that I'm really going to have to try and find some sort of stability for my children .
I 'd dearly love to go back to my real home , but er unfortunately there 's no way I could pay the mortgage on it .
I 've gone to the local Council and er unfortunately they 've said to me that I 'd have to go on a waiting list ; the housing aid have said the only thing they could offer me is bed and breakfast which I'm sorry to say I don't think is suitable to bring two children up in .
Are either of the children beginning to , to show the signs of feeling the impact of their father not being about ?
Yes , my eight year old is certainly beginning to show signs of stress , er it 's an unsettling situation for him , and he 's old enough to understand , and er we 've had tears and you know .
Is there anything immediately that gives you hope that something will happen for the better ?
It seems as though they 're trying to find an immediate solution .
My only worry is at the moment , it does seem to be a military one .
Er .
And as much as none of us would like that , I feel it may be , you know , it may , it will be something that will be over very quickly , er the only worry of course is that so many people will get hurt , but if that 's the way to end it all then perhaps that 's what should be done .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's nine minutes past six , I'm Jane Markham .
Traffic is still slow moving on the M twenty-five , that 's clockwise at junction sixteen , where you turn off for the M forty .
On the M four between junctions fifteen and sixteen , that 's between Swindon east and west , the outside and centre lanes are closed westbound for roadworks .
On the M forty , between junctions four and five , that 's between High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , there are two narrow lanes running in both directions and there 's , er added to the trouble , there 's a contraflow at Boulter End with single-line traffic running both ways .
On the A four two three , that 's near to Hopcroft 's Holt and Steeple Aston , there 's resurfacing work ; that 's causing some delays , and on the A thirty six one at Wardington just north of Banbury , there are temporary traffic lights which might slow you down if you 're travelling that way .
Martin Lawford A A roadwatch .
And I 've no problems to report to you this evening , either from British Rail or indeed from our local bus services .
Still to come , the Labour Party outlines its plans for the economy should it come to power , and Oxfordshire 's children 's line is relaunched .
First with a round up of the day 's local news , here 's Paul Kirby .
The son of an Oxford city Councillor has appeared court today charged in connection with a disturbance outside a city pub .
Fabian Ricketts who 's mother Val represents the St Clement 's ward in Oxford , is accused with two others of assault and public order offences .
He 's been granted conditional bail until October the twenty-second .
It follows an incident last month when police reinforcements were needed to quell troubles involving around four hundred youths near the Ale House in Castle Street in the city .
Oxford Crown Court has jailed two men after hearing how drug squad detectives tracked them down during a trip to London .
Twenty-two year old Gerald Bagshall from Barton Village Road in Oxford has been jailed for two years for possession and supply of drugs .
Twenty-five year old David Taylor of Chillingworth Crescent in Woodfarm has been jailed for eighteen months for possession of drugs .
The court heard how detectives followed the two men from Oxford to London , and watched them buy drugs , when they returned home , drugs were found in their car .
An Oxfordshire consultant has told how specialist hospitals have to turn to charity for funds because the government doesn't provide enough money .
Halton maternity hospital in Banbury recently received nearly two thousand pound 's worth of life-saving equipment for their nee , neo-natal unit , as part of a grant from the baby life support systems charity .
Consultant paediatrician to Oxford Health Authority , Harvey Markovitch says under normal health funding , the money just isn't available .
Special care baby units are phenomenally expensive in equipment ; there 's an awful lot of monitoring equipment that 's required , and it has to be updated every few years , and the costs are quite out of proportion to the amount of money available to the health authority , so that er , on the whole , special care baby units throughout the country now rely virtually totally on charitable giving .
A sports centre in north Oxfordshire has had to close today because of a leakage of almost one thousand litres of potentially hazardous chemicals .
Fire crews were brought in with special chemical protection suits to deal with a spillage of nine hundred litres of sodium hypochlorite at the Kidlington and Gosford Sports and Leisure Centre .
Leisure Centre officials say they 're , they hope to reopen later this evening .
An Oxford student has been remanded in custody for a week at a London Magistrates Court ; twenty-one year old Ajaiki Akabasharune is jointly charged with a student from Wolverhampton for conspiring with persons unknown to defraud the central clearing banks this August .
Miss Akabasharune from Banbury Road in the city , is currently studying politics at the polytechnic .
A major campaign is being launched today to try to reduce the number of sports-related eye injuries .
The Royal National Institute for the Blind says squash and badminton are the main culprits for eye casualties , and has begun the campaign of safe play as part of their eye safety year .
Thames Valley Police have appointed a new man to oversee the workings of its complaints and disciplinary department .
Chief Superintendent John Goodenough has been Commander of B Division covering all of Oxfordshire for the last six years ; it 's been suggested his move signals the start of a major reorganization within the force , aimed at streamlining managerial duties .
Mr Goodenough says he 's looking forward to the new post at a time when complaints against the police have increased .
Complaints against police are obviously a problem for all of us , and we as managers throughout the rank structure are concerned about the complaints and it 's simply that , whilst I was in operational command , I had a direct influence in hopefully preventing complaints .
The role I have now , is dealing with the paper work and the efficiency investigation once a complaint has been made .
Fox F M new , Paul Kirby reporting..
It 's a quarter past six .
Pressure is growing on the government to reach an out of court settlement with more than a thousand haemophiliacs who are infected with the AIDS virus from N H S blood .
Mr Justice Ognell , the High Court judge hearing the cases against the government , took the highly unusual step of urging the government to compromise on the matter .
Health Secretary , Kenneth Clarke has insisted in continuing with the case , arguing that the government risked establishing a dangerous precedent if it paid compensation when the N H S was not to blame .
Tory backbench pressure is growing for the Department of Health to make ex gratia payments to those in infected , and Roger Simms from the Commons Social Services Committee says the government should view the haemophiliacs as a special case ; he says he was taken aback by the judges remarks .
Yes , I was surprised because it 's an unusual course for a judge to take , but I was very encouraged that he chose to do so by the terms of his remarks .
The judge has been very forthright in this er saying that er both sides er should er get round the table and try and find some speedy solution to it .
Er .
I got , I got the impression that he was fairly exasperated at the way things had gone up to now .
Well I think he felt er as I do that it 's unfortunate that matters have gone this far .
In fact , together with several colleagues , I was endeavouring to set up an informal meeting with ministers to try and discuss this matter er when the haemophiliac 's representative decided to go to law for their own good reasons , because that made it more difficult for any negotiations to take place .
I hope now that perhaps the legal proceedings can be held in abeyance and discussions can take place so some out of court settlement can be reached as the judges are urging .
Well the Health Secretary , Kenneth Clarke er has , er has said er for some time now that er it would be grave consequences if the government established a precedent and just allowed er out of court settlement payments to be made .
Mr Clarke seems to want to go through the whole er litigation process , what do you think about er his decision ?
Well I , I can understand er his , his point of view in that firstly he 's saying quite correctly , that this tragedy was no one person 's fault .
Erm .
And that if you open the doors to compensation whenever er this sort of thing arose , then th , this could mean very substantial expenditure for the Health Service .
But this is a very special case , er we know the numbers involved precisely , it 's as it were , a one off .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Labour has been outlining its policy on the economy at the Party Conference in Blackpool .
Shadow Chancellor John Smith , dismissed Mrs Thatcher 's so-called economic miracle as a mirage , but admitted things wouldn't suddenly improve under Labour .
There 's no panacea ; er it will take us a little while to get our programmes in place and to get them producing results .
Er .
We want to be judged by a period in government .
er Margaret Becker put it I think very well in the concluding speech ; five years after a Labour government , judge us on the difference you will see in our economy and in our society .
But from day one we 'll be working to achieve that result .
Kenneth Baker yesterday said ‘well , the Labour Party has n't changed ; they 're still a high spending , high taxation and high borrowing party’ .
Why should the voters believe that the next Labour government be any different from the past ?
Well Kenneth Baker seems to live in a world of his own .
I , he er wants to have an image about the Labour Party that 's so far from the reality that it 's not true .
We are an investing party , er we want to invest in Britain 's future , in the skills of its people , er so that our education and training , instead of being neglected as almost the worst in Europe during the period of Mr Baker 's government , becomes one of the best in Europe .
In fact , we , we 'd create the best educated and trained work force that there is in Europe .
We 've got so much to do that requires investment which is why er I have said er that we can not have in general , across the board tax cuts , er income tax cuts , because we need the money for that crucial social investment .
Mr Baker 's party takes a different view ; they 've only to explain to the public how we 're going to succeed if we don't invest in our own future , in our education and training and in good social services for our people , because I don't see how it can be done .
I think they 're being irresponsible , I think we 're being responsible , and I make no apology er for borrowing when it 's for investment in our own future , that 's what intelligent companies do , it 's what an intelligent government should do .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's nineteen minutes past six..
It 's twenty past six .
Oxfordshire 's children 's line is being relaunched this evening ; posters carrying the slogan ‘help is only a phone call away’ have being up in schools and sports venues throughout the area , and the line opens at six thirty — ten minutes time .
Children 's line had been forced to close through lack of cash , but now funds have been raised to get the service off the ground again ; June Nash who is on the service 's committee has been instrumental in the relaunch .
She says the volunteers who answer the phone are prepared to deal any problem a child contacts them with , no matter how small it may seem .
We 've got a lot of volunteers who we 've er trained in listening skills and how to answer the phone , and how to deal with some of the problems that come up .
It may be that er a child is being ill-treated in some way er by somebody , and we can help to decide what to do about that .
What , what would the options be there , you would , would you , you , are you working with social services ?
No , we 're nothing to do with social services at all .
er the calls are totally confidential and it would depend entirely on the child as to really what happened , because er you can't say to a child ‘right I'm going to report this’ , it doesn't happen like that .
The child will indicate exactly how important it is and you 've got to really find out whether they want to do something about it .
Well , yes they may want to do something about it , but they may be just too scared to give any details which would lead to something being done about it , I mean things can be done about it , but only if the child wants them done .
We 're never going to er say to the child ‘right , something must be done , we 're going to do something’ , it , it 's not like that at all ; the pace is wholly by the child themselves .
You do need to , to let the children know that the service is there .
I think there 's been a lot , a lot of publicity for childline , now , but you aren't directly in , associated with childline Fjn Well , we 've had , no , we 've had to call ourselves children 's line because for er obvious reasons we can't call ourselves childline , but it is the same type of thing , er run in a similar way , not exactly the same of course er partly because we haven't got the money that childline er attracts .
I mean hopefully we will attract money because we can't function without it .
I mean it must cost a fair amount of money to keep it going cause , the calls are free
It does , the calls are free
Does that mean that you have to pay for them ?
Yes it does , yes , which quickly eats up er into a call , I mean we 're not going to put the phone down on anybody because we feel the call is expensive or anything , er we will always wait until the child her , themselves puts the phone down .
If you 've got a problem and want to talk , ring children 's line O eight hundred six two six thousand .
It 's open in the evening , Monday to Friday , calls are free .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
This week is Oxfam week ; for the rest of the week Oxford based , the Oxford base charity will be banging the drum to remind people that it exists and to raise funds .
Paul Clifford is the area director for the er region — Paul , what sort of things are you going to be doing ?
Well , Oxfam week 's principally aimed at a house , house to house collection Jane , so we shall be asking a whole lot of people to get out on the streets and to put envelopes through the doors in their neighbourhood and then to go back later on and collect money which we hope people will kindly give us .
So everybody in the area is going to receive , er a house , house , house visit ?
Well , er we 're very lucky that er Oxford 's pretty well covered , yes , we 've , or could do with some more volunteers of course , but we 've got about one hundred and twenty people who 'll be going out in the city , and I was looking at a map this morning and it 's very well covered indeed with purple and yellow lines where we 've actually got people on the ground .
It 's , it 's quite a big operation to organize I should think , is it ?
It 's absolutely massive , yes , it 's a national er campaign , so we 've been recruiting people from all kinds of ways ; direct mail , er getting in touch with people who 've done it for us before , er through magazines and so on and the whole thing has been a major logistical undertaking .
It 's , it 's , I mean everybody knows about Oxfam , it 's one of the most well-known charities I imagine in the whole of the country .
Er .
Do you need a day like this specifically to raise funds .
Well I think an awful lot of people think of Oxfam and think of the shops , er and the shops have been terribly important to us for such a long time , but we 've found a few years ago that er people who , er were asked said that they would give money to Oxfam , but that they were n't necessarily always asked .
And a lot of people of course don't go into our shops , so we feel that there are a lot of people out there who have a lot of sympathy for Oxfam 's aims and objectives , but are only lacking just the opportunity to give , and that 's what we hope to provide them with .
So have you any target for the amount of money you 'd like to raise ?
Well this is part of a one million er £ er campaign to try and raise money for a lot of projects that we run in eight countries in southern Africa , from Angola to Mozambique , where our , the problems are absolutely horrendous er civil war in Mozambique for example , in Malawi , one in ten of the population are refugees , principally from Mozambiquan civil war , arriving at refugee camps in Bark and absolutely nothing er at all in terms of possessions .
The drought in Zimbabwe , so the needs are massive , and if we can just make some kind of a major inroad into one million pounds , then we will have given an awful lot of people new hope .
Paul , thank you very much indeed .
Thank you .
The world summit for children which took place at the weekend caught the headlines around the world and the world 's leaders put their heads together and agreed that children all round the world are suffering and something must be done about it .
Eileen Polgreen from the organization RESULTS , Eileen organized a candle-lit vigil before the summit , Eileen , now the summit 's over and we all heard about it , it , it hit the headlines as I say — what do you think came out of it ?
Well I think what came out of it firstly , was thanks to people like you , a tremendous amount of publicity for a problem that is certainly not a new one , one that has been going on for many many years .
But now I think there 's a new feeling abroad that instead of trying to solve the poverty of third world countries , by providing them with aeroplanes , particularly for their armies and providing them with electricity generating plants , we should actually start at bottom ; we should start with the children , in providing medicines , in providing enough food , so that those children will grow up and will be able to fend for themselves , providing them with skills , providing them also with markets for the goods that they 'll produce .
And therefore , helping third world countries and the people in them to generate their own well-being .
Now it 's very easy for all the leaders around the world , not that easy to get them all together , but once they were together , it was very easy for them all to say yes the situation 's dreadful , it 's awful , it 's awful .
But do you think anything will actually come out of it — anything actually concrete ?
Well , I think we had much higher hopes before the Gulf crisis , I think what many people are saying now is that the peace dividend , the money that we could have saved by the end of the Cold War , will in fact , that peace dividend will be diluted by the Gulf .
Everybody is spending so much money , particularly the United States of course , which is the biggest donor , er on supplying armies and airforce and all the rest of it , in the Gulf conflict .
Now , that is a terrible thing , because it means that whatever Mr Hussein has done , he has also in fact , written the death sentence for millions of children who will never have heard of him .
And that is a terrible terrible thing that we 've all got to face , but I think we have to realize that we have the potential , we have the ability of saving the lives of fifty million children , and the world 's leaders at the conference , at the summit over the weekend , actually turned their minds for an instant , away from all those economic and political problems and focused on this , and I think that that was tremendously important .
I was on the phone to UNICEF earlier this afternoon and they are very much encouraged by what has happened .
I think here in the United Kingdom , we have to continue trying to urge our governments to ratify the Convention on the Rights of the Child , which is a sort of Bill of Rights for children .
There are an awful lot of children in the United Kingdom in fact who are living in the sort of poverty and who 's parents are living in the sort of poverty which in a rich country like our own , should not be tolerated .
How did you feel about Mrs Thatcher 's contribution at the weekend ?
I thought it was a very er Thatcherite contribution .
She put the onus quite honestly straight back on to parents , er it reminded me a little bit like er of the furore that she created about you know there are so many people being mugged , well isn't it their own fault that they go into dark places .
Er .
You know , about the crime statistics ; really what she 's saying is that parents ought to do a better job for their children , and I'm sure we all agree with that but I think that that 's a very superficial response to what is er an enormous question of parents just being too poor and having nothing to give their children in the way of just basic food , basic medicines , to keep them alive .
So do you think Britain 's lagging behind the rest of the world ?
I think that we have a very butch attitude , I think the government has a very butch attitude quite honestly , er to , you know , you 've got to er stand up there and help yourself , and I suppose I'm all for that , but you 've got to have something to help yourself with , and I think that 's where we ought to be aiming and I'm very glad that the world 's leaders are heading straight in that direction..
Traffic seems to be running fairly , better now on the M twenty five , that 's clockwise round junction sixteen where there was some earlier slow moving traffic .
On the M four between junctions fifteen and sixteen , the outside and centre lanes are closed westbound , that 's between Swindon east and Swindon west , and on the A four two three , that 's near Hopcroft 's Holt and Steeple Aston , there 's resurfacing work there and that 's causing some delays .
A six O four , Catworth to Stratford and there 's single line traffic working there , and er on the M , sorry , the M four that 's er seems to be running fairly smoothly , westbound traffic is a little slow moving however .
And er on the M forty between junctions four and five between High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , there are two narrow lanes in both direction with a contraflow system at Boulter End which might add to the confusion , and that 's got single line traffic running both ways .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And I 've nothing to report to you still from either the buses or trains .
It 's six thirty-one .
President Bush has told the United Nations that if Iraq pulls out of Kuwait , it could end conflict between the Arabs and the Israelis .
He says the world must examine the future for the Middle East when the Gulf crisis is over .
The man who was in charge of the A S , er the S A S storming of the Iranian Embassy ten years ago is to lead Britain 's forces in the Gulf ; fifty-six year old Lieutenant General Sir Peter de la Beliaire was due to retire in November .
Thousands of commuters are facing delays and cancellations after British Rail maintenance staff voted for a series of twenty four hour strikes ; they 're protesting at B R 's plans to close three maintenance depots .
And the Shadow Education Shec , Secretary , Jack Straw says Cabinet Ministers should show their support for State Education and stop sending their children to private schools .
He told the Labour Conference in Blackpool that the Cabinet should set an example by having faith in the public seft sector .
The weather for the Fox F M area : a dry but mainly cloudy evening and night , the minimum temperature eight degrees celsius , forty-six degrees fahrenheit , and the wind could pick up to become moderate south-westerly during the evening..
Still to come , the therapeutic effect of gardening , helping people to recover from mental illness in Oxford , and the day 's financial and sports news .
First though , the Princess Royal has been asking Oxfordshire landowners to help the County 's rural housing needs .
Her Royal Highness was addressing a conference on affordable village homes for Oxfordshire , organized by the County Council and the Rural Housing Trust , of which she 's president .
Land expert at the Trust , Simon Potts says he welcomes the call for farmers to sell land at near agricultural prices , but admits there 's not much to be built , not much in it for the landowners themselves .
We have a situation where the landowner is going to have to sell land relatively cheaply , in order that the land then , the land prices do not reflect too horrendously when it comes through to the price that has to be paid by the person who 's going to occupy the property ; either in terms of a letting figure or of something which is going to be an , effectively a mortgage figure .
So that we 've got to get land in at something in the order of ten to fifteen thousand pounds an acre for residential development , and that obviously is hugely under the going rate .
Is there any compensation at all if a landowner were to make a gesture like this ?
No , no compensation as such , there are opportunities occasionally for landowners to ask that er one of the houses might for example be used for one of their own workers er when that worker retires , that type of thing .
So that we 're prepared within the Rural Housing Trust to look at all these ideas , and we 've been looking at the whole question , we feel that this has got to be one for the planners , the planners must be involved in identifying where these problems lie , they 're not uniform , all across the country , er and it 's something that er we therefore need to use the planning er scenario entirely and fully in order to identify where the problem lies .
The Regional Secretary of the Country Landowners Association , Richard Lethbridge , agrees that planners have an important role to play , and he 's got his own ideas about how to solve the problem .
The way forward , if it 's the desire of the community to find more low cost houses for people to live in , in villages , I think the way is to give some incentive to farmers and landowners to give er or to make land available .
And as there isn't the money available to do it at full commercial price , in my view we should go for what they call cross-subsidy , that is to say that they give erm planning permission on a plot for some commercial housing on which the landowner can make some money , and in , a condition of that would be that part of that plot would be made available for low cost housing .
That way , I think that some land might become available , but it would have to be up to the planners to be more flexible .
So , what would be your message then to the planners ?
Well I think we 'll have to re-look at the whole question of village envelopes in certain cases , where it is decided that low cost housing is desirable , and see if in some way , they can encourage the farmer to make land available so that he can make some money which he badly needs at the moment , as agriculture 's going through one of the biggest depressions it 's been through for years .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
A new system of fines has been introduced to courts in north Oxfordshire today , and it 's been viewed by the government with much interest .
Magistrates in Banbury , Chipping Norton , Bicester and Woodstock have adopted a scheme which fines offenders according to their income .
Paul Kirby reports .
Pilot projects have already taken place in two other parts of England , but magistrates in Oxfordshire are confident alterations make theirs a fairer scheme .
Home Office Minister , John Patten who 's also MP for Oxford west and Abingdon , says the scheme is much fairer than at present .
What will happen is that the magistrates will judge if someone 's found guilty , that because they 've committed the offence , that they deserve to be fined so many units .
They will then see what the man or woman has got left in disposable income each week ; if it 's two pounds , then it 'll be ten units x two pounds , if it 's two hundred pounds , then it 'll be ten units x two hundred pounds to hit the better off in the same proportion as the people at the bottom of the income level .
Trevor Isles who 's Deputy Clerk to the Justices in north Oxfordshire is also confident the unit fine system will be fairer , he says ‘if successful , it could be adopted on a national scale’ .
The government has not at this stage , legislated in this area , but I understand in their next White Paper , they probably will take away the ceiling that presently exists , so that a rich offender could pay a lot more for his fine than er a person of average means .
Mr Isles says ‘legal officials in south Oxfordshire have already expressed an interest’ , and Home Office Minister , John Patten agrees the fairess of the system is something that should be envied .
We think that 'll lead to fairer fining , and I think that 's right , and I welcome what 's going on in north Oxfordshire ; it follows four experiments that the Home Office has had in other parts of the country .
Good luck to Banbury in doing it .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
RESTORE is a local charity which helps people recovering from psychiatric illnesses , by offering them therapeutic working environments .
One of the groups they run is a gardening group and Liz Hodgson coordinates this one .
Liz , tell me a little bit about it , I mean , er there er gardening is a very therapeutic thing to do anyway isn't it ?
That 's what people always say , yes .
Er .
I mean we provide a group environment for people who 've had psychiatric illnesses of various kinds in the past , and with a view to giving them something useful to do , something constructive and I hope , pleasurable , with a positive end product as well , which we then proceed to sell .
Is it , is it a long term thing , do people come for the day , or do they stay with you for months ?
Well , people come on a day to day basis , like a working environment , right ? er Each individual will stay for a different length of time , it could be weeks , months , even years .
But each person is different
So time to see the garden develop as
Oh yes , yes , very much so , yes , and with this new project that 's really exciting because it 's on an allotment site which has never actually happened before with a psychiatric rehabilitation project .
And er now the group are beginning to be able to take a lot of pride in what they 've done , you know , changing it from a jungle into a productive allotment .
Was it actually started from scratch with this one did you ?
Absolutely , literally , yes .
How far has it got ?
Well , we 're on the second summer , just finishing now , and we 're having quite a lot of produce coming off the plots , and we 're hoping to start an orchard as well , just to keep it developing .
So what we 're always looking for now is outlets for the produce .
I was going to say , you must have a lot of , er a lot of produce , er where does it go , what do you
Well , what we 've just started to do thanks to some of the people up at Templar Square , in Cowley , is to have a vegetable stall on Thursdays in Cowley Centre , which is quite a big step .
Er .
So we 're doing that every day from , every Thursday that is , from ten till one thirty , and people who are doing their shopping can come by and have their fresh vegetables .
So it , it 's pretty professional stuff if you 're able to sell it ?
Oh yes , oh absolutely , I mean it wouldn't be therapeutic if we were n't producing good quality stuff , that 's part of the therapy — yes ?
And how is it all , how is it all financed and funded ?
Well , we have funding from all over .
The health authority support us , the social services , the city council , and we do accept donations as well , I might add .
But you are an independent charity are you ?
That 's right yes , yes .
And , and how do people find out about you if they 've perhaps been through psychiatric illness ?
Well , people tend to be referred through the psychiatric services as they currently exist locally , er or through their G P .
Its , it 's a different process for each person you see , because everyone who 's had a mental illness is , is going to be different from another person ; a different history .
So , as far as you 're concerned , really you need outlets for your vegetables do you ?
Yes , well I mean I'm particularly interested for people to come along to the Cowley Centre stall , er and we also sell on the Cowley Road at our plant nursery which one of the other groups runs down near the east Oxford Health Centre .
What , what other groups are , are involved ?
Well , apart from the Elder Stubbs group on the allotments , we have a town gardens group which is at Cowley Road , on our main site ; they run a plant nursery there which is normally open every day , and will be open this Saturday as well , on the sixth er to sell wallflowers and autumn plants in particular .
And then on that site as well , there 's a print group and a woodwork group , so there 's quite a range , a diversity of opportunities for people , that 's what we try to provide..
have reversed last week 's closing falls , finishing the day forty point six points higher at two O three O point eight .
Trading was helped by the release of August 's reduced retail sales figures showing that interest rates are beginning to bite .
And an encouraging start on Wall Street followed the announcement that a budget settlement had been reached .
On the foreign exchanges the pound gained ground against the dollar with news that U S interest rates may be reduced .
The pound ended the day at one point eight eight nine five dollars and up against the deutschmark , at two deutschmarks point nine three O nine .
Today 's share prices : Abbey National up one at one nine seven , British Aerospace up nineteen at five six three , British Airways up three at one four eight , British Gas up four at two one O point five British Telecom up four at two six eight , Goodhead Publishing Group remained at five , at fifty-eight , Moreland Brewers up two at two seven five , Oxford Instruments remained at two three four , Thames Water are up two point five at two one nine , Trustee Savings Bank up point five at one twenty and today 's major stockmarket movers : Reuters went up forty-four to seven eight eight and Glaxo up twenty seven at seven five seven .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's official , Britain 's number one motor racing driver , Nigel Mansell is on his way back to his former team Williams who are based in Didcot in south Oxfordshire .
Mickey Inotta our sports editor — Mickey , it 's a bit of a surprise isn't it ?
It was to me Jane , I was still in bed , we had to send Robin Powell down there to get the interviews .
But it was , but it 's good news for Oxfordshire isn't it — Nigel back to Williams .
Williams of course , the team that nearly gave Nigel his world championship , we all remember that burst tyre , he 's never liked spaghetti , the Italians don't like him , they only like winners , it 's impossible to win every race .
Nigel did his best , but I'm so pleased he 's back in Oxfordshire .
He came pretty close at one time .
This year , er been a bit iffy , and what do you reckon his chances are next year ?
I'm not sure , a boxer never returns , a tennis player never comes back , Bjorn Borg didn't .
I don't know with motor racing , I , I just wish Nigel Mansell all the very best , but I just don't think he 's ever going to win that world championship .
Oh dear , a prediction there , well the team boss , Frank Williams says he 's delighted with the decis , decision , the decision and he now wants to help Mansell achieve his ambition of becoming world champion before he finally does hang up his helmet .
Everyone at Didcot , myself included , are truly elated about it because we 're in the business of winning , Nigel 's a winner ; if we can provide him with the right technical equipment next year , I'm sure he 'll win a number of races and indeed his ambition and our objective jointly is to win a driver 's , a world championship driver 's title before he retires .
Now this decision 's been off and on .
He said after Silverstone he 'd be retiring at the end of the season .
What do you think made him change his mind in the end ?
Well I suspect that initially his Silverstone decision was perhaps made prematurely , it was certainly a rather an emotional decision I think .
But the fact that he 's a born racer , I mean I know him quite well , I 've seen him around a lot , I would talk to him a lot , so would other colleagues here , every race since that decision , I think without trying , he persuaded himself , we were able to persuade him without trying too hard that maybe he should reconsider ; I think time did the rest .
Is he the same driver that you let go two years ago , he 's an old man of the track a little at , he has n't had a terribly successful time at Ferrari .
He 's a better driver than he was when he left us , us in eighty-eight , because he 's two years , has two years more experience and in Formula one racing , experience , if you are a quick driver , experience is fundamentally important to winning .
You have to be very clever to win races these days , and I'm totally convinced and so is everybody else here that Nigel will win enough races providing his car is quick enough and reliable enough to win a world championship .
It was no secret that at the time you were looking for John Alaysi perhaps to replace Bootsen next season .
Were you disappointed not to get Alaysi ?
There 's no doubt about that because the young man has got a brilliant , truly brilliant future ahead of him .
He 's in all the typical things a young man who 's too quick does , that 's fly off the road all the time , but that 's part of the normal learning curve , and I think that he 'll be trouble for every team that doesn't have him in their actual car at the time .
He 'll be very quick and I do regret that he 's not here .
I 'll finish with the perennial question — can Williams challenge the Ferraris and McLarens next season ?
Well , in the last ten years , and this is only history , what really matters is tomorrow , Ferrari won one driver 's title and Williams and McLaren won the rest .
We intend to repeat that exercise .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Well that was a look forward to er Mansell 's er rejoining Williams next season .
Little bit of a look back now to the inaugural Blenheim or Audi international horse trials at er Blenheim Palace of course , which was a great success .
Thousands of people trod through somewhat muddy conditions , Mickey was there , what were your thoughts Mickey , did you have a good few days ?
Absolutely , it was absolutely fantastic and despite the rain , spectators enjoyed themselves and course designer Mike Etherington-Smith is a genius , and locally we had something to cheer us , you may have heard earlier .
Owen Moore on Locomotion finished fourth , John Evans from Faringdon on The Cordwina the second took exception to one fence in the show jumping round , he finished twelfth , he didn't like that one very much .
Jane Starkie , she , she would have been in the frame had it not been for penalty points during the cross country course , for being a wee bit too slow .
But my heart went out to Anne Marie Taylor-Evans , an excellent , an excellent dressage discipline was followed by a good gallop in the cross country until the bridle broke .
Oh !
So , you know , tears went out to her , but I 'd also like to thank everybody at Audi who helped me , and also his Grace , the Duke of Marlborough for letting the event take place .
Who , have I mentioned Jane , we had tea and biscuits in the east wing the other day ?
The , the odd twenty or thirty times , you have Mickey , I mean it was the success , is , is it likely to happen again next year ?
Hopefully , I mean the grounds now are ooh , very muddy and awful , but the Duke himself , he was very pleased with it , he attended every day , I mean he had a very nice bowler hat , he was very pleased with it , everybody was happy with it ; it is Oxfordshire 's sporting showpiece without a doubt .
was saying the overall winner was Lucinda Murray on Just Jeremy , and er he first asked her over er a glass of champagne I believe , celebrating her twenty-fifth birthday with a party on Friday , er was that beneficial to success ?
Well it helps sometimes , but er I didn't know .
Now , about Blenheim overall — what are your thoughts ?
A super , super three days , er nobody knew what to expect when we came here , except that Mike Etherington-Smith was going to build a super course .
It 's been great great success for everybody , er all the competitors have enjoyed it , I think all the organizers have enjoyed it as well and I think we 're all looking forward to coming back next year .
Obviously it seems to me a good grounding for the younger horses ?
Yes , but the cross country course was ideal , er if you wanted to get round carefully and slowly , you could , and if you wanted to go fast and furious , we did .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Building work got underway today to start the renovations for the Oxford Playhouse .
Let 's hope that work which is going to cost around three quarters of a million pounds will be finished by the spring of next year .
While the works going on , it 's unlikely that anyone will notice much evidence of the renovation , as Playhouse spokesperson , Nicola Russell explained .
I honestly don't think that the public walking past the building will actually notice very much , except that in the foyer , they 're going to be knocking down the sort of glass partition , so you , people will see that a little bit is going on .
But most of the work is going on actually in the auditorium where they 're stripping out all the wood er and putting in great big holes where they can put the fire exits in .
So the normal man in the street won't see a great deal until very much nearer the time when it opens next spring .
And how many people will it hold when it is fully refurbished ?
Roughly six hundred and fifty-four .
And what sort of productions will you be hoping to put on there ?
All sorts .
We 'll be inviting people to come in and do pre-West End shows , small operas , small musicals , er concerts , films , you name it .
How do you think it 'll complement what exists at the moment , which is the Apollo and of course , the recently opened Old Fire Station ?
Well , the Old Fire Station is about three hundred seats , the Apollo seats one thousand two hundred , and we seat as I said about six hundred and fifty .
We could n't do the likes of , we could n't invite Glyndebourne in or the Welsh National Opera because we just could not have that scale of operation on .
But those aren't the two , only two opera companies for instance , in the country , there are some fantastic opera companies who er , who work on a much smaller scale , who , in a sense , would not fill somewhere like the Apollo , who are just perfect for , for us .
The same thing with pre-West End shows — quite often , I mean for instance , there was a show at the Apollo about six months ago which was Lettuce and Lovage , er which had come out of the West End and was doing a big tour .
Now , that in a sense , would have fitted much much better into the Playhouse , and had we been open at that stage , there 's a jolly good chance that that show would have actually come to us rather than going there .
I'm glad it went there , because we all got a chance to see it , but the chances are it would have come to us and , and fitted much more snugly if you like .
How soon will it be before you 'll know what is going to be the first production ?
erm pass , probably in a couple of months .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's eight minutes to seven .
On the M four between junctions fifteen and sixteen , that 's the stretch between Swindon east and Swindon west , the outside and central lanes are closed westbound for some roadworks that are going on there .
And on the A four two three near to Hopcroft 's Holt and Steeple Aston , there 's resurfacing work there and that 's causing some delays .
M forty between junctions four and five , between High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , that 's down to two narrow lanes in both directions and the additional problem of a contraflow at Boulter End with single line traffic running both ways .
And on the A thirty-six one at Wardington , that 's just north of Banbury , there are twenty-four hour temporary traffic lights which might slow you down a little , and on the A four one five five , Reading Road , Shiplake , there are also temporary traffic lights causing some delays .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And I 've nothing to report on the buses or trains .
It 's six minutes to seven .
Today saw the opening of a new science centre in Oxford .
The Old Fire Station on George Street now houses a permanent exhibition of working science aimed at schoolchildren .
The centre 's backed by the Oxford Trust and it 's assistant director , Gillian Pearson says ‘the project is a hands on science gallery for everyone’ .
Fox F M reporter , Tiffany Foster asked her how the curiosity exhibition works .
What we 're hoping to do in this exhibition is to make people realize that science and technology is not as difficult as some people would have you believe , and that it can be fun .
So , anybody entering the exhibition is encouraged to stand on a spot at the bottom of the stairs , and they place in the token that they 've bought at the box office , as they do so , they get flooded in light , and the special computer voice made by the university takes you through into the exhibition .
They all seem to be in one exhibit , that is obviously the favourite .
Which , which , which is that ?
The favourite exhibit so far , with , with the first party of schoolchildren is the one that 's called safety in the dark .
Er .
You may have seen the fluorescent stars and space ships that children stick on their bedroom ceiling that then glow in the dark .
What we have here is , is a huge sheet of this material on the wall , and the visitors stand in front of this and press a flashlight which allows them then to make all sorts of poses on the wall , and as they then move away , their shadow is left on the wall so they can look back and see what their , their shadow was like in the pose .
Er .
At the moment I think , in there , there are probably sixteen children .
Where did the idea come for , from to have er an exhibition , a permanent exhibition , er at the Old Fire Station ?
er Apollo Leisure had decided that they would like to have arts and science under the same roof , er the arts has been something that 's considered an acceptable cultural pastime , and people will go out at weekends , take the family and will do something that , they would look at an exhibition , er or they would go to the theatre , whereas in science , there isn't really anything that you can do as a social or cultural pastime .
So , there are these sort of centres all over the country , er but this is the first time that there has been one that has arts and science under the same room .
Er .
And it is very much intended to be an educational experience for people as well as fun .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
This Sunday the world-wide Fun for Nature 's Walk for the Rain Forest is taking place , and that there are three hundred walks going on throughout the country , four of them are in Oxfordshire , and Sue May is , is concentrating on the walks at Burford Wildlife Park and also the one at Banbury .
Sue , less than a week to go , how is it all shaping up — lots of people involved ?
It 's terrific Jane actually , the buzz is really out there , it 's just what we hoped would happen , and really very much thanks to Fox in fact , er it seems to be happening .
We know that er sixteen schools at least are taking part at the Cotswold Wildlife Park , er we know of at least ten at the walk at Broughton Park , er we 've got er students from polytechnics , Brownies , Guides , Headington Slimmers Magazine Club have registered a team , the advisory centre for multicultural education , Oxford City courier newspaper are promising to send teams .
Banbury Guardian and Citizen , the Banbury Town Liberals , the Campaign for Oxford even have registered a team .
The list goes on , I mean can you , can you make any sort of judgement about the sort of money you 're going to raise , if , if all these people are going to be taking part ?
Oh , it 's , it 's terrifying that we 're all actually sitting here in enormous anticipation , because I think we 're going to er present an astonishing amount of money this time .
We just want people to get the money in very quickly after the seventh of November , er but we 'll hopefully know after Sunday evening , er what we reckon to have raised in the area .
Are you , er is it still time , or is there still time for people to get involved if they haven't already filled in their application form ?
Oh yes , yes yes , er forms are available , as you keep telling people , from Fox , they 're also available from the Banbury Guardian office in Banbury and Littlewoods in Banbury .
Er .
Both the Littlewoods actually , Banbury and Oxford are putting up teams , and so are , we understand , fifteen of the NatWest banks in Oxfordshire , so there 's a lot going on and er we think the walks in Oxfordshire are going to go a long way towards raising this vitally needed million pounds for the rainforests this year
And , and where 's it actually going to , ‘I mean , we , we say the rainforests , er where , how ?
Well , we have er W W F , the World Wide Fund for Nature has two hundred and seventy five projects already up and running er in rainforest areas of the world , and there are constant demands for more projects to be undertaken , and of course , all this costs money ; for men , machinery , equipment er and persuading governments , talking to people to make sure that we , if we can't halt this devastating destruction of rainforests , at least we can slow it down .
So , if people can't get hold of an application form , can they still turn up on the day , I think that 's the final thing isn't it ?
If they want to come along on the day and enjoy themselves , that 's fine ; we 're even providing a bouncy castle , so children can bounce for the rainforests at the Banbury walk .
Sue , thank you very much indeed .
And that was the Fox Report for Monday the first of October , nineteen ninety .
Join us for another Fox Report at six tomorrow evening , I 'll be back then , but don't go away , after the seven o'clock news , Steve Priestley , no , not Steve Priestley , a mystery person is on the Red Fox , at , after the news at seven o'clock .
Tonight : Germany will be reunified , we talk to a former Ambassador .
Oxfam praise Jordan 's commitment to the refugees from Iraq , despite severe economic problems .
They 've been using enormous amounts of their own resources and expertise , to make life easier for , for the people who are going through their country .
Councillors meet polytechnic official to discuss building of student hostel on Headington Hill .
We are sympathetic but we also can not ride roughshod over the concerns of the local community .
Fjm And French gendarmes visit an Oxford school to teach their brand of road safety .
When we teach pupils , in the same time we teach their parents..
The six o'clock news , this is Patrick Muirhead .
Neil Kinnock is warning the Labour Party to be ready to fight an election at any time .
Mr Kinnock presenting himself as the country 's next Prime Minister , won a standing ovation at his Party Conference at Blackpool .
Our political editor Peter Murphy reports :
It was a confident Neil Kinnock who hammered home his attack on the government and set out his stall for the election , concentrating on the economy , investment and education .
He declared :
We are fit and we are ready , not just to win , but to govern the people of this country .
Let us fulfil that purpose , not for own advantage , but out of our duty to the people of our country and the people of our world .
The Party loved it , they gave him a standing ovation and Mr Kinnock went back for an encore to tell them to save their strength for the election .
Peter Murphy , I R N , Blackpool .
A French warship has opened fire on a freighter suspected of breaking sanctions against Iraq .
The North Korean vessel stopped after the warning shots were fired in the Red Sea near Yemen , but nothing intended for Iraq was found .
A hundred and twenty people have been killed after terrorists exploded a bomb in the cockpit of a plane they were trying to highjack in South China .
The pilot wrestled with the highjackers as he desperately tried to land the plane at Canton airport , it then slammed into two other passenger jets .
Chinese authorities are releasing few details and state T V has made no mention of the disaster .
Ward Edmonds reports :
The official death toll now stands at one hundred and twenty with fifty-three people , including one American , injured .
Chinese officials are saying the plane was highjacked , but are remaining tight-lipped about any other details .
Reliable sources in Kwang Chow say the highjackers were trying to take the plane to Hong Kong , but it was forced down by military jets .
One of the highjackers then detonated a bomb which shattered the fuselage , causing the plane to land on top of a fully laden Boeing seven five seven that was waiting to take off .
Ward Edmonds I R N , Hong Kong .
The Lockerbie enquiry 's been suspended for two days after a solicitor representing families of American victims , died in a car crash .
Thirty-seven year old Michael Hughes , who was married with five children , was driving home to Glasgow from the enquiry in Dumfries , when he collided with a lorry .
In the first legal case of it 's kind in an English court , a man 's been accused of raping his wife .
The woman 's alleged to have lived in constant fear of her estranged husband , who 's said to have kidnapped her on her way to work .
This report from Simon Irwin :
Sheffield Crown Court heard that the man , who can't be named for legal reasons , kidnapped his twenty seven year old wife and took her to an isolated spot on the moors above the city and raped and sexually assaulted her .
He denied all the charges against him .
In Scotland last year , husbands lost their immunity from rape in marriage after a test case , and earlier this year , in Leicester , a man was jailed for three years for the lesser offence of attempting to rape his wife .
The case in Sheffield continues .
Simon Irwin I R N Sheffield .
The wartime allies have officially handed control of Berlin back to the Berliners ; the two Germanies will become a single nation at the stroke of midnight .
Seventy-six Romanians who came to Britain for a Pontins holiday are asking for political asylum , they 're among two hundred of their countrymen who arrived at a Pontins camp near Bristol on Sunday for a weeks stay .
John Beasley has more :
The Romanians have been leaving Pontins Bream Sands centre in Somerset to turn themselves in at police stations across the west country .
Most , speaking no English , have been handing over notes asking for political asylum .
Romanians have only been allowed to travel abroad since the revolution ; Pontins have entertained over five hundred this summer , but they 're describing the situation as highly unusual .
Some of the asylum seekers are now being put up at bed and breakfast hotels in Bristol and Weston-Super-Mare .
The Home Office say they 'll all be interviewed , but their visas entitle them to stay in Britain for six months .
John Beasley , I R N , Bristol .
English fans could find themselves alongside rival Hungarians when Manchester United lead football league clubs back into Europe tomorrow after a five year absence .
United 's carefully laid segregation plans could be undermined if the Hungarian team Pecsimunkas go ahead with selling around two thousand tickets at random tomorrow morning .
Independent Radio News..
It 's Tuesday the second of October , nineteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
Germany will be reunited tonight ; the ceremony takes place at midnight when Berlin will become the capital of an independent Germany .
Sir Julian Willard was British Ambassador to West Germany from nineteen eighty-four to nineteen eighty-eight .
Sir Julian , it 's er a momentous occasion , what does it all mean ?
Well , it means quite a lot for the people who are living in Germany , especially the ones who are living in the East , because their economy has been so run down , it 's got to be put through a sort of shock treatment .
And something like two million people have got to stop doing jobs they should never have been doing in the first place , like er polluting the rivers and the soil and the air , and spying on each other and contributing to the overmanning that there is in East Germany .
And they have to move to other industries , er productive industries and service industries and er communications for example which is very run down , and that 's going to take I should think , six to nine months of really hard work and suffering , and and a political clean up at the same time , because in the schools and universities for instance , er nobody could get a job in the old days , who wasn't politically reliable , and all those people have got to be moved .
So there 's a lot to do in East Germany .
er , In spite of the fact that the Germanies were at one time united , it , it 's almost a culture shock I suppose .
Very big , and also for the West Germans , because they 've got to absorb these sixteen million or so new er citizens and they 've got to pay for them until they pay for themselves , and meanwhile they 've got to carry various international costs , especially payments to Russia for the Russian troops who are going to stay on for three or four years , and pay for them to withdraw and pay to build barracks for them in , in Russia so that they can withdraw .
So it 's a heavy burden for West Germany as well .
And there was huge euphoria when the Berlin Wall was , was knocked down , and in a way , we 've also heard recently that the gilt has perhaps been knocked off that ge , gingerbread as , as the real economic truths are hitting home .
Are you er hopeful that this is , is the start of something good ?
Oh , I'm absolutely sure it is , as , as I say there will be a few months of real suffering in , in eastern Germany and it may be a year and a half to two years before East Germany begans to , begins to show up plus figures , er on , instead of minus figures on the national statistics .
But in the long run , it 's bound to strengthen Germany 's economy tremendously , in fact some people think it 's going to strengthen it a bit too much , because it 's , it 's strong enough er already .
Now there was some dispute over whether Berlin or Bonn should be the capital , they 've come down on the side of Berlin , but is that dispute settled now ?
Not really , they 've put in their treaty that er Berlin is the capital of the United Germany , but that the seat of government will be chosen by the newly elected all-German parliament , which has got to be chosen early in December , and they could still say ‘well we have the capital in Berlin , but the seat of the government will remain in Bonn , and up in Berlin the president will have his office and some meetings will take place , but the ministries and foreign embassies and so on , and all the traffic jams that go with that , can jolly well stay in Bonn’ .
I think it , they might decide that .
Now , now you did mention it , it is going to be an enormous country now , what implications does that have for the European Community ?
It 's going to be about er , er twenty-five percent larger than France , Britain and Italy in population .
It 's still actually going to be smaller than France in area , it 's quite interesting to er remember that , but it 's economic power is already way ahead of anyone elses , and that 's going to increase .
Well I think it , we should er congratulate ourselves in having the European Community as a piece of machinery inside which it 's possible to contain a power the size of Germany .
I 'd m , be much more worried if we had Germany outside the European Community .
I suppose the next , the next big thing will be the elections that are coming up ?
Yes .
That , that 'll be something very different for people in East Germany .
Well it will , they haven't had a free election except for one they had in rather stressful circumstances a few months ago , since oh , the early er ninteen thirties , and one er wonders whether the population could be going to administer to Mr Kohl the same sort of surprise that the British population administered to Churchill in nineteen forty-five .
On the whole I don't think so , I think probably the present government will , will get back quite easily , but it 's a possibility .
All in all , a very exciting day I think .
I think so .
Sir Julian , thank you very much .
Thank you ...
Thames Valley Police report no major delays throughout the Fox F M area this evening , however roadworks continue on the A three six one at Wardington , there 's resurfacing work going on there .
The A four one , Ruscote Avenue in Banbury is completely closed southbound at the junction with Orchard Way , for paving work there .
On the A four two two Alcester bypass there 's a single lane working only for roadworks , and finally again on the A four one near Gaydom proving ground , there 's temporary traffic lights during the daytime only .
Natalie Proud , A A roadwatch .
And I 've nothing to report to you on either the buses or the trains..
Still to come : Oxfam pays tribute to Jordan 's help for refugees from Iraq .
First with a round up of the day 's local news , here 's Paul Kirby .
Thames Water say they 'll come down hard on anyone caught breaking the new drought order which has come into force today .
The order could last up to six months and affects areas in the west of Oxfordshire , including Carterton , Brize Norton and surrounding villages .
Although Thames Water say they haven't yet prosecuted over previous bans , water resources manager Dave Cook says they may have to clamp down further .
At the end of it there 's the chance that we may have to take action ; we 'd take that very much as a last resort , and we hope our customers will respond without the necessity for fines or prosecutions .
We have er patrols , patrols out in the erm out in the area as part of our normal job , if they see anybody infringing the order , they 'll have a word with them and er make sure they know about it , and apart from that , as I say , we 're appealing to the good sense of our customers , we are in a very serious situation .
Police are appealing for witnesses following a traffic accident in north Oxfordshire this morning .
An articulated lorry and a Ford Sierra car collided on the A thirty-four near Enstone at about nine o'clock this morning .
The lorry jackknifed and hit a stone wall causing serious injuries to the driver .
Witnesses or anyone else with any further information about the incident , is urged to contact the local police .
Police in north Oxfordshire are expressing concern about a recent spate of bicycle thefts ; over the past month , over twenty have been stolen in the Banbury area .
Christine Honesom of Banbury police is warning residents to take extra care with their bikes .
Since the first of September till the twenty-sixth of September , we 've had thirteen bikes go all over Banbury , and since the twenty-sixth of September it seems to have increased and we 've had eight of various sorts go , er ranging from a hundred to a hundred and ninety pounds .
er three have gone from schools in the Easington area , three have gone from the Bretchill area , so that 's a total of what , twenty-one for September .
Anti poll tax complainers in Oxfordshire will be lobbying the Vale of White Horse District Council this evening , asking them to refuse to use bailiffs in the collection of the community charge .
At a meeting of the Finance Committee members will pr , make a progress report on how the poll tax collection is going , and campaigners say they intend to put pressure on councillors in an attempt to get them to review the collection process .
An eleven year old boy from Didcot is in a comfortable condition in hospital following an , an attack by his pet dog .
Philip Turner was taken to the Radcliffe Infirmary in the city after his nose was , was bitten off last night .
Finally sport : Oxford United have made a new signing this afternoon ; Jim Magilton has joined from Liverpool for a hundred thousand pounds .
He makes his football league debut for Oxford in tomorrow 's away match at West Ham .
Twenty-one year old Magil Magilton attributes his signing to the manager 's enthusiasm .
Definitely , yes , I would say like I 've spoke to Brian Horton on Sunday and he more or less said that it 's er Oxford United , fourth position in the league , let 's hope so like you know , they are like , and I 've come here maybe to help get them in a better position .
Because I believe , that only through him , what he 's told me about the club , that it 's a nice club , a nice base for me to start off my career , because that 's what I really am doing .
And we 'll have late , more on this story later in the Fox Report .
Fox F M news , Phil Kirby reporting .
It 's thirteen minutes past six .
Buckingham 's MP George Walden is holding a public meeting in his constituency tonight aimed at allowing people to air and share their views on the Gulf crisis .
Mr Walden says he 's received numerous letters since the Iraqi invasion two months ago , and felt it important to take the opportunity to talk with the people he represents .
The one-time diplomat who 's served in the Gulf says concern appears to have grown about the way things are developing .
My constituents , er many of them will be concerned personally because they may have a relative in the army , now that we 've got ground troops out there , or they may have a relative who 's lived there or , or you know , God forbid , some of , some of them may have relatives who , who are hostages .
Er .
And so this is something that is going to touch an awful lot of people if it does turn sour , so all the more reason for me to be able to explain how I see it , and as I say , to hear how , what people think about the crisis .
With so many forces going there , do you think Britain is going to be taking part in this sort of international peace-keeping force for some time to come ?
Well I think so , yes .
Now , now that we are , are there I think we will stay there , and rightly , and I must say that er we have and I have a lot of confidence in the way the Americans have handled this so far , I think President Bush has done very well .
Er .
He 's been very careful er not to sound too bellicose , er but to keep force in reserve .
He 's also been careful to work er with the United Nations who have done er much better so far than they have in er some crises in the past .
Er .
And so I , I think the Americans are , are doing a good job , er but there are many many pitfalls ahead , and , and I hope that now that we 've got more troops there , that we will be er carefully consulted , er the whole time before any er drastic action is taken .
How significant do you think the warming of relations between Britain and Iran is in the whole scenario in the Gulf ?
It , it 's only part of , of the pattern , but it 's obviously er a good sign because er Iran has reason to know er what Saddam Hussein is like , having been at war with him for eight years — totally un , unpredictable man and a completely ruthless man .
Now of course , some people might say well the Iranians er haven't covered themselves with glory one way and another in the last few years , and that of course , is true .
Er .
But unfortunately , in international relations , you have to er work with , with the grain , and if it is a case that the Iranians are taking a fairly er tough line on Iraq , well this is clearly to be encouraged because Saddam Hussein must be er surrounded , he must be isolated , the sanctions must work , and I'm sorry to say this , but the country of Iraq must suffer in order that those sanction work , because if it doesn't suffer , and if the sanctions don't work , there is a danger of war , and that will be immensely costly to our side as well as being the end for Saddam Hussein .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
The water shortage faced by thousands of refugees in Jordan has been eased with the help of the Oxford based charity Oxfam .
Every day thousands of returnees from occupied Kuwait are still entering Jordan , putting pressure on the country 's resources and causing friction between the people fleeing the country .
Oxfam sent out three engineers to the camps who installed water shortage , er , er water storage equipment .
The team leader , Paul Sherlock says there still have considerable problems in the country .
The atmosphere with the actual returnees themselves is one of concern and apprehension I guess , because they 're concerned that they 've been involved in this , this crisis and they 're not quite sure what 's happening , and they are er not really being told by everybody , you know , there 's just too many people to make it very clear where they 're all going and when they 're all going .
And therefore most people are , are , are so , you know , concerned about their , their particular out , you know , what 's going to happen , are , does their government know that they are there ? er What 's going to happen when they get back into India , Sri Lanka , Bangladesh , Philippines or , or Pakistan or wherever .
er They 've lost most of their goods , er they 've had to leave enormous amounts of , of , of their personal belongings in , in Kuwait , they 're , they 're not physically in bad shape , but mentally they 're , they 're very anxious and , and they know they 've lost a lot of belongings .
Has the water been able to ease some of the worries and concerns in the camps ?
Yes , I mean you may well have seen on the television , some of the first film of some of the camps , that the first sort of rioting was about water .
Er .
And that 's why we , we were dispatched out to Jordan , er at sort of very very quick , very short notice .
The water side now is actually , is , is , is , is more or less all sorted out .
The , we 've been working with the water authorities as I said , they 've pulled all the stops out to provide the actual water resource and we 've provided the tanks and the distribution systems .
And , you know , with , with their help the whole thing has gone together quite nicely , so it 's , it 's from the water point of view , the basic problems are , are solved .
Are you pleased with what you achieved ?
Yes , we 're very very pleased actually , I mean we were pleased with the fact that we were able to contribute to it because one of the nice things about working , for us , working for the Jordanian water authority , was that the Jordanians themselves have put so much commitment into this er situation , they 're , so much of their own resources and energy has gone into looking after , you know , very large groups of people who really are of no benefit to the country whatsoever .
The economic situation in the country is , is , is going down and down and down , and they 're being squeezed by this whole crisis .
And yet they 've been using enormous amounts of their own resources , both finance and , and manpower resources and expertise to make life easier for , for the people who are going through their country .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
A government minister , last week appointed to look after green affairs , says he can't rule out a three pound gallon of petrol at the pumps .
Eric Forth has been telling an international petroleum seminar in Dunstable that there 's no need to step in and limit the price rises .
Then he points out that two enquiries by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission and the Office of Fair Trading have cleared the oil companies of malpractice .
In spite of what one reads and hears , we can take that as being a pretty definitive er word on , on the fact that we 're not being conned or ripped off in any way at all .
Now Mr Wakeham said yesterday that high petrol prices are here to stay , considering what you 've just said , does that mean we can see a three pound gallon around the corner ?
Well I , it 's difficult of course to look any distance ahead , er against the background of what 's happening in the Gulf .
But er interestingly , the Americans have just put er more tax on to their gas for , for different reasons admittedly , and er the environmentalists er always feel happy about that because they 've been the ones who 've been telling us for years that er petrol is if anything underpriced , and that we 're rather profligate in the way that we use it , so er at least some people are happy out of this , not everybody , but it , but er it 's making some people happier .
Petrol sales at the pumps have dropped by fifteen percent — is that bad news for the government in terms of revenue ?
Well er funnily enough , revenue considerations are of , er certainly not anywhere near the top of the list as far as that 's concerned .
One could argue quite the opposite , that a major drop in p , petrol use , is good in terms of environmental factors , economic factors and so on .
It won't be very good for the petrol companies that I 've been visiting here today , but every cloud tends to have it 's silver lining , and I , I think I can say with some confidence that the last factor that we 're considering is pouring over the revenues and wondering how much is coming in , that , that really has n't much come into it .
Has that been something that 's been on the government 's mind , the backhanded benefit of higher prices ?
I don't think so .
It 's obviously in the Treasury 's mind and that there will be a factor that is taken into consideration when they do their , er arithmetic er , er about the economy and in the run up to the budget if we can look that far ahead .
But it certainly has n't determined policy in any way , because what we 've said is that provided we 're satisfied that there isn't profiteering going on by the oil companies , and our Office of Fair Trading have told us that there isn't , then it is right that , that we should pay the right price for our petrol , and that is what it costs at any one time .
And if for the time being , that 's a high price , then that is one of the things that we 've got to accept as part of what 's going on in the Gulf , however painful that may be .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty-one minutes past six..
It 's twenty-two minutes past six .
Neil Kinnock has been giving a major speech to the Labour Party Conference in Blackpool this afternoon .
Peter Russell has been there :
Neil Kinnock has received a rousing reception to his keynote speech to delegates at Blackpool .
The Labour leader knows and the rest of the party knows that there could be an election next year , in which case when Labour meets for it 's conference in autumn ninety-one , Mr Kinnock could be addressing them , not as leader of the opposition , but as Prime Minister .
In a wide-ranging speech that lasted just under an hour , Mr Kinnock focused on the economy , training and education , the National Health Service and the Gulf crisis .
It was as much a speech to slam eleven years of Conservative government as to promote himself as a statesman , capable of assuming the role of Prime Minister .
The Labour leader lambasted the Tory record on the economy ; inflation up , interest rates up , a seventeen billion pound budget deficit and now , recession .
And all Mrs Thatcher could say in the face of that mocked Mr Kinnock , was that tax cuts looked unlikely next year .
I don't think that income taxes should be cut next year .
I think , I think , that I think that the children and the pensioners and the sick people of Britain come a long way before income tax cuts next year , or for many years to come .
So with a ten point six percent inflation rate , what should the government do ?
First they should cut the very high interest rates and so reduce industrial and housing costs .
That 's what we would do , that 's what we will do , if interest rates are at their current level .
Second and simultaneously , in order not to release a consumer credit squeeze that would second imports , they should introduce controls on the supply of credit ; restraint in what the banking system is allowed to borrow .
Several other mixed economies do it successfully , that 's what we would do , that 's what we will do .
And third argued Mr Kinnock , they should negotiate entry into the European Exchange Rate Mechanism , and to stop Britain 's economic slide in the long run , he told delegates , money had to be invested in training .
There 'd been a decade of de-skilling said Mr Kinnock , but Labour would set in motion a national training strategy .
The party would also invest in education ; that was he said , the most fundamental requirement of Britain 's future success .
; Fjm You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Oxford East 's M P , Andrew Smith says ‘Neil Kinnock 's speech shows Labour 's commitment to governing the country after the next General Election’ .
Speaking from Blackpool , Mr Smith says the party has a policy package that 'll lead the country out of the disastrous situation that the present government has put it in .
I thought it was a great speech , it was a prime ministerial speech from the next Prime Minister of our country .
I think he set out quite clearly Labour 's fitness to govern and our programme for government .
I was particularly pleased at the emphasis on investment in education and training , in science research and development and the commitments he gave on transport and health and community care .
I think he set out in plain language the priorities which Britain needs to address and which the present government is failing us on .
How was he received by delegates ?
Ecstatically , with enthusiasm and with people picking up the steely determination , that we 've all got to work with every energy to make sure that we win the General Election , as simple as that .
Everybody 's aware that this may well be the last Gen , the last Party Conference before the General Election , and what is more , of , an impression of the terrific progress that the Labour Party 's made in recent years , and further gains over the last year in terms of public support , so that we really are on the threshold of a General Election campaign which we realistically hope to win , and we 've got the policies in place to meet the needs of the nation for the nineties .
So it 's an atmosphere of excitement and determination .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Plans to ease the student housing crisis which is being faced by many students in Oxford , are being discussed by the residents of Headington this evening .
The polytechnic plans to build a hostel on the Morrell-Pollock site in North Oxford , and tonight , local residents will have the chance to talk about their proposal at a public meeting .
Abby Donald reports ;
The extent of the problems faced by students at the poly was highlighted last week when it was revealed that some students were living in cars , and others had to turn down places because of the lack of affordable housing .
The new student hostel will go some way towards easing the problem , providing an extra two hundred and eighty places .
Students in Oxford have a particularly difficult time finding housing within their price range because although the cost of rented accommodation is similar to London , students in the region don't get extra grant to cover it .
Deputy director at the poly , Brian Summers :
The problem for the students to some extent , is being compounded by the withdrawal of housing benefit , which means that they 're paying the full cost of rents in the private sector , whereas before they might have been getting ten , twelve even , more pounds a week refunded to them through the housing benefit scheme .
So they are facing much higher costs and we 're aiming to provide more accommodation at an affordable level for the students , and to take some of the pressure off the housing market in the city .
Chairperson at tonight 's meeting , Councillor Maureen Christian , says although they understand the needs of students , they can't ignore the views of local residents .
We 're negotiating with the polytechnic to give them permission to build a hostel on the John Boscoe playing field .
So we are sympathetic towards this er provision of student accommodation , but we also can not ride roughshod over the concerns of the local community .
The polytechnic says they 're fully aware of local objections and have revised the plans to account for them .
Mr Summers says good relations with the community are very important .
I think we 've put a tremendous er amount of effort into trying to be a good neighbour ; we rely on the local community very heavily for it 's support if we 're going to exist and flourish in Oxford at all .
And I think the fact that we completely changed our original proposal to meet local objections , does demonstrate the degree of concern that we have .
The meeting will take place at St Michael 's first school in Marston Road and half past seven this evening .
This is the Fox Report , it 's twenty-nine minutes past six..
On the M four westbound at the junction Slough , junction six which is Slough , traffic 's very heavy and slow .
Very heavy going also on the M twenty-five , clockwise between junctions fifteen and sixteen , the M four and the M forty .
There 'll be overnight work taking place in that area , both ways between junctions fourteen and fifteen , Heathrow and the M four , that 's between nine pm tonight and six am tomorrow morning ; there 'll be outside lane closures for lighting repairs .
Roadworks continue on the M forty too between junctions four and five , High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , two narrow lanes will be operating in both directions with a contraflow for a short section about midway between the two junctions .
And finally on the A forty-six London Road on Moreton-in-Marsh there are gasworks with restrictions which will also affect the High Street .
Natalie Proud , A A roadwatch .
And I 've not too many problems to report to you this evening either from British Rail who tell us that there 's a twenty three minute delay on the Manchester to Paddington service which was due in at Oxford at six twenty-four , can't quite do the sums there , but it isn't quite due in yet .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's six thirty-one .
Neil Kinnock has won a standing ovation from the Labour Party faithful at their conference in Blackpool , by presenting himself as the next Prime Minister .
He told members to get ready for an election which could happen at any time .
The French navy stopped a North Korean vessel in the Red Sea near Yemen , believing it 's cargo was intended for Iraq .
The allied warship fired off warning shots across the Korean ship 's bows to make it stop , but it was cleared to continue it 's voyage .
And a pilot has desperately tried to fight off highjackers seconds before his aircraft smashed into two other jets on the ground at China 's Canton airport .
One hundred and twenty people are thought to be dead and more than fifty are injured in what 's thought to be China 's worst air disaster .
And Sheffield Crown Court has heard how a man allegedly kidnapped and raped his wife ; the man who can't be named for legal reasons , was separated from her at the time of the supposed attack , and the case is making legal history .
The weather for the Fox F M area : the evening will start dry and cloudy but outbreaks of rain will reach the area later on .
The rain is going to continue overnight with heavy rain in places and mists developing over the Cotswolds and the Chilterns .
It 's going to be mild though with fresh south-westerly winds preventing the temperatures falling below eleven degrees celsius , that 's fifty-two degrees fahrenheit..
Still to come : Britain 's rare birds have their best breeding season for years , plus a look at the day 's financial and sports news .
First though , it 's National Asthma Week this week , which er this year is taking as it 's theme , A Lifeline for New Asthmatics .
Dr Barbara Hunt from the University of Oxford has a grant from the National Asthma Campaign to research the links between dust mites and allergic asthma .
Barbara it 's , I 'd always assumed that people were probable born with asthma , but that 's not , not the case ?
No , er it depends which type of asthma we , we 're talking about .
There is allergic asthma , there 's also exercise-induced asthma and stress-induced asthma , for example , er as far as allergic asthma is concerned , we think that people have to be exposed to the allergens er early in their life , in order to become sensitized , and once sensitized , they will respond to these allergens and er have asthma attacks .
Now , now your explan , expertise is with the link between dust mites and , and asthma ?
Yes .
Is it a big problem , how many people er or is that er , do you know roughly how many people would suffer from it ?
Well , there are three million people in the U K who suffer from asthma , and about forty percent of that number , er I , I can't do the fi , can't the figures either , er are allergic to dust mites .
And so , yes it is a big problem and it seems to be increasing , er the number of sufferers has doubled in the past ten years and we , we don't really know why yet .
No theories on that ?
er Well , one of the theories is that , with modern housing and wall to wall carpeting , central heating and better insulation , er the mites that live in our houses can thrive er better in these luxurious conditions , and with increased numbers of , of mites , we are seeing increased asthma attacks .
Could some people have asthma and not know it ?
er No I don't think so , I think er it would be pretty obvious , but the severity of the disease does vary widely .
Now I , I mentioned that , that it is asthma week , this week , all sorts of things are happening .
Yes .
What , what 's going on in this area ?
er In this area there are sponsored swims , er there are sponsored swims throughout the country , and they 're hoping to , to swim a total of four thousand and something miles , the distance around the British Isles , and hoping to raise fifty thousand pounds for asthma research .
er There are various other sponsored events and one of the er most important er events is this er helpline for newly diagnosed asthmatics which er should be very helpful .
Now that , that actually was launched yesterday , is this now
Yes .
Going just last the week or will it be a permanent
No , it should be a permanent link , and er the calls will be er supported by the National Asthma Campaign and , as I said , it 's particularly er useful to newly diagnosed asthmatics in helping them to understand what 's happening to them and obtain advice , er .
Is there trained medical help on
Yes , there are trained nurses on the other end of the line , yes .
When can people ring that num , that line ?
er The line is open from one pm to nine pm , er Monday to Friday .
So it 's , it 's a fairly , it 's not something that 's twenty four hours if you , if you suddenly get frightened ?
No that 's right , yes .
But it , it does provide background to it ?
Well that 's right , it 's , it 's more than we 've had before and if it 's a success , perhaps we 'll manage to have a twenty-four hour line .
Barbara thank you , and the number of that line is O three four five O one O two O three , that 's O three four five O one O two O three and it 's , and it 's only charged at local prices I understand .
er As I understand it the cost will be offset by the National Asthma Campaign .
So wherever you are in the country , it 's charged at local prices .
Yes .
Barbara thank you very much indeed .
Right .
Now , some of Britain 's rarest birds have had their best breeding season on record this summer .
According to figures published by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , the long hot spell over the summer meant that more birds of prey came to our shores than at any time since the eighteen nineties .
But it 's not been all good news , as Chris Harbod of the R S P B has been explaining .
Our rarer breeding birds in the United Kingdom have had a somewhat mixed year this summer , mainly due to the weather we 've had which has been very hot down south , but quite er wet and windy up north .
In Scotland , the ospreys have bred pretty well , we 've had sixty-two pairs come up and attempt breeding this year , and they 've managed to raise eighty-seven young , which is more than er the highest number this century .
The figure I think might have been higher if we hadn't had some hot weather which er meant the fish were keeping rather low in the lochs , and it was difficult for the ospreys to find sufficient food .
And in fact our famous nest at Loch Garton , the young there actually er , both unfortunately died ; one killed by a fox , and the other was too weak really from lack of food to survive properly .
So that highlights the problems they 've had , but they were nevertheless successful .
I understand er good weather in Wales has meant red kites have done well as well ?
Yes that 's right , red kites have done marvellously .
Er .
They 've had their best breeding season this century ; sixty three pairs have raised a total of seventy young , and this is despite the fact that egg collectors robbed at least eight nests of eggs .
Unfortunately this is a problem which faces both kites er and ospreys and , and some other birds of prey , so er we always look for a few losses , but we hope that nevertheless , in a good season like this , the birds will breed well enough to produce good numbers of young .
Now how do you actually come to calculate the figures ?
Well with our rarest birds , and certainly ospreys and red kites are extremely rare with fifty to sixty pairs of each , we keep a close eye on them , some of the more vulnerable nests are actually watched twenty-four hours of the day , others are monitored regularly to make sure they 're progressing well .
And so we 're able to , to , once we 've found which birds er have arrived , picked a nest and er have laid eggs , we put a careful watch on them and then we 're able to tot up at the end of the breeding season , how many young have actually fledged .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , I'm Jane Markham .
Still to come a look at the day 's sport , and there 's a new signing for Oxford United .
First , financial report with Halpern and Woolf , keeping Oxfordshire in business .
Markets have been buoyant following a thirteen percent gain on the Niki Index , it 's the largest ever one day gain , though this merely reversed last week 's dramatic falls .
The London exchange opened the day with the Footsie one hundred making early gains , at one stage up forty-four points ; however , it slipped back to end the day up twenty seven point seven at two oh five eight point five .
The city has been in optimistic mood with a large volume of shares changing hands ; Wall Street also opened strongly , which in turn , encouraged the U K market .
On the foreign exchanges , the deutschmark seemed steady ahead of tonight 's reunification ; the pound fell against both the dollar and the mark , ending the day at one point eight eight four five dollars and two deutschmarks point nine three four one .
Today 's share prices : Abbey National were up four at two O one , British Aerospace down four at five five nine , British Airways up four point four at four point three two five .
British Gas up four at two one four point five , British Telecom were down four at two hundred and sixty four , Goodhead Publishing Group unchanged at fifty-eight , Metal Box up one thousand two hundred , Morland Brewers unchanged at two hundred and seventy five and Oxford Instruments er ended the day at two three four , having er not changed their position .
Thames Water were up three at two two two , Trustee Savings Bank up two point five at two twot two and today 's major stock market mover , apart from Metal Box ; I C I up twenty-six to eight five six .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Britain 's bosses gave themselves pay rises of more than two percent above the national average last year .
Attention has turned away from the national work force to their managers , as Mrs Thatcher 's told British businessmen ; they 're earning too much .
Rebecca Marston has been talking to Ken Schwarz , Director of Development at the company who 've published the figures on executives pay .
She asked him whether Britain 's managers really are paying themselves too much .
When we are talking about directors of businesses , er particularly the larger companies , good people are hard to find and some of them are superstars , and er I know we 've heard a lot about er exceedingly high levels of pay and very high pay increases , er but when you talk about the superstars and megastars , what about the entertainment business , what about sport , what about , you know , golfing celebrities , earning in excess of a million , or racing drivers ?
Britain 's bosses are getting twelve point three percent more in total remuneration than they were last year , their workforce is getting nine point eight percent .
don't you think that Britain 's bosses should be setting an example , and paying themselves similar increases to that that they pay their workforce ?
Of course , Britain 's bosses have to be setting an example and obviously leadership has to emanate from the top , and is very often done by example .
But having said that , er you are quoting a national statistic at me , er there are a number of workforces that have had increases substantially higher than the one you 've just mentioned , to whit some , the car workers and the settlements recently there .
Er .
The , it is a competitive marketplace ; er we 're not alone in the U K , if you look at the rest of Europe , you 'll find er inflation lower yes , but salary increases for the senior jobs and the top jobs there , are also higher than they are lower down , so this widening of differentials isn't just something that is , is the British disease , it occurs in other European countries as well .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
After a disappointing start to their league season , Oxford United 's manager , Brian Horton has splashed out on a one million pound signing from Liverpool Reserves , that 's midfielder , Jim Magilton .
He was also an internat , had international squad experience with Northern Ireland .
At the official press conference today , Brian Horton said he 'd been looking at the young twenty-one year old for quite a while .
I 've seen him play over the years er Mick , you know he 's er typical of player , we 've had him watched a few times this year , er scouts him er at Aston Villa , said he had a magnificent game .
I saw him play last week against Sunderland reserves , he had another magnificent game , his passing was absolutely immaculate — got a good goal , hit a great volley that for another goal ; he can just pass the ball , and I think that 's what we 've lacked a little bit of , er a bit of guard sometimes for our midfield .
Steve Mclaren came back in , back back in I think did a good job , Mickey Lewis tackles and , and everything there , Les is a good pass the ball so , the three of them in there , er tomorrow night , should be able to pass the ball around .
So hopefully he 's going to burst West Ham 's pretty bubbles ?
Hopefully , er I thought we , we played very very well at Port Vale last week and passed it around with three men in the middle of the park .
I started off with the three men in the middle of the park Saturday , we changed it round because I think we needed an extra striker at the Wolves , and I didn't think we played that badly .
There 's no reason why we can't go to West Ham and get a good result Mick , that , you know , they 're , they 're nothing special .
Well Mick it 's a bit of a surprise , this signing wasn't it , did it take you off , off guard ?
Well , Brian Horton 's comments just there did .
West Ham , nothing special , he 's started early .
He was also very rude about my new hairstyle I 'll have you know Jane , but this guy
It 's great radio Mickey !
But this guy is the one Brian wanted .
He 's got two industrious midfielders , Mickey Lewis and Les Phillips , Steve McLaren , he plays these lovely beautiful long balls , Glen Hoddle style , but he 's a bit injury prone , but still a good player ; but this guy , he 's got a lot of promise , and we 've just got to wait and see — a baptism of fire at West Ham tomorrow .
Yes it 's going to be a big match that , tom , you 're going down there I understand ?
Oh yes , I love it , I mean , as a boy I used to support West Ham but I am now firmly behind Oxford United , and I want them to beat West Ham , because as a boy they always lost for me , West Ham .
erm What do you reckon the chances are tomorrow night though , in spite of , of Magilton being , being with them ?
Well last season , I did write Oxford off .
West Ham were at the top , Oxford were at the bottom , it 's the same this season , but last season , Oxford went there and they gave West Ham a very good game .
They lost three two when really they should have won ; they missed the chances , but every goal was a cracker .
There 's always entertainment at Upton Park .
So , what about one of your famous predictions ?
I 'll go for West Ham United two , Oxford United three .
Wow , plenty of goals there
I 've not been right this season .
No that 's very true .
Jim Magilton is the second Liverpool reserves player to join the U 's , after the signing of John Durning three years ago , and he says it was Brian Horton 's enthusiasm that had tice that enticed him away from the Merseyside side .
Definitely yes , I would say like , I 've spoke to Brian Horton on Sunday and he more or less said that it 's er Oxford United in fourth position in the league , and let 's hope so like you know .
They are like , and I 've come here to maybe to help get them in a , a better position , because I believe that , only through him , what he 's told me about the club ; that it 's a nice club , a nice base for me to start off my career , because that 's what I'm really am doing .
I'm twenty-one , I 've got three years here , I'm going to give it everything .
Now the club are looking for a player of your capabilities .
You 're making your debut against West Ham United , one of the big arenas in the second division — what a debut .
Yes it is , it 's , it , it will be a bit frightening but like , I 've , I 've waited this long you know , so er anything they 're throwing up at me won't , won't be won't daunt me in any way because I 've been , like I went to a charity shield this season with Liverpool and they were playing Manchester United , there were sixty thousand there , and er I 'd have done anything just to get on there .
Now you also knew John Durning up in Liverpool , you didn't pick up any bad habits did you ?
I hope not , er mostly they will have told me to stay away from the lad like — he 's harmless , you know what I mean ?
You just have to feel sorry for him .
Well there you go .
Now is anything else happening in the sporting world tonight Mickey ?
It 's Tuesday , so no , no doubt you 've got a few local games on the cards ?
That 's right , and I 've got a bone to pick with one club .
Thame United , they 're at home to Milton Keynes Borough in the south Midlands premier league .
Now I found this out because I was in a pub last night and someone told me .
For goodness sake Thame United , please send me a fixture list , I ask you every week , there 's a chap on the phone — oh yes Mr Inotta , we 'll send you one , thank you for the excellent coverage , Fox F M sport is quite superb , but nothing .
Please I will never go to Windmill Road unless you send me a fixture list .
Meanwhile , Aylesbury United , they 're at home to Harlow Town in the AC Delco cup , first round replay , now they 're a nice club , they even let me know if one of their supporters is ill Jane .
: Fjm I have got no answer to that .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Gendarmes from the French police force have come to Oxford this week to promote road safety amongst school children .
Many children have been injured in increasing numbers over the last year , and it was the idea of one school teacher in Oxford to bring a group of gendarmes over to England to teach children how the French behave on the roads .
Paul Kirby reports :
The fact that gendarmes have been introduced to an Oxford school is a measure of how seriously schools in Oxfordshire are taking European road safety week .
Gendarmes have been teaching French schoolchildren for twenty years , and claim by teaching kids , they teach their parents as well .
Mayeur Vaccin who 's one of the gendarmes from Lilles says by careering around in go karts on miniature road systems , the children appreciate the other side of the story .
I 've no er statistics , but in , I think it 's er very positive .
When we er teach pupils , in the same time , we teach their parents , because er pupils give the lesson er when they come back home to their parents .
Joe Johnson is the man responsible for bringing the gendarmes to Oxford Sandhills school .
He 's offering other head teachers to get in touch to benefit from what he says is a very important project .
Well , I think if you see a good idea , you want to share it , and I think anything that we can do that will cut down on the terrible casualties and the deaths on our roads of , particularly of children , we must do it .
I mean there 's carnage on these roads of ours , and people are just not doing anything about it or taking it seriously enough .
There are more kil , children killed on our roads than die of disease , than die of malnutrition in this country , er many , you know and we just don't take it seriously .
A , a plane crashes , and we all jump er but , but nine thousand kids are injured every year on our roads and we , we just think ‘oh yes , that 's normal , that 's , that 's allowed , ’ because it 's a motor car .
And I don't think , I think we 've reached the point now where we 've got to really take stock in our society and change things .
The gendarmes will be at Sandhills school for the rest of the week , and anyone interested in teaching their school about road safety is urged to take part .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
New drivers taking their L tests from next year will face a fresh challenge as part of their examination , and it 's been announced by the Roads Minister , Christopher Chope today .
He was speaking at the new driving standards agency in Nottingham .
The minister revealed that from next April all learner drivers must be able to reverse into a parking place double the length of their own vehicle .
Caroline Atkinson reports :
Driving standards agency which oversees the running of all ordinary and H G V tests taken in Britain , move to Nottingham from London .
Today Roads and Traffic Minister , Christopher Chope opened the building and announced a major change to the driving test .
Mr Chope says ‘learner drivers will now have to reverse park into a gap double the length of their own vehicle.’
Most people er recognise that er being able to park in a space in a busy street is an important part of driving , and the surprise is really that it 's never been part of the test before .
Is it a major safety aspect do you think ?
Oh it 's obvious that safety 's involved , I think that er it 's also er road use because er if people take a long time er going forwards and back trying to get into a space to park because they don't have the basic skills to enable them to do it , then it 's frustrating for other motorists , and obviously accidents can be caused .
And Keith Cameron who 's the chief driving examiner of the D S A , welcomed the decision .
Delighted , obviously we er think that this is a very good thing from a safety point of view .
We realise that there are many problems caused by people who aren't able to park er in a restricted area er and we need to ensure that people are able to do that satisfactorily and safely .
Meanwhile the Minister said there were no plans to introduce motorway driving as part of the L test .
This is the Fox Report , it 's eight minutes to seven .
The M twenty-five remains very slow moving clockwise between junctions fifteen and sixteen , the M four and the M forty , as does the M four westbound at junction six , the Slough exit , that 's due to the rush hour traffic this evening .
The A forty-one though , at the Banbury spur is still down to a single lane between the junction with the A forty-six Longbridge Island and the A four five two , Grey 's Mallory Island , that 's for M forty construction work .
And on the M forty between junctions seven Thame and the A forty interchange , there 's a contraflow in operation , which means there 's only two lanes available in each direction .
And finally , Ruthcote Avenue in Banbury is closed southbound at the junction with Orchard Way for paving work .
Natalie Proud , A A roadwatch .
British Rail tell us that this evening 's Banbury to London Paddington train which was due to leave Banbury at three minutes past seven has been cancelled , otherwise I 've no problems to report on the local trains or buses..
The Millstream touring theatre company is bringing South African playwright Athel Fougards ‘Road to Mecca’ to the theatre in Chipping Norton on Thursday night .
It 's set in an Afrikaaner village and is the true story of a widow who is inspired to sculpt hundreds of animals and people following the death of her husband .
It was first performed by the Royal National Theatre in nineteen eighty-five .
Joanna Wake plays Miss Helen .
Ware House is a museum now , you can go the house there now and see this extraordinary yard of wise men and owls and mermaids and peacocks .
And in , in her house , she used to light about two hundred candles a night , and she ground down glass and put glitter on all the walls and the furniture and she played with light from these candles .
And of course , candles light being a symbol for whatever you like to take it as .
She sounds quite an eccentric .
She was extraordinary , absolutely extraordinary , and of course , mis , very misunderstood .
She was an Afrikaaner herself ?
She was an Afrikaaner yes .
Is it difficult for an English act , actress to play an Afrikaaner ?
Yes it is difficult , I mean , one has to , er we 've had a dialect coach and I'm working very hard on the accent .
Er .
We 're not doing it too strongly because of course it is quite difficult to , for an English ear perhaps to get attuned to it if one was doing it very very strong , so I'm trying to do one that isn't er too alien to an English ear .
It 's also quite difficult to , I would think , to put across a character who isn't a baddie , because we 're so used to hearing Afrikaaner as being a bad language as it were .
Oh , oh absolutely , but of course , I mean , Afrikaaners are just people and er they have bad Afrikaaners and good Afrikaaners just like anywhere and anyone , you know , anyone else .
And she was erm a most lovely person , extraordinary and er kind and gentle , but she had a tenacity .
She had a tenacity about the vision about her personal purpose in life .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
A tantalising mixture of talent is due to appear at the Town Hall in Oxford on Friday .
Rogues and Vagabonds has been devised and 'll be compered by Michael Meyer , and stars Edward Fox , Dorothy Tutin and Freddie Jones , and it 's all for a good cause .
Jean McConnell is from the Libra theatre company who will benefit from this gala .
Jean this is a wonderful array of people , how have you enticed them to the Town Hall ?
Well , we were helped initially by a professional fund raiser who was concerned of our lack of money and our lack of funding by er the arts bodies , and gave me this er contact really in the form of Michael Meyer to er arrange and er bring about these three artists .
And he is really responsible for bringing the three , because they deemed us a worthy cause when they saw er the work that we were doing , to perform free for us that evening in order to boost our funds .
Tell me a little bit about er Libra .
Libra Theatre Company ?
Well , it 's been going in Oxford now for three years and it 's for people with disability and able bodied people , and with the current production we have which is being produced by Paul Newham , the people there have er suffered with M S and are visually impaired and er you know , various disabilities like that , plus able bodied people .
But we welcome everybody really , from the age of fifteen or sixteen to seventy , and we turn nobody away and we 're a very warm welcoming group .
So the gala on Friday is all to , to fund the productions really ?
That 's right , yes .
Tell me a little bit , bit more about Rogues and Vagabonds , it , it , it 's billed , well , what 's it billed as ?
Well , it 's a programme of entertainment which is devised by Michael Meyer who is the famous translator of Strinberg and Ibsen .
And the sketches and the readings take , er take us all through literature from the eighteenth century to present day , and they , they 're just readings and sketches from that , which I don't , I haven't actually seen it and I don't know what it 's going to be , but I 've every confidence that whatever Edward Fox , Dorothy Tutin and Freddie Jones do , it will be quite superb in these events
It 's a wonderful mixture
Yes it 's a series of
I'm just trying to visualise it
It 's about thirty different events with an interval in between with wine and so on
And a super venue for them at the Town Hall
Yes , yes it is , it 's , it 's in Assembly Rooms which is slightly more gracious than the rather large er main building , and the mayor has very kindly er given the room , given us permission to use the room free of charge , and she will also be there at the performance as she is er , seems very interested in our work to date .
So it should be quite an intimate performance , will people come along
I think it will .
And have the chance to , to ; Fjmc I think it will
To meet the cast
Yes , the three artists will mingle with the guests at the buffet supper which we hope will be by candlelight , and the whole evening will be rather intimate and rather special to people who do come .
So how can people get hold of tickets , and how much do they cost etcetera , etcetera ?
Well , tickets in Oxford are selling on seven two seven eight five five , and it is thirty pounds , but it includes wine on er arrival , wine in the interval and wine with the supper , and there will be a fun auction at some point afterwards er and the entertainment , the two hour entertainment .
Sounds wonderful .
And it , it does sound , I , I must say we 've , we 've having flowers everywhere and I think the whole evening 's going to be very nice and we 're looking forward to everybody enjoying themselves and having a good time .
Jean thank you very much .
Thank you .
And that was the Fox Report for Tuesday the second of October nineteen ninety .
Join us for another Fox Report tomorrow night , William Ronk will be here at six o'clock , but stay with us , the Red Fox is after the news at seven o'clock .
Tonight : a High Court Judge is to head an enquiry into the Strangeways prison riot while former convict John McVicar says the army should have stormed the jail at the start .
The director of the British Roads Federation supports the Government 's new toll road scheme :
Our roads are in a mess and anything that will speed up improving that situation I think is to be welcomed .
Also on the programme : Percy the penguin , the sole survivor of a mystery illness at the Cotswold wildlife park at Burford , is fighting for its life .
It needs a boost to the kidneys and the liver .
It looks okay but we don't know what long term is going to happen to the bird .
The six o'clock news , this is Katherine Kelly .
Prison officers at Strangeways are threatening to break off negotiations with those inmates still holding out in the jail , but they 're denying the ultimatum means they 'll use force to end the five day siege .
From the scene , Simon Israel :
The Governor , Brendan O'Freal will only say that less than forty are still inside including four escape risk prisoners .
He 's been in constant contact with the Home Secretary as negotiations have become increasingly difficult but he welcomes the announcement of a Judicial Inquiry .
The Prison Service is in this business of when things go wrong we have a full enquiry to learn the lessons .
Meanwhile , a self-declared ring-leader , Paul Taylor , shouting from the roof tops , has claimed that it was all just a sit-in protest that got out of control .
Simon Israel , I R N , at Strangeways Prison in Manchester .
President Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev have agreed to hold a summit in America at the end of May .
The White House has announced that the Soviet leader will visit the United States from the thirtieth May until June third .
From Washington , Nick Peters .
The exact location of the four day meeting has not been announced although most of the talks are expected to take place here in Washington .
U S Secretary of State James Baker is not ruling out however that Soviet behaviour in Lithuania could derail the summit .
Well I would hope it wouldn't .
We 'll have to see what develops .
He and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze are holding talks here to finalize details of the summit , and to add impetus to Arms Control agreements the two leaders will be negotiating .
Nick Peters , I R N , Washington .
A top level police report on security leaks in Ulster is calling for tighter controls on the handling of intelligence documents .
It 's one of the main recommendations of the Enquiry headed by Cambridgeshire Deputy Chief Constable John Stevens .
His team has spent six months investigating the alleged leaks of security files to loyalist terror groups .
The report has been handed over to the R U C Constable Hugh Annersley .
I will now study that report , and as soon as possible Mr Stevens and I will make statements .
In the meantime I would ask people to avoid unsubstantiated speculation and unhelpful comment which is so singularly unproductive in these circumstances .
A London born terrorist has today been jailed for six months in Amsterdam on arms offences .
Twenty-seven year old Patrick Anthony Kerr is a member of the Irish People 's Liberation Organisation .
The twenty Councils ordered to cut their Poll Tax levels are taking more legal advice before they decide whether to challenge the Government in court .
Leaders of the Councils , none of them Tory controlled , have been meeting in London today to plan a campaign .
They were joined by Shadow Environment Secretary Brian Gould who says they 're determined to fight .
Common cause has been established between all the charge-capped authorities , they all believe that they 've been unfairly treated , and they 've all agreed to pursue a common search for remedies to the plight in which they find themselves .
There is clearly the possibility of er an application for judicial review on the ground that the Secretary of State has produced essentially a politically biased list and has therefore acted unlawfully .
The official Soviet newsagency TASS says Lithuania is ready to compromise with the Kremlin and hold a referendum on breaking away .
The rebel republic has already declared itself independent from the Soviet Union and President Gorbachev threatened grave consequences if its parliament doesn't renounce the decision .
The Grand National meeting at Aintree has got off to a tragic start with two horses dying in the first race .
It happened on the hurdling course which is safer than the steeplechase route where the National will be run on Saturday .
New safety measures have been introduced for National fences after two horses died at the notorious Beecher 's Brook in last year 's race .
Cricket , and the afternoon session in the fourth Test Match between England and the West Indies has just got under way in Barbados .
The West Indies are eighty-five for two wickets .
It 's Thursday fifth April nineteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
The Home Secretary David Waddington has announced that an inquiry into the Strangeways Prison riot is being set up .
Lord Justice Woolf will look into the events leading up to the violence and the action taken to end it .
Mr Waddington says the Inquiry will be separate from the criminal investigation .
At least twelve prisoners are still thought to be inside the jail and refusing to give themselves up .
The Home Secretary has been talking to Peter Murphy about the siege and the efforts to end it .
Well obviously we want the incident to be brought to an end and until it 's brought to and end you always have that fear that there might have been another tragedy .
But I was able to tell the House this morning that all the Rule forty-three prisoners , who were the ones who were particularly vulnerable , are now accounted for , and I mean by that that they have all come out of the jail in the last few days and unfortunately one of them , as you know , has died from his injuries .
But the rest of them are safe ?
Yes .
What about the persistent reports , sir , that there have been deaths in the prison ?
You must still be taking that very seriously ?
I just think it 's unfortunate that all these rumours have circulated .
I suppose it 's inevitable at a time like this , but now that the Inquiry has been set up my firm advice to everybody is er stop propagating rumours and er give any information which you think is relevant to the Inquiry .
Is the policy still to sit it out and wait rather than try and force your way into the prison ?
Operational matters are for the Governor , but I think it is important to bear in mind that although we know that violence was used in the early stages we have no evidence that anyone now still in the prison is in danger and you 've got to ask yourself in those circumstances whether you should risk injury or even death in storming the prison when as far as we know nobody remaining inside is now in danger .
There have been persistent reports of understaffing at Strangeways , is that one of the issues that will be looked into by this Inquiry ?
Well I er don't agree that there has been er understaffing and in the statement which I made to the House today I was able to point out what a very big increase in er the total complement of the prison officers has taken place during recent years , but it 's up to Lord Justice Woolf to look in to whatever evidence is put before him , it 's for him to look at the terms of reference and he will no doubt decide what is relevant and what is not .
You 're listening to the FOX Report .
Former convict John McVicar whose own prison career was turned into a film says the Home Secretary must share the blame for the murder of any inmates in Strangeways .
The Authorities are maintaining their softly-softly approach in their bid to bring a peaceful end to the siege .
It 's not yet known if any inmates have been killed apart from the remand prisoner Derek White who died yesterday in hospital .
McVicar who was involved in riots and rooftop protests at Durham and Chelmsford Jails says the army should have stormed the prison to save sex offenders being picked on by rioters .
Some of them have not been found guilty , and albeit they have been charged with horrendous crimes they are still innocent people and it doesn't matter even if they are not innocent people , the Government still has a responsibility to life and limb and really I can't see any case at all for not storming .
Waddington really stands indicted for this .
What would be the motive for continuing the siege any longer ?
If they have committed the crimes they will face the sentences presumably , what 's the point in sticking it out for another two , three , four days ?
Once you get up on the roof then it 's euphoria , there 's anarchy reigning , you 're in the public eye , the sun 's shining , er and everyone 's quite happy for a day or so , but of course you get cold and a bit hungry , and er then the sort of import of what you face starts to come through .
Er .
Now what will be concerning the last hard core will be that amongst them can almost certainly the people who were involved in the original planning of the er uprising or riot , and also who probably er orchestrated the Kangaroo Courts .
What will be on their mind is first of all the Prison Authorities are going to isolate them , they 're going to be in solitary confinement for a very long time — six months , maybe a year , that 's been the pattern — they 're going to lose a lot of remission , but they also know they 're going to face criminal charges .
Now they also , in the wake of this knowledge is the er awareness that they 're going to be interrogated on this , and they 're also sitting up there thinking ‘what are we going to say ? ’ and indeed that 's another reason for bringing this whole incident to an end , because in a sense they are cooking up alibis and covering their backs .
You 're listening to the FOX Report .
The White House has announced that President Bush and Mikhail Gorbachev are to hold a Superpower summit in America at the end of May .
The dates were revealed in simultaneous statements in Washington and Moscow .
They didn't say where it would be held though it 's thought the Soviet leader will visit Washington from the thirtieth May until June third .
Our Washington correspondent Nick Peters has been telling Richard Dalling about the likely issues up for discussion .
The land-based multi-warhead er missiles is a real issue that has to be tackled , er and they may either go for , this is very much up in the air , go for er distinct cuts in er Start one , or they may talk about limitations and then go for a Start two treaty .
Er .
As you know arms control negotiations are incredibly detailed and rather arcane subjects , er so it 's a little tricky to see the wood for the trees in this one , but er arms control , obviously C F E — the Conventional Forces in Europe — er is very much an issue that will be on the table .
Again it 's doubtful they 'll be ready to sign anything on that er I think also the shadow of Lithuania is very much over this and Mr Bush is obviously not wishing to er box himself into a corner at this stage while the Lithuania crisis is still open .
What about German unification ?
Now Mr Gorbachev wants Germany to be neutral , Mr Bush obviously doesn't .
Do you think they 're going to have a problem on that one ?
No , I think the Soviets are pretty well reconciled to the Bush point of view that a unified NATO , a unified Germany , I beg your pardon , would stay in NATO .
Er .
I think that er Mr Gorbachev has er seen that Mr Bush has only a few firmly held points of view , I mean that 's one of the criticisms of George Bush that he does seem to have only a few firmly held points of view on emerging democracies in Eastern and Central Europe , but having said that , er I think he really does believe that a unified Germany in NATO is a key part of stability in that region , and I think that Mr Gorbachev recognises that on this one Mr Bush is not er capable of being moved .
Still to come : farmers are up in arms over the Poll Tax on empty farm cottages , and forty thousand pounds from the N H S lottery comes to Oxford .
With a look at the day 's local news here 's Robin Powell .
The Oxford University Student 's Union has expressed its disappointment at the Government 's action on the Student Loans Bill in the Commons last night .
The amendments to the Bill from the House of Lords were debated in only three hours as the Government guillotined the motion , and the Speaker of the House also ruled that a Lord 's amendment saying students should be entitled to Housing Benefit was invalid .
Paul Bromfield from the Student 's Union says the Government was wrong to limit discussion of the issue .
I don't think it should have been guillotined .
I think the main reason it was guillotined is that there is a lot of unhappiness among Conservative MPs and among many people in the Conservative Party about the Government 's proposals .
The Government realizes this and that is why it has cut debate off .
I think if debate had been continued then many backbench Tory MPs would have expressed their reservations and their concerns about the Government 's proposals .
Firemen were called to a fire on the M forty earlier today .
The fire started in a transit van travelling east-bound and then spread to the fuel tank .
Firemen used three pumps to bring the blaze under control but no-one was injured .
Meanwhile , Gas Board officials say they 're still baffled about the cause of a mains explosion on the A four one eight Thame to Oxford road yesterday .
Flames leaping to thirty feet in the air were reported just off the road at Wheatley causing a stretch of the road to be closed all day .
Almost one hundred houses in Tiddington were also left without gas .
A spokesman for the Gas Board says the cause of the explosion will probably never be known .
A vicar in a South Oxfordshire village is hoping locals will rally round to save a church tower .
seventy-eight thousand pounds is needed to save St. Michael 's , a twelfth century building in Blewbury near Didcot .
The money raised by the appeal will restore the Tower to its original state .
Father Edwin Clements from St. Michael 's says a great community spirit has developed .
People have been very generous in the parish and the village , obviously they think a lot of their church , but one suggestion that was put forward was if every man , woman and child gave the equivalent of twelve pounds to the fund then it would be raised easily , and I think that it 's quite likely that people will come forward er in a generous way I'm sure .
And finally , a survey out today is claiming that shoppers in two of the major shopping centres in the FOX F M area are less interested in fashion but more likely to spend , spend , spend on furniture and food .
William Ronken reports .
The survey was carried out in over one hundred towns and cities by a property firm , and included samples showing the shopping habits of people in Oxford and Aylesbury with some interesting results .
Although London 's Oxford Street topped the list when it came to spending on fashion and footwear , Aylesbury beat both Oxford and the West End as far as spending on food , furniture , electrical goods and D I Y items was concerned .
The survey also confirmed that even during the current economic climate with high interest rates , the South East remains top of the spending league .
A spokesman for the property firm suggested the results were proof that when it comes to spending Aylesbury 's definitely Top of the Shops .
It 's sixteen minutes past six .
Farmers are raising their voices against the Poll Tax .
In England and Wales they 'll have to pay up to double the Poll Tax on any empty farm cottages they own , although farmers in Scotland are going to be exempt from this .
Tom Bewley is a local representative of the National Farmer 's Union .
Tom , explain precisely what er what the situation is .
Well , it 's not as bad in Oxfordshire as it is in some other parts of the country because there are a lot of urban areas around here , a lot of people who want digs and accommdation , so many farmers who are on a main route , on a bus route , whatever , can in fact let their properties .
But in the more rural parts of the County there are definitely problems .
I 've discovered one case er two cases in fact near Bicester .
Er .
One farmer has just received a bill for seven hundred pounds .
He has a cottage which is in not good enough condition to let , he can't afford to do it up , and it doesn't quite qualify as decrepit .
So he 's stuck .
And there 's another farmer in the same area who keeps a caravan for seasonal workers .
That counts as a second home .
seven hundred pounds on his bill .
Now this sounds as though it 'll actually make quite a difference to perhaps a small farmer .
It 's a lot of money to find .
Well yes indeed .
And they 're the sort of people who are anyway having great difficulty finding er the extra to support their er own workers with their initial Poll Tax payments anyway .
Now , the N F U has now written to the Agricultural Minister .
Do you think there 's going to be any joy from him ?
Well I think at central level they have a letter don't they , because from the reports I 've read local authorities exercise discretionary powers on the amount of Poll Tax to be charged on empty farm dwellings .
In fact they have discretionary powers on all empty houses .
They can , as you know , charge anything between nought and two hundred percent of the standard rate , and I feel it 's something that has to be sorted out locally .
I remember reading earlier that Oxfordshire was very inconsistent , some districts charged one rate , others charged the maximum two hundred percent .
I think we have to exercise pressure locally to make sure our own Councils er answer .
Now , is it something that 's taken farmers by surprise , because we 're , the Poll Tax is now upon us as it were , er is it something that they were n't expecting to happen ?
Well I think it 's er , you know , farmers are reacting like everybody else to this .
We hoped somehow it wouldn't happen .
Er .
We have to face the problems when they actually come upon us .
Er .
Many people besides farmers have problems caused by this er tax that , whatever one thinks er about it so far as the system is concerned , really when you look at it more closely it 's the details that have been so badly thought out .
Farmers are just one of many groups who are left with an unfair situation .
After all it was introduced , and Mrs Thatcher has made a great deal of the fact that it is a head tax not a property tax , it 's the voters she wants answerable , well I 've yet to find an empty house that voted .
Tom Bewley , thank you very much indeed .
Coca-Cola which hopes to build a new plant in Banbury says it can't rule out the possibility that it will use a toxic chemical in the canning process at the factory .
Protesters there say that in extreme circumstances the chemical , Butoxi-ethanol , can cause kidney and liver damage as well as birth defects .
But Coca-Cola spokesman Peter Dobell say the firm won't be putting people 's health at risk .
We did reassure people last night that there would be no odours and no harmful emissions from the canning plant .
The people who are the world 's experts in can manufacturing made that absolutely clear .
There is now way that as a company we would allow anything to go ahead that would be harmful .
Er .
From the traffic point of view , I have already said that there will be a large number of movements , but everything will be done to minimise any hindrance to people living in the locality .
Are you then saying that the people last night were overreacting ?
Obviously there are a number of issues which people will treat to a great degree , emotional or less extent , and while in some cases we would sympathize with the views of the people in the residence in the area , er the factory will be bringing employment and other benefits , economic benefits , to the area .
Er .
In the final analysis it really is up to the planning officers and the planning committee to decide whether the benefits which it will bring to the locality outweigh the objectors ' views .
The picket by the twenty-three journalists sacked from Pergammon Press ten months ago continues .
The National Union of Journalists has once again discussed the situation at their annual Delegate Conference .
Harriet Eysner and Anna Wagstaff have both been on the picket from the start .
Harriet , what is the situation ?
What did the N U J say ?
Well , at its annual conference the N U J gave us one hundred percent backing and carried on its support for us .
It 's given us its full backing , and it 's going to call for a day of action in support of us which will include strike action throughout the Media Industry .
Right , so that is actually something positive ?
Yes , absolutely .
Because when you say ‘full backing’ it 's all very well to have the N U J saying ‘we 're fully behind you’ , but you do need to see something positive .
That 's right , yes .
er You 've been on the picket line for ten months now , Anna , er how is the mood going , 'cos it 's a very , very long time ?
It is a long time .
I think for outsiders it looks like nothing has moved at all , but when you 're involved in the strike in fact things have been moving quite fast in very many important ways throughout the ten months .
So , for instance at this point we 've reached a stage where we 've got very important solidarity action in our favour including the fact that there are four main education unions , for instance , that are boycotting all Maxwell products which is a tremendous thing for an educational publisher to have .
Er .
We 've had fantastic support , as has been recorded on this programme many times before , and that is still growing .
And now particularly Ron Todd who 's of course the General Secretary of the biggest union in this country , is making a real effort to open things up and to try and get negotiations going , and we 're very hopeful that we 'll get some positive of response from that .
Now , Robert Maxwell has not responded in the past , why do you think that now he 'll respond to er these new moves ?
I think that we are confident from indications of the way things are going .
It 's not something that we can talk about too widely , but we can say that we are very confident , that er we can move towards a sensible and fair resolution of this dispute in we hope the near future .
Now , after ten months , Harriet , do you really want your jobs back now ?
Oh , absolutely .
It 's a question of recognition for the Union and we 're quite prepared , and looking forward , to going back there and carrying on the work that we were doing before .
And we 'd like to see the Union fully recognized inside , because , after all , the workers there they need a union representing them in a company like that .
Now , er when I say do you really want your jobs back , I was just thinking , I was thinking really would the atmosphere be right to go back , would you ever be happy working there again ?
Oh , I think so .
I don't see why not at all .
And , er , what 's the likelihood you 'll still be on the picket line a year on ?
That 's a difficult one to say .
As we said , we wouldn't be on the picket line now , and indeed the Union would not be backing us in what is proving to be a long and fairly expensive dispute , if we didn't believe that we had a very good chance of getting our jobs back and re-establishing the Union in Pergammon Press .
Exactly when , it 's difficult to say .
You 're talking about about two months from now we 'd have our first year anniversary .
We are planning to have some very big activities around that date , if indeed we 're not back by that time .
We very much hope we will be .
Anna Wagstaff , Harriet Eysner , thank you very much .
James Ellis who represents Oxford and Buckinghamshire in the European Parliament says a unified Germany would be good for Europe .
He 's been speaking at a debate on the issue in Strasbourg .
Some people have expressed concern that the merging of the two Germanies could pose a serious threat to the economic and political stability of Europe .
Mr Ellis though says it would be more foolish to allow , not to allow reunification .
The isolation of Germany , by itself , in the middle of Europe , has led to two world wars , I think that now we have the opportunity to bind Germany in , a united Germany within the European Community , and within trans-Atlantic institutions , we must take our opportunities .
Would you say that this particular debate in itself says a lot about the future role and the growing importance of the European Parliament ?
Well I think that it 's difficult to say exactly what kind of an institution the European Parliament will turn out to be .
I must admit I was struck by the way in which the debate was discussed .
Whether in terms of German economic and monetary union , the immediate measures that the European Community will be thinking of taking , the transitional arrangements once Germany is unified , and that this was done without any rancour but was done with the feelings of directly elected parliamentarians .
I do believe that er we go on into the nineties the European Parliament will play an increasingly important role , but this will be because countries and peoples will be asking for it to play , to control the European Commission in Brussels , to push forward the policies which people are looking for and it is after all , I think we should recall , that it is the Germans now who are calling for strength and institutions , including increased powers for the European Parliament .
You 're listening to the FOX Report .
The Radcliffe Medical Foundation will be receiving forty thousands pounds from the new National Health Service Lottery Trust .
It 's the first ever donation made by the Lottery and Dr Chris Payne is doctor at the Churchill Hospital .
Dr Payne , what will this money be used for ?
Well , it 'll be used towards the new transplant unit that we 're building at the Churchill .
It 's practically built now , the roof is just going on , and we hope to open it later this year .
And it will be used for transplants of kidneys and other organs , there are already of course many transplants done at the Churchill , but they 're done in very cramped conditions , and this will provide not only better conditions for the patients , but also new research laboratories , and of course with transplants preventing rejection of the graft is very important , and that 's what the Churchill is particularly good at .
Now , was this forty thousand pounds a bolt from the blue or did you know it was coming to you ?
Well , there was a time when it was a bolt from the blue , yes , I mean I 've known for a week or two , but we were delighted to receive it , er we don't er , it is something that we said months ago that we supported the N H S Lottery because we do feel that money can be raised in this way painlessly towards particularly research and the sorts of things that the N H S on the whole has never really supported fully .
So we think it 's a good thing , we were delighted to take part in it , but surprised when we won .
Some people have said that the N H S should be financed from the tax payer 's money and not through what is , it isn't quite a charity , but basically other means .
How do you respond to that ?
Well , of course , the N H S does pay for the vast majority of the expenditure that is needed and the income , er the annual income in this health authority here is one hundred and fifty million a year now , so our forty thousand for this capital project is not actually very much in proportion .
But ever since the N H S started , and in fact long before that , people have raised money , particularly for research .
Lord Nuffield of course established these hospitals here with a gift that now would amount to something like forty or fifty million in present day terms and without him where would our hospitals be ?
And we have run , in the Radcliffe Medical Foundation , the odd raffle .
We raffled a car at Christmas in the John Radcliffe and collected everybody 's money , and we didn't have too many qualms of conscience about that , but one 's got to be very careful not to beg from patients , but I think er fun for all , a lottery is fun and we feel perfectly er acceptable towards this very worthwhile project when we 're given the cheque on Monday .
Tonight — the stock market soars and the pound strengthens dramatically as Britain joins the E R M , but Labour warns the Chancellor will use these statistics to argue that :
This is because the real economy has improved , but of course , it won't be true , er and we shall have to pay the price again er at the end of the , of the honeymoon period .
Oxaid publishes a controversial leaflet for students explaining safe sex .
Never says this is the right behaviour or this is the wrong behaviour , it just says ‘this is the safest behaviour’ .
And David Vine on who 'll win the Rothmans Snooker Grand Prix .
If you went on the form book , the finals should be between Steve Davis , who 's got married , and Steven Hendry who 's got very rich .
The six o'clock news , this is Patrick Muirhead .
An Iraqi sanctions busting ship boarded by Royal Marines in the Gulf , has now been seized by the multi-national task force .
British servicemen have spent more than five hours on the vessel , the Tadma , after absailing onto its deck from a Lynx helicopter .
The tanker was searched by coastguards protected by the marines from H M S Brazen and was found to be carrying stores in breach of the UN embargo ; it 's being diverted to a nearby port on the coast of Amman for further investigations .
No shots were fired , but in an earlier action today , H M S Battleaxe fired warning salvos across the bows of an Iraqi ship which failed to stop for cargo inspection .
American and Australian warships joined with British forces in a combined operation to intercept the Iraqis , and Defence Secretary , Tom King says it shows the multi-national force is working well as a unit .
We have a very strong team of naval forces in the Gulf now .
Er .
I think it 's significant that both these occasions involved three countries working together , er which er without er any violence , without any er injury as far as I am aware , er have stopped er these two ships that sought to continue to proceed .
And twenty American servicemen are feared dead after air crashes in the Gulf .
Two U S air force pilots have been killed after their Phantom reconnaissance jet crashed in the Southern Desert of Saudi Arabia .
And wreckage has been found of two American helicopters that went missing on a routine mission from the U S S Okinowa .
From the Gulf , Phil Edwards .
The missing helicopter 's a Marine U H one N , the type used extensively by the Americans in Vietnam..
They took off from the amphibious assault ship U S S Okinowa on a routine patrol , but a short while later , all voice and radar contact was suddenly lost .
The U S navy says the names of the missing crew members won't be released until the search operation is complete , but stress that the helicopters were not involved in any hostile action .
Phil Edwards , I R N , Saudi Arabia .
Israeli police have shot dead twenty one Arabs in Jerusalem , and injured one hundred others who were protesting at a planned march by hard line Jews .
The shootings have sparked renewed violence in the occupied West Bank ; this report from Alan Frost .
As the news of the Jerusalem riots spread , Palestinian Arabs in the West Bank began to react .
There were a number of incidents where youths blocked roads with burning tyres , and started hurling stones at passing cars .
Troops moved in , and according to the military command , many areas of the West Bank are once more under curfew ; it is a ripple effect which will probable grow over the next few days .
Alan Frost , I R N , Tel Aviv .
Economic euphoria has produced one of the busiest days ever in the London stock market , with shares climbing to their best levels in two months .
The optimism follows Britain 's entry into the Exchange Rate Mechanism and the cut in interest rates ; the Stock Exchange one hundred index closed fifty seven points higher at just over twenty two hundred .
Labour leader , Neil Kinnock has asked Mrs Thatcher for a full Commons debate on Britain 's entry into the European Exchange Rate Mechanism ; the debate 's expected when the House returns next week .
But already the decision has been given all party support in the House of Lords .
Paul Rowley reports .
Trade Minister , Lord Hesketh , told Peers that he was confident entry would help reduce inflation , but warned :
E R M membership will be no panacea for the U K economy ; it is not a soft option .
But the Labour leader in the Upper House , Lord Cledwyn , said Mrs Thatcher had been forced into the decision against her wishes .
In not taking this step seven years or five years ago , this country could have been saved a great deal of suffering .
But the government front bench denied opposition claims that they 'd deliberately delayed the decision to boost Tory support on the eve of the Party Conference .
Paul Rowley , I R N , Westminster .
And I R N 's top story at six again — an Iraqi sanctions busting ship boarded by Royal Marines in the Gulf , has now been seized by the multi-national task force .
British servicemen have spent more than five hours on the vessel after absailing onto it 's deck from a Lynx helicopter .
Independent Radio News .
It 's Monday , October the eighth , nineteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
It 's being reported by an American television network , that Iraq is saying that all foreign hostages in Saddam Hussein 's human shield , can leave Kuwait and Baghdad if President Bush promises not to launch an attack .
The Iraqi Foreign Minister , Tariq Aziz , told the American television network C N N , that the Westerners would be free to leave once the White House made that promise .
Meanwhile , a second Iraqi ship has tried to breach the U N trade embargo imposed against Iraq : earlier today a British warship , H M S Battleaxe , fired warning shots across the bows of one vessel that failed to stop for a cargo inspection .
Hours later , a small Iraqi tanker , the Tadmuir was intercepted by H M S Brazen off the Ammani coast , and is now being searched .
Defence Secretary Tom King says Baghdad is trying to test the resolve of the armed forces in the Gulf .
When he saw this er Iraqi cargo ship which was moving up er from er the bottom of the Red Sea , and moving towards er Iraq as we believed , er and so arrangements were made to erm enforce the United Nations embargo .
Er .
The ship was invited to stop , er didn't do so , er and warning shots were fired , but subsequently , erm Royal Marines went aboard , er took charge of the ship , checked it over , er and er once they 'd established that there was no erm embargoed cargo , it was able to proceed .
Did the Iraqis give any indication as to why they were n't going to stop originally ?
I think that may be their pattern now , that they aren't going to stop erm unless made clear that they will be required to do so , and it 's further evidence that we are going to enforce this embargo .
This is a United Nations embargo , er and er all ships are required to comply with it , er and er the British , Australian , American ships which combined in this action , and we 've just had another one , and er also , there which involved also different ships , but involved er British , Australian and American ships as well , er and that ship is being inspected at the present time .
Do you think that there will be further attempts to break the embargo ?
That could well be , but we now have this tremendous er cooperation of so many countries together , we have a very strong team of naval forces in the Gulf now , er I think it 's significant that both these occasions involved three countries working together , er share , without er any violence at any , er injury as far as I'm aware , er have stopped er these two ships that sought to continue to proceed .
Er .
They 've been checked over , as I say , the first one 's been cleared , and that 's been allowed to proceed , and the next ship er is being checked at this moment .
If the first ship hadn't stopped when the warning shots were fired , what would have happened then — what would have been the procedure ?
Well , the procedure that followed in this case was that the er captain obviously made clear from er H M S erm Battleaxe that was originally involved , that the embargo would be enforced , er and obviously his message got across , and then it was arranged for marines to go aboard , er which they did to take charge of , of the vessel while the search took place .
Er .
And er the question as to what steps we would take , we don't discuss those , I , but I made quite clear , and I say it again quite simply , the embargo will be enforced , er and there 's no point in people thinking they can burst through it .
So you would maybe have opened fire directly on that ship ?
I wouldn't discuss what we would do , but the commanders are quite clear what their instructions are , er they 've acted extremely efficiently today , and er obviously I 've kept in close touch with the incident while it was happening , er I'm very pleased with the way in which it 's been handled , and in fact both incidents .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's eight minutes past six .
The pound jumped , the stock market soared , and Chancellor John Major was all smiles today after Britain finally joined the European Exchange Rate Mechanism .
But , now it 's in , Britain is coming under increasing pressure to support a single European currency ; this scheme has already raised the hackles of Mrs Thatcher who says that sacrificing the pound will undermine Britain 's right to manage its own economy .
Financial editor Douglas Moffat tells us whether the Prime Minister 's fears are justified .
No we won't , because , essentially , if you give yourself one target like the exchange rate , then you lose control over one or possibly both of interest rates and money supply , both of which the government has always claimed , are absolutely fundamental to maintaining their control over the economy .
And so now , we have one precise target , and the other two will have to slip by the board .
The best hope of course is that the rates which the government has chosen to go in at will be sustainable , that the government will be able to combine cuts with interest rates , cuts in interest rates , with the needs of the economy and the constraints of the European Monetary System , so that it actually gets a downward path of interest rates at the rate which the economy needs , without provoking a sterling crisis which would push sterling to the bottom of its permitted rates , and produce a crisis of erm of confidence needing higher interest rates .
er But you know , that 's a long way off , that , that 's probably up to a year away .
So what are the main advantages of us being part of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism ?
Well the theoretical advantages are that it makes it er a , a lot more er predictable for businesses to trade with Europe .
I have to say though that with the terms on which we 've gone into the European Monetary System , a six per cent fluctuation either way , which as I said means from two seventy seven deutschmarks up to three thirteen ; there 's quite a lot of risk there for an exporter if he prices himself in deutschmarks and he gets it wrong .
Er .
There , there is the er belief that er it is better to have the resources of all the Common Market countries behind you if you want to intervene to protect or bring down the value of your currency , depending on which way it may be .
But remember it was Mrs Thatcher , who when she was arguing against the er European Monetary System , said you can't buck the markets , and ultimately that is true , or at least more precisely , you can only buck them at a cost , you can only buck it by buying or selling pounds , which messes up your money supply , or raising or lowering your interest rates at a time when you might not be wanting to do so .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Labour 's spokeswoman on the economy , Margaret Beckett , says the Chancellor has n't stolen her Party 's cloak , and says that if the government had taken her Party 's advice a year ago , the economy wouldn't have gone through half the pain it has .
He says that he won't massage er the economic figures to try and create a pre-election boomlet , but then , he said that he wouldn't go into the E R M until inflation was falling and indeed was very near the level of our competitors , so I don't think you can believe a word he says .
Even if Mr Major really means it and he doesn't intend to do a Nigel Lawson , a sort of nineteen eighty seven trick , er surely he can almost hardly help himself , because the pound and shares are doing very well at the moment ; we 're told by the economists that there 's a good six months of honeymoon period , er and people feel a great pent up demand , people have a great pent up demand , which is now being released .
Well this is our great fear of course , I mean , we have no illusions about the fact that there will be a six , nine months , I think most people say a maximum of a year , er honeymoon period now , and this is what we 've been anticipating .
Er .
And I'm quite sure that what Mr Major will then say if , if er demand and borrowing and so on does take off again , er is that this is because the real economy has improved , but of course it won't be true , er and we shall have to pay the price again er at the end of the , of the honeymoon period .
This is one of the reasons why we are saying to the government that they should consider what our competitor countries do , which is some form of temporary credit management ; some form of temporary credit controls to squeeze off this surge in demand before it really gets going and pushes inflation up again .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twelve minutes past six , I'm Jane Markham .
There 's still a bit of repair work going on on the M forty , that 's between junctions one and one A between Denham and the M twenty five , with the outside lane closed in both directions .
Further along , between junctions five and seven between Stokenchurch and Thame , it 's down to single line traffic there in both directions for repair work .
And Abingdon street fair is on , so High Street and Ock Street are closed , and there 'll be local diversions today and tomorrow .
And on the A forty one at er Ruscote Avenue , Banbury , that 's completely closed southbound at the junction with Orchard Way for paving work ; traffic is being diverted .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And I 've nothing to report to you on either the buses or the trains .
Still to come — the seaside resort of Bournemouth is being turned into a fortress as the Conservatives start arriving for their Conference .
First , with a round up of the day 's local news , here 's Lucy Bonner .
An Oxfordshire construction company has been fined more than one and a half thousand pounds for polluting the River Wray .
Robin Powell has this report .
Alfred McAlpine Construction Limited pleaded guilty at Bicester Magistrates Court today ; the prosecution was brought against the company by the National Rivers Authority .
Following an incident at Merton , in which silty ground water escaped in to the river from a settlement lagoon which the company was using in connection with work on the M forty .
The firm was fined one thousand , eight hundred pounds , and had to pay a hundred and ninety pounds costs as well as being invoiced for the N R A 's investigation costs .
Today 's case brings the number of successful prosecutions in the Thames region to thirty four since the N R A was formed last year .
The Oxford Regional Health Authority is denying it 's seeking an out of court settlement for haemophiliacs infected with the AIDS virus .
Recent reports have suggested some local authorities are putting pressure on the government to settle early and avoid huge payouts ; they 're said to be concerned that if the case is drawn out , more haemophiliacs will die , and in the event of the ruling going against the government , relatives will be eligible for compensation .
The Oxford region has about one hundred and forty of the nine hundred cases nationally , and general manager Bob Nichols says they certainly wouldn't seek to settle out of court .
He believes the government has a good defence and the needs of the average citizen outweigh those of the haemophiliacs .
If help can be given from other er national funds because of the moral and compassionate er nature of the case , well that 's fine , and that maybe what some Health Authorities have been pressing .
But actually to press for an out of court settlement which will mean we have to stop other services or stop er building schemes , seems to me wrong whilst we are being advised that we have a strong defence .
A man has appeared before Abingdon Magistrates charged with rape ; it follows an incident early on Saturday morning in the Harwell area near Didcot .
He 's been remanded in custody for seven days .
And another man has been remanded in custody by Bicester Magistrates , charged with a sex offence at a North Oxfordshire barracks ; the alleged offence is said to have happened on Friday night at the Royal Army Ordnance barracks at Arncott near Bicester .
He 'll appear again on October the fifteenth .
A new college course is starting today bringing the International Stock Exchange to North Oxfordshire .
The North Oxfordshire College in Banbury will be hosting a course sponsored by the Stock Exchange , to show private investors how to use it .
But Janet Morby from the College 's Business and Community Services Division , says it 's not a course for making fast money .
We 're aiming it at , at private individuals — people who 've got an interest in the Stock Exchange , and are trying to update their interest and get as much information as they can about it .
One thing we must stipulate ; it isn't a get rich quick course , it 's giving you the background of it so that you can go away with as much information as possible .
South Oxfordshire District Council has reopened its Ladygrove Park after it was closed for a cleaning up operation ; the park was closed some weeks ago after gypsies staying there left it full of litter .
The Recreation Officer for South Oxfordshire District Council , Roy Seddon , says steps have now been taken to prevent the gypsies returning to the park .
We 're preventing caravans entering because we want to er prevent and incursion by the gypsies back into the park again , having spent several weeks trying to get them out , and another week or two er clearing the place up after them .
We , we 've erected a metal barrier to prevent them coming back in .
Fox F M News , Lucy Bonner reporting .
It 's eighteen minutes past six .
Bournemouth 's International Conference Centre has been turned into a fortress as the Conservatives begin arriving for their Party Conference .
The man heading the operation , Assistant Chief Constable , Alan Rose from Dorset Police , says security for the meeting can't get much tighter .
Well in anybody 's terms it 's a major operation , the biggest in this country consistently each year .
We of course did it in nineteen eighty six , er but this year there are about fifteen hundred officers involved from fifteen different police forces .
They 've come from Merseyside , Avon and Somerset , Hampshire , Dorset , er Wiltshire , as I say , fifteen different er forces .
Now one thing that seems to be a bone of contention with local people particularly , is the cost of it — what 's the cost going to run out to ?
Well the cost , er we are within budget and the cost was one point nine six million , er but of course central government do pay fifty one per cent of that .
How secure do you believe this area is , the I C and the Highcliffe ?
Well , no security is one hundred per cent , it 's impossible to make any area completely secure , but it 's as tight as it possibly can be and I'm quite happy with the security at the present time .
How long has the operation been going on ?
Well we 've been planning for it for something like eleven months , with a small planning team , but at its height , just before Conference , there were a total of seventy officers involved .
How many people have been vetted ?
er About fifteen thousand .
How many have you had to reject from that number ?
Only a small handful fortunately .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Reports from Lebanon suggest that British hostages could be closer than ever to freedom .
The speculation that the Archbishop of Canterbury 's special envoy , Terry Waite , will be free by the end of this week .
James Matthews , our reporter in Jordan says it appears the pro-Iranian group thought to be holding most of the hostages , Hezbalar is ready to end its demands for a prisoner exchange .
We have to rely simply on the speculation that we hear .
If the informed sources in Beirut er have said through the Al , the prestigious Almahan newspaper , now this is one that er that rightly predicted the release of the American hostages , Frank Reid and Robert Polehill .
They say that a release is on the cards this week er they make no mention of any ransom and they say Terry Waite is a priority for release ; he is at the top of a list of Western hostages about to be set free .
So , so where is this ransom story come from do you think ?
er The ransom story may , may have come from er a source er possibly a Hezbalar source er trying to latch on to the , basically to the er the , the thoughts of freedom and just to jump on the bandwagon .
There are all sorts of people involved and the various underground factions , that maybe that one has , er as , probably as an afterthought er considered that , that maybe money in the release of any Western hostages , that may be where the story has come from , but certainly from the informed sources , and the , the , er certainly on the evidence of past hostages releases , er we wouldn't really have expected that er ransom would be demanded , obviously we have to wait and see when er , when the hostages are set free .
If this really does happen it would be a remarkable situation because up until now they 've been let out in dribs and drabs , they 're talking here about a kind of mass release aren't they ?
Oh indeed , but er you have to consider the situation the diplomatic situation between Britain , er the West in general and Iran which is the backer of Hezbalar which does pull the strings of the kidnappers , is perhaps er diff , different and in a more improved state than it ever has been before .
Certainly it would be a sensational news event and for the families of the hostages involved and the people themselves , it would be , er it would be er tremendous .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , I'm Jane Markham .
It 's twenty three minutes past six .
The parents of an Oxford haemophiliac who recently died after contracting the H I V virus from contaminated blood , have written to the Prime Minister calling for a quick , out of court compensation deal .
The letter 's bound to add to press , er add to press for a settlement with a number of Tory M P 's expected to bring up the matter at the Party 's Conference at Bournemouth .
Almost a thousand haemophiliacs are fighting for compensation after being treated with imported blood products .
An ex gratia payment 's already been made , but Arthur Turner wants the mattle , matter settled as soon as possible .
If they want to settle out of court , then it has got to be a really substantial settlement to satisfy these people because er those that have already died , er they entered into the litigation in the hope of seeing it through and making sure that , er if anything did happen to them , their wives and families would be catered for and would be er financially settled .
But the way things are at the moment , er you know , these people , the next of kin and dependents of those that have already died , until they get money through , they 're going to have to go cap in hand to the government to get whatever handout they can .
And let 's face it er Social Security payments for this sort of thing aren't all that great at the moment .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
An explicit leaflet and poster for students sloganned ‘take a course in safe sex’ has been causing quite a furore .
It was leaked to the press nearly a month before its official launch ; a national paper detailed many of the leaflet 's suggestions in the some ideas to get you going section which includes a variety of unusual ideas between its first suggestion — pecks on the cheek , and its last — cuddling up and sleeping .
It 's been published by Oxaids with help from Oxford City Council and the Health Authority .
The front of the poster is a playfully erotic photograph of a couple taking the leaflet 's advice .
I asked Roger Mortlock from Oxaid why the leaflet was so explicit .
I think we have to look at the climate we 're in ; we 're , at the moment the AIDS epidemic is facing all of us , it 's a problem for each and any , every one of us .
And , and in a sense , not to be explicit , would , would have been not so much a crime , but would have been an error I think .
I think when you 're dealing with something that is transmitted sexually you have to be very very clear about how it 's transmitted , I think you , you can't be vague about these sexual terms , you have , for , for medical reasons there 's nothing else ; you have to be exactly er clear about what you mean , by , by the activities you 're describing .
It 's er also fairly erotic isn't it ?
Well , obviously none of us would want to separate sex from erotica , and so er , and I think we , what we 'd like , what we wanted the leaflet to do was put , put sort of sex for , for young people er and students in particular in this case into a framework that allowed loving and resp , response of attitudes and , and eroticism , yes , and so I think what the leaflet does is , is let people take care of themselves sexually and let them take responsibility for their sexual acts .
Some of the ways you 've , you 've laid out things like for example , putting in brackets , in , that it includes not sharing equipment if you inject , the , that is , that er could be seen as condoning people taking drugs .
I don't think it 's condoning , I just think it 's given the safe , giving out the safest options for people who maybe taking drugs and , and and maybe in , in maybe er sometimes thinking about injecting drugs , and er I think we actually have to be very clear on this epidemic , that , that there is no , no way for , for lack of clarity , we have to go down the line .
And , and I think all the time what the leaflet does is give options , it 's never directoral and never goes , never sort of overstates , it 's just giving a range of options .
It never says this is the right behaviour or this is the wrong behaviour , it just says the safest behaviour and , and then leaves , leaves the recipient to do the rest .
Now you say it 's aimed at students , er how , how is it being er given out ?
I think that 's very important , it is specifically aimed at students , I mean I , this , this is no way a leaflet for the general public and , and one of the reasons is the explicitness because it 's aimed at students and that we did a lot of research with students , students were involved in the writing .
We piloted to over two hundred students er so I mean , I , I think erm that , that 's very important to stress , also that we are distributing through student links , so it 's going through , through both the , the student unions in Oxford , through , through the Poly union , through sort of , through informal links there and then through the welfare offices in each college at the university .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty seven minutes past six .
Two Oxfam workers have been giving a first hand account of conditions in Cambodia , where they claim millions of lives are at risk .
Over a hundred thousand people have fled their homes as a result of increasing Khmer Rouge activity ; it 's feared this could soon escalate into civil war .
Oxfam has been trying to help the refugees er in the area , but Tony Jackson just back from Cambodia says it 's becoming harder for many to survive .
People are extremely tense because it 's now a year since the Vietnamese left , and the whole country 's on a war footing .
Everywhere we went , and we travelled — oh , hundreds of miles up north , er people were armed and er just guarding houses , bridges , schools , at night , on their own as a sort of people 's militia to keep the Khmer Rouge at bay .
Er .
You mentioned already er over a hundred thousand people have been er displaced by the fighting , and we were able to visit some of these up in the north to , er watch the Cambodian Red Cross hand out some er aid from Oxfam and other agencies .
And these people are in fairly er desperate conditions but at least getting some help , but I think the main point is there is a civil war on , and the West is still standing on the sidelines watching it happen .
A major problem the country has right now is an economic one ; the Soviet Union is pulling out a lot of its aid programmes and has obviously bankrolled the Country since nineteen seventy nine , so there 's a tremendous economic problem added to the er battles of the Khmer Rouge are causing the government to fight .
The government 's actually running out of money , it 's bankrupt .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty nine minutes past six .
Still a fair bit of repair work going on along the M forty , between junctions one and one A , that 's the stretch between Denham and the M twenty-five , the outside lane is closed in both directions .
And between junctions five and seven , that 's down to single line traffic , that 's the stretch between Stokenchurch and Thame , for repair work also .
A forty one , that 's the road between Banbury and Bicester , there are temporary traffic lights just between Sodone turn off , that 's just by the Bear public house and the Northants border ; there are some long delays likely along that stretch .
And on the A three six one , Wardington , that 's just north of Banbury , there are also temporary traffic lights .
And it 's the Abingdon street fair today and tomorrow , and High Street and Ock Street are closed , and traffic 's being diverted because of this .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
But it 's not a bad evening if you 're on the trains or the buses , I 've no trouble to tell you about at all .
It 's six thirty one .
The multi-national task force in the Gulf has diverted an Iraqi ship to a port on the Ammani coast for breaking sanctions .
Royal Marines intercepted the vessel which was found to be carrying cargo which is banned under the United Nations measures .
Two air crashes have killed twenty American servicemen in the Gulf , two air force pilots died when a pair of Phantom jets collided , the wreckage of two helicopters has been found .
Shares have hit their highest levels in two months on the first trading day since Britain joined the European Exchange Mechanism .
The Stock Exchange one hundred index closed up fifty seven at just over two two O O .
And the Lockerbie Enquiry has heard how seventeen of the two hundred and seventy victims on board have never been found .
Former Dumfries Police Chief , John Boyd , was describing how he implemented Britain 's biggest ever emergency operation .
The weather for the Fox F M area : this evening 's going to be dry with clear spells , temperatures are going to fall quickly at first to around four degrees celsius , thirty nine degrees fahrenheit by midnight , however , the light westerly breezes will pick up to moderate later with temperatures rising , so a frost isn't expected tonight .
Still to come : a full round up of the day 's news from the City , and we preview the first of the season 's major snooker tournaments .
First though , Help the Aged and the Influenza Monitoring Bureau have joined forces to encourage all people over the age of sixty five and those in high risk groups to get a flu jab .
Twenty six thousand people died from flu last year ; as well as the elderly , others with diseases like diabetes or those with breathing problems are also at risk .
Doctor Sandy McNair from the Bureau , says all people at risk should be vaccinated .
Wendy Wakefield from Help the Aged says they were surprised by the results of a Morri survey which questioned seven hundred people over the age of sixty five about what they knew about flu .
We were am , absolutely amazed at the low awareness that flu is actually preventable .
I think only twenty four per cent thought that , that flu was preventable , so er there 's a lot of work to be done to get the message across .
Older people we know want to be offered more ways of preventing illness , so you know , they have to really be informed , er we want them to know about it so then they can make the choice as to whether they take it up with their G P .
So what sort of things does your er leaflet tell them about it ?
Well it really explains what flu is ; there 's an awful lot of confusion between flu and the common cold .
So it really explains what flu is and how to recognise those symptoms ; it outlines who is at special risk from flu , the sort of people with a special medical con , conditions and what those are , and also what to do if you think you have flu .
One very important thing for older people living alone is to let friends and neighbours know that they are ill , so that they can keep an eye on them and obviously you know , do the shopping and bring in any , anything that they might need .
Er .
And also to call the G P if the symptoms persist , or if they feel seriously ill .
er How many people do actually take up the offer and , and have flu vaccines nowadays ?
Well that Morri poll suggested that er of the risk groups that Wendy 's outlining , only seventeen per cent were actually vaccinated .
And it 's quite clear that that very high death toll from flu last winter was not because the vaccine wasn't working , but because the vaccine wasn't getting into the people who needed it .
How effective is the vaccine itself ?
It , it 's fairly effective ; seventy per cent of people exposed to the virus who have been vaccinated , get no attack at all , and thirty per cent get a much milder attack than , than they would have expected .
So even if , if they do go down with flu once they 've had the vaccination , it 's less , it 's likely to be less serious ?
Well that 's the point , I mean , it , the , the elderly who , who die from the flu die because their immune system isn't capable of , of preventing spread of the virus within the body .
Er .
We don't really mind if people get an attack of flu , so long as it doesn't kill them , er if you recover then fine , but , and that 's really what the vaccine does , so it 's , it 's , it 's particularly good at actually stopping people dying from , from flu .
er I 've read in the past that , that there are so many different strains of the , of flu that , that its , vaccine , the vaccine that is produced each year doesn't necessarily tackle that strain of flu .
Yes , erm there are not , not more than three strains er most winters circulating .
The flu virus varies in its structure and it varies in its ability , in the type of antibodies it produces in people .
It 's an , a small number of , of viruses which constantly shift , and the WHO organisation which monitors flu viruses around the world , is responsible for seeing that the vaccine is made from strains that are in circulation currently , and , and we 've been getting it right for the last ten years , so I , I think there 'll be no problem this year .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
The Oxford Regional Health Authority is admitting it may have been over optimistic when it estimated income from the sale of land .
The Authority meets on Friday to reconsider its building programme which will now have to be slowed down , owing to the collapse of the property market .
Whereas land sales were expected to bring in seventy eight million pounds in the four years of nineteen eighty nine to nineteen ninety , and nineteen ninety two to ninety three , it now seems the figure will only be about thirty six million , less than half that original estimate .
Bob Nichols , the Regional General Manager , says their expectations may have been too high , and they could have noticed signs of the market 's collapse earlier .
We were perhaps over optimistic , as I think a lot of other people relying on , er land sales were .
If we 'd seen it coming sooner then er we would perhaps not have got started on all the many schemes are actually on site .
Our big problem is that we have over thirty million pounds ' worth of schemes actually in building at the moment , and of course you can't stop those without wasting a , an enormous amount of money , so we 're carrying on with those .
And they include the maternity unit at Stoke er Mandeville , and the Milton Keynes , the second phase of Milton Keynes , and these are really big developments that we 're funding out of our previous excellent land sales .
So we were caught like a lot of other people in not predicting just how fast and how far the land sales er prices would actually go down .
Do you resent having been put into the position where you had rely , had to rely on land sales ?
No , I think it 's er fair that the government er must make the most of its assets .
I think we all feel we would like more central capital funding , but without it , it 's quite proper that we make er the best of use of the , of the assets we 've got , and we were n't using all our estate as effectively as we might , so for the last few years , we 've had a very vigorous programme of identifying land and buildings that are no longer required , and putting them on the market and thereby enabling us to build new facilities .
I think it 's quite , quite right we should be asked to do that , it 's just unfortunate that we perhaps got over optimistic when the land sales were boom , were booming .
Are you now confident about placing your faith in the adjustments that are happening with the economy ?
Yes , I would hope that er this is a mark time ; it gives us a time to re-examine some of the schemes to see whether they are as financially viable as they looked er when perhaps times were better , and we would be hoping very much that er the economy will pick up and with it , land sales .
I think it should in the south of England er next year or the year after , and we 'll have a number of schemes ready to go if that , that comes about .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
The John Watson School at Wheatley is facing a parking fine because its Variety Club minibus is too big to fit into a parking space .
The ticket was issued at the car park adjacent to the Oxford City Ice Rink , where the school goes on a regular basis .
The school 's head teacher , Diane Wilson says although they could have parked on the double yellow lines outside the ice rink , it would have been unfair to other vehicles as well as dangerous for the children .
We do try not to use er the disabled sticker if it 's at all possible , because we actually want to behave just as anyone else behaves , in a , just an ordinary member of the community , and so do the children .
We actually , people stare at our kids enough , we actually want to keep it as low key as possible , and behave in a proper way .
So in fact , we could have caused chaos on Oxpens Road by parking the bus on double yellow lines and making a big thing of getting handicapped children out , in and out of a specialised vehicle , but we , we actually prefer not to do that , and we go on the car park each week , and we pay the same fee as anybody else fee , pays because er we feel that that 's the right and proper place for us to be and the children to be , as they 're just ordinary members of the community with some special needs .
Will you continue to use the car park ?
Yes , in fact we shall be going again this week , and I have no doubt , once again this week , we , we 'll be overlapping into another bay , but er unless we use the coach car park , er which means that we could n't take children who were n't really able walkers , so in fact we would be discriminating against our own children , er I really can't see what else we can do .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty to seven .
Still to come : on the piste at the Oxford Apollo , and firemen from Didcot look forward to tackling the Ridgeway on two wheels .
Financial report with Halpern and Woolf ; keeping Oxfordshire in business .
As expected , the city continued to celebrate Friday 's joining of the E M S and fourteen per cent base rates .
In early trading , the Footsie one hundred gained a massive a hundred and fifty points before being cut back by early profit taking , and renewed uncertainty from the Gulf .
However , the volume of shares traded was in excess of one billion ; the Chancellor 's announcement being the panacea the city was looking for .
A strong start on Wall Street helped shares to rally , and by the close , the Footsie one hundred was up fifty seven point seven at two two O one point six .
On the foreign exchanges , sterling continued to make grounds against other currencies , especially the weaker dollar ; the pound ended the day up one point four cents at one dollar point nine six nine five , and up half a pfennig at er three deutschmarks point O two four one , comfortably below the upper limit allowed by the E M S .
Today 's shares : Abbey National up sixteen to two hundred and thirty , British Aerospace down eighteen at five five nine , British Airways down nought point five at one four four , British Gas up six at two three two , British Telecom went up seventeen to two nine O point five , Goodhead Publishing Group were up two to sixty , Metalbox went down twenty five to one one two five , Morland Brewers went down five to two hundred and seventy , and Oxford Instruments were up , they were up five to two five seven , Thames Water were up eleven at two hundred and thirty four , the Trustee Savings Bank was up six at a hundred and thirty eight , and today 's major movers , Reuters , down seventy to seven O three , Bass up seventy seven to one O five O .
Oxford United 's manager , Brian Horton , watched his side put on another disappointing display in their three nil defeat at Barnsley .
Also at the game was Mickey Ianotta , who told Brian yet again , basic errors cost United dear .
That 's all you can put it down to Mick , I , I 've put , I 've put their first two goals on in training this morning , and said ‘go on , score from two throw ins’ , and it 's impossible , it is impossible .
If , if our mid-field players and our back four players , whoever you like to , if our front players have to come back in and get involved , if that 's what they have to do , and everybody get behind the ball , that 's what you have to do .
And to score two goals , or concede two goals from , from throw ins , is an absolute lib , liability .
I'm not , I'm not just blaming them all the time , I mean , the situation is , when they go out on the field , they are their own men , I can't do anything about there , I can't talk for them out there ; I can only put it on in training , and when they get out there , they 've got to do it theirselves .
That 's not just one player , one player can not do all the talking , it 's got to be just ten , eleven , seven ; seven make other four do , do what they want to do , and we don't concede goals like that .
What can you say after the game ?
Gone on record as saying ‘if performances like this isn't going to do you any good , you haven't lost one match this season through the merit of the opposing side’
No , I , I 'll , I 'll agree with that , and I think the players will agree with that , it 's not as though , it looks as though we 've got absolutely murdered again Saturday Mick , three nothing , as I said , it stops at me , and if they 're not going to do what I want them to do , then I 'll leave them out the team .
Can see them all driving off now Mick .
They 've had a practice match this morning , and every striker in the club is going to do some finishing this afternoon .
Every striker we 've got in the club is going and doing some finishing now ; you can hear them going .
Oh well Mickey , not a very happy man .
No he isn't Jane , but you can't really blame him , I 've gone on record , er it 's a case of repeating yourself , it 's not his fault ; the players when they 're out there on the pitch , they can't do it .
At the start of the season , the defensive system was a sweeper one , it worked superbly , we were winning though , but it , it 's the , it 's the reincarnation of the battle of Culloden as far as I'm concerned ; Bonnie Prince Charlie just trying to swamp the Duke of Cumberland .
It won't work when you go one nil up , or you 're one nil down , you have to hold something in reserve ; mid-field players have to come back , the forwards have to come back and hold tight , you don't just go charging up looking to get another goal , or trying to equalize , but that 's the basic error .
They need to find something in mid-field that can stabilize their performance ; the balance .
Well what do you reckon that is ?
If you were Brian Horton , what would you be doing , what would you be saying to them ?
Well , I wouldn't be smiling , in fact he isn't .
Basically what I , I think the best thing that 's happened to Oxford United this season , well there are two ; the signing of Andy Melville at the back and Jim Magilton , a very young man , but he 's got the balance , he can add the poise , and I feel he 's going to help Oxford .
And mark my words , Oxford United will be at the top half of the , of the division by Christmas , I promise you , once they get it sorted out , there 's not one side in the second division who are better than Oxford .
They 've lost matches , Oxford , take West Ham ; there 's nothing between them , we lost two nil there , West Ham scored seven on Saturday .
West Ham take their chances , Oxford don't , that 's why they 're at the bottom and teams like Sheffield and West Ham and Oldham are at the top .
So by Christmas Mickey , we 'll hold you to that one .
Now changing a little bit , the spire Oxford City stars er lost their unbeaten run er this season , they lost at Chelmsford at the weekend .
Have you been impressed with them so far ?
They haven't actually played the teams of the higher class yet , let 's point that out .
They lost their right , last eight last season ; so far this seas , season , they 've looked good , they 've got some new Americans there , Scott Golf , he 's playing well , the two minders , Mettassler and Stewart Thomas , they 've been superb , and Dan Prater , sharp shooter , oh , he could hit a ball from anywhere into that net .
But at the moment , they lost their first one admittedly , against Chelmsford , they 're second in the Autumn Cup , but they need this little run in , they need to find that confidence , and maybe losing that one match may add that little something next week , because they face the Harringay Racers who they drew with earlier on , and the Sheffield Sabres .
There 's some marvellous names in ice hockey , but er I fancy the , the Spire Oxford City Stars to do pretty well this season , but it all begins in November in the league .
Right , well it 's the first of the big snooker tournaments starting tonight ; are you a snooker fan ?
I don't know much about snooker , I must be honest , the last time I played , I kissed off the pink and owed Stewart Cameron a fiver , and that 's basically all I know about it .
All I know is that Cliff Thorburn is pretty boring to watch , so 's Steve Davis , but they generally win the tournaments .
Mmm , well I , that 's probably why you let me talk to David Vine , , and the
He 's good on showjumping , I , I love him on showjumping .
He 's pretty good on snooker as well , the , the Rothmans Grand Prix , which er is held at the Hexagon in Reading , starts tonight , goes on the October the twenty first , and I asked David Vine , who 's name has become synonymous with snooker , who he thought was going to win .
One of about twenty eight players will win it , because , I'm serious now , because the standard has got so high from new players coming through , you 've got a whole lot of new players .
If you went on the form book , the final should be between Steve Davis , who 's got married , and Steven Hendry , who 's got very rich , and I wouldn't like to pick either of those .
Are you , are you suggesting that , that either of those might have de-motivated either of those players ?
er , Always possible .
Dave , Steve Davis has had a terrible you know , preliminary start to the season , this is the start of the official season , but he has n't been playing very well at the moment .
Er .
That 's typical of Davis ; saves himself for the big occasion , the great professional , Mr Super-professional , and not Mr Boring by the way either , a great player .
Er .
Hendry is on the crest of a wave , very conscious of the fact that he 's the champion of the world , and wants to hang on to that rating of the number one player in the world .
But it 's very possible that neither of those will make the final at all .
Well , when you 've got all the big names , and the Dennis Taylors , the Jimmy Whites , both who 've won it before , Jimmy has n't been playing too well recently , but you 've got a whole clutch of players who could well come through and surprise everybody .
I mean , there 's a lot of pressure on somebody like Steven Hendry because he 's , he 's hardly any age at all even now , is he ?
No , a mere little child , but pressure , yes I mean you 've hit exactly the right word , which makes the game and the big occasions very different .
There are a whole lot of players who can go out there and knock balls in all over the place , score wonderful great big one four sevens and centuries and things of this nature , but what makes the , the good player an excellent player , is the player who can do it on the big occasion .
Under the television lights does make a lot of difference , but when he knows it 's a big occasion , he can produce the goods when it matters , and there aren't too many of those .
You , you see a lot more snooker probably than anybody else , do you ever get bored with it ?
No , I don't get bored at all with it , er because snooker is not er like American pool , where you go out there with a stick and just knock balls all over the table ; snooker is snooker , and the name of snooker is to play this , you know , this game of chess on the green baize , and er that 's what , you see this is where Davis has been so good for so long , a ) he 's a supreme professional , he once apologised for only practising for two hours on Christmas Day rather than four , er and if you look at Davis ' score sheets and his matches , which I 've done over the years , you 'll see a lot of breaks of around sort of fifty five , sixty , sixty five , and then he stops , he plays the safety shot and says to his opponent ‘okay , your turn’ , plays the percentage game , the occasional knock in the very big ones , but that 's why he 's won so much , because he thinks it out so well , and knows the averages , knows the percentages and plays the game that way .
You get another player like Jimmy White , wonderful player to watch , I mean , you know , flashes the ball all over the place , knocks it in , wonderful player , er and has won a lot of championships , but Jimmy 's a totally different character , doesn't practice anywhere near as much as Steve Davis .
I mean , there is no such thing as , the day starts for Jimmy White around nine o'clock at night , and if Jimmy 's drawn the afternoons , he should be asleep , he 's that sort of character .
So that 's why the snooker I think is , is so appealing , why it 's still there , has the big audience , because nearly every one who plays is different , they 're characters , and you 've got that one versus another , a versus b , er just to watch , you take sides , and the lovely ladies say ‘I like that Terry Griffiths , but I don't like that other one , it 's got the fascination .
Traffic on the M twenty five is heavy and slow moving between junctions fifteen and sixteen , that 's between the M four and the M forty , that 's on the clockwise section , due to an earlier accident .
And on the M forty between junctions one and one A , that 's the stretch between Denham and the M twenty five , the outside lane is closed in both directions , there also is some repair work going on between junctions five and seven , that 's between Stokenchurch and Thame , where it 's down to one lane in both directions .
A forty one , that 's the road between Banbury and Bicester , there are temporary traffic lights for resurfacing work , that 's just between the Soldern turn-off by the Bear public house and the Northants border , that 's going to be causing some long delays .
And it 's Abingdon street fair , the High Street and Ock Street are closed , and that 's er , traffic 's been diverted locally today and tomorrow .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And if you 've been out and about on public transport this evening , you should n't have had too many problems .
British Rail haven't had anything at all to report to us , and the local bus company 's just been telling us that things are running fine .
It 's eight minutes to seven .
Hull Truck Theatre Company 's latest show opens at Oxford 's Apollo Theatre tonight ; it runs for a week .
In the past , the company has tackled all sorts of sporting themes including rugby ; the latest production is called ‘On the Piste’ , and yes , it 's about skiing .
It 's author , John Godber , told me that working out how to stage the ski , the scenes on the slopes had been quite a headache for them , particularly as the set of course , has to be constantly moved from theatre from theatre as it tours round the country .
The solution : white astro-turf , lubricated with baby shampoo of course .
It got to the stage where we thought we were going to have to pull the idea of actually demonstrating skiing , but I follow if you 're writing about skiing , you at least had to show the difficulty of putting the boots on , and putting the skis on and side-stepping up the hill , and then finding yourself in a snow-plough position , and then turning around .
Because that 's where the humour is really ; it 's on the slopes , it 's not , it 's not back in the apres-ski sort of lodge .
You have a , a great rep , reputation in Hull Truck as well for , for being very entertaining as a , as a , as a company .
This sounds as though it has all the , all the aspects that er we 'd expect from you .
Yes it is , er I mean , what we tried to do was to write er a comedy on a big scale that wasn't a marshmallow , er in fact it er the , the comedy deepens and it gets pretty sour , and I think some of the criticism of the play has been that ‘is it a comedy , or is it a serious play’ .
I mean I , I tend to think it 's a , it 's a play that 's got some very very funny bits in it , I don't want to give away what the story 's about , but whilst there 's been the frivolity on the slopes , the whole thing starts to take on a , a , I tell you what it was , I remember reading an article by Dr Ruth , who said that good skiers are good in bed because the image of , of the skier is very potent , you know , and very strong .
I took that line , so the main , the main character goes skiing for the first time , can't do it , and is frustrated because everybody else around him can do it including his girlfriend which er adds insult to injury and there is in there of course , a very attractive dashing Austrian ski instructor ; that 's the catalyst really for the drama .
And ‘On the Piste’ is at the er Oxford Apollo , starts tonight , and it 's running for the rest of the week .
Now this weekend , three firemen from Didcot will be taking to a bicycle to cycle the length of the Ridgeway .
They 've had to do it during the weekend , a distance of eighty five miles , and it goes across five counties .
Two of the intrepid cyclists are Steve Robson and Ian Connell ; Steve , what are you doing it for ?
er There 's a young girl in Didcot itself er her parents are known socially to the blokes at the fire brigade ; she , she suffers from cerebral palsy , she 's eight years old , and until recently she 's been going out on bike rides with her father on a child seat , but as you know kids grow up , they grow out of things , therefore she can't do it any more .
er We , we go out once a week on our bikes just to keep fit for the job more than anything , and have a pint away from the wives , er but er we 've looked into the idea of getting a bike specially made for Joanne , er the little girl who I said suffers from this disease .
er Nothing or nobody in England make anything anywhere near to what she needs for her disability .
What , what does she need ?
She needs a bike to support her , she 's , she has n't got any mobility , she can't control her arms , her limbs , although she 's there , you speak to her and she knows you 're there , and if you 're listening Joanne , hello , we know you 're there because your mum was telling us today .
Er .
She needs to be strapped in so that dad can keep control of her , so what we have found out is a bike made in Germany which is a wheelchair with the bicycle part of it clipped on the back , and once you get where you 're going , it dismantles and you 've got a wheelchair , you can go where you want , but it 's very expensive .
Yes I imagine it would be , because it 's er , there can't be many of them made .
Do you know how much it 's going to cost ?
Yes , two thousand one hundred and ninety pounds .
That 's a lot of money .
It certainly is .
Now , er you 're hope , you 're doing this cycle in aid er you know , to , to buy this bicycle , are you going to be able to raise the whole of that money on this one , one ride ?
It 's looking promising at the moment , we 've had a lot of support from the people of Didcot , er a number of companies have made donations , T N T express have given us a van to er transport the bikes to the start/finish , and Denton Cycles spares for the bikes if we break down , punctures being the worst
It 's going to be actually quite a , quite a ride because the Ridgeway isn't exactly a made up road is it ?
No , the Ridgeway 's quite up and down , we 've already completed a , about half the Ridgeway , er the last bit being about thirty miles we done another day there .
Er .
I 've been , I 've came over the handlebars , Ian came over the handlebars with the bikes , so it is rough terrain
It certainly is
The amount of mud you pick up on your tyres and such like , it makes it treacherous .
So , although eighty , eighty five miles wouldn't seem a huge distance to cycle in the day ; over that sort of terrain , it 's , it 's going to be hard going isn't it ?
Yes it certainly is , there , there is parts that we can't cycle on because it 's public footpath , so we 've got to the bye-laws such like er , and walk these stages with the bikes .
So you still reckon that you can do it in , well how long , how long do you reckon it will take you ?
er The first day we reckon we 'll have to cycle about er eleven hours , and the second day , slightly less time — ten hours probably , so it 's about twenty one hours cycling .
Oh !
You mentioned you cycle anyway to keep fit , fit do you — do you , you don't cycle over this sort of terrain do you ?
Yes , we go up on the Ridge most of the time because er we 've all got mountain bikes ; it makes it a bit more fun .
Er .
Going along the roads , er it , it gets a bit boring after a while cycling on tarmac and it 's , once you come off you have a good laugh at the other person , you know , it makes it a bit , life more , a bit more adventurous , you know .
So you could actually come back with some fair old bumps and bruises on you could you ?
Yes , I suppose we will yes .
As long as were fit for duty on Tuesday we 'll be alright .
Oh right , so you 've got a day off in between have you ?
Well , we come off duty , we go on duty tonight at half past ten , and we come off at half past ten on Friday night , and we actually leave Didcot fire station at half five Saturday morning to get there for first light so we can make most use of the light , daylight hours .
So if people would like to er sponsor you and they haven't got in touch with you , can they get you at the fire station — how do they get in touch with you ?
Well , if they 'd like to come at the fire station with their money today , barring fire calls , when we 'll be out of course , or if they see the fire engine driving round Didcot and it has n't got its blue lights on and they want to flag us down , they 're more than welcome to .
Yes , that could , yes that could be quite tricky , and er well , not much more to say apart from the best of luck to both of you .
You are going to make it aren't you ?
Yes , definitely
Yes definitely .
Thank you very much .
Thank you .
Thank you .
And that was the Fox Report for Monday the eight of October , nineteen ninety .
Join us for another Fox Report tomorrow at six , for a look at international , local and national news , but don't go away , Steve Priestley 's back with the Red Fox after the news at seven o'clock .
Tonight : President Bush warns Iraq 's Saddam Hussein not to try to drag Israel into the Gulf crisis as Hussein threatens a long-range missile attack on Israel .
Henley 's M P , Michael Heseltine in fiery form against Labour at the Tory Party Conference .
Three times Labour has failed to honour its commitment to upgrade pensions ; instead they wipe the value of pensioner 's savings with rampant inflation .
And a new book claims William Shakespeare wrote none of his plays but did look after the costumes and take the money on the door .
He was the person when you go away for a vacation , that you leave the key to your flat with , that you say ‘would you water my geranium’ .
The six o'clock news , this is Howard Hughes .
The two men killed by undercover troops in Northern Ireland today , have been named as a top I R A hit man and a former Sinn Fein councillor .
Desi Grew had been in prison several times for terrorist offences , Martin McCoffey had left Dungannon Council only a few weeks ago .
Three other people were arrested in the shoot out , at Loughgall in County Armagh , Gary Duffy reports :
Police say the two dead men were leading I R A activists ; one has served long jail terms , the other wounded in a earlier shoot out with troops .
It 's now emerged the two men died as a large undercover operation swung into action .
One local says helicopters brought in reinforcements to the isolated rural area an hour before the shooting began .
I watched it for several minutes , and they seemed to be landing and one was stationary in the air , without moving , and the rest were going up and down .
The men 's bodies were found after six bursts of automatic gunfire .
Three other people are still being questioned .
Gary Duffy , I R N , Belfast .
President Bush is warning Saddam Hussein not to try and drag Israel into the Gulf crisis .
The Iraqi leader 's threatened a long range missile strike on Israel if it doesn't leave the occupied territories after yesterday 's violence that left nineteen Palestinians dead .
But Mr Bush says ‘it 's just another example of Saddam 's irrational behaviour’ .
We will watch it very carefully , and it 's pretty hard to detect a pattern , now there 's a , there 's a theme , and that is trying to link the , the Palestine question er into his kind of giving justification for what he did against Kuwait , and yet the logic falls totally flat .
A man accused of raping his wife has been cleared by a jury at Sheffield Crown Court ; it was the first time a man in England had been charged with such an offence .
But he has been found guilty of committing serious sexual offences , and given a conditional discharge .
Michael Heseltine is accusing Labour of highjacking Tory policies in a bid to get elected .
The former cabinet minister says Neil Kinnock is trying to convince voters he 's brushed aside Socialism , while left-wing policies are still lurking beneath Labour 's new tablets of stone .
And at a fringe meeting of the Conservative Conference in Bournemouth , Mr Heseltine used biblical rhetoric to hammer home his warning .
I would say with you to the good Lord ‘spare me from Mr Kinnock 's gaze , hold on tight to the tablets of stone less they should fall upon this hapless servant 's head , may there be no rock so small that I can not shelter behind it out of Mr Kinnock 's sight’ .
World snooker champion , Steven Hendry has paid out ten thousand pounds to get back a cue stolen from him .
It was taken from his hotel room in Reading last night , where he 's taking part in the Rothmans Grand Prix Championships .
Hendry says it 's money well spent .
It 's tremendous really , it 's an unbelievable relief for me , it would have taken me months to get used to a new cue , that 's the only cue I 've ever had er since I started playing eight years ago .
Er .
And it was like losing an arm , every bit of wood has its own feel , how it reacts when you hit the ball ; it 's what you get used to .
The John Lennon hit ‘Imagine’ has been played simultaneously on more than a thousand radio stations world-wide .
It was one of the tributes marking what would have been his fiftieth birthday , and as Paul Woodley now reports from New York , friends of the singer gathered at the United Nations to play the song as an anthem of peace .
The tenth anniversary of John Lennon 's death is in December , so this event was intended to focus attention on his life and achievements ; an invited audience of two hundred dignitaries heard Yoko Ono say — Lennon 's spirit is still alive through music .
His music is still affecting people , affecting the world , and encouraging people to make a better world .
This is , she said , ‘a day of love , something much needed in the world’— Paul Woodley , I R N , New York .
Independent Radio News .
It 's Tuesday the ninth of October , nineteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
Security sources say one of two men shot dead by the army in Northern Ireland early today , was a top Republican assassin ; he was named as Desi Grew , a leading member of the I R A .
A former Sinn Fein councillor was also killed .
Three other people were arrested and three weapons seized in the operation near Loughgall in County Armagh .
Fergal McKinney reports from Belfast .
The two men who died were former Sinn Fein councillor Martin McCoffey , and known top I R A man , thirty seven year old Desi Grew .
He had served ten years in jail in the Republic for armed robbery ; eight years ago his brother Seamus was killed by the R U C along with Roddy McCarroll , both members of the Irish National Liberation Army .
That shooting was later to be investigated by John Stalker .
It now seems clear that there had been intense military activity near Loughgall before last night 's shooting , as one eye witness recounts :
I could n't get to sleep , and I noticed in the air there was a red light flashing , and several other green lights flashing , and they were coming , helicopter noises , and er I watched them for several minutes and they seemed to be landing and one was stationary in the air , without moving , and rest were going up and down .
Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary , Kevin McNamara , says Britain should mourn the two deaths , as it proves the political system in Ulster has disintegrated .
I 'd like to know more details of the circumstances of it , but one must always mourn the deaths of people whether they are innocent civilians , members of the security forces or paramilitaries , because it 's an indication that there 's a failure of the system in Northern Ireland .
The Secretary of State , Peter Brook refused to be drawn on details of the operation .
No I'm not , I'm not going to go into , into further detail until we 've actually got fuller detail , and , and when one 's got something firm to say , we , we will of course say it .
Three other people including a woman , all believed to be from the one family who were arrested at the scene are now being questioned by police , while three rifles recovered in a follow up search are being examined by forensic experts .
Three years ago , eight I R A men were shot dead when they attempted to blow up Loughgall 's police station ; close to the anniversary of those deaths this year , the I R A succeeded in blowing up the base .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's six minutes past six .
The Tory Party Conference got under way in Bournemouth today amidst a huge security operation ; Sally Arthie was there .
Kenneth Baker put the Party faithful under starter 's orders for the next general election ; he told them to get ready for a fight , and then told them why they would win .
Determination , conviction , resolution ; these are the qualities of our Party , these are the qualities of our government .
They are the strengths needed for any government to succeed , and let no-one doubt , either in our nation or abroad , that we , the Conservative Party , have the strength to succeed .
Success was also on Cecil Parkinson 's mind .
The Transport Secretary said the huge increase in the number of cars on Britain 's roads wasn't something to be deplored , but the sign of a prosperous economy .
Only the closed minded can pretend that it 's bad news that more people can afford to travel , that was once the province of the few , is now open to the majority .
This isn't evidence of decadence or decline , it 's evidence of the spreading of wealth and the sharing of privilege .
He announced more investment in rail links from the Channel Tunnel through Kent , a new one point five billion pound east-west train link across London .
Britain 's ports will be free to go private , and new powers will be sought to clamp down on drunk drivers ; congestion will also be tackled .
I can announce today that we 're going to put an end to the unco-ordinated and inefficient activities of public utilities digging up our roads .
And what 's more , we 'll have the power to charge them for the inconvenience that they cause us .
It was also the turn of Kenneth Clarke today ; the Health Secretary didn't have quite so much up his sleeve , but he did announce plans to set up a nationwide programme of health targets .
The time has come to consider target reductions in premature deaths from strokes and heart disease ; the great waster of life in a modern society .
We made good progress , but a combination of better health promotion , screening and treatment should deliver say , a twenty five per cent reduction by the end of the century .
Premature deaths from cancer , asthma , diabetes , can be aimed at in just the same way .
A little light relief in an otherwise routine opening day was provided by Walter Ablett from Essex ; a self-confessed working class Tory complete with cloth cap , he spent much of his time on the platform berating Labour 's efforts in Blackpool last week .
The Labour Party platform displayed photographs of well-dressed people with the platform comrades looking like yuppie tailor 's dummies in their expensive sharp suits .
How well off they are under a Conservative government .
No doubt we 'll be hearing more of the same as the week goes on .
This is the Fox Report .
Michael Heseltine has criticised government economic policy , warning that investment incentives are inadequate .
But he backed the Cabinet line in condemning wage increases which are , what he called wildly out of line , and risked a surge in unemployment .
Mr Heseltine who 's MP for Henley , walked out of Mrs Thatcher 's Cabinet as Defence Secretary over the Westland helicopters affair in January nineteen eighty six .
He was speaking today at a Tory Reform Group fringe meeting in Bournemouth .
But the man tipped as the next Tory leader aimed his fiercest criticism at the Labour Party .
Labour has a list of priorities ; the pensioners , are they Labour priorities ?
Three times , Labour has failed to honour its commitment to upgrade pensions , in nineteen seventy six , seventy eight and seventy nine .
Instead , they wiped the value of pensioner 's savings with rampant inflation , then they made water a priority , and then they cut the capital investment by a third .
They made council housing a priority , and they halved the housing , they promised a better deal for local government and ended up with the elderly freezing in their homes , rubbish piled in the streets and the dead unburied .
There is a very simple message here : if I were you Mr Chairman , I would not want to be a Labour priority .
I would say with you to the good Lord ‘spare me from Mr Kinnock 's gaze , hold on tight to the tablets of stone lest they should fall on this hapless servant 's head , may there be no rock so small that I can not shelter behind it out of Mr Kinnock 's sight , keep the rod and staff of Socialism firmly in your hands lest it be upon my back that it should be broken .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twelve minutes past six .
There 's still a fair bit of repair work going on along the M forty , between junctions one and one A , that 's the stretch between Denham and the M twenty five , the outside lane is closed in both directions .
And there are just er two lanes running both ways between junctions five and seven , that 's between Stokenchurch and Thame .
The A forty one , the road between Banbury and Bicester , there are temporary traffic lights between the Soldern turn-off , that 's by the Bear public house and the Northampshire border ; that 's likely to cause some long delays .
And you may also be held up on the A three six one at Wardington where there are some temporary traffic lights , that 's just north of Banbury .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
British Rail tell us there 's a ten minute delay this evening on the Manchester to London Paddington train , which er was due to leave Oxford at six twenty four , so ten minutes to wait there .
Meanwhile on the buses , all is running well .
Still to come : Greenpeace awaits news of one of its ships which has been seized by the Soviet authorities .
And Horton General Hospital in Banbury considers opting out .
First with a round up of the day 's local news , here 's Lucy Bonner .
City Council Officials in Oxford are warning more staff are needed to cope with the number of multiple-occupancy homes .
They claim the City has less than half the resources it should have to deal with the growing number of such homes , H M O 's for short .
Assistant Chief Environmental Health Officer , John Copley , says people in Oxford have much less of a chance of receiving help than those in other cities , even though some of them are living in appalling conditions .
An awful lot of the er occupiers live in er in quite unsafe er situations , where er each night they go to bed , they run the risk of er being completely fried alive .
Er .
Aside from just the physical conditions though , it 's also that they face no end of er very bad practices , often by quite poor landlords , and on some occasions very poor accommodation agencies .
What er more staff would mean is that more visits can be made to more HMO 's to put more of the problems right ; it 's , it 's just about that simple .
A leading politics don at Oxford University has called on local parliamentary candidate , Bruce Kent , to urge his party to support a public referendum on electoral reform .
Mr Kent who 's Labour 's prospective candidate in Oxford West and Abingdon , pledged his own support for proportional representation during last week 's Party Conference in Blackpool .
Vernon Bogdaner a reader in government at the University and a Fellow of Brasenose College , says he too is in favour of P R , and wants the electorate to be given the chance to vote on the issue .
Well I think that Bruce Kent should call for a referendum on the issue and I think the Labour Party should come out in favour of that .
I think that would swing to the , them some of the votes of Liberal Democrats and former S D P people who are also in favour of proportional representation .
And I think that would take the issue out of the sort of Party dogfight , and let the electorate really decide , and what is after all one of the most important issues facing a democracy .
A support group for the elderly in north Oxfordshire says it wants more cooperation with the police in helping what it reckons is an increasing number of elderly victims of crime in the area .
Alec McNair from Age Concern in Banbury is to address a meeting of the Police Consultative Group in the Town Hall tonight on the effects of crime on old people .
He says more old people are being assaulted and being made the victims of con men , and he wants the police to be more helpful in putting the group in touch with those who need help .
The police er don't refer a lot of things to us , I know it 's difficult but er I feel that we ought to have more occasions er where er we are made aware of things that happen and then we can help er in various ways by referrals to those agencies and of course , financially .
Ticket touts who try and sell City Tour tickets as a profit to visitors to Oxford , could soon be barred under local bye-laws .
The City Council 's particularly concerned about the congestion that touts cause on the pavement in St Aldate 's , which it claims is a nuisance and could be dangerous .
Helen Atkins , the Council 's solicitor dealing with the issue , says the Authority has to act on the complaints it received over the summer , but admits there 's still a long way to go .
Really the Council is in a position where it must act upon complaint , and it must look at the complaints and comments that 's been received .
The actual bye-law itself is very much in its infancy , the situation is that , if , if the Council agree , if members of Council agree to make the bye-law , then it would have to be referred to the Home Office and then to the Secretary of State .
Now he may or may not confirm it , so it 's , it 's very much in its inf , infant stages .
Fox F M news , Lucy Bonner reporting .
It 's seventeen minutes past six .
Greenpeace campaigners are urgently seeking news of one of their ships which was seized by the Soviet Authorities .
Communications with the M V Greenpeace were cut yesterday after it was boarded by armed Soviet guards off the Arctic Island of Naviazenya in the Barent Sea .
The coordinator Rebecca Johnson says they failed to re-establish contact with the vessel , which had been protesting against the resumption of nuclear testing on the island .
We have still not been given any kind of direct word , we 've not been back in direct communication with them .
The Soviet Authorities seem to be playing a slightly odd game , they 're putting out information through a TAS er press agency release that says that everybody 's back on the ship and being taken to Murmansk where an enquiry will be held .
But when we talked directly with them , they refused to confirm this , they refused to put us in touch with the ship , they refused to confirm whether or not er the four activists who were walking to the test site had been apprehended , whether they 're safe , whether they 're being held separately , and so on .
We 're asking for er communication back with the ship and we 're asking for some straightforward answers from them .
How concerned are you for their safety ?
We are obviously very concerned and will continue to be concerned until we , we hear er for definite what has happened .
Er .
I 've a feeling that , that probably they are all together and that they are safe because I think the , the , the , the Soviets are probably trying to , to damp down the issue now by keeping quiet on it , because I think they 've been very rattled .
We 've , the protest succeeded in focusing a spotlight on this northern test site where the Soviets hope to continue nuclear testing after their own people stopped them in Khazakstan They 're rattled and they 're angry with us , and now they 're punishing us by preventing us from having direct communication with our friends and finding out that they 're safe and well .
I hope and really I have every expectation that they are safe and well , but I want to know .
Presumably the Soviets that argued that these protesters should n't be there in the first place and they have the right to apprehend them if , if they want to ?
Well , er we 're not saying they don't , er , you , we , we went there to protest nuclear testing , we knew that er you know , we , that that , that protest would be opposed , but now that those people have been seized , er surely the very least they can do is inform us that they 're safe and well , and where they are and what is being intended ; that , that is not , er that is not too much to ask .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Oxford City Council says it 's satisfied that Thames Water is doing all it can to prevent another outbreak of cryptosporidiosis ; the water bug which struck the Oxford and Swindon areas early last year .
The Chief Environmental Health Officer , Tony Fenn , says he 's concerned the sickness and diarrhoea which was caused by contaminated water at Farmoor reservoir , could endanger the lives of the elderly and very young if it re-occurred .
But he 's been telling members of the Environmental Protection Committee this afternoon that he has every confidence in the steps that Thames Water has taken to prevent an recurrence of the events of eighteen months ago .
Robin Powell reports .
Last year 's outbreak was the first of its kind in the country .
An emeritus Fellow at Merton College , Sir John Badenoch was asked to investigate what cryptosporidium is , and how it can be prevented .
The report recommends local authorities monitor water supplies and review their emergency plans in the event of further outbreaks .
Tony Fenn says the City 's taking on board those recommendations , as a bug which has struck once , could strike twice .
If we have er unfortunately , an incident like last years’ , the members will want action taken very quickly indeed .
Er .
That action mainly has to be pressuring the Thames Water Utility Company to er to get its act together , and I must say that er since the last outbreak , they have been working hard at it .
Er .
But also we need to make sure that members of the public know exactly what to do , er in relation to their own water supplies .
For its part Thames Water welcomed the report , but spokesman Tom Curtin says the company 's been acting on the sorts of things it 's recommended for some time .
We have intensified our monitoring at Farmoor , spending in the region of one million pounds , er to monitor further for the parasite cryptosporidium .
It is this sort of intensive monitoring which we think and know acts as a guarantee to our customers , that we are doing all that is possible to avoid a further outbreak of this er parasite .
It was obviously a very serious outbreak last year , what are the chances of it happening again ?
We feel that we are doing everything possible to avoid a further recurrence of this unfortunate parasite .
I would also like to say that the report does mention obligations of other interested er people like er farming groups etc. , and the National Rivers Authority to er do everything possible from stopping the parasite entering the water in the first place .
A spokesman for the National Farmers Union in Oxfordshire says members are encouraged to be very careful to avoid slurry leakage .
Meanwhile , the N R A says it treats very seriously its responsibility to stop any contaminating material getting into water supplies , and it 's keen to offer guidelines to farmers on issues such as farm waste disposal .
All it seems are agreed it 'll take a team effort to stop cryptosporidiosis striking again .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's twenty four minutes past six .
Britain 's biggest Building Society says the worst could be over for hard pressed mortgage payers .
Figures from the Halifax show growth of half a per cent in house prices during September , the first rise for three months .
The head of planning for the Halifax , Gary Marsh , predicts a five per cent rise in prices next year .
Some of our worst fears of prices falling for example in the North , as they have already done in the South , haven't been realised .
And in fact prices would seem now to be levelling off somewhat throughout the country , slowing down in the North and levelling off at the current levels in the South .
That really encourages us to say now that prices will fall in nineteen ninety , but only marginally , perhaps by up to two or three per cent or so , but gradually there we 'll see a recovery now in nineteen ninety one , and that 's why we 're saying price rises by the end of ninety one of five per cent or more even .
I think there are still some quite pronounced regional differences between the North and the South and between particularly Scotland and Northern Ireland and the rest of the country — would you see any further coming together of the more expensive properties and the cheaper properties ?
I don't think we 'll see much further coming together .
What 's happen , what happened was , in the mid to late eighties , London led the way in the housing market and prices in London became very very expensive relative to the rest of the country .
But now , really what 's happened over the past two years is though , is that much of the rest of the country has recovered that gap , and we 're back to more normal patterns now .
We would say that the gap has , it did widen , it 's narrowed again , and we , we 're back to a situation of stability .
Will first time buyers be able to come in again now and actually get things moving , now that the interest rates have come down ?
First time buyers have been coming in .
Over the past few months we 've seen a far higher proportion of our own borrowers being first time buyers , okay at very low levels , but er a much higher proportion being first time buyers .
Er .
The reason for that is that they 're in a very good position in the market now , they , they can negotiate very good deals on houses they 're buying , there 's a very good choice of properties available , people by the mid nineteen nineties will look back on nineteen ninety as probably the time to have bought , when house prices were at their cheapest .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
A headmaster is claiming that the craze for the Teenage Mutant Hero Ninja Turtles , is encouraging aggression and promoting the belief that might is right .
David Pott from the Shepherds Primary School in London , says the heros in harsh shells are feeding children a diet of violence , and parents should try and stop it .
I think it 's partly the subtlety of it , because on the surface , er the Teenage Mutant Turtles are er sort of in the classic goodies v baddies mould , and er they 're rather charming in fact , they 're almost naive , they kind of stroll along enjoying their pizzas , and if you look at the front of a lot of the magazines there , they 're looking really , really merry and cheerful .
But er their , their real function is , is to fight ; the whole thing is about turtle power , and er their , their main theme song says ‘we 're a fierce fighting team’ , and er so you , you see a change from the quite sort of innocent er appearance to suddenly er a lot of aggression .
Well , I mean if , they are only cartoon characters after all and Tom and Gerry have got to fit into the exactly that mould , and nobody takes that too seriously .
No that 's right , but er I think that progressively in our society we 've seen er a lowering of the standards in terms of what 's acceptable for children to read .
I mean obviously this is nothing new , obviously there 's been this sort of thing for some time in the past , but I think what we 've got to ask ourselves is ‘what sort of a society are we now reaping ? ’
On the one hand we 're really concerned about increase in violent crime er and we 've got to ask ourselves ‘where did those people who are now in their late teens and twenties and thirties who commit those sort of crimes , where did they , where did it all begin from ? ’
Well I think there are a lot of socio-economic factors , but I think one of the factors is the sort of things those people fed on when they were er in their perhaps primary years , and early secondary years .
So what do you think should be done ?
Well , I think that really education is going to be the most important thing .
I think in fact just sort of plain banning probably wouldn't solve the problem because forbidden fruit is always more attractive ; I think the answer is sort of careful and lively education .
er And I really think that we , one should teach children discernment , give them guidelines , let them think about consequences , and then make responsible choices themselves .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Banbury 's Horton General Hospital has announced it 's considering following the lead of the Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre and considering opting out of the N H S .
But the hospital is stressing that er at this stage , it 's merely gathering information to enable it to make a more considered decision at a later date .
In any case , as General Manager , Denis Baston has been telling Robin Powell , such major changes require careful consideration .
The government er has been enacting legislation which will change the financing of the Health Service very substantially , er from the first of April , er we will be into negotiating contracts for health care , er we 're already producing business plans er for the work that we do .
It 's a completely new area er and we 're not sure of the impact of all these changes on the future of the Horton , and that 's what we 're trying to investigate .
Having said it 's a new area , self-management itself is not new to the Horton is it ?
That 's true , in that up to nineteen seventy four , the Horton had er its own er Hospital Management Committee , er with a locally based Chairman and , and Committee who ran the hospital .
Er .
And of course there , there are certain er views around that would er certainly suggest that , that that would receive support ; the idea of local er management coming back to Banbury .
There 's obviously considerable political hype surrounding the idea of self-management of hospitals , but you 're keen not to get involved in that kind of political slanging match aren't you ?
Indeed , I , I mean there , there is a , a great difference of opinion between the two political parties on how the Health Service er should be organised .
We 're keen er to investigate the facts of the implications of the present legislation er and what effect that will have on the future of the Horton .
We want to give the best possible hospital service in the nineteen nineties for our community , and that 's what we 're looking at .
But of course , even if the Horton does decide to go self-governing , it still depends on the government to give the go ahead ?
Indeed yes , I mean er there , there will be all kinds of considerations , one of which of course is the financial viability of this hospital in the future , er and as I said earlier , the contracting process for health care er is an unknown quantity .
We may be better off with health care contracts if money follows the patient as the government er intends it to do , but we just don't know and that 's what we 're investigating at the present time .
This is the Fox Report , it 's six thirty .
There are still some repairs going on along the M forty between junctions one and one A , that 's between Denham and the M twenty five , with the outside lane closed in both directions , for barrier repairs and some light maintenance .
Also it 's down to two lanes running in both directions between junctions five and seven , that 's between Stokenchurch and Thame , and er on the A forty one the road between Banbury and Bicester , there are temporary traffic lights , that 's between the Soldern turnoff by the Bear public house and Northampshire border , that 's going to be causing some delays .
You also may be held up a little on the A three six one at Wardington where there are some temporary traffic lights , that 's just north of Banbury on the main Banbury to Daventry road .
And A forty one Ruscote Avenue , Banbury is completely closed southbound at the junction with Orchard Way for some paving work , and traffic is being diverted .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And I 've nothing too bad to report to you on the buses or trains .
It 's six thirty one .
Two men have been killed by undercover troops in Northern Ireland today , and they 've been named as top I R A hit man and former Sinn Fein coun , and a former Sinn Fein councillor .
Desi Grew has been in jail several times for terrorist offences , and Martin McCoffey has left Dungannon Council just a few weeks ago .
President Bush is warning Saddam Hussein he won't get away with trying to drag Israel into the Gulf crisis ; the Iraqi 's leader 's threatened a long-range missile strike on Israel if it doesn't get out of the occupied territories after yesterday 's violence that left nineteen Palestinians dead .
A man accused of raping his wife has been cleared by a jury at Sheffield Crown Court .
It was the first time a man in England has been charged with such an offence .
And the John Lennon hit single ‘Imagine’ has been played simultaneously on more than a thousand radio stations worldwide ; it was one of the tributes on what would have been the ex-Beatle 's fiftieth birthday , and was played as an anthem to world peace .
The weather ?
Well , it 'll be dry this evening and for much of the night , but the cloud 's going to thicken and there could be a few spots of light rain over high ground by dawn .
The lowest temperature — fairly mild ; ten degrees celsius , fifty degrees fahrenheit .
Still to come : Oxford Relate says proposals to make divorce easier could be counter-productive .
First though , this week is Shelter Week and the Charity which campaigns for the homeless is aiming to raise thirty five thousand pounds .
Oxford has a particularly bad problem when it comes to homelessness .
Jeremy Spafford from Oxford 's Housing Aid Centre is specifically involved with helping single people who find themselves well down the list when it comes to being provided with a home .
Jeremy , I , I said it was a , a particularly bad problem , er we , we are worse off in this area for homelessness that a lot of other places aren't we ?
Yes , I mean , er the person you interviewed earlier from the Environmental Health , I think pointed out that er Oxford actually outside inner , inner city London , has er the highest number of properties which are er known as houses of multiple occupation which are often in disrepair .
And I think er when it comes to homelessness , er we have to think very carefully about what we mean ; and sometimes er people think it 's er purely in terms of having er some kind of shelter , er and we have a lot of people in Oxford er , an estimate er has been a figure of , of three thousand people .
er who could be described as homeless .
And these are people , not just those on the streets or in the shelter , night shelter or er in a temporary hostel and so on , but also people who find themselves in er accommodation which none of us I think would really want to call home .
And er we find that those of us who are working with homeless people are increasingly simply trying to find some kind of shelter for a few nights rather than actually trying to find a home for people .
It 's a very serious problem in Oxford .
And , and a lot of single people as I mentioned , they , they , they don't come anywhere on , on a housing list to have housing provided for them — what can you do to help them find places ?
Well , er not a lot is , is , is the honest answer , we , we work very hard at it of course , but er the truth is that er the only rights that people have are rights that can be enforced by law , and er in , in law , the only people that the local authority has to provide with accommodation are people who er have children who are particularly vulnerable , and there are very strict definitions of that .
And most single people and er most young people in particular , fall outside that definition and that means that they really have no access to council housing of any kind and er they also find it very hard to get into the private rented sector , because of er the fact that 's it 's er , the rents are so high , and , and therefore they are at the mercy of erm basically the well , well loosely what one could describe as the bad landlords , the sharks , who will er exploit their situation .
Er .
And they have the choice between either er running the gauntlet of erm bad landlords , temporary accommodation , the streets , the shelters , friend 's floors , er or simply hoping that er government policy will change , and er at some point somebody will prioritise er the provision of new housing stock .
So what , what do you as , as , I mean , it seems unlikely that , that single people will ever be moved right up the list , I mean , do you , do you see any other solution ?
Well there are things we can do , er there thing , basically it 's about finding er a way of shifting priorities .
Now obviously er the , the government has to shift priorities , and that 's not something that 's going to change overnight , given the er , the attitude of central government towards these people at the moment , which is extremely negative .
However , locally there are things we can do er in terms of trying to improve the kind , er the amount of support available er to er young people and single people in general , who are in this predicament .
Er .
For example , I mean the local authority , the City Council has provided er funds for workers in this area and for er an emergency shelter for young people in this area .
That could , that needs to be maintained , it could also be extended , though of course they have great difficulties because of er their , their own financial restrictions , but we also , I think as a community , need to think about who these homeless people are , and , and not to regard them as some kind of alien population , but to realise that there are , they are our own neighbours , they are our own families that are in this predicament , and that collectively we need to join together and actually make demands on central government and locally to try and do something about it .
Jeremy , thank you very much .
Thank you .
Divorce could become easier if new proposals being considered by the government should become law .
They suggest that a couple should be allowed to get divorced after one year without having to attribute blame for the split .
Holmes from Oxford Homes Relate , the old Marriage Guidance Council , says a year is a very short time , she says couples may be confused by the natural progression from the state of being in love to something less emotionally exciting .
The fact is you can't stay on top of a cloud indefinitely , and however long you put it off , there 's going to be a corresponding second phase of disappointment and disenchantment when each partner becomes aware of the bits that they 're not so keen on .
And they may not be able to cope with that , which is why I am always a little bit anxious if marriages break up very quickly , because it might indicate that what they 're really doing is just going into that second phase .
But for them it feels like such a disaster after the first phase , that they don't know what to do about it .
Only it may feel like such a disaster that , that they feel they can't do anything about it , er but you 're saying that that isn't , isn't necessarily the case ?
Well it may be that they don't know how to , or that they set out such patterns of relating together that they haven't got the means of coping with it .
Maybe they don't find it hard to , they don't find it very easy to talk to each other about difficult things ; maybe they can't say the sort of things ‘I love you but , I wish you didn't , such and such’ .
Maybe they haven't er been able to er find ways of talking to each other about those difficult things , and maybe they 've , they 've built up lots and lots of assumptions and resentments and disappointment , and they don't know how to handle it , and they feel that the only thing they can do is to get out .
Now you say that 's the second stage , is there a third stage that 's , that 's er , puts more joy on the horizon ?
Well , couples will either work on , work out that phase or not , and of course some may , may , may not be able to cope with it and decide to split up .
But other couples will either find a way through and re-negotiate their relationship to allow for the different people that they 've now become , or they may shelve them because they get caught up in the , the very busyness of life , what we call the , the productivity phase , which is the third phase , where couples are maybe having children , building up a family , building up careers ; they 're involved in that sort of activity .
Er .
And maybe not even have time to think about their relationship to be able to sort out any deep problems , and maybe they 're getting put , put aside .
So , do you think that by making divorce possible so early on , that a lot of marriages that could be saved , will in fact er founder ?
Well it 's always hard to know what to do , it maybe that the couple have , have made a chronic mistake and who wants anybody to carry on in , in a painful and impossible situation ?
What , what I would always hope though , is that they might go for some help , because even if they decide to separate , and er get support while they 're doing so , they may be able to understand what was going on in the relationship , what they were looking for in each other .
Because if they don't , if they don't become any more aware of what 's going on for them , they will take all that unfinished business into a new relationship and statistically , we know that second or third time marriages are more likely to break down than first time marriages .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty to seven .
Still to come : was Shakespeare in truth the seventeenth Earl of Oxford , and a Van Gogh made of money at the Museum of Modern Art .
First , financial report with Halpern and Woolf keeping Oxfordshire in business .
The London stock markets staged a complete turn round today as tension increased in the Gulf , with the Iraqi President Saddam Hussein , threatening Israel .
Nervousness was exacerbated by another weak Wall Street opening , a further rise in oil prices and fears that exports could be adversely affected by the strong pound .
However , trading was strong with eight hundred and nineteen million shares changing hands today , and the profit taking was again the order of the day , with the close of the Footsie one hundred Index down sixty seven point five at two one three four point one .
On the foreign exchanges , sterling gained ground on the weaker dollar , ending the day up at one dollar point nine seven three oh , however , it ended down one point seven pfennigs closing at three deutschmarks point O O six four .
Today 's share prices : Abbey National down two at two two eight , British Aerospace down twenty two at five three seven , British Airways down three at a hundred and forty one , British Gas went down four point five at two two seven point five , British Telecom down six point five at two hundred and eighty four , Goodhead Publishing Group stayed at sixty , Metalbox down fifty to one O O seven five , Morland Brewers unchanged at two hundred and seventy , Oxford Instruments went down four to two three three , Thames Water was down five at two two nine and the Trustee Savings Bank went down one to a hundred and thirty seven .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Sport now , and the major talking point at Oxford Stadium today has been the Oxford City Council decision to agree planning permission for the stadium to extend their grandstand leisure complex .
Senior Planning Officer , Andrew Lewis says that after various planning applications over the past two years which were turned down , due to objections from local residents , the latest plans have now been cleared , regarding the extension and the feelings of the local residents .
There have been before the present application which was approved , there have been applications refused because the Oxford City Planning Committee were concerned particularly about er access and parking arrangements , and the effects of the extensions er on the front of the building , er very close to Sandy Lane , by the impact of those buildings in particular on residential amenity , on the houses and the occupants of them on the other side of Sandy Lane .
Have the local residents put up much objection to these new extension plans ?
Yes , there have been some very vigorous objections made by local residents , and that is particularly why the application that preceded this one was refused planning permission because er the objections they made were considered to be well founded by the Planning Committee and supported many of their views .
Er .
The application that has recently been approved overcomes many of the local resident 's er objections , although I think it is fair to say that er some local residents are still concerned about Oxford Stadium 's operations , er on particular occasions and the way it affects them .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Well , on the football front , there 's some big news for Oxford United 's fans , isn't there Mickey ?
Monday October the twenty ninth , pencil in that date Oxford United supporters .
Kevin Maxwell and Brian Horton will be answering questions at the next Oxford United supporters forum , which will be held at the supporter 's club .
Now , upmost in my mind is what John Durnin has as a pre-match meal .
Yes of course Mickey , I er , of course , of course , of course .
Now there are a lot of supporters , er are they going to be er , is there going to be room for everybody ?
I don't think so , but it 's going to be really interesting this time because we 're going to actually , actually see Kevin Maxwell — hope he doesn't wear that cloth cap , it 's not really him , he 's a very young man .
But we 've just got to wait and see , I mean , I know the sort of questions they 're going to ask , and they do deserve to hear some answers , I promise you that Jane .
Hmm well you 've been giving a few answers yourself over the last few weeks .
er I mean , they , they don't call these meetings for nothing , have you anything , any idea what might be er brought up at the meeting ?
Well obviously financially the club has gone downhill , I 've no doubt Mark Lawrenson 's name will be mentioned again , Dean Saunders .
The supporters are not happy with that , they want to know the real truth and well , so do I in a way , because I don't really know .
Okay , what 's happening locally this evening ?
Locally , I 've got Brackley down , Brackley Town pencilled in down here , now they 're playing Earthling Borough Diamonds in the United Counties Premier League ; now Earthling Borough Diamonds , they 've yet to win a match and with a name like that they don't deserve to , I'm just glad they 're not on my patch , although Elmensbury Pixons are apparently .
And while we 're on the subject of local football , Witney Town please answer the phone on Saturday afternoon because Phil Angel just doesn't know your res , result .
I mean , we tried and tried Saturday , apparently the game was called off .
Oh well it worked with Abingdon , let 's , let 's see if it works with Witney Mickey , thank you very much .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Psychic T V and video sculptures have come to the Museum of Modern Art in Oxford ; they form part of an exhibition of video , film and slide tape art across the past decade .
Signs of the Times develops themes from the environment to aliens taking over your television set , as Fox Reporter , Lucy Bonner discovered .
Signs of the Times is dominated by television sets , sometimes in strange settings .
Jeremy Welsh 's Forest Fires is an all round experience , with leaves on the floor , the smell of woodsmoke and warmth from the fire , which happens to be a group of camouflaged televisions .
Exhibitions assistant , John Leslie , explains .
There 's an image of fire on the screens and they 're piled up like a bonfire with er natural things that have been brought in from the outside , and there 's slide tape projections of the forest around the gallery .
These pillars here in the gallery are kind of working also quite minimally as trees in the gallery , so it sets up a nice atmosphere .
The idea is that he 's using them as , as a way of communicating the idea of the forest being er landscaped ; the whole environment of being polluted and it has an ecological background to it .
In another display , the sets form a circle round the visitor in a sculptor originally intended to be outside on Dartmoor .
These can be read as standing stones , that you hear the Celtic lament on the sound track , and this piece again has a kind of environmental , ecological background that Judith was using , to do with how we live with technology all the time around us , and also juxtaposing that with , with the natural world .
Fire is the focal point of Susan Hiller 's Balthazar 's feast which explores the visions people see in their fireside , and now apparently , in their T V 's .
The fireplace was the centre of a living room where you looked into the flames and you relaxed in front of them and saw images .
Now people are using their television set as , as a focal point in their lives , in their , in their living room at least .
Also , as you say , this piece , the psychic people have actually reported having messages come through their televisions and seeing images and having communications from sort of other , other areas , other places .
And for those who remembered the millions that were bid for Van Gogh 's ‘Sunflowers’ , there 's a telling reproduction of the picture , made entirely out of coins .
But even though this version isn't quite as expensive as the original , the gallery isn't taking any chances ; a full-time guard prevents anyone from on cashing in on this artistic venture .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Was the seventeenth Earl of Oxford , Edward de Vere , the real Shakespeare ?
Novelist , Andrew Field , claims to have discovered the lost chronicle of Edward de Vere in a hidden compartment of a desk in Chipping Norton , and he 's written a convincing novel round the supposed documents , supporting the theory that de Vere was a diplomat scholar and soldier beloved of Elizabeth the first , that he in fact , wrote the plays and the sonnets .
He says the real Shakespeare was no more than the man who looked after the horses and the costumes .
Actually you know that 's the historical record of Shakespeare , and the theory put about is that er he once played one of the ghosts , Hamlet 's father .
He was supposedly an actor , you can't find any record of him as an actor , er he was apparently a dependable country bumpkin who became fairly important in managing the money , er Shakespeare was someone whom the theatre people could count on , a simple as that .
He was the person , when you go away for a vacation , that you leave the key to your flat with , that you say would you water my geranium ; that is the historical sum of William Shakespeare , it 's the truth .
And the , the incredible er spectacle that we have of the endless three , four , five hundred page biography is based on no evidence at all , because we know very very little about this man , except that he was a shareholder in the theatre , a very very minor actor , the sort yes , who would have minded the costumes .
On the front , front cover you 've got the portrait of William Shakespeare that , that you claim was in fact a painted over portrait of er , of de Vere .
Actually , I , I don't claim that , that 's a fact .
In January nineteen forty , a scientist named Charles Barrell , er was examining that portrait , not as an art historian , but scientifically , and of course there 's always the question with portraits of what might be under it , because er canvas was very very expensive and people didn't waste materials then as they do now , because they were in relatively short supply , good painting canvas .
And er he X-rayed that portrait and he found a portrait of Edward de Vere under that portrait , purportedly of Shakespeare , and then rather alerted , he went to work on the outer portrait and er he took particular care over the signet ring , and er that contains the de Vere boar .
That 's not literary opinion , that 's a fact , and isn't in , incredible that something like that didn't shake some foundations , not a bit of it .
Terry Eagleton of Oxford made the comment , er oh I think a year or two ago , in the Sunday Times that er there is too much established in the name William Shakespeare for anyone to be willing to fool around with it .
When you think about it , a lot of people will look very foolish when finally de Vere can not be evaded .
Not least the Royal de Vere Theatre Company perhaps ?
Yes , well er he owned a property near Stratford-on-Avon as well , so there 's no terrible problem there , after all , er Shakespeare was his pseudonym and it was a pseudonym like George Orwell , like , like any other , Blair , Orwell , de Vere , Shakespeare .
So we can keep the name Shakespeare and er we can keep the er tea towel trade and Stratford-on-Avon , though it is a pity what 's happened to the R S C isn't it , and maybe out of these ashes will rise a new Royal de Vere Company , one never knows..
On the M twenty five , traffic 's heavy and slow moving clockwise between junctions fifteen and sixteen , that 's the stretch between the M four and the M forty .
On the M forty itself traffic seems to be fairly smooth at er , there are some repairs going on still between junctions one and one A , that 's between Denham and the M twenty five , with the outside lane closed in both directions .
Also the M forty is down to two lanes in both directions between junctions five and seven , that 's between Stokenchurch and Thame .
A forty one , there 's temporary traffic lights between Soldern turn off and the Northampshire border , that 's just between Banbury and Bicester , and there are likely to be some delays along the A three six one at Wardington where there are also temporary traffic lights , that 's just north of Banbury on the main Banbury to Daventry Road .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And I 've still nothing to tell you about the buses or the trains .
Bobby Vinton 's ‘Blue Velvet’ is this week 's network chart number one ; he has n't had a hit since the nineteen sixties , and when he was told of his success in America , he thought he 'd been made the victim of a Jeremy Beadle style prank .
He says he 's a teen idol who 's grown to be very rich .
Here in America I perform a lot in Las Vegas and Atlantic City and I probably make more money today than I ever did when I was selling a lot of records as a teenage idol .
In my show , I do everything , because I am er , er I try all the instruments , I sing in different languages , it , it 's kind of an act that the Americans er really enjoy because it is so versatile .
And , and because of this and my old hits , er I am able to have a big following , and to perform
When did you first hear that the record er was doing so well in England ?
About a week ago ; I just found out .
David Most who as you know is a record promoter in England , er I knew twenty five years ago , when I went to England .
He was a young er man er who was just er a young boy , he was promoting records and trying to get into the business and , and er he remembered me well , and when they found out that I wasn't easy to , to reach , no-one knew where I was , he was able to track me down and when he told me that er I had this big hit record , I thought it was someone playing a joke on me , because here in America , they have a television show called The Blue Bird , where they play jokes on people and , and tell them things , and then they videotape you and then there 's a funny reaction that this is a big television show .
So I thought perhaps someone was playing a joke on me for , for a television show what Bobby Vinton would do if he found out a number one record in England .
And how did you react ?
I said , I says ‘come on , where 's the camera , what 's the joke , and erm and , and why are you , you know , what is this all about ? ’
I didn't really believe it at first , er , and then I received couple or more phone calls from er various people in the industry who er , who were aware of it and started to congratulate me , and then I realised that it was the truth , that er I really did have a big hit record once again with Blue Velvet .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Finally the M forty is getting nearer .
Are you excited at the prospect of its opening — angry , totally bored with the subject ?
Banbury 's library and museum though are hoping to record your views , and they 're going to , hopefully , make some history .
Julia Nicholson is the creator , curator of the museum in Banbury ; Julia , what sort of , what sort of things are you after ?
Well what we 're doing is we 're , er organising a project to record what 's happened with the motorway .
Last week for instance , we had somebody out on the motorway interviewing the site workers , but we also want to hear from people in the local communities , around Banbury , around Bicester , and found out what they feel about the motorway , because it 's going to have an enormous impact on the area .
I think people perhaps aren't aware how important it 's going to be .
From the point of the mus , point of view of the museum , people always think about museums as places where you find historical objects , well we 're now creating the history of the future , so that future generations will know about , er you know , what happened at the time of , of building the motorway .
So are you going to put their views on tape , or are going to er get them to write them down — how are you actually going to record them ?
Well there 's a whole range of kind of wacky ideas that we 'll be working on .
Er .
We will be recording er , talking to individual groups that are interested in , in er expressing their views , particularly groups that perhaps have been involved with the protest , and er are you know , not happy with , with some aspects of the motorway .
Er .
Perhaps people that are involved with the er the Ardley Service Station , and we 'd like to hear from any history groups , school groups , anybody that 's got an interest in that side , that would like to have their , their views er recorded .
What we 'll be doing is er organising an exhibition which will come on stream at the museum in the middle of February , and will run until June , and that exhibition will include you know , er all , well , some of the material that , that 's been recorded , such as the , you know , the aural history tapes , er some of perhaps the , the press cuttings and things that have come out of the motorway .
But also some really exciting projects like er we 've had people making sculptures out of scrap from the motorway , we 've had , er we 're going to have a music project working on , again working on scrap from the motorway .
And er so there 'll be a whole range of creative projects as well as er , as well as more documentary type things .
er I think we heard from Banbury School earlier in the year , talking about their music project , that 's going to be part of it I understand as well
Yes , that , that 's , that 's very much part of it , but we want , you know history 's only , only made by people , it 's made by every , you know , all of us really , so you know , we 're asking for groups now to come to us and say , you know , ‘we want to do a project on X to do with the motorway’ , and we 'll be prepared to , you know , back it up as much as we can .
They can literally come to you at the museum can they ?
Yes , they can just give us a ring at the museum , the number is er Banbury two five nine eight double five , or to ring the library at Banbury as well , they 're involved with the publication , and what will come out of it is not just an exhibition , but a whole archive for the future , I mean I'm sure in the past we , we would have er liked to have known more about how the canals were built perhaps .
Wonderful , Julia , thank you very much .
And that was the Fox Report , and it was indeed the Fox Report for Tuesday the ninth of October , nineteen ninety .
Steve Priestley is here after the news with the Red Fox .
Tonight , as Oxfordshire 's post begins to get back to normal , talks are still going on at Abingdon Sorting Office to decide whether they 'll go back .
RELATE welcomes tighter divorce laws .
You won't be granted a divorce until a period of a year has elapsed and during that period you 'll have to work out access and maintenance for the children .
Extra police are on duty in Blackbird Leys as crime there goes up .
It 's not just because we 've had police officers injured .
We 've had extra officers in there all the time , but we 're going to step that up now .
That 's what 's really inside the British banger .
We don't actually have to have all that much meat .
Only about a third of them has to be what you really call meat .
Twenty four hours a day on one O two point six , this is Fox F M .
The six o'clock news .
This is Catharine Kelly .
President Bush is threatening to challenge the Iraqis by sending a ship the Gulf to re-supply the American and British Embassies in Kuwait .
The move would raise the possibility of an imminent military confrontation with Saddam Hussein .
From Washington , Nick Peters reports .
It 's a strategy that would make the embassies the potential flashpoint for war .
One official has said that an unarmed American ship would attempt to land supplies in Kuwait harbour , close to where both embassies are situated .
If the Iraqis oppose the landing in contravention of the latest U N Security Council resolution demanding re-supply of diplomats , then the official said you would have a classic pretext for war .
Nick Peters , I R N , Washington .
Britain is protesting to Germany over a planned mission to Baghdad by former West German Chancellor Willy Brandt .
The Germans and Italians say a team of European politicians should go to negotiate the release of hostages , even though they agree that such trips should be condemned .
Ten British wives of hostages held in Iraq will fly to Baghdad next week to plead with the Iraqi leader for their release .
Two of the women have said they are petrified amid warnings that war could break out soon , but they say they have to go .
Radical changes in the divorce laws are set to be introduced in England and Wales .
The Law Commission is recommending an end to quickie divorces .
Also proposed is a twelve month cooling off period where couples consider the situation and parents reflect on their children 's future with a marriage guidance counsellor .
But Zelda Westmeads of RELATE says that the new system won't work unless agencies like hers get more cash .
We already have asked the government for an increase of our grant from one million to ten million .
At the moment we have about ten thousand people on our waiting list .
That means often a period of up to three months .
Now with the new proposals , unless the government actually increase our grant and we can increase the number of customers we have , we wouldn't be able to see the people who really needed to see us very often .
Hard cash will soon be back in fashion .
From early next year people using credit cards will have to pay more in some shops than people using money .
The government says it will help shops meet the cost of processing credit .
Ann Costello reports .
Trade Minister , John Redwood , says there 'll be no limit on a surcharge imposed by retailers .
What we will be doing is saying that it has to be clearly stated so that customers can see before they enter into the transaction and then we expect competitive forces in the market to make sure that the charges don't get unrealistic .
But shoppers differed on whether they thought it was good news .
If I'm actually being charged every time I use my credit card I wouldn't use it .
Credit restrictions are a good idea because people are in a lot of debt .
The charge will come into effect next year .
The prosecution case against boxer Terry Marsh has drawn to a close with no evidence being offered by the defence .
Marsh denies attempting to murder his former manager , Frank Warren .
From the Old Bailey , Emma Howard .
Defence Council , Richard Ferguson Q C , has taken the decision not to put Terry Marsh in the witness box and to start preparing his closing speech to the jury .
The final day of the hearing has included evidence from a Metropolitan Police forensic expert , who admitted ammunition found at the scene of the crime didn't match that found at Marsh 's parents ' home .
The jury of seven men and five women have been given the day off tomorrow while both sides consider the evidence against Marsh and on Monday make their final submissions to the court .
Emma Howard , I R N , The Old Bailey .
Anti-terrorist Squad officers have discovered two I R A safe houses in London .
Detectives believe terror gangs have been renting flats in London and the Midlands using them as a base for operations and then moving on .
Acting on tip-offs from the public , they raided two homes in Wembley , finding false documents but no guns or ammunition .
Marks and Spencer is to stop selling organic fruit and vegetables because of a lack of demand .
The company has tried going green at thirty of its stores , but it claims customers can't tell the difference between environmentally friendly produce and that which has been sprayed with chemicals .
Independent Radio News .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
It 's Thursday November the first , nineteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
The postal service in Oxfordshire has begun to get back to normal today , but not all postal workers are back , despite yesterday 's vote .
Staff at the Abingdon Sorting Office are still out , following a disagreement over the settlement that had been reached between the Union and the Management .
Lucy Bonner has this report .
After intense negotiations last night and this morning , Unions and Management agreed a set of proposals which were then put to U C W members .
They voted unanimously to return to work .
However , when the Union representative reported the vote to Management , he was informed they wished to change the original agreement .
This resulted in members refusing to resume duties and negotiations are currently underway .
Staff are on the premises waiting to return to work , and Branch Secretary , Brian Jefferies , says he is optimistic the situation will be resolved , but if no agreement is reached it may have implications elsewhere in the county .
You 're listening to the Fox report .
It 's five past six .
The so-called quickie divorce could be abolished in England and Wales .
The Law Commission wants to introduce a twelve month period of reflection for couples wanting to break up .
It says couples wanting to split up should be able to do so without proving who 's to blame .
This report from Hervovie Todd .
Brenda Hogget Q C , one of the five commissioners involved in the Family Law Report , says that the current legislation is confusing and dishonest .
It pretends that there 's single no-fault ground for divorce — that the marriage has irretrievably broken down — but in practice it encourages nearly three-quarters of divorcing couples to rely on fault based grounds — adultery , or unreasonable behaviour as it 's usually called — and then makes it difficult for anybody to defend allegations , irrespective of whether that was the real reason why the marriage broke down .
It pretends that the court is able to investigate those reasons in great depth , whereas in practice it is not able to do so , and in any event that investigation is not going to save the marriage .
The twelve month cooling off period is for the couple to consider and reflect upon their failed marriage with the aid of a marriage counsellor .
During this time , the marriage could be saved or the custody of the children resolved before the courts agreed that the marriage was irretrievably broken down .
The proposal was welcomed by the Marriage Guidance Counsellors , RELATE .
It 's spokesman , Zelda Westmeads , says the children of broken marriages would be the first to benefit from the change .
With the new proposals it seems the needs of the children will be put first because you won't be granted a divorce until a period of a year has elapsed and during that period you 'll have to work out access and maintenance for the children and put their needs first and that seems very good .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
From next March shops will be able to charge more for credit card purchases than cash transactions .
Today 's announcement follows a Monopolies Commission enquiry into the no discrimination rule protecting credit card users from a surcharge .
The Commission concluded that the rule was unfair , and the Government has decided to abolish it , paving the way for retailers to charge two sets of prices .
The move will be welcomed by traders who 've complained about the high cost of processing credit card payments .
Corporate Affairs Minister , John Redwood , explained the Government 's decision .
The Government has given two orders to the House of Commons for their approval .
The first allows more people to come in and supply all the services involved in providing credit cards .
We want more choice and better prices from them , and the second says the shops can now decide whether to charge the same amount for credit card and cash purchases , or whether to charge differentially .
For example , to offer a discount to those who pay cash because it 's cheaper for the shop to handle their transaction .
Are you putting any limits on the extra amount that shops would be able to charge ?
No , what we would be doing is saying that it has to be clearly stated so that the customers can see before they enter into the transaction , and then we expect competitive forces in the market to make sure that the charges don't get unrealistic .
What are the motives for that ?
Well the motives are to offer more choice , to provide more competition in the credit card market and a better deal for customers and , to the extent that there are prices changes , we 'd expect them to be beneficial , particularly to those who are buying with cash or debit cards rather than credit cards .
But is it also part of the push to bring down inflation , to curb credit ?
No , the main intention , as I have said , is to provide a better deal , particularly for the cash customer and the debit card user .
If it has any effect , it will be slightly beneficial on the inflation front , but I wouldn't want to exaggerate that .
Have you any indications as yet as to how many other credit cards could come on the scene ?
Well the market is already growing quite well .
I 've got no specific figures or names in mind , but I think there will be a further growth , particularly in the number of people who supply existing credit cards , and that 's important because they may do better and different deals with the retailers over how much they charge for the processing .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's nine minutes past six .
Hello there , I'm Dana .
Come and see me at the Apollo , Oxford , where I'm appearing in the pantomime Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs .
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs opens on Friday December the twenty first and runs until Sunday January the twenty seventh .
Ticket prices are four pounds seventy five to eight seventy five , with a wide range of concessions available .
So call the Apollo Box Office soon .
Make it a family outing at Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs , with Michelle Collins of Eastenders , Phil Angel of Fox F M and starring Dana .
So I 'll see you there .
Oh no you won't .
Oh yes I will .
Westbound traffic on the M four is still heavy between junctions four B and five , that 's the stretch between the M twenty five and Langley .
And also westbound between junctions six and seven in the Slough area is heavy .
On the M twenty five clockwise the traffic is very heavy and slow moving from junction thirteen for Staines as far as junction eighteen for Chorleywood , that 's due to earlier accidents and the volume of traffic .
On the M four at Swindon , that 's eastbound between junctions sixteen and fifteen , tailbacks are now easing following an earlier chemical spillage which has since been cleared .
Over on the A four two three , the Banbury to Oxford road , that 's between Langford Lane , Kidlington , and the Shipton-on-Cherwell turn off , there 's some resurfacing work taking place with temporary traffic lights and some traffic being diverting .
That 's likely to cause some delays to your journey if you 're travelling along that way .
Martin Lawford , A A Roadwatch .
British Rail tell us that the Banbury to Paddington train , which was due to arrive at Oxford at three minutes past seven , has been cancelled this evening , but I 've nothing disadvantageous to report to you from the buses .
Still to come , Conservatives on Oxfordshire County Council say there won't need to be cuts in services to stay within next year 's Government budget estimate .
First , with a round-up of the day 's local news , here 's Paul Kirby .
Police say they are increasingly concerned for the safety of a Cowley teenager who 's been missing from home for nearly two months Wasem Salim Katana who 's fifteen , was last seen in a taxi on the twelfth of September .
He 's described as five foot five , well built and his head shaved into a short back and sides .
He was carrying a brown leather suitcase .
Sergeant David Whittaker of Cowley Police says Wasem 's family are anxious for him to call home .
They are obviously extremely concerned about him , concerned for his safety , and again they 'd really like to get in touch with him or him to make contact with the family or the police .
Police in Wiltshire are urgently appealing to motorists who drove past a chemical spillage on the M four near Swindon to immediately consult their doctors .
It 's feared they may be at risk of suffering the effects of exposure to a toxic chemical involved in an accident between junctions fifteen and sixteen of the motorway earlier today .
Reporting from Swindon , here 's Richard Bellamy .
Emergency services were called to the M four when a fifty kilogram container of calcium hypochloride split open during peak hour traffic .
The powdery bleaching agent was spread across both carriageways in the form of a huge cloud caused by the movement of traffic and the wind .
Fire crews attending the incident were unable to get to the scene before the cloud developed , due to the five mile contraflow .
Police and medical advisers are urging anyone caught in the cloud to consult their doctors as the chemicals can cause severe irritation to the eyes and throat .
Oxford magistrates have started issuing liability orders against people summonsed to appear before two special courts this afternoon for not paying their Poll Tax .
There have been no repeats of the legal problems which disrupted the hearings yesterday when magistrates declared council authorized documents illegitimate .
A women 's centre in east Oxford is facing financial difficulties today because its source of funding has been withdrawn .
A number of women used the centre on the Cowley Road , which is an Oxford City Council owned building .
As of today , their grant of four thousand pounds has been withdrawn .
Punget Kore says in a meeting with Labour councillors next week the centre 's organisers hope to win themselves a reprieve .
It 's important to renew the funding , because if we don't have any funding the women 's centre 's going to close .
The women centre has served a vital need for the community over the last six or seven years , and if it closes down all that work is basically gone and all the support that we 've build up has gone , because basically there 'll be nowhere that women can go to socialise and to find out what 's going on in Oxford .
Traders in east Oxford are urging councillors to back a move to replace a controversial traffic scheme .
Flowerbed obstacles were installed several months ago in both Magdalen Road and Howard Street , but have won few friends .
Most claim the restrictions have actually caused traffic using the roads to speed up .
Fox F M News , Paul Kirby reporting .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Conservatives on Oxfordshire County Council have dismissed claims that there 'll have to be major cuts in services if it has to stick to Government budget estimates .
The budget , of course , also has a major bearing on the level of next year 's Poll Tax bills .
The Environment Secretary , Chris Patten , has set a figure of just below three hundred million pounds as his own suggestion of what the Council should be spending next year , but that falls well below the figures calculated by the ruling Labour and Democrat Coalition .
However , Tory Group Leader , David Walden , thinks Mr Patten 's statistics are workable .
There will be one or two at the margins where we have to look at our priorities and one or two of them will have to be reassessed .
And as usual we believe that the Council can deliver its services in a different way , that is by pushing local financial management for schools , competitive tendering in the — there are savings in administration there .
And in that figure I 've just given you we have allowed for extra provision in some cases like for the national curriculum in the education sector , additional spending for under fives and taking on board the requirements in Social Services for care in the community and the children 's bill , although those have been , of course— the care in the community proposals have now been delayed and they are being phased in over three years .
So , whilst the Council at its present level of spending under its present control , which is not ours , will have to make savings in expenditure , it is our belief it can be done without detriment to services .
Is there anything to make you believe that Poll Tax bills landing on people 's mats this time next year will be any nearer the estimate than they were last time .
Well we believe that they could be at or below the three hundred and seventy eight pounds .
I mean we have done some rough calculations on what we think the average charge for the county will be , but there are still some unknown factors relative to District Council spending for instance , and it is our believe that we can get below the three hundred and seventy eight pounds .
Would you say that any District Council who could n't do that is irresponsible , as he has suggested himself ?
I would say that they ought to be able to spend at a level which is within the S S As that have been given both for the county and for the districts , and therefore we should be below the three hundred and seventy eight .
I hesitate to use adjectives as to what they would be like if they didn't spend at that level , but we believe it is possible for them to do so and there is something wrong with their spending levels if they don't do it .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's seventeen minutes past six .
An official of the Archbishop of Canterbury is attacking the Government for refusing to talk to Syria about British hostages in Lebanon .
Britain broke off diplomatic relations with the Syrians four years ago after allegations that they 'd been involved in trying to below up and Israeli airliner .
The church official , John Little , says the Syrians have behaved a lot better since then .
The Archbishop , who has throughout er the last er three and a half years or more , since Terry Waite was kidnapped , he and the hostage families have stayed very much in touch with each other and they have supported each other and he agrees with them now that the Government , on this particular question , is wrong .
What is it that you think the Government should be doing ?
Well er the first thing er on this question is that on Monday of last week at the meeting of the foreign ministers of the European Community in Luxembourg , the British Government proposed the removal of the European Community sanctions against China , Vietnam and Iran and the maintenance of the Community 's actions against Syria .
And that struck us and the families of the hostages as a quite extraordinary thing to do .
Syria has a very significant role now to play and we ought not to be seeking ways of annoying them .
We ought to be seeking to build on the quite hopeful developments , in the greater Beirut area anyway , over the last few days , but instead we appear to be getting even more dog in the manger in our attitude towards Syria .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Cowley Police are to step up their numbers on the Blackbird Leys estate in Oxford after a recent rise in crime in the area .
The estate , which has become notorious for high speed races involving stolen cars , and recently attacks on police officers , means that they er will sending increasing numbers of police there .
In recent incidents , a youths stamped on a W P C 's head as she tried to arrest them , and earlier this week an officer was injured when he and a colleague were attacked by a gang .
Chief Inspector , Robin Harrier , says the increase in crime means they must take more action .
We will be putting officers in there , extra officers , to try and stop the stolen cars and the joy riding .
It 's not just because we 've had police officers injured — we 've had extra officers in their all the time , but we 're going to step that up now .
doesn't it worry you that you haven't been able really to make an efficient crackdown here and your officers are still suffering attacks ?
Yes , it does .
The stolen cars have been occurring now over the last year .
We increased our manpower in there approximately three months ago and we reduced most of the joyriding .
We then had to scale down our operations , and as a result the joyriders are back again , so again we have got to step up our operation .
But obviously the answer is not to keep stepping up your operation because there 's a limit to your manpower .
Do you have any other ideas ?
That 's right .
What we do need is the co-operation of the residents , and I must say that we are beginning to get the co-operation now and in fact many people did phone in after the last incident when the officers were assaulted , first of all asking for the condition of the officers and showing concern , and secondly giving us information .
There 's still probably a lot more people thought who saw things out there , and we 'd still like them to contact us at Cowley if they 've any information as to who the offenders are .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's twenty one minutes past six .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
It 's six twenty four .
The children 's charity , Barnardos , says that poverty in Britain is so bad that parents are going hungry so that the children can eat .
A survey by Barnardos paints a picture of families running out of food by the weekend and of youngsters who can't go to school because they 've no shoes .
Child Care Director , Mike Jarmon , says the findings are deeply disturbing .
We found a number of things .
In a major way we found people who simply haven't enough to eat .
There 's the lack of food .
We find children who are being kept off school because they haven't got shoes to wear .
We find that parents are going hungry in order to leave food for their children .
They are nineteenth century images of poverty , and they are in Britain today in nineteen ninety .
Why is that happening , because we like to assume in this country that we have enough safety nets to catch those people , to ensure while they may not live in the lap of luxury at least they don't have to go without .
Well the level of benefit is simply not high enough to cope with the needs of living today .
Ordinary household expenditure , household goods , the level of food and so on .
Parents find it extremely difficult to provide even the basic necessities for life today , and certainly when you begin to think of the sort of things that most children in this country have on a day-to-day basis — an ice cream , a trip to the swimming baths and so on— these families don't er it 's a major crisis to provide for example sixty pence as entry to a swimming pool .
Now are these families where the main breadwinner , or where there is a one parent family , is out of work ?
Or are they people that are in work but even their salaries are not enough to cope ?
Well it 's both .
It 's er in the report that we produced , most of the families are in fact single parent families , most of them are on Social Security benefits and have been on for considerable periods of time , but there are a number of people who are in employment or who have had periods of employment , but they are in low paid jobs , so when you 're talking about an income of one hundred pounds a week , with the sort of housing costs there are and other costs , then there simply isn't enough money to go round .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
From today , people parking their cars at the John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford will have to pay and display .
The move has been condemned by councillors for the Labour Party and Conservatives .
Council leader , Phyllis Starkey , and Conservative Group Leader , Janet Todd , have written to the Unit General Manager of the John Radcliffe , Tony Stapleton , asking him to withdraw the charge , but hospital officials say they are introducing fees following a survey of people using the hospital , which showed that seventy percent of them were in favour of it .
Project Development Manager , Richard Summley , says the Council has been very slow in reacting and he denies a claim that disabled patients will also be hit by the fees .
I haven't heard anything from the City Council other than two days before the scheme was to be introduced .
We have given them details .
They 've had them for two months .
We 've heard nothing until two days before it starts .
She 's saying we 're charging disabled — I don't know where she gets her information from .
It 's not the case .
We won't be charging the disabled .
If you have an orange badge and you wish to park on the John Radcliffe Hospital site , you can park free of charge just as you would in one of the Council 's car parks park free of charge .
But nevertheless , you are charging patients , often people who are in a great hurry bringing their own patients in , who really probably haven't got any time for that sort of thing .
wouldn't you agree ?
er If it 's an emergency case — if you were bringing in a sick relative who you were wishing to have admitted to our accident and emergency department , you can park your car right outside the front door and bring your relative in .
We wouldn't penalise anybody who 's in an emergency situation at all .
Another problem is relatives to come to see relatives who are having operations here .
Often they will have to spend hours with the relatives .
That will make it an expensive operation for them , won't it ?
In cases where we can identify people who would be penalized more than the usual sort of fifty pence charge .
Nursing staff on some of those areas that we would pick out — those would be the intensive care units , the children 's units , the delivery suites and special care baby units — the nursing staff actually have control of permits which they can issue to relatives who are going to be here for a great length of time , and if they so feel that these relatives should n't be charged , they give them a permit and they park in a staff area at no charge whatsoever .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
And news just in — forty postal workers have returned to normal working tonight after talks with Post Office management .
The staff from the Abingdon Sorting Office had been due to resume their duties this afternoon at the end of the county-wide dispute , but the workers there refused to go back after part of an agreement with managers was altered .
Further negotiations have been taking place and a short while ago the Abingdon staff began clearing the six day backlog .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Doctors are racing against time to try to save the life of a former nurse from South Oxfordshire who desperately needs a lung transplant .
Fifty year old Manuela Sanchez from Cholsey near Wallingford is in a critical but stable position at the Harefield Hospital , while doctors scour the continent for a suitable donor organ .
Manuela , or Manola as most of her friends know her , was forced to give up here job at Cholsey 's Fairmile Hospital after twenty two years there because of a painful lung disease .
Former colleagues , Frank Plazas and John Leeas , who are still nurses at the hospital say they are very concerned for her .
We seem to have some problem with that report .
Proposals to ease traffic congestion at one of the region 's notorious blackspots will go on display to the public later today .
The Department of Transport has come up with two alternative by-pass routes as the best way of relieving the heavy traffic using the A forty Green Road Roundabout junction at Headington .
However , local residents of Barton and Sandhills say the scheme is unnecessary and too costly .
David Stern from Friends of Bayswater Greenbelt can't understand why the scheme is needed in the addition to the soon-to-be-opened M forty .
It will be possible to divert the A forty traffic away from the Green Road Roundabout along the M forty extension out to Wendlebury and then back down the new dual carriageway A forty three to rejoin the A forty near to Pear Tree , and that can be done from January ninety ninety one without waiting another seven or eight years for a Barton by-pass .
But surely the Department of Transport would have looked into this ?
We don't know what the Department of Transport have done because they refuse to tell us .
They refuse to tell the public what investigations they have and haven't carried out .
What we do know is that they simply say it 's too far round er the diversion in distance terms is too long .
Well we don't accept that .
It 's a question of whose point of view it 's too far round from .
As far as the people living in this area are concerned , it would be very valuable to have the traffic diverted as from next January .
As far as the users are concerned , it is a diversion of an extra ten miles on their journey .
It rather depends what journeys they are doing .
If they are doing purely local journeys , then that may be too much and they may prefer to use the Oxford ringroad , but if they are doing long-distance journeys ten miles is not a very significant addition to their journey in length and the congestion on the Oxford ringroad is such that it may actually be shorter in time terms to go the longer way round in distance .
How determined are you to make the Department of Transport see your point of view ?
Well , we 're doing everything we can to bring it home to them .
We 've been in correspondence with them , with the County Council , with MPs and with everybody who are interested .
We are now encouraging the public to let the Department of Transport know what they feel .
Our view is that the Department is trying to do everything it can to avoid a proper consultation on this issue .
It is just asking the public to sign up for a Barton by-pass .
We want the public to have the full range of options brought out in the open , discussed and be able to make a real choice .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's six thirty one .
Westbound traffic on the M four is very heavy between junctions four B and seven , that 's the stretch between the M twenty five and Slough .
On the M twenty five , clockwise traffic 's very heavy and slow moving , from junction thirteen for Staines as far as junction eighteen for Chorleywood , and also anti-clockwise traffic is slow at junction seventeen , that 's Mablecross .
Over on the M forty er the nearside lane is closed eastbound between junctions one and two , that 's between the A forty and the A three five five , but doesn't seem to be causing any serious problems this evening .
And on the A four two three , the Banbury to Oxford road , that 's between Langford Lane , Kidlington , and the Shipton-on-Cherwell turnoff , there 's some resurfacing work using temporary traffic lights and some diversions for south bound traffic .
That 's also likely to delay you on your journey this evening .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
British Rail tell us that the three minutes past seven train , due into Oxford at three minutes past seven that is , that travels from Banbury to Paddington , has been cancelled this evening .
Nothing to report , though , on the buses .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
It 's six thirty four .
Forty postal workers have returned to normal working tonight after talks with the Post Office management .
The staff from the Abingdon Sorting Office had been due to resume their duties this afternoon at the end of the county-wide dispute , but the workers refused to go back after part of an agreement with managers was altered .
Further negotiations have taken place and just a short while ago the Abingdon staff began clearing the six-day .
Britain has protested about the proposed visit to Baghdad of former West German Chancellor , Willy Brandt , to try to secure the release of hostages .
Foreign Secretary , Douglas Hurd , has told the Germans and the Italians the initiative breaks an agreement reached by Common Market leaders .
Radical changes in the divorce laws in England and Wales are almost certain to be adopted by the Government .
The Law Commission has recommended an end to quickie divorces and more effort to save marriages from break up .
The weather — a few showers are possible this evening and tonight , with some patchy cloud .
However , many places will become dry with clear periods , allowing the temperature to fall right the way down to two degrees celsius , that 's thirty six degrees fahrenheit , leading to a ground frost and patchy fog .
The Fox Report on one O two point six .
Still to come , a challenge to plant four thousand trees in Oxford in one day , plus the day 's sports and financial news , but first , though , we return to the story we tried to bring you earlier .
Doctors are racing against time to save the life of a former nurse from south Oxfordshire who desperately needs a lung transplant .
Fifty year old Manuela Sanchez from Cholsey near Wallingford is in a critical but stable condition at the Harefield Hospital , and doctors are scouring the continent for a suitable donor organ .
Manuela , who is known as Manola to most of her friends , had to give up her job at Cholsey 's Fairmile Hospital after twenty two years there because of the painful lung disease .
Former colleagues Frank Plazas and John Leeas , who are still nurses at the hospital , are very concerned for her .
We still have problems bringing you that report .
We 'll try and bring it to you later in the programme .
The world seems to be getting smaller as more and more people realize that what happens in one country can affect others .
The Chernobyl disaster sent radioactive fall-out across the northern hemisphere and scientists fear that the destruction of the rain forests have implications for the world 's climate .
Now Ecospan have produced a new book .
Half the world is living in poverty , while the other half is over-consuming they say .
Miles Lipvinoff from the Green Party has just published the earth scan handbook for people and the planet .
I asked him if the fundamental problem is that those who have are too selfish to help .
I think it 's debatable how selfish people really are , particularly when they see that their are short-term selfishness may in fact create long-term problems for themselves , for their children , for their grandchildren , for er other generations and other peoples , and really as I can see it the green message is one of enlightened self-interest .
We all want basic comforts , but there are intelligent ways of producing these comforts and intelligent limits to impose on oneself in order not to foul the nest for everybody else .
How do you solve the poverty cycle of the developing world ?
Well , my feeling is , and it 's really the same message that you get from most greens and most environment books , is that under-consumption , that is poverty in the poor countries , is linked to over-consumption in the rich countries , and we have to grasp this nettle — it 's one that the Conservative Party in its White Paper on the environment avoids noticeably — we have to grasp the nettle , that as long as we are over-consuming there 's not going to be enough to go round everywhere , and my book shows that this pattern is really a three hundred year old pattern dating from the first Colonial expansion of Europe and the slave trade , and it 's still going on today .
The multi-national corporations , the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are prolonging the process still today , and individuals have to , I believe , look at their own patterns of consumption and look at the way society in general works and work towards reducing levels of consumption in the rich countries so that we are more able to help the poor countries help themselves .
When you say consumption , are you talking about absolutely everything that we have in our homes and eat and
Well , no , I mean er you have to look at particular areas .
For example , in terms of food , cattle that we eat ; we eat meat in the rich countries , these are fed on grains that are fit for human consumption that are produced , for example in Central and South America , soya meal and so on .
It 's one of the most inefficient ways to produce food ; for every pound of animal grain that goes into an animal , we get far less in terms of meat .
So that 's one example .
By switching to a less meat based diet , we can actually help to reduce the wastage worldwide .
Transport is another example .
By using public transport , cycling and walking and so on , we are actually wasting far less of the world 's oil and all the other resources used to make cars .
So this can be applied everywhere .
We will still have decent food ; we will probably have better food .
We 'll have better cities ; less polluted by private transport and so on .
Energy conservation in our homes is another way that the world 's huge waste of commercial energy can be reduced without actually producing discomfort for anybody .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
The British Trust for Conservation Volunteers is going for another plant-in on land adjacent to Port Meadow in Oxford .
Last year three thousand five hundred trees were planted .
This year they 're going to go for four thousand .
Marilyn Atkins is from the B T C V .
Marilyn , it 's a huge great job .
How are you going to organise four thousand trees being planted ?
Well we 're asking people to enter in teams of four to come and plant as many trees a they can in the space of an hour .
So we 'll have groups of teams coming along for an hour at a time and hopefully we 'll , you know , keep the impetus going through the day by doing that .
It sounds absolutely exhausting .
How many trees do you reckon a team of four can actually plant in an hour ?
Well , we 're getting them to go for a hundred , which sounds a lot , but the ground 's quite variable so , you know , some of it is really good planting land and some of it isn't , so , you know , it 'll be up to the teams to go for as many as they can .
I suppose you 're hoping for good digging weather because you have to dig a fairly big hole to put a tree in it , don't you ?
Yes , you have to dig down as far as you can to get the roots in properly but , you know , it should be just the depth of one spade , so most people ought to be able to dig a hole that size .
What sort of trees are going to be planted ?
We 're putting in native broad leaves , such as oak , ash , holly , field maple .
Now I mentioned that three and a half thousand trees were planted in the same area last year wasn't it ?
That 's right , yes .
How are those trees getting on ?
Most of them are fine actually .
The one 's that the volunteers planted are thriving quite well .
Because we had a very dry summer and that 's not , as far as I understand , very good for young trees .
No , it 's not , no , but they seem to be bearing up quite well considering the conditions .
It 's an awful lot of trees already there and you 're going to add another four thousand , it 's going to be a big area .
How , what sort of area 's going to be covered in the end ?
There 's going to be a seventy acre community nature park eventually , so that 's quite an area to cover , but it 's not going to be all trees — it 's going to be some open glades for butterflies and so on , so there should be a nice variation there .
It 's a very big er big er project .
Is this the last tree , annual tree planting in that area , or will there be more to do next year ?
I should think there 'll be more to do next year , because , you know , four thousand trees sounds like a lot , but in fact there 's thousands upon thousands .
There 's already twelve thousand in there , so there 's more to come .
You mentioned that they were oaks and ash and broad leaved trees .
They are quite slow growing , aren't they ?
How long will we have to wait before you actually start to see it as a woodland roughly ?
Probably quite a while .
At least ten years I 'd say .
But then we are planning for the future , so that 's the sort of thing you have to do .
Thank you very much .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
Still to come ; what 's really inside the great British banger ?
The financial report with Halpern and Woolfe keeping Oxfordshire in business .
Following yesterday 's revival in fortunes , the London share market was in a despondent mood as the Treasury deflated hopes of early interest rate cuts .
The market , once again , became preoccupied with Gulf fears and rising oil prices .
Early falls on Wall Street offered London no encouragement , and by the close the footsie one hundred was down twenty two point three at two O two eight .
On the foreign exchanges , the pound gained fractionally on the dollar , closing at one dollar point nine four seven O .
However , talk of raising German interest rates saw sterling weaken against the Mark and it closed down over one Ffenning at two Deutsche Marks point nine three six O .
Today 's shares — Abbey National down two and two one oh , British Aerospace down eight at five three eight , British Airways down one at one four one , British Gas up one to two one five point five .
British Telecom went down three point five to two five nine point five , the Goodhead Publishing Group stayed at forty three .
Metal Box went down thirteen to one O seven five .
Morland Brewers unchanged at two six three .
Oxford Instruments stayed at two two six .
Thames Water down three at two thirty .
T S B down four point five at one two five .
And today 's major movers — Benjamin Priest up twenty two to one one one and Bass down twenty eight to nine nine five .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's a quarter to seven .
Sport now , and starting with today 's main local story , Hans Nielsen will once again captain the skull Oxford Cheetas , who are supported by Fox F M .
Contracts were agreed today , less than a week after Oxford 's last race this term , which was in sharp contrast to this season when problems arose with the days of the opening of the nineteen ninety season .
Nielsen says , after initial talks yesterday , it was a relief to get everything sorted out
I went down to have a word with the promotion yesterday and er we have er come to terms and er we are all ready to go for next year .
I must say straight away this is a much better arrangement than last year .
Well absolutely , I mean we 've got together a little earlier this year to make sure we didn't have the same problem as last year , and obviously that 's a good thing to get all the problems out of the way so early and so we can all plan ahead for next year without facing any problems that , you know , just before the season starts like we did this year , so altogether a good thing , yes .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's nice to have good news about speedway at the moment and Nielsen 's a bit of a favourite , isn't he , with the crowds ?
It 's the perfect gin and tonic to the new season , even though we 're months away .
I mean Hans lost his world crown this term , but he 's still the best .
He had mechanical problems .
He 'll come back next year with a vengeance and so will the skull Oxford Cheetahs .
The pressure — it 'll be off them , they are no longer champions — but let 's remember they did finish in fourth place and I 've got a feeling that they 're not giving anything away at Oxford Speedway , because they never do .
There 's going to be a few new faces next term .
I might be wrong , but I don't think so , but I have to sit on the fence you see as I get into trouble .
Yes , you always do .
It wasn't , it wasn't a bad end to the season after the way thing seemed to be going in the middle , but what do you reckon — are you going to predict that Hans Nielsen will be world champion again next year ?
I think so .
He can be world champion for the next three years , so long as we don't have to do it at Bradford because that 's an awful track .
I mean the Bradford Dukes always win at Bradford because I 've heard on the grapevine , not from me , that they 've got little bumps round the bends and they fill them in and only the Bradford riders know whereabouts they are , so they skirt round them .
I think it 's a disgrace , but that 's speedway .
That 's why speedway is magic because I don't know what 's going on .
It 's absolutely fascinating and also , let 's face it , we 've got good news to talk about from Oxford United as well tonight .
That was brilliant news , wasn't it ?
I never doubted it for a minute , Jane , never .
I told the whole news team yesterday , William , Paul , Lucy , Gorgeous , Abby , Alex , and you yourself , Oxford will win .
I predicted two nil and my word they left it late , Jane , I could n't believe it .
I thought ‘oh no , not all the way back to the east end of London and risk my car being smashed to bits’ , but there was Jim and Paul Simpson on the left , dazzling , running rings around those irons .
Their defence was appalling .
Yes , they had injuries , but so everybody does .
Pulled the ball across and there was Jim , but we have done West Ham a favour , Jane .
Do you know what it is ?
No , I 'll ask you .
What 's the favour that we 've done West Ham , ?
We beat them , so now they can concentrate on the league and not worry about the cup and risk more injuries , because what they want to do most of all is get back in division one and as a soon as they do that they 'll drop back down again , because they 're not that good really .
What are you doing tonight ?
Tonight ?
Absolutely nothing , Jane .
I thought , you know , nothing 's happening locally , so I'm going off down to the pub for a noggin , noggin a lert .
Do you mean we 've let you off for the evening ?
Why not ?
It 's the firs time in ages .
I'm going to enjoy myself tonight .
No , mind you , no , no , I must tell the truth , I enjoy myself when I'm watching the Oxford University , or whatever it is , unless it 's Banbury United — oh , no , didn't mean it .
I must stop taking the mickey out of Banbury United .
I think you 'd better , Mickey .
I love them really .
I think they 're fantastic , even though they 're not going to go up this season .
I think we 're going to send you home now .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
The British banger has taken a bit of a grilling today .
Researchers from Which Magazine scoffed dozens of the things .
Instead of meat they found fat , rind and gristle they tell us .
The Government , though , is battling to save the sausages ' skin .
It 's a subject Mark Phillips has been getting his teeth into .
According the Consumers ' Association , the supposedly great British banger has a lot to answer for .
Under its skin , instead of succulent cuts of prime meat you 're much more likely to get all sorts of other things instead .
The deputy editor of Which , Judith Gubby , although she 's not a banger fan herself , munched her way through two dozen different varieties , says you 'd be amazed at what 's inside .
Quite a lot of them didn't have all that much meat in them , which is not surprising , because they don't actually have to have all that much meat , which we thought was quite amazing .
Only about a third of them has to be what you 'd really call meat , and quite a lot of them had an enormous amount of fat in them .
By comparison they might be , say , a quarter fat , a quarter meat and a quarter rusk and water and so forth .
Not very appetizing .
None of this comes as much surprise to sausage supremo Bill O'Hagan .
He runs his own sausage shop , with more than fifty different home-made varieties , at Greenwich in South London .
Just recently MPs are saying ‘over our dead bodies , we 'll never change the character of the English sausage’ .
It 's absolute bloody nonsense , because they are rubbish .
Nearly every sausage , I mean there are odd exceptions , are made from ends .
So , as far as our saussies go , two things are clear .
One if you want the best when you pig out you have to pay for them , and two they are not always as meaty as they might appear .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's nine minutes to seven .
Westbound traffic on the M four is still heavy between junctions four B and junction seven , that 's the stretch between the M twenty five and Slough .
The M twenty five clockwise very heavy and slow moving from junctions thirteen for Staines to junction eighteen , that 's the turn off for Chorleywood .
And it 's also heavy anti-clockwise at junction seventeen , which is the turn off for Mablecross .
On the M forty , between junctions one and two , the nearside lane is closed eastbound , that 's between the A forty and the A three five five , but there don't appear to be any serious problems there this evening .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
The only problem I have to tell you about is the cancellation of the Banbury to Paddington train that was due to arrive at Oxford at three minutes past seven .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
The villages of Oxfordshire have come under the microscope of the Women 's Institute in the new Oxfordshire village book .
It 's been published to coincide with the W I 's seventy fifth anniversary , and Joyce Milward is a former chairman of the Oxfordshire Federation of Women 's Institutes and has been deeply involved , not only with this book , but with the previous — not exactly the old Oxfordshire village book , but the previous versions of it .
What has been your involvement , Joyce ?
Well , I have done the photography for the front cover and er of this particular book , but countryside books , who are the publishers , were asked a number of years ago to republish the old Berkshire village book and that has started a whole series of countryside village books , which now cover , I think , about thirty five different counties .
Now it 's a lovely book
Oxfordshire is the latest one .
It 's brilliant .
It 's lovely book .
It is , yes .
How , I mean , is it just each village that has a Women 's Institute ?
Have they contributed their own piece ?
How 's it been
No , no , it 's not only their own er we have got er entries from W I members of other villages , but mainly its from the members who live in the villages and of course that is the beauty of the book , where it differs from the normal travel book , it 's the story of villages by people who actually live in them .
They definitely have a local flavour some of the little entries .
Yes , they do .
There 's lots of little titbits in that you wouldn't find in any other book .
Do you have a favourite , or are you
Well I haven't got through it yet .
Uhm , no , I er I 've sort of started off and I 've got so far down and er I love the drawing that Freda Rudman from Stanford-in-the-Vale has done of their village , and er and of course I like the Harwell entry , which is my own village , but there 's certainly some very nice entries in , some very good entries in .
Very interesting to people who live outside the county .
Yes , and certainly people who live inside it , because the book 's been sitting on my desk all week and I can see it 's been opened at places where people are either living or they know people living .
That 's right .
It 's quite , it 's quite authoritative in a way because it is written by local people .
Yes , that 's right .
And is it available throughout the country ?
Yes , it 's available in bookshops .
It 's available from our county headquarters , which is in Middle Way , and of course if you 're a W I member you immediately get a pound off it , off the face price of seven ninety-five , which is a very modest price for a very prestigious book .
Nice little plug there , Joyce .
Now , last weekend 's cycle ride down the new section of the M forty once looked threatened by being blown away as the Met Office warned of impending storms , but in fact the sun shone down on the riders and today , less than a week the counting is done and Mike Biddolph from Oxfordshire County Council , who also took part in the event , has come up with the grand total of — how much have you raised Mike ?
Twenty three thousand five hundred pounds , we expect .
I mean we 've counted the pledges , but we haven't counted the money yet , so we 're glad the post is getting back to normal soon because that 'll start it flowing in .
continue to jog people 's memory to actually get collecting and get sending it to you .
Yes , they 've got a week or two to get it together and send it in , but we know from what people have pledged that that 's what we can expect at least , and that 's from over a thousand cyclists ranging from , I saw one child in a seat behind their parents on a bike , up to an eighty nine year old lady from Brill who cycled for the first time in years and really enjoyed it .
I suppose it 's reasonably flat , so it 's quite a good place for a beginner .
It 's a bit more interesting than that .
It was up and down and around corners a bit , and it was a nice ride and er and er views of Oxfordshire that nobody has seen before the road came , and you won't have that amount of time to look at them ever again , because you 'll be doing seventy instead of seven miles an hour .
Now twenty three thousand plus pounds is a huge amount of money .
Did you expect to be raising that sort of money ?
Well , we hoped to do well , but er that definitely exceeds our best hopes .
That 's going to go er it was jointly organised by the County Council with Oxfam and the local Rotary Club at Thame — the money will go to local charities that Thame Rotary choose and also to particularly one project in Zimbabwe of Oxfam 's , a health project and a large part of that money will actually buy more bikes for the health workers to use to do their work .
And you actually rode this route yourself .
Was it a good day out ?
Yes , I managed some of it .
It was a very nice day out actually , and everything from serious riders who just went up and down and the most energetic one did a hundred miles , to families who treated it , took a picnic and stopped and looked at the badger tunnels .
Oh well , and a little jog of the memories to people who are out there collecting their donations in , or people who have promised money — get that money in and get it off to er well to you I suppose , Mike .
To Oxfam .
To the local area office of Oxfam .
Yes .
Now the local headlines from today 's local papers .
The Abingdon Herald led on village anger at a chemical firms plans .
That 's families in Marcham who have registered a protest against the expansion of an American-owned firm and the Wantage and Grove Herald reports on a new approach to car parking problems in Wantage itself .
And that was the Fox Report for Thursday November the first , nineteen ninety .
Join me tomorrow with another Fox Report .
I 'll be here at six o'clock .
Steve Priestley 's here with the Red Fox after the news .
Mr McGregor says he 'll be sorry to leave his old job where he 's presided over the education reforms .
I 've had tremendous support in carrying them through , and had there not been this unforeseen event , I would certainly have been expecting to , and looking forward to , carrying on doing that for quite a considerable time , but I am sure that Kenneth Clarke will carry the same reforms forward with equal gusto .
Iraqi troops and tanks are tonight ready for war .
They are doving around Kuwait with a ring of minefields to protect them .
The new tactic means their tanks would not only be hard to hit , but British and American tanks would find it virtually impossible to get through the minefields .
Here 's I R N 's defence correspondent , Paul Morris .
In the last week the strategic balance in the Gulf has changed .
Intelligence reports from the United States and Britain showed an almost impregnable defensive line along the Kuwaiti border .
The fifteen foot high tank traps and minefields now make an all-out frontal attack almost impossible .
At the same time , the three thousand five hundred tanks and three hundred and ninety thousand Iraqi troops have dug into defensive positions which make them difficult to knock out , even with the sophistication of British and United States ground attack bombers .
Security forces in Northern Ireland are hunting a woman in black who set up a U D R soldier for murder at the garage where he worked .
The killing , in Cookstown , County Tyrone , comes a week after the I R A vowed revenge for the murder of the Sien Fein activists in the town .
This report from Julian O'Neill .
Forty two year old decorated U D R veteran , Albert Cooper , was set up by a woman who left a booby-trapped car at this garage for repairs .
Mid-Ulster M P , the Reverend William McCrae , is horrified .
I think what is so degrading is that er women who under God can bring forth life can actually produce death in this place .
Two years ago the Sergeant Major returned fire on I R A gunmen who ambushed him .
Julian O'Neill , I R N , Belfast .
Iran has re-opened its Embassy in Britain , eighteen months after links were severed when Ayatollah Khomeni issued a death threat on Salman Rushdie .
Families of British hostages held in Beirut hope that the new era of co-operation will help win freedom for their loved ones .
Esso and Shell are putting four and a half pence on a gallon of petrol from Monday .
The rises will bring the price of four star up to two pounds twenty two point three pence .
Moscow 's radical city council is getting ready to embarrass the Kremlin at its Revolution Day celebration next week .
It 's staging its own marches to counter the official demonstration and it 's changing some street names back to what they were before the revolution .
This report from Sue Jameson .
The timing is not co-incidental .
As the war of words over November the seventh heats up , is changing the names of forty streets and metro stations back to their pre-revolutionary titles , just hours before the tanks rolled through Red Square for the traditional Revolution Day parade .
Out go Karl Marx , K G B chief Djinsky , and composer Tchaikovsky .
In come General de Gaulle , Martin Luther King , plus the old traditional names .
Moscow authorities are making it quite clear they 'll decide who does what in the city and not the Kremlin .
Sue Jameson , I R N , Moscow .
Independent Radio News .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
It 's Friday , November the second , nineteen ninety .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
The Education Secretary , John McGregor , has been appointed as Sir Geoffrey Howe 's successor as leader of the Commons .
Kenneth Clarke will become Education Secretary and William Waldegrade , currently Minister of State at the Foreign Office , will get the job of Health Secretary .
But re-shuffle or not , Britain 's Euro-Commissioner , Sir Leon Brittain , says there must be a major overhaul of the Government 's attitude to Europe .
He 's sad , though , that Sir Geoffrey has quit .
Very sad that he should no longer be a member of the Government , because he contributed so much to it .
He was the founder , in many ways , of the thinking behind the present Government .
He had an outstanding career as Chancellor and he was deeply respected as Foreign Secretary .
It 's a great loss .
So did the resignation surprise you ?
I wasn't altogether surprised , because it was becoming clear that there were differences , nuances if you will , within the Government about the handling of European issues .
How important , though , to you think the resignation is in terms of the survival of Mrs. Thatcher and the Government ?
Well that 's not something on which I would wish to comment on .
As a Conservative I naturally want the Government to survive and to win the next election , but plainly if the Deputy Prime Minister resigns that is something which gives cause for readjustment and rethinking if the Government is to win the next election .
Do you see Mrs. Thatcher 's fairly intransigent stance over Europe now — is that isolated more within the Tory Party ?
Well you 're using adjectives and I'm more concerned about the issues .
What 's important is that Britain should adopt a positive role in the negotiations , very difficult negotiations , that lie ahead , and that Britain should not be isolated and that Britain should , in fact , be able to find a way forward with its partners .
I don't think that 's impossible , and I 've suggested one or two ways in which it could be done .
So do you think there 's got to be a C change in the way that Mrs. Thatcher approaches European issues .
It 's not a question of a C change on the part of anyone , it 's a question of doing the right thing for the future .
I think the opportunity is still there .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Labour 's Higher Education spokesman and Oxford East 's M P , Andrew Smith , has greeted the cabinet reshuffle , saying the Conservatives are currently running around like headless chickens .
He says it 's a shame John McGregor had to go from his post as Education Secretary .
It 's clear that the Prime Minister is worried , as so she should be , over the Government 's poor performance in education .
But you see , like a poker player who 's losing , I don't think shuffling the pack around is going to help her .
It 's not as though what Kenneth Clarke has done in the Health Service has actually done any good for our hospitals and medical services , and I don't believe that he has anything to offer education either .
In fact , there is a sense in which John McGregor , whilst under enormous pressure from the Tory Right Wing , was at least trying to listen to what people in education were saying .
Do you not think that Mr Clarke can continue the success of John McGregor ?
Well there has n't been any success under John McGregor .
As I have said , he started to make a try at listening , but all the evidence is that the public is very deeply worried at standards in our schools and at the under resourcing of education , crumbling schools , lack of books and , frankly , the very low morale of very many teachers .
And what they see the Conservatives coming forward with are harebrained schemes for vouchers , a handful of city technology colleges , and pushing opting out .
All of these are a total irrelevance to the concern of most parents and the needs of the educational system .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's eight minutes past six .
The Foreign Secretary and Witney 's M P , Douglas Hurd , says there won't be a challenge to Mrs. Thatcher 's leadership following Sir Geoffrey Howe 's resignation .
He was speaking at Gosford Hill School in Kidlington today .
Mr Hurd said the Government 's policy on Europe remains clear , and the party will stick by it under Mrs. Thatcher 's leadership .
He said although her style may be criticised the policies are good ones .
But , he said , they may have to prove that to the electorate .
Policies explained and our determination about it is clear , er that carries oh ninety per cent of members of Parliament on our side .
As Foreign Secretary , after this news do you still feel Mrs. Thatcher 's stand is the correct one ?
Well the policy is not Mrs. Thatcher 's policy , it 's the policy on which we are all agreed on and which Geoffrey Howe helped to main .
Everybody has their own style and tone , and we don't all have to be clones one and another .
She has her own tone and style and I 've seen it very effective .
Do you feel you will have to mend fences now ?
Well , there will be a certain amount of explanation that will have to be done , because Geoffrey Howe is a well known , well liked figure among many people that I deal with er but now , and for some time now , for a year now , it 's I who have been dealing with them and I hope I 've inherited some of the work and some of the trust which he helped to create .
Do you think now there will have to be a lot of morale building within the party ?
Well , it 's a continuous process , isn't it , if showing people that we have a clear policy on which the whole cabinet and almost the whole Parliamentary Party is agreed .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's ten minutes past six .
I'm Jane Markham .
The A thirty four still very congested .
Two miles north of Chievely , the northbound carriageway between the M four at junction thirteen and the Oxford ringroad there 's a reported four to ten vehicle accident there close to the roadworks .
Major congestion is building and you are asked to avoid the area if you can .
In Berkshire , on the M four , junction eleven to junction twelve , the A thirty three and Theale , it 's roadworks causing a ten mile tailback there in both directions and police ask you to avoid that area .
Junction eleven to twelve , the A thirty three and Theale there , they ask you to avoid the area .
It 's also very slow on the M twenty five in the area , anti-clockwise , junction twenty to nineteen , that 's Kingslangley and the A forty one , also sixteen to fifteen , the M forty and the M four , is very slow as well .
The A four two three , Kidlington to Banbury road has major delays on it this evening , due to the temporary traffic lights near Bunker 's Hill , and finally on the A four two one , just south of Bicester , there are changes to the road layout at the new M forty interchange .
Mark Rise , A A Roadwatch .
Buses are running smoothly this evening , if somewhat slowly , but on the trains from Paddington to Oxford you 'll find a delay of about twenty minutes this evening .
The Fox Report on one O two point six .
Still to come , a local mother wants stricter rules on airguns after an accident involving her young daughter five months ago .
Five months on , seeing Lisa with a plastic eye and seeing how she is , she gets so upset , I would like to have the law changed .
With a look at the day 's local news , here 's William Runcan .
Fire crews have been called to tackle a blaze tonight at house in Oxford .
Smoke and flames were spotted shortly after a quarter to six at the house in Girdlestone Road , Cowley .
Fire engulfed a ground floor bedroom .
An ambulance crew is now at the scene , while firefighters with breathing apparatus search for anyone who may have been trapped inside .
We 'll bring you more on that story later .
A report recommending improvements to elderly people 's homes in Oxfordshire has been made public this morning .
A team of six inspectors compiled the reports from visits to homes over last three months , and from almost a thousand questionnaires .
The study 's thought to be the first of its kind in Britain and shows a generally positive response to conditions in the county 's fifteen council run homes .
Director of Social Services in Oxfordshire , Ian White , says most of the recommendations can be implemented with little cost , but expensive re-building must still be addressed .
I'm sorry , we haven't that report , we 'll try and bring that to you later .
A motorcyclist has been taken to hospital in north Oxfordshire tonight , following an accident on the A thirty four near Enstone .
It happened late this afternoon near the Little Chef restaurant and near the junction with the B four zero double two , Charlbury to Swerford road , where it 's believed the motor cyclist collided with a car .
It 's expected he 'll be taken to the Horton General Hospital in Banbury .
Motorists travelling towards Oxford on the A thirty four from the Newbury area look likely to face delays following a multiple pile up .
Up to ten vehicles are thought to have collided about two miles north of the M four junction thirteen at Chievely .
Finally , local trading standards officials in Oxfordshire are urging parents to be on their guard against a children 's chemistry set containing a potentially lethal substance .
Manufacturer , Peter Pan Playthings , were find two thousand pounds by magistrates in Hereford and Worcester yesterday , following an incident where an eleven year old schoolgirl died after drinking a beaker containing copper sulphate used to make crystals .
Debbie Dent from Oxfordshire 's Trading Standard 's Department says although the product 's been withdrawn from sale in most shops , some of the sets marked ‘Salter 's Science Fun with Crystals’ may have already been bought and put aside for Christmas .
In a hope situation it 's not controlled .
As with the girl who died earlier in the year , this beaker of solution was in her bedroom and she mistook it for a bedtime drink .
Now obviously if it 's in a school laboratory it 's under closely controlled supervised conditions and that 's what we 're concerned about .
The contents of this kit are lethal .
Fox F M News , William Runcan reporting .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
It 's a quarter past six .
A north Oxfordshire G P , who was on Edward 's Heath recent mercy mission to Iraq , says he 's concerned for the health of hostages still held in the Gulf as the tension in the region begins to mount .
Dr. David Spackman from Bloxham , who works in a surgery at Sibford Gower , was asked to go to Iraq to give medical attention to the thirty eight hostages the former prime minister brought home .
He said some of the hostages he saw were seriously ill and , with the threat of war increasing , he 's concerned about those left behind .
If the risks were not to great Dr. Spackman would go again .
I think , at the time we went there wasn't any real risk of being held hostage ourselves .
Short of actually some sort of war breaking out or some an incident breaking out whilst we were on the ground , I suppose they might have actually apprehended us , but otherwise I think the chances of anything happening to the people , or Ted Heath , who were out there were very , very slim .
There are rumours that war is imminent , so presumably it would be dangerous to go now ?
Yes , I think , I mean , it varies from day to day , but as you say the rumours at the moment are that the is being upped a bit and I think it would be different .
I think even a week after we 've got back I think it 's slightly more risky even now .
How seriously ill were the thirty eight ?
They varied .
There was , of the thirty eight , there were at least six who were ill .
One of them had had a recent bypass , heart bypass operation .
One had had a heart attack .
Two or three had other quite heart conditions and they were genuinely ill .
Two or three with cancer .
Some were n't desperately ill .
Two or three were just fairly old and frail and just the stress out there was getting to them and I suppose some had relatively minor but painful things , not life threatening , but just uncomfortable .
Have you reason to believe there are other people who are ill who are still out there ?
Yes .
From talking to them on the way home and talking to Ted Heath 's G P , who we also had a long discussion with , without doubt there are other people there who obviously simply refuse to let come home , who are just as serious and , from the sound of it , one or two perhaps even more serious than the ones we did bring home .
You mentioned people suffering from stress , presumably if there were an attack they would be more susceptible to stress then ?
Without any doubt .
I mean , one of the chaps we brought home had a er — he was only in his middle thirties and he had actually the stress of being held captive .
I think he was in a munitions factory somewhere near Baghdad and the stress had certainly precipitated quite a serious heart condition and that was under a relatively peaceful situation , so if there was any sign of war out there that would obviously be tenfold .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's seventeen minutes past six .
Oxford publishing millionaire , Robert Maxwell , is believed to be willing to make houses he 's bought on the Botley Road available for homeless families .
Mr Maxwell annoyed councillors when he bought the six properties at above market prices and them boarded them up .
The Council objected to the houses lying empty when the City has a severe housing shortage .
The Chairman of the City Council 's Planning Committee , John Power , says he thinks Mr Maxwell 's reasons aren't entirely public spirited .
I did make the point that Mr Maxwell 's company wants co-operation on the eastern edge of the City , vis-á-vis their football stadium , and we ought to have some co-operation on the western edge of the City where all these houses are boarded up and empty , bought at double the market value , and I made that point publicly .
As I understand it , Mr Maxwell 's company has approached the Housing Committee and said we are prepared to let these houses be used for homeless families , so it 's a small but significant step in the right direction .
Do you believe it 's going to happen then ?
Well I'm led to believe it 's going to happen because I 've had — first of all the Chair of the Housing Committee , Valerie Smith , has been approached by Mr Maxwell 's company , secondly somebody purporting to represent Mr Maxwell 's company has spoken to me indirectly , and thirty another representative of Mr Maxwell 's company spoke to another Councillor .
So it seems it is going to happen .
And how important would the benefit be ?
Oh , well these are substantial houses and I would imagine that for the six houses we could get twelve families , twelve families housed immediately , they 'd be substantial houses .
So that would be twelve families out of bed and breakfast .
That would be a substantial benefit in the City .
Have recent Government changes to housing registration made the situation even more pressing ?
Well they 've made it absolutely much more pressing and this is just a drop in the ocean .
But nevertheless in terms of twelve families that 's very important to those twelve and it 's a small step , but the problem is so big that it needs concerted Government action to solve the problem of homeless people in Oxford .
So you 're grateful to Mr Maxwell .
Oh no , I wouldn't say I was grateful to Mr Maxwell .
I mean I think Mr Maxwell 's on the end of a very nasty hook at the moment with these houses and he 's wriggling off that and he 's offered these houses to us to avoid public embarrassment to his company and also to gain co-operation from us and the City Council in other areas .
The Fox Report .
It 's six twenty two .
The mother of a north Oxfordshire girl who had to have her eye removed after an accident involving an airgun , is calling for a change in the gun laws .
Eleven year old Lisa Morley suffered a badly damaged eye in incident near Grange School in Banbury in May , after which police interviews a boy , who was also aged eleven .
Now Lisa 's mother , Ann , wants the law to stop children that young handling air guns at all .
Robin Powell reports .
For an eleven year old schoolgirl , it 's not easy coming to terms with having a plastic eye .
Lisa admits she finds it very upsetting .
When I put my eye in I feel upset .
Do you wish it had never happened ?
Yes .
How do you feel about the accident ?
Awful .
I 'd like the law changed .
I am really pleased about my mum and dad helping me .
Do you think it 's right that they should campaign for a change in the laws ?
Yes .
What makes things harder still for the Morleys is the fact they still don't seem any nearer receiving compensation .
But , says Ann , it 's not for want of trying .
We tried for compensation and we 've got Tony Baldry , who we 're going to see Saturday , and he 's going to try and claim for us under the Criminal Injuries Compensation Act .
So why haven't you had any so far ?
Our solicitor is fighting for that , but we seem as though we 're up against a brick wall at the moment , so we 'll have to just wait and see .
But just as satisfying as compensation for Mrs. Morley would be a change in the law .
At the moment , even children under fourteen can use airguns on private land , though youngsters under seventeen must be accompanied by an adult on public land .
Ann Morley says all that must change if something good is to come out of Lisa 's accident .
Five months on , seeing Lisa with a plastic eye and seeing how she is , she gets so upset , I 'd really like to have the law changed covering guns .
We 'd like a change in the law er for under fourteens really , to get guns locked away in cases in houses not so children can just go and pick them up .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
One of the west Oxfordshire Tory rebels , who was resigned from the Tory group last February , has returned to the fold .
Neil Owen , who 's councillor for Milton-under-Wychwood , Fifield and Bruern , became an Independent when the eighteen rebels resigned in protest over the Government 's level of Community Charge in west Oxfordshire .
He says he 's rejoined the Conservative group because west Oxfordshire has managed to salvage four hundred thousand pounds from the Government .
I always intended to , but I wanted a reason or some credibility to go back with , so that our gesture wasn't completely fruitless or looked as if it had been a complete waste of time .
It would seem that we now have four hundred thousand pounds available that wasn't apparent before , and that 's come from the Department of the Environment , and that is enough for me to say well , we 've got something out of it , it wasn't a fiasco or a waste of time and now I can rejoin the Conservative group with some degree of credibility .
But would you admit that it wasn't any doings of the Tory group that brought that four hundred thousand pounds in ?
The reason that brought that four hundred thousand pounds stems from the Tory revolt and the pressure by the group , the Tories , the rebellious ones , on the Government through our Chief Executive to fight our case , through a completely Sir Humphrey scenario , to get some more money and a better deal for west Oxfordshire , and that 's been achieve for some measure .
It 's a strange time to rejoin the Tories .
I don't think it is actually .
No .
We all know that the battle lines are being drawn for the next election .
I want to step back into the line .
When we took the step we did last May , we didn't desert the Tory Party , we rebelled against it and I for one said that I would go back in the fullness of time , I just hoped I could go back with something to show for it .
The Fox Report .
It 's six twenty six .
Scientists working on the jet fusion project at Culham in south Oxfordshire have been protesting today in a bid to influence leading figures in the project as they met for the second day of their full Council Meeting .
The British staff at Culham were pointing out to the eminent scientists that they are paid less than their colleagues from fourteen other European countries working alongside them .
Union official , Peter Keeping , says it 's unfair that British staff should get paid less than their foreign colleagues .
They get typically twice or two and a half times the salaries that our people get and that 's being going on for a very long time .
In fact the members took it to a European court and spent a lot of their own money — twenty five thousand pounds — to try and get a discrimination judgement out of the European court , which failed at the last hurdle really , we think on political grounds really .
It must be demoralising for workers to be working alongside people who are being paid twice for doing the same job .
Yes , that 's true , but they are very dedicated people .
That 's the point .
That 's one of the reasons why they don't like doing this kind of thing that the did this morning , because they don't want to affect the project in any way , and I think the management takes advantage of that .
So what do you want to see being done ?
Well , we want to see our members , the U K employees , having the same opportunity to join the project on the same terms as people from the rest of Europe and that 's very appropriate this time when everybody 's talking about Europe , we think .
Do you think that 's going to happen .
Um , I think it 's still going to be a hard fight , but I think today we 've shown the authority that we mean business .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
But press officer for Jet , John Maple , who belongs to the same union as Mr Keeping , says that there are statutory reasons why this morning 's protest may have been in vain .
It 's very difficult for Jet to do anything about it because the situation is that Jet is bound by the statutes of the Jet joint undertaking and this is a legal document setting down the conditions under which we work , which has been agreed by governments and the council of ministers , and essentially the situation is that there are two types of people employed in the Jet team .
There are the British people , who are members of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority and there are the other non-members of the British team who are employed by Euroaton , the European Community , and there are different conditions of service for each of these and that 's where the problems arise .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
It 's six twenty eight .
Still major problems on the A thirty four northbound , between the M four and junction thirteen of the M four and the Oxford ringroad .
There 's reported to be a four to ten vehicle pile up there and that 's close to the roadworks .
Major congestion is building .
You are asked to avoid the area .
It 's just two miles north of Chievely and the police are on the scene at the moment .
On the M four in Berkshire , junctions eleven to twelve , that 's the A thirty three and Theale turn off , the roadworks there are causing a ten mile tailback in both directions .
You are also advised to avoid that area as well .
On the M twenty five its very slow anti-clockwise , junctions twenty to nineteen , Kingslangley and the A forty one .
Also very slow at junctions to sixteen to fifteen , the M four M forty if you 're heading back from London .
On the A four two three , Kidlington to Banbury road , expect some delays due to the traffic lights near Bunkers Hill .
That 's beginning to ease at the moment and also beginning to ease on the problems being caused on the A four two one just south of Bicester , due to the changes in the road layout at the new M forty interchange .
As I say , beginning to ease now .
Finally , the market square in Aylesbury is still closed for major work and obviously will be for some time , and you need to still avoid that area .
Mark Rise , A A Roadwatch .
British Rail tell us the eighteen twenty four , Manchester to Paddington train — that 's the train that 's due in at Oxford at eighteen twenty four- is fifteen minutes late this evening , and all trains from Paddington to Oxford are about twenty minutes late .
The buses tell us they 've no particular problems , but obviously they are getting held up where the traffic is busy .
The Fox Report on one O two point six .
It 's six thirty one .
The Education Secretary , John McGregor has been appointed as Sir Geoffrey Howe 's successor as Leader of the Commons .
Kenneth Clarke is to become Education Secretary , and William Waldegrade , currently Minister of State at the Foreign Office , will get the job of Health Secretary .
Iran has reopened its Embassy in Britain , eighteen months after links were severed when Ayatollah Khomeni issued a death threat on Salman Rushdie .
Families of British hostages held in Beirut hope the new era of co-operation will help will freedom of their loved ones .
An Ulster Defence Regiment soldier has been murdered in a booby trap bombing , after being tricked into opening a van door at the garage where he worked .
A woman drove a van into the garage at Cooksdown in County Tyrone and asked him to fit a new exhaust .
As she ran off the man opened the van of the door , which then blew up .
The weather for the Fox F M area .
This afternoon 's showers should clear up this evening to leave all areas with a dry night .
Cloud will gradually disperse and clear areas will appear , allowing the temperature to fall to one degree celsius , that 's thirty four degrees fahrenheit , with a widespread ground frost and few mist patches in the valleys .
On one O two point six F M .
This is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
Well , they did it .
Oxford United achieved what no other team this season has been able to do .
They beat West Ham .
That was of course a league cup match , and despite that showing they find themselves still second from bottom , second division , and they need to convert that league cup success into winning league matches .
Their manager , Brian Houghton , says the victory over the Irons , as West Ham are known , should mark the turning point for the club 's fortunes .
It 's funny how it goes .
We seem to get the rub of the green in the Rumbelow 's cup at the moment .
We need to get them in the league .
We 've lost one in six .
We 've conceded three goals in six games , so it 's not too bad , is it ?
But we 've got to start sort of transmitting those performances into points in the league quickly .
The difference between having a good time and a bad time is so minimal it 's unbelievable , but this , with three points for a win , situation it makes it so hard to say well we 're a bottom side , we 're a top side , all of a sudden in half a dozen games we could be like a top side .
It 's that close .
Mick and er I think Leicester are like that .
I 've seem them play and they 're not a bad team .
I 've seen us play , and I don't think we 're a bad team .
But , but when you look at it we 're second from bottom so we are a bad team at this present time .
We 've got to do something about it .
If we play like we did on Wednesday night we haven't got a problem .
If we play like we did second half against Watford we wouldn't have a problem .
If we play many games — you can reflect on them all , can't you ?
But the fact is we ai n't got enough points .
We got ta start getting some points .
So what about the team tomorrow ?
Is it going to be the same one , or are you just announcing a squad ?
Mick , I honestly don't know at this present time .
We 've got three or four knocks from the other night .
You saw them .
Paul Kee got a knock making a good save .
Mickey Lewis making a brave tackle .
Mark Stein got one , who everyone thought was a very good game the other night .
So there 's three .
There was another one came in with a little bit of a strain yesterday morning , so what 've done this morning , we 've just had a collective training session and we 've told them to report at quarter to eleven in the morning .
We 'll have a little loosener and then hopefully it will be the same team .
Well there you go .
Now Mickey , our Sports Editor is here and we 've mentioned Brian Houghton , of course , or he 's mentioned himself .
What about the local sports scene this weekend Mickey .
Well rugby dominates .
And first of all , I must say good luck to the eleven local sides taking part in tomorrow 's curtain raiser at Twickers before we take on the argy-bargies and thrash them .
That 's unless they cheat .
Do you remember football wise back in nineteen sixty-six they played against England and all they did was kick our players .
Fancy kicking Nobby Stiles !
And Sir Alf Ramsey called them animals .
That was football , Mickey , that 's different .
I know .
Oh , sorry , Jane .
Anyway another hello to Witney Rugby Club 's Silver Jubilee .
They 're going to be celebrating with a match against the Kew Occasionals fifteen , who include two Irish internationals and six former blues , and afterwards there 'll be a firework display , and if they phone me up I 'll come along , as long as it 's free of charge .
You like fireworks , don't you ?
Oh I like everything that goes off with a bang , Jane !
What about local football ?
I suppose we 're talking non-league here .
Absolutely .
We 've got Buckingham there playing Drifters , Pennanians .
Hang on a minute , I 've got that wrong .
That 's rugby .
That 's the provincial cup third round in rugby .
I 'll ask you about rugby first , then .
What about the provincial third cup , whatever it is , Mickey , what about that ?
Well , whatever it is , Buckingham are playing Drifters and they 'll win that .
Pennanians , they 're going to lose against Wheatley .
Milton Keynes , they 're hopeless , they haven't got a chance against Bicester .
Abingdon , I think they 'll lose to Cholsey .
And Oxford Marathons , as they just play down the road , they 're going to beat Witney .
But I live in Witney , so I 'll go for a draw on that one , even though it 's rugby .
Football — oh , there 's bags of it , Jane .
Just to pick out one or two .
Buckingham town against Bracknell .
This is the F A vase cup first round .
Their answer , well non-leagues answer , to the F A cup .
Brackley Town , they 're playing Northfield .
Thame United — thank you very much for the phone call , we 've got your fixture — and shall I mention it ?
Yeah , why not , they 're at home to Bournemouth .
They 'll win that one — 'cos they gave me a fiver .
Abingdon United — they 're at home to Didcot Town .
In the Vauxhall premier league , Aylesbury United , quack quack the ducks — they 're superb .
They 're gonna beat Walsall , and tomorrow they 're going to beat Bognor , because I don't like the name of their club .
In division two , South Abingdon Town — they 're doing absolutely superbly , Jane , they 're at Malden Vale .
Oxford City — must mention this — they 've got a two o'clock kick off at home to Tring Athletic because they 've got no flood lights , and where do you think those flood lights are , Jane ?
Railway cuttings home of Banbury Unit .
They 're at it again .
Every time you mention football Banbury Unit surface , even if we play Chelsea , even if Oxford United play Chelsea .
Who 's going to be playing for Chelsea ? — a northern Ireland international .
Where did he begin his career ? — with Banbury United , and he played in the same youth side as me .
That 's remarkable .
Well , a busy weekend .
Thank you very much , Mickey .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
A bonfire , planned for a playing field in East Oxford , has had to be cancelled because safety officials say its too dangerous .
A rubbish dump at Wood Farm became so large that residents complained to Oxford City Council that it posed a fire risk .
In a decision this afternoon , Oxford City Council 's Parks Officer , Bob Stag , has been saying how industrial waste , and even Council rubbish , has made the site too dangerous for the fire .
Well in previous years this has been an unofficial , but reasonably well organised and moderately sized bonfire .
We 've had no problems with it .
On this occasion it 's grown far too big .
It 's got out of hand .
It 's incorrectly built and it also appears to have been used as an excuse for fly tipping , and industrial fly tipping at that .
When fire protection officials came to look at the dump they discovered mattresses deposited by a bed company , furniture and even potentially hazardous oil cans .
John Seer , who 's Fire Protection Officer at Oxfordshire 's Fire Brigade , says had the dump been set alight it could have endangered life .
This particular bonfire has been constructed of industrial waste and in consequence we are unable to ascertain precisely what is inside the bonfire .
Bonfires generally are very safe .
There may be , within this bonfire — and until it 's taken apart we will not be able to ascertain this — there may be petroleum cans in there , there may be small L P G cylinders , all of which will go off with a very large explosion and possibly cause some injury to life .
The Fox Report , on one O two point six .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
Still to come , Oxford 's Ice Hockey team , the Spire Oxford City Stars , ar runners up in the autumn cup , but that is just the start .
The cup was a warm up for us and the league is what we play .
We have twenty eight games in front of us here .
We 've got ta do as well as we can and we 've got ta try and get promotion this year .
Financial report with Halpern and Woolfe keeping Oxfordshire in business .
The shock resignation of Sir Geoffrey Howe last night took its inevitable toll on the London Stock Market .
The possibility of a Conservative defeat at the next election promotion investors to unload shares .
By lunchtime the Footsie one hundred had lost sixteen points on its overnight position .
However , following a strong opening on Wall Street , the market forgot political uncertainties and made a modest rally , closing the day up two point seven at two O three O point seven .
On the foreign exchanges , the pound was firmer against the dollar , closing at one dollar point nine five three five , but it closed fractionally down on the stronger Mark at two Deutschmarks point nine three three one .
Today 's shares — Abbey National up point five at two one O point five .
British Aerospace up five at five four three .
British Airways down two at one three nine .
British Gas went down two point five to two one three .
British Telecom down point five at two five nine .
Goodhead Publishing Group unchanged at forty three .
Metal Box unchanged one O seven five .
Morland Brewers stayed at two six three , while Oxford Instruments went down two to two two four .
Thames Water unchanged at two three O and T S B unchanged at one two six .
Today 's major movers — Thames Television up sixteen to three seven one and Pearson down thirty two to six one O .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
This weekend the new ice hockey league season starts .
As Spire Oxford City Stars , who are supported by Fox F M , finished runners up in the autumn cup , and now they 're brimming over with confidence as they approach they new season .
They 're at home to Blackburn on Sunday , but begin their English division one campaign away to Harringay tomorrow night .
And despite their recent successes , Mickey put it to the star 's coach , Don Jameson , that they 've yet to find a way round Harringay 's defensive system .
We 've drawn with them twice in the autumn cup .
Four four down there and five five up here .
So obviously we are looking to get the points for the first time .
It 's bee a very frustrating team for us to play .
They play a very defensive style and we 're gonna need to go down there an open the game up and play as well as we can .
We need to get the two points .
We need to get off to a good start in the league .
Now of course these two sides are new to ice hockey , the players aren't .
Harringay — they 've took a few from Chelmsford , and as for the Blackburn Black Hawks , they used to be your team mates .
That 's right .
Five of them I used to play with at the Trafford Metros in Manchester , so they 've got a very experienced team .
they 've got four players from Blackpool , a couple from Bradford , so although the teams are new in name they 're not new in make up .
It 's a very experienced squad in Blackburn and we 're gonna have our hands full Sunday night .
It 's going to be an exciting game .
Now , I 've seen both sides and I do believe that Blackburn are going to present the bigger problem .
I think Blackburn have their eye on promotion .
They wanna be in this league one year .
They said they want to go straight through , so they 're gonna spend a lot of money .
They spent the money on the British players .
So they 're very confident .
What I 've told the players is we 've got to go up and play as well as we can to beat a team like Blackburn .
They 've got an experienced , strong squad and we 're going to have to play up to our strength to beat them .
This is the big tester , isn't it ?
This is the bread and butter that will determine the future .
Oh this is what it 's all about .
I mean the cup was a warm-up for us and the league is what we play .
We have twenty eight games in front of us here .
We 've got ta do as well as we can and we 've got ta try and get promotion this year .
And what 's more , we want to see that ice rink filled because it 's the greatest family sporting entertainment you could ever wish to see and with the crowd behind you it gives you that extra buzz .
It 's a tremendous game .
It 's the world 's fastest team game .
It 's a thrilling spectacle .
If you haven't been down before I would strongly suggest this Sunday night at five thirty .
It 's going to be a heck of a game and er there 'll be some surprises as well .
If you 've never been to an ice hockey game , it 's more than a game — it 's a night out .
I mean , you start the proceedings about five o'clock with a pre-game leisure show .
There 's a warm-up .
There 's lots of music and its a good night out for families .
Why not come on down , five thirty p.m .
Sunday night ?
Don , you 've talked me into it .
I'm going to be there , but then I always am .
But we want everybody else to come down .
That 's right .
There 's a few seats left .
Get on down , Sunday night .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
In the dangerous sport of bobsleighing , those of you with long enough memories will no doubt remember Great Britain snatching a gold medal at the nineteen sixty-four winter Olympics .
Twenty six years on the chances are that Britain could , once again , be thought of as potential medal prospects .
Ed Hawtin , from west Oxfordshire , has recently returned from West Germany , where Great Britain raised a few eyebrows with impressive runs in two and four man bobs .
Phil Angell asked him what does it take to risk life and limb .
There are three aspects which would make a world class bobsleigher .
You have to have a very experienced driver .
You have to have very good equipment , and you have to have the best start possible .
And when you get to international level , if you give away a hundredth of a second on the start , that 's equivalent to four hundredths at the bottom on a perfect run .
So if you give away a tenth on the start , you 've given nearly half a second per run , and most competitions are either two , three or four runs , cumulative time , so , you know , if you give away a couple of tenths every time at the end of the day you 're going to be a second down .
So what are your plans in the next year or two as we head up towards the next winter Olympics ?
Well , obviously , we take sort of each race as it comes .
We go away to Canada at the weekend .
That 's for the first world cup race , two and four man .
We then come back from there and we 've got a mass of competitions , some in what was East Germany , some in West Germany .
We go to the new track in the South of France at Albertville , which is where the Olympics are .
But it 's a glamorous sport .
I mean , if you 're sitting in a pub at night and some guys are showing off in a corner going ‘Hey , what do you do , dude’ and you go ‘Well , I'm a bobsleigher , actually’it tends to shut people up I should imagine , doesn't it ?
Yes , it does , although it tends to be the opposite way round .
When you actually achieve something you tend not to mention it so much .
You know , very often you hear the people that are actually talking about the things they 've done are normally the ones that haven't quite got there .
Four hundred veteran cars are going to be leaving London 's Westminster Bridge on Sunday , the start of the annual London to Brighton car run .
The ancient machines will wend their way down the fifty seven mile route , and among their number will be Bob May from Marcham near Abingdon .
Bob , at eighty , is what you might call an enthusiast .
He still finds time to race motor bikes , as well as keeping his nineteen O four De Dion Bouton in tune .
Single cylinder .
Its automatic inlet valve , which means it doesn't operate mechanically .
It sucks the gas into the engine .
There 's no throttle as you know it on a modern car .
You rely on speed and on raising an lowering the tappet , so when you put your foot on the decelerator it drops the tappet down and stops the value opening , then you 're on full compression and then you pull up , and that 's your main brake .
Now what 's one of the most charming aspects of taking this car along ?
Well my other car is a nineteen twenty nine V six Bentley , which will do a hundred mile an hour , so if I drive them alternately it cuts me down to size .
A hundred miles an hour !
You 'll get there in no time in that .
I don't go to Brighton on it .
You have to be before nineteen O four to be in London to Brighton — before nineteen O five .
Nineteen oh four cars can go , but nothing later .
The other car , the other De Dion we had , burst its radiator , but we are very resourceful ; we went and bought thirty foot of garden hose and connected it to the engine and sent the water round and round the car and that acted as a radiator , and we drove it for a week like that .
It must take up all of your spare time just to keep it in tune .
I 've got three cars and seven motor bikes , and I don't have much spare time .
Do you still ride the motor bike ?
Oh yes .
Whereabouts ?
er well last year we brought the Dutch over and we had a competition with them .
In nineteen hundred and twelve the Dutch came and the Oxford Motor Club entertained them and we went all round the High Wycome area , Cophill and that on hill climbs , so we re-enacted it last year and I was riding my nineteen fourteen motorcycle , and I was asked — I was the oldest rider — how old are you ? — I said eighty years old — and what is your biggest difficulty ? — and I said getting my leg over , which I really literally meant because the saddle 's very high and I do have a job getting my leg over the saddle !
The Fox Report .
Still problems on the A thirty four this evening , northbound , between the M four at junction thirteen and the Oxford ringroad .
The accident that happened there has now been cleared off the carriageway .
There are still major tailbacks there , though , and the police are asking you still to avoid it .
It will be some time before that 's clear at all .
Also on the A thirty four , at Great Rollright near Chipping Norton , there 's been a serious accident there and there are tailbacks beginning to grow in both directions .
There have been other numerous , minor accidents police tell me throughout Oxfordshire .
Extra caution is required through the county because it 's still very heavy traffic in parts .
On the A four two three , the Kidlington to Banbury road , they expect delays still to go on through much of the evening due to the traffic lights at Bunkers Hill , and on the A four two one , just south of Bicester , the changes to the road layout at the new M forty interchange has made traffic fairly heavy still .
On the M twenty five it 's still very busy in both directions and indeed especially the M four and M forty interchanges with the M twenty five are very busy at the moment .
Mark Rise , A A Roadwatch .
And trains from Paddington into Oxford are running about twenty minutes late this evening , but I 've no specific problems to report from the buses .
On one O two point six F M , this is the Fox Report with Jane Markham .
Have you ever fancied skiing ?
Well you can give it a go tomorrow in central Oxford of all places .
The Oxfordshire Ski Club and Touchwood Sports are behind the event .
Judith Hall and Tony Bovey are both going to be there .
Judith , tell me a little bit more about this event , I'm fascinated to know how people can actually be skiing in central Oxford .
er it 's an event held in The Gallery and er we have got er ski experts coming er , equipment people ; we have got the latest ski simulator coming down from Dorset , which enables people to actually get inside and it takes you down the Val de Zere er no , yes , takes you down the Val de Zere downhill and it really is quite impressive .
That 's quite remarkable .
er we have er a ski machine coming from Gloucester which is going to let people have a go and er get them in the right position , and when they do it right all the bells go off , so it 's a fun day for people to come and have a go on things .
A skiing machine ?
Tony , have you come across one of these things before ?
You 're a ski expert , I understand ?
Yes , I have .
There are a number of them .
Some are used by the alpine training squads for dry land training .
Obviously , when there is some snow on the hills in the summer you can't do much , so they are very carefully made and some of them are connected to a computer , so if you have a very good coach with you he can say ‘You 're going that right , no do it a bit more like this , or a bit more like that’ .
Franz Klammer made a skiing simulator and he had it in his garage , and what it was was a series of rolling logs .
These machines are much , much more sophisticated and they actually simulate what you do when you are skiing .
So does it , I mean it doesn't it look anything like a ski slope I image ?
No , it doesn't , nothing at all .
The one machine is a series of linked pedals on a bar , so it tells you how to edge , how to unweight and do things like that .
What it really does — let 's not get too involved in the equipment — it gives people a flavour of what skiing 's about .
Of course , we can't have the mountains , but our enthusiasm and we 'll help you experience it .
Yes , not a lot of mountains at Gloucester Green , I must say .
So er can people come along and have a go if they 've never had a go before ?
Do they
Yes , it 's open to everyone and we have a full range of experts there — people from the equipment companies , from Touchwood Sports , tour operators , the Ski Club will be there as well and we 'll be there to explain what skiing is , how you can start , how you learn to ski on the dry ski slope with the Ski Club , how you can go on alpine holidays , evening events , everything .
And when does it all start ?
When do people have to come along ?
It starts at ten till four , and er all the proceeds we do make from , you know , the rides , and we have got an ongoing raffle which is going to be drawn at Christmas at our club meeting — we have some wonderful prizes donated for that — and er the money is actually going to two er charities , Backup for spinally injured people , and Oxrad a local Oxford Charity .
They will actually be there themselves as well .
Thank you both very much indeed .
Now , we 've got a busy studio this evening , with lots and lots of people in .
Have you ever been part of a syndicate taking part in the pools ?
Well , we have a particularly clever syndicate , who 've managed to have won five times so far this year , and Tony is here from the syndicate .
Tony , you 've just won .
You won last Saturday , I believe .
How much did you win ?
It 's an enormous amount of money .
It 's three pounds sixty , divided by a syndicate of twenty one people , and the Seacourt Press syndicate runs on a system .
It is available if anybody wants to give a five pound donation to the Fox appeal .
Up for sale for the Fox Box appeal , great .
We don't really think it 's going to change any of our lives .
Yes , I mean , it 's a question of don't spend that all at once I suppose .
No er some people have suggested buying Skodas , but then we 've still got the problem of what to do with the rest of the money .
I mean I wouldn't want to give away how it all works , but you have actually won five times and so how much have you actually picked up this season ?
Oh over eighty pounds , but then a lot of that goes on the horses with the Fox favourites .
Yes .
I think we can blame Phil Angell for that .
You actually , I think , somewhere round Grand National time did rather well , didn't you ?
Oh yes , Grand National , yes very well on that .
That was all part of the cause as well .
How did that all work ?
Um well we didn't know what to do with the money , so we basically gambled it on the Grand National .
That was about ninety odd pounds .
That was a winning of thirty seven pounds initially .
As far as I remember , I think Phil actually had the winner of the National , didn't he ?
Mr Frisk , sixteen to one , I'm told
Sixteen to one — four pounds each way .
as if we 'd ever be allowed to forget that .
So you 're going to be continuing , hopefully you 're aiming to raise more than three pounds sixty next time you have a go ?
Yes , well , with seventeen point one pence each there 's not an awful lot you can do with that .
We don't want any begging letters at the Seacourt Press .
Tony , thank you very much for joining us .
Thank you .
Bye bye .
Finally , a look at the headlines from today 's local press .
Local schools may be asked to rent out their playgrounds to help Wantage 's parking problems .
That 's according to the Wantage and Grove Herald .
The Chipping Norton edition of the Oxford Times features Susan Cook , an eighteen year old fashion student from Faringdon , who was runner up in a national competition for young deaf achiever of the year .
And the Bicester Advertiser advertises changes in Thames Transit 's bus services and those are taking place in the area from Tuesday we are told .
And that was the Fox Report for November , Friday November the second nineteen ninety .
I'm back with another Fox Report on Monday , but if you want to know everything about the sport and leisure that 's happening in the area , do make sure you listen to Fox leisure with Steve Priestley and Phil Angell tomorrow at two , and Steve Priestly is here , in person , after the news at seven with the Red Fox .
Tonight , the Chancellor tells the House of Commons that interest rates won't be tumbling further .
I must emphasize that I will not make a further reduction in interest rates until I'm sure that it is safe and prudent to do so .
Twice as many women are elected to the Church of England 's General Synod , they 're confident it will herald the ordination of women .
I think that there 's a great deal of , of need and longing and , and concern of people to have the ministry of a woman .
And the sort of video extracts a new television programme isn't looking for .
A chap was decorating his lounge , and he , he 'd locked the camera off on himself , but he had no clothes on .
The six o'clock news , this is Howard Hughes .
Cases of AIDS contracted through heterosexual sex have risen by ninety five per cent in the past year .
The Department of Health is warning that H I V infection among heterosexuals is increasing faster than in any other group .
Julie Swedges , Sedgewick reports .
The report claims three hundred and sixty five cases of AIDS have been reported over the past three months ; it 's the highest quarterly rate yet .
Over the last twelve months , the number of cases transmitted through heterosexual sex has almost doubled .
That compares with an eighty nine per cent increase among drug abusers and a forty per cent increase among gay men .
Chief Medical Officer , Sir Donald Aitchison , warned it 's now vitally important that heterosexuals adopt safer behaviour patterns .
Labour is accusing Mrs Thatcher of dodging a debate on Britain 's entry into the Exchange Rate Mechanism because she 's humiliated by the U-turn .
Peter Murphy reports .
Chancellor John Major told the Commons Britain had joined the E M S as the time was right .
The government has long made it clear that sterling would enter the Exchange Rate Mechanism during stage one of economic and monetary union which began in July ; it has now done so at the earliest appropriate time .
But Labour 's John Smith asked what had happened to Mrs Thatcher 's conditions for entry set out in Madrid .
I ask the Chancellor to explain why there has been such a humiliating U-turn by the Prime Minister .
Herself , the inventor of the Madrid conditions , and now their arch destroyer .
He said it was clear that the government had only joined as a last resort to try and solve the country 's economic problems .
Peter Murphy , I R N , Westminster .
President Gorbachov says his Nobel Peace Prize win is proof his programme of reforms is working .
He 's been given the award for his role in ending the Cold War , freeing the Eastern Block and resolving regional conflicts .
From Moscow , Sue Jamison reports .
‘Words fail one at such moments’ said the President when the news was broken to him at the Kremlin by the Norwegian Ambassador , but immediately recovering his powers of speech , he said he didn't see the prize as a personal achievement .
‘It is’ , he said , ‘recognition of the significance of the immense course of perestroika’ .
However , while he 's lauded in the West for his achievements , at home the award means much less ; perestroika has lost much of its appeal and simply means yet more empty shelves in the shops and more despondency about the economy .
Sue Jamison , I R N , Moscow .
Nineteen people have been injured , six seriously in a coach crash on the M fifty in Gloucestershire .
The coach carrying elderly passengers on an outing , left the road south-east of Worcester , and crashed down an embankment .
A full enquiry has been launched into how a rapist was able to attack an eleven-year old girl in a children 's ward at a London hospital .
Police have this afternoon been trying to question the girl , who 's said to be extremely distressed .
Staff at St Heliers in Carshalton say doors were left unlocked for up to ten minutes so an emergency patient could be admitted .
But Union officials have described security as sloppy .
Richard Latimer from the Merton and Sutton Health Authority says ‘a review is now underway’ .
Everyone is terribly concerned at the moment ; we had thought that the security at St Helier was tighter than in most other hospitals .
There are three full-time staff doing nothing else , they have also got closed monitoring , closed circuit television , and things of that nature , and we 're going to look at all that too , to see whether we can even then , improve matters .
Lester Piggott has come second in his return to racing at Leicester this afternoon .
The fifty four year old retired five years ago after being named Champion Jockey twelve times , but was granted a new licence last week .
His five to one shot Lupescoo lost by a short head to Semonda .
T V tipster John McCrillock says ‘racing is Piggott 's sole obsession’ .
Lester is one-dimensional ; there 's nothing else he can think about apart from riding race horses , and getting a bit of money as well also helps him , so the problem is , when you 're one-dimensional , you 're lost if you 're not doing the only thing you love and understand , and that must be a bit sad .
Independent Radio News .
It 's Monday the fifteenth of October 1990 .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail , and the Chancellor of the Exchequer was on his feet in the House of Commons on their first day back after the summer recess .
Peter Murphy was there .
The long summer holidays are over and MPs returned to the Commons to take stock of developments while they were at the seaside .
A week ago , sterling joined the European Exchange Rate Mechanism ; it lifted the gloom for the Tory Party Conference in Bournemouth , and this afternoon , the Chancellor , John Major , came to explain why now was the right time for Britain to join .
It has become abundantly clear that policy is now reducing inflationary pressures in the economy .
Monetary growth on all measures has fallen sharply , and the growth of narrow money is within its target range ; the growth of demand has slowed .
Although the rise in oil prices will continue to feed through for a while , the prospect is for a substantial reduction in inflation over the coming year .
And just in case anyone was celebrating too much , Mr Major warned :
Membership of the Exchange Rate Mechanism will be an additional discipline for the United Kingdom economy ; in no sense is it a soft option .
Monetary policy will remain tight ; I must emphasize that I will not make a further reduction in interest rates until I am sure that it is safe and prudent to do so .
The Prime Minister was sitting on the Front Bench as Mr Major explained the importance of membership , and how wonderful it all was .
She had never seemed that keen on the idea , and had set out her conditions in Madrid on membership .
Shadow Chancellor , John Smith :
Now I ask the Chancellor to explain why there has been such a humiliating U-turn by the Prime Minister ; herself the inventor of the Madrid conditions , and now their arch destroyer .
Is it not simply because of this : that the government , because of their appalling mismanagement of our economy , have been forced to concede that they simply could not achieve that inflation target which they had set for themselves .
The Prime Minister has been challenged by Neil Kinnock to debate the issue .
She has refused , which led Mr Smith to ask :
Is the Prime Minister , who 's role in this affair is so crucial , that she simply must take part in the debate which we hope to have in this House ; why does she not admit it .
And if our parliamentary accountability is as important as she frequently claims in this context , why is she reluctant to take part in the debate ?
Mr Major was clearly not going to get involved in that argument , and Mrs Thatcher 's made it clear she 's not going to get involved in debating the matter either .
But as for membership itself , there were mixed reactions , especially on the government side .
Tony Nelson thought it was a tremendous start .
That having taken this momentous decision to join the Exchange Rate Mechanism , we have taken a step of the most important step towards economic monetary union from which there can be no turning back .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Soviet President Mikael Gorbachov has been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize .
According to the Nobel Committee which sits in Stockholm , Mr Gorbachov has opened up new possibilities for the World Community to solve its pressing problems .
But although the prize may have enhanced Mr Gorbachov 's standing in the international community , his position at home is still precarious .
Avovi Todd has been following the Soviet leader 's route to the Kremlin .
Mikael Sergayiz Gorbachov was born in a rural town near Stavropol in the southern region of Russia in nineteen forty one .
He studied law at the Moscow State University , and went on to become a full Communist Party member two years later , in nineteen fifty two .
After finishing his studies , and marrying Raisa , he returned to his home town to work his way up the Party hierarchy .
The turning point for him and the Soviet Union came in nineteen eighty five , when he succeeded Konstantin Chernenko as the General Secretary ; within one year , he 'd begun in earnest his reform programme , familiarising the world as well as his fellow Soviet citizens with words such as peristroika and glasnost .
At the same time , he freed the Nobel Prize winning dissident , Andre Sakarov from his exile in Gorky .
In nineteen eighty seven , he travelled to Washington to meet Ronald Reagan , and signed an historic agreement to eliminate medium range nuclear weapons .
Announcing the I N F Treaty , Mr Reagan looked forward to even greater agreements to come .
Today I for the United States , and the General Secretary for the Soviet Union have signed the first agreement ever to eliminate an entire class of U S and Soviet nuclear weapons .
We have made history .
Mr Gorbachov too accepted the agreement would become a landmark in modern world history .
When told that he was to become the recipient of the Peace Award , the normally eloquent Mr Gorbachov said ‘words fail at such moments , I am moved’ .
But he must be all too aware that it won't impress the Soviet citizens facing economic crisis , and waiting in the food queues , nor will it immediately resolve the ethnic problems which beset him .
But David Lamby , the Vice Chairman of the British Soviet Parliamentary Group says ‘nonetheless , the award will be seen as a vital show of support’ .
World Peace is a most important , er item affecting everyone in the world ; Gorbachov has been one of the foremost politicians , international politicians to , to make a change in , in , er in the world climate , so far as peace is concerned , and therefore that will certainly help him solve his bread and butter problems in the Soviet Union .
So far Mr Gorbachov has given no indication of how he intends to spend his prize of seven hundred thousand dollars .
On the M forty between junctions four and five , that 's between High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , the road 's down to two narrow lanes in both directions , with a contraflow system operating for a short stretch about midway between the two junctions , and that is also down to single line traffic at times ; so that could delay you a little .
Buckinghamshire on the A forty one , High Street , Aylesbury , there is restrictions for traffic , and Galley Lane , Great Brickhill is closed because of roadworks .
In Oxfordshire on the A forty three at Weston on the Green , between Bicester and Banbury , there are lane closures for junction work , and on the A forty one London Road , Bicester , there 's resurfacing work taking place , and restrictions for traffic going both ways .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
British Rail tell us that the Glasgow to Brighton train which was due at Oxford at half past five , is running forty five minutes late this evening , and the six twenty four Manchester to London Paddington train is five minutes late .
But I 've no problems to report to you from the buses .
Still to come : calls for tighter security in Britain 's hospitals after a little girl is raped in her South London hospital bed .
Officials at the John Radcliffe in Oxford , say they take great care over security .
Were any undesirables as it were , to come on to the ward , I'm sure they would be picked up almost immediately .
And security are available on two-way radio and can be up and involved in the situation within minutes .
With a round up of the day 's local news , here 's Paul Kirby .
A man has been further remanded in custody today , charged with rape and indecent assault at a North Oxfordshire barracks .
Joseph Ian Gardiner McEwan from King 's Park in Glasgow has been charged in connection with an incident at the Royal Army Ordnance Corps at Arncott near Bicester .
He 's been kept in custody until next week by Bicester Magistrates .
An inquest into the deaths of two young people killed in a car accident in South Oxfordshire , is expected to take place this week .
Seventeen year old Sharon Ferns and Kenneth Honer aged twenty six , died when their car overturned and burst into flames early on Friday morning in the village of Berinsfield .
A scheme to slow down traffic in the area has already been agreed by the County Council , but Chairman of the District Council , Ken Hall , says ‘this isn't the end to all the problems’ .
What we 're after also is double yellow lines , because cars park round the perimeter , and we have buses that comes in , er local buses , we have the problem of where to , to get round the village normally .
Well , during the night of course , you have cars which are parked in the dark , and without their lights on , so you can see that it , it causes extra problems .
A Banbury man known as Psycho has been sentenced to two and a half years in custody for an unprovoked knife attack on a man out walking his dog .
Unemployed Martin Lewis of Trinity Close in the town , stabbed Trevor Lampett in the chest with a ten inch kitchen knife .
Lewis who 's twenty , admitted a charge of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm .
When sentencing him at Oxford Crown Court today , Judge Leo Clarke described it as a motiveless and shocking attack .
A man has been jailed in Oxford today for causing grievous bodily harm to a tanker driver .
Twenty four year old builder Ian Baxter , from Tilehurst in Reading , threatened to slice up the driver of a petrol tanker with a builder 's grinder when prevented from filling up at the Blewberry Service Station in Oxfordshire ; he hit the driver with the grinder , knocking out two of his teeth .
Ian Baxter admitted charges of grievous bodily harm and interfering with a motor vehicle ; he was jailed for two and a half years .
Finally , Oxford City Council are launching a low alcohol week today to encourage people to drink less ; alcohol-free tasting sessions at a local community centre coincide with a new balanced alcohol strategy campaign .
Pensioners , parents and toddlers are invited to ‘Welcome to L A Week’ , to learn about the seriousness of alcohol abuse .
City Councillor Betty Staningford says ‘the aim is to get across a serious message in a light hearted way’ .
No way do I wish to be seen as a killjoy , I , I like a drink myself , I would always happy to give somebody a drink , but it 's the over indulgence which worries us .
So , to prove that it 's fun in Northway Community Centre , we 're having a whole week of fun things , culminating with a disco and er a quiz .
Fox F M news , Paul Kirby reporting .
Patients and Health Unions are demanding better security at Britain 's hospitals after an eleven year old girl was raped in a children 's ward .
The attacker got past nurses and private security guards unnoticed at St Helier hospital in South London .
Until a fortnight ago , Geoff Martin was the local Council 's representative on the Merton and Sutton Health Authority which voted to use a private security firm at the hospital .
He says , although he was opposed to the move , no-one at the time could have predicted the horrifying consequences , and he says ‘there must be a public enquiry to expose what went wrong’ .
My main fear is that once the initial publicity for this has died down , that the Health Authority may attempt to have some sort of behind closed doors , almost like a cover up , and I think that , that , the , this is , this incident has got such ramifications for hospital security in general , there should be a full public enquiry ; and the public have a right to know what went on .
Obviously it 's a terrifying incident for er any parent listening , but what was so wrong , or , is there anything wrong in introducing private firms to police hospitals ?
Well I think until we know the full facts , it 's difficult to actually blame anybody , er for this , this particular incident .
But there has been a lot of concern about the privatised er security contract at St Helier , er the way it was subcontracted by the original contractor , er without any member of the Health Authority actually knowing about that ; I certainly didn't know and I was on the Authority at the time .
And I think there are a lot of questions that need to be asked — has there been , er have , have corners been cut in order to keep the cost down , were we getting a good quality service or just a cheap service ?
What are the implications from this incident for security at other hospitals ?
Well what I'm hoping now is that er following this absolutely tragic incident , that er there will be a general er review of hospital security .
I know that the Ministry of Defence have been forced to review their private security arrangements at defence establishments er because of breaches of security there , and I would hope that the Health Service and the Department of Health and the Local Health Authorities will take the same kind of responsible action .
But surely nobody could have anticipated this sort of attack ?
Well you can never anticipate any breach of security , I mean that 's why you have security in the first place , in order to prevent things from happening .
Er .
But there 's a big difference in my view between the sort of regular abuse and assaults on staff in a Casualty Department and somebody walking into what should have been a locked ward on a children 's unit in a hospital at two o'clock in the morning .
We need to know who was to blame , we need a full open enquiry into this incident , and we must make sure that this sort of thing never happens again .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
The John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford is to upgrade security on its wards , the new comes , the news comes in the light of the sexual assault on the eleven year girl at St Helier 's hospital .
Hospital officials at the John Radcliffe are to introduce a new card system whereby all staff will carry identification .
Services and Development Manager at the J R , Richard Sunley , says while there 's no guarantee an incident of the kind that occurred in Carshalton won't happen in Oxford , he believes the new security system will play a significant role .
Although we 're working er all the time to keep security as tight as we can at the John Radcliffe , er the scheme is going to give us the ability to challenge members of staff , legitimate members of staff , as we currently do , er and they will then have to provide , produce the card , er so we can then assess whether they are or are not a member of staff .
Do you think that there 's a chance that what happened in Carshalton could possibly happen at the John Radcliffe ?
We can never be a hundred per cent sure with security , we are , it is a public building , we do encourage er patients and their relatives to come up on to the children 's wards as part of the treatment er to make it a much more homely atmosphere .
But the wards are staffed twenty four hours a day , nursing staff are always about , we have dedicated security staff who can be called at a minute 's notice , and staff are obviously aware on kid 's wards how sensitive security is , and will be challenging people when they come on to the wards .
How closely guarded are the children 's wards during the night ?
I think it would be wrong to say guarded , it , it 's a er you know , it 's a balance you 've got to strike .
Obviously we 're trying to make a homely atmosphere so that parents can come and go , er when new parents come on to the ward , when new patients come on to the ward , nursing staff maintain a , a close control and a close liaison with them , so were any undesirables as it were , to come on to the ward , I am sure they would be picked up almost immediately .
Er .
Security are available on two way radio and can be up and involved in the situation within minutes .
How can you stop undesirables from entering the building , do you believe you can stop them ?
Not in a hundred per cent of the cases , er and we do have undesirables at the John Radcliffe , er but there has n't been an incident such as this er I think that goes some way to prove that we do have a reasonably tight security service , and we , we work to any way that we can to keep it as secure as possible .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty one minutes past six .
It 's six twenty two .
The government has announced new statistics which show that the number of AIDS cases reported among heterosexuals is up by ninety five per cent .
Robin Gorner is er AIDS Liaison Officer with Oxford City Council .
Robin , this on the face of it looks very worrying , what 's your reaction to these statistics ?
Well clearly it 's devastating news ; er unfortunately I think we have to say that we 're not tremendously surprised .
The news is that heterosexuals had become infected with H I V , the virus that leads to AIDS , ten to fifteen years ago , and that the numbers were doubling ten to fifteen years ago , that 's what it means when we hear AIDS cases , and what that must mean for today , is horrifying .
I think what it clearly shows is that health education messages aren't getting through to heterosexuals .
In the reports it showed that only forty per cent of gay men were becoming infected , whereas ninety five per cent increase in heterosexuals , that 's very worrying .
It shows that we must step up our efforts to ensure that everyone is fully educated , but not only that they know the facts , but that they start to act upon them .
Now it , it does sound , ninety five per cent sound a lot , but the actual numbers involved are up from a hundred and twenty three to two hundred and forty .
Now , er looking at it from , from the population of sixty million or so , that wouldn't seem too terrifying .
I suppose not if you think that it means there 's only two hundred and forty heterosexuals with AIDS in the country .
What it means as I said before , is that ten or fifteen years ago , that number of people got infected , so now ten fifteen years on , we usually multiply by at least a hundred , so we 're really talking about thousands of people living with H I V , and probably unaware of the fact that they have it .
That doesn't mean that I think people should run out and get tested , but anyone who 's heterosexually active , having sexual relationships , needs to think about the risks , and take care of themselves and their partners , need to make sure that they use condoms , that they get themselves informed about the facts .
Now , now you 've been working in the area of AIDS for some time now , do you think that the message is getting through ?
I know that the message is getting through to gay men , but I'm not surprised to hear that it 's not getting through to heterosexuals .
I think all of us wish this epidemic would go away , and that it wouldn't touch us and that it were only small numbers , but the news today clearly shows that it affects each and every one of us .
Er .
I think here in Oxford we 've got good health education , but we still need to make sure that it 's appropriate , that it 's sensitive to people 's needs , and actually tells people what they want know , and I hope that anyone out there will contact agencies to make sure that they 're updated on the information .
Robin thank you .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
With all the results now known for the elections to the General Synod of the Church of England , supporters say they expect the Church to agree to the ordination of women in the next few years .
The number of women elected to the Church 's Parliament is double that of last time , and those in favour of women priests , are confident that they 've secured the required majority to have their way by nineteen ninety five .
Robin Powell has been talking to an Oxfordshire woman just elected , who takes a less optimistic view .
Susan Cole-King from Burcott has already been ordained ; it was into the Episcopal Church in the United States four years ago , but Mrs Cole-King , who works as a deacon for the Oxford diocese at Dorchester , is looking forward to the day she 'll be able to act as a priest closer to home .
Yet although her support for women priests is well known , she says it was her interest in a wide range of other issues that persuaded local clergy and laity to vote her on to the Synod for five years .
I'm concerned with the centrality of prayer and spirituality in the life of the Church and the need to nurture this .
I'm concerned with er third world issues and the wider world , and the need for the Church to be prophetic and stand up and be counted for the sake of justice .
Mrs Cole-King has already caused a stir by suggesting she had no objection to the idea of women holding communion in private homes , but she now says she realises that isn't a good idea and it certainly won't be something she 'll be campaigning for .
No I 've never campaigned for that , and I 've never supported it in that sense .
I certainly would not say that this is what should happen at this particular time , no .
We don't know what 's going to happen when the vote is taken , er I think that there is a great deal of , of need and longing and , and concern of people to have the ministry of a woman , as a priest , the sac , the sacramental ministry of women in , in all kinds of ways .
At the moment , I'm under the discipline of , of the Church of England , which does not allow me to exercise my priestly functions ; there aren't many women here who are priests and can do this kind of thing , so I really don't know what will happen .
Other supporters of women priests are more optimistic ; they say the election results mean they 'll be able to persuade the Church to change its rules within five years .
In that case , Mrs Cole-King would be able to act as a priest in Dorchester Abbey without having to be ordained again .
It is an ambition of hers , but she reckons there 's still a long way to go .
I don't actually think that , that , that it 's quite so clear cut , I think that there 's still a bit of persuading that , that we have to do to persuade people that it is the right thing .
Er .
There is still quite a lot of opposition , so I don't think it 's , it 's a certainty , but I would certainly very much hope and believe that this is the will of God for the Church and that , that it will happen .
The Department of the Environment has given the go ahead for Oxfordshire 's plans for extracting minerals until the turn of the century .
The Environment Secretary , Chris Patten has agreed to alterations to the County 's structure plan , but it 's still not clear whether the Authority will have to proceed with a controversial scheme for a gravel pit at Finmere .
Chief Planning and Development Officer , Liam Tiller , says he 's pleased that after nearly two years , Whitehall has at last agreed to the Council 's proposals .
I am glad they 've approved it because it 's , it 's removed any uncertainty there might have been about the nineteen nineties , slightly disappointing that they chose to tinker with our wording here and there , but , but by and large , not too unhappy .
What will these alterations mean ?
What they mean basically is that in relation to sand and gravel , the County Council will , will continue to look to four areas of the County er for most of the sand and gravel production , that 's the Sutton Courtney area , Sutton Wick area , er the Stanton Harcourt area and the Cassington/Yarnton area ; most of the sand and gravel workings will be there .
One other area , rather controversially that the Council 's been considering extracting gravel from , is Finmere .
Does the Department have anything to say about that ?
Not specifically , er you , you 're right , we 've got a planning application in for Finmere , er and the Council will be considering that probably , next month .
Er .
The plan doesn't point to Finmere as an area where there 's a resumption in favour of mineral working , so what we will have to do with the Finmere proposals , is to look at it on its merits .
You 've earmarked four other places , now you need two point two million tons from those places , are you confident of getting that ?
In the long term , yes , but what we 're currently doing as part of the assessment of the Finmere application is just checking the resources that do exist in those four areas , to , to make sure that we 're still able to meet our targets .
And if you don't get that amount , presumably Finmere comes back into the picture again ?
Well , it , it doesn't mean that permission has to be granted at Finmere , but it , it would make it more difficult to refuse .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's twenty nine minutes past six .
And on the M twenty five between junctions fifteen and sixteen , that 's for the M four and the M forty , there 's heavy clockwise traffic .
On the M forty between junctions four and five for High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , there are two narrow lanes in both directions , with a contraflow system for a short stretch about mid-way between the two junctions , also that can be down to single line traffic at times , so it is likely to slow you down a little .
A forty one , High Street Aylesbury there are restrictions , and Galley Lane , Great Brickhill is closed for roadworks .
On the A forty three at Weston on the Green , between Bicester and Banbury , there 's lane closures for junction work .
And on the A forty one , London Road , Bicester , there 's resurfacing work causing restrictions of traffic both ways .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And I 've nothing to report to you on the buses or trains .
It 's six thirty one .
The government has announced a near doubling of the number of cases of AIDS among heterosexuals , and says the disease is growing faster in this group than in any other .
In the last twelve months , the number of heterosexuals contracting AIDS has gone from a hundred and twenty three to two hundred and forty .
Labour is accusing Mrs Thatcher of dodging a discussion on Britain 's entry into the Euro Monetary System ; they say she 's chosen to avoid speaking in a Commons debate on the issue because she 's humiliated by the U-turn entry has meant for her .
Nineteen people have been injured , five of them seriously after a coach crashed down an embankment , bankment on the M fifty on the Gloucestershire-Worcestershire border ; the coach was carrying elderly passengers on an outing .
A full investigation is underway into how a rapist was able to attack a , a girl of eleven in a children 's ward at a hospital in Surrey .
Staff at St Heliers in Carshalton say doors were left unlocked for up to ten minutes for an emergency patient to be admitted , but Union officials say security is sloppy .
The weather for the Fox F M area : a cloudy night , with rain at times , that rain 's going to be heavy in places , especially on the Cotswolds , the lowest temperatures will be around ten degrees celsius , that 's fifty degrees fahrenheit .
Oxford City Council is launching a balanced alcohol strategy for Oxford during this low alcohol week ; it 's to be part of ‘Healthy Oxford Two Thousand’ , which is a campaign also being er launched at the moment .
Shareen Mithranee and Debbie Macelveen are both working on the scheme .
Shareen , you 're very much part of the er , the attempt to help us all use alcohol a little bit more sensibly , what , what , what is this strategy ?
Yes , er the strategy tries to take a sensible and reasonably er entertaining way of asking people to reduce their alcohol consumption towards more sensible recommended levels .
We 're not asking people to cut down , we 're taking a balanced approach towards alcohol consumption in the whole community , so we 're not er angling the strategy at people who are already very severe , heavy drinkers , or those who are alcohol dependent .
We 're asking people who drink , and that 's ninety per cent of the British adult population , to see if they can cut down by a quarter if they 're drinking above sensible levels .
How are you going to make that entertaining ?
Well , er make it entertaining is er fits in very well with what Debbie might have to say , which is to do with the Northway Community Centre Low Alcohol Week , called ‘Welcome to L A’ .
Now that 's the first time L A 's come to Oxford I think , but , that 's all this week , and we 're having er different programme of different various events and perhaps Debbie would like to comment on both .
Yes , this , this is your , your neck of the woods Debbie , what 's , what 's happening ?
Right , well I work in quite a number of Community Centres across the City , and Northway Community Centre which has a bar with quite a large turnover , a lot of members , er has agreed to host this project for the week , which is promoting healthier drinking .
So it 's actually manage , it 's actually managed to get a bar to er invite people in and not drink alcohol ?
That 's right , or to at least drink sensibly , and they 've got promotions of the lower , low and non-alcoholic drinks this week , as well as having a range of entertainments on , esp , er culminating in Saturday night on a quiz with healthy sort of questions , and a blindfold tasting competition
Aha !
With a mixture of drinks
So all , are these all low alcohol drinks
Of low alcohol drinks , yes
There , there 's quite a variety er of low alcohol drinks available now , what sort of things will be on offer there ?
Things like cider , lager , bitter , wines .
Basically everything except spirits , because they haven't yet er discovered how to make low alcohol spirits .
A bit of a , yes it 's a bit of a
Misnomer , yes
Misnomer , yes .
So , this is , this is just one week , are you expecting people to continue after they 've er , they 've sampled the delights of , of the low alcohol ?
Well , we 'd like to think that er people , once they 've been introduced to these different sorts of drinks , and become a bit more aware about different sensible levels , would actually be interested in buying them in the future and trying them out themselves .
And also other Community Centres er , have decided to take on such a project , as Debbie 'll say .
That 's right .
Well the City in fact has twenty one Community Centres , most of which have bars , some of them only have small bars that open maybe once a week , others have very large bars , and especially the ones with the larger bars I think are willing to take on such a project .
And obviously it reaches an awful lot of people , because Community Centres cater for all ages .
So if people are going into their Community Centre over the next week , they can expect to , to see part of this campaign ?
That 's right , in Northway .
Thank you both .
Thank you .
Thank you .
Four British Muslims freed by Saddam Hussein from captivity in Iraq , have just arrived back in England , the wife of one of them says she 's overjoyed at the news .
Amur Abdullah from Ilford in Essex is one of the first British adult hostages to be released from the country since the Gulf crisis began .
His relief comes after , his release comes after persuasion by the former singer , Cat Stevens , now Britain 's Muslim leader , Yusef Islam .
Abdullah 's wife , Norjan and two daughters , were allowed to leave Iraq last month after the family was taken hostage while on a pilg pilgrimage ; she says the news of his release came as a great shock .
He 's coping very well , he knows that we are with him all the way , and he knows that we love him , and he 's worried about the children and myself , but he was coping very well .
He had a lot of worries because my daughter has been very very ill , and er he was really worried about my daughter , but otherwise he was okay .
How has it been for yourself , obviously you 've been here with your children , your husband 's been away for more than a month , in Iraq , there must have been er terrible thoughts going through you mind at certain times ?
I had a very very hard time just to look after my ill daughter , and I was trying to get help from everybody , but er I had a tremendous help er the neighbours were very good with me , the relations , my husband 's friends at work , er and er my own sisters and my brothers and their wives and my , my mum and dad , so I had a lot of support from everybody .
What was it like when you got the news that er your husband was coming home ?
I just could n't believe it , it was , er , I just felt very very happy and I just break into tears , I just start crying , and I think it 's tremendous , erm news , I just want to see him safe home .
I have still got the thoughts and prayers for others who are left in Iraq , who are very ill and very , very old , and er I hope they will be with their family like my husband is going to come with me today , and I think it 's a very very happy news .
It 's twenty two minutes to seven .
The head of Social Services in Oxfordshire has welcomed news that inspectors are considering a nationwide enquiry into the running of children 's homes .
It follows a series of scandals involving alleged physical abuse , drug taking and prostitution in homes around the country .
Ian White says he 's not surprised that his colleagues are looking into the matter .
At the moment there are , in two areas of the country , big problems with er two children 's homes that the inspectors are already looking into .
But nationally , Directors of Social Services have identified that the trends in child care are such now , as to create serious concern that the children 's homes themselves are geared up to the kind of er tasks that now face them .
And I would welcome such an inspection and report .
The Social Services Inspectors are warning of physical abuse of children , drug taking and prostitution , that 's quite serious isn't it ?
Yes it is .
And in , certainly in the two cases that I 've just mentioned , those were the key worries that they had ; but I would hazard a guess and say those are the exceptions to the rule .
What most Directors of Social Services are worried about is that the group of children that we 're now finding in children 's homes , are so disturbed , because of their past family backgrounds er and so , so problematic er with their behaviour , er that they 're now concerned to make sure that the children 's homes of the future are properly geared up to deal with the very difficult group of children .
Presumably we don't have problems as serious as this in Oxfordshire ?
Not as in the scandalous cases elsewhere in the country , no .
But the types of children that I 've just told you about , the answer 's yes .
er We 've got some very disturbed children in Oxfordshire who need all sorts of help , which don't necessarily get provided for at the moment .
How are you going about providing that help ?
Well we 're doing a number of things .
Firstly , we are , we 're trying to ensure that wherever possible , children don't come into care , and we 're spending a lot more money than we used to in keeping out of care ; helping families etc .
Secondly , children in care , we 're helping them get out of care as fast as they can , and we 're helping them get set up properly , with proper support and so on .
Thirdly , we 're trying to make sure that children who can best benefit by foster care , er do get foster parents , and we 've had a big er initiative this last twelve months , you probably know about , and that 's paying off , and we hope in the future only children going into residential homes who need residential care will get there .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's nineteen minutes to seven , I'm Jane Markham .
Still to come : A look at Lester Piggott 's first day back as a jockey , plus the rest of the day 's sports news .
First , financial report , with Halpern er Woolf keeping Oxfordshire in business .
The London stockmarket was very much in recovery mood advancing throughout the morning , at one stage it was up twenty five points .
A bright start on Wall Street due to reduced Gulf worries and falling , falling oil prices , encouraged London .
However , comments by the American Banker 's President that U S industry must shed more jobs , saw Wall Street lose thirty four points .
Once again London caught the gold , and by the close , the Footsie one hundred was up one point five at two one O one point nine .
On the foreign exchanges , the pound lost ground , both the dollar and the mark , closing the day down two cents at one dollar point nine five two five , and down almost three pfennigs to two deutschmarks point nine seven two six .
Today 's shares : Abbey National down one at two two seven point five , British Aerospace up six at five four five , British Airways unchanged at a hundred and thirty seven , British Gas went down two point five to two two three , while British Telecom went down one to two seven five , the Goodhead Publishing Group stayed at fifty eight , Metalbox unchanged at one O eight eight , Morland Brewers went down two to two hundred and sixty eight , but Oxford Instruments stayed at two hundred and thirty , Thames Water down four at two two eight , Trustee Savings Bank up two point five at a hundred and thirty seven point five , and today 's major movers , Reuters up twenty four at seven hundred and thirteen , and Bass up ten at one O four six .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Lester Piggott today returned to the saddle after a five year exile in which he 's concentrated on training .
The bookies have been inundated with bets ranging from how he 'll do this afternoon , to er whether he 's likely to become Champion Jockey again .
Mickey , what do you reckon , is he going to be Champion Jockey ever ?
I don't think so , not again , but I am annoyed with him Jane , because I lost a fiver today plus tax on his first mount ; that was Lupesku , that came in at second at five to one , he then rode Balasinya and Patricia , I think they 're still running Jane .
But I'm very disappointed about that , because er coming into the final furlong , Lester was going very well on the inside , but just lost out on the photo finish .
I think he held the reins back and smiled at the camera ; so long since he did it .
But I don't think he 's going to be a Champion Jockey again , it 's too much for him now .
He has been , let 's mention his credentials , eleven times Champion Jockey , ridden over four thousand three hundred winners , including over twenty nine classics , or indeed twenty nine classics , and they are the one thousand guineas , two thousand guineas , the Derby , the Oaks and the St Fox Leger .
Well , that 's quite a list .
I mean , he 's , he 's fifty five isn't he , I mean it 's unlikely that he 's going to really be in the same , in the same league as Cawson or somebody who 's , who 's no age at all ?
It 's stamina Jane , he has a diet of about six cigars plus black coffee .
Coo , I don't want to be a jockey at all .
But er in France , there are , there are sixty year old , seventy year old jockeys , but he will win a race because all jockeys win races , I mean it doesn't matter how good they are , sometime or other they do win .
Probably he 'll ride in one where all the rest fall off .
The bookies are probably quite pleased to have him back because he 's got a very loyal following of er , of people who 'll put bets on him
Oh yes , he 's always the housewive 's favourite .
When it 's the Derby or any classic , they all chuck their money on him , I mean I did today , so my bookie will probably go off to Tenerife next week .
I wouldn't be surprised .
Right , well tonight at the Manor — Oxford under fifteens are facing their Reading can't , counterparts in the second round of the English Schools Football Association Cup .
Manager of the Oxford side is Hugh Jennings , who has high hopes his side can emulate past exploits of the Oxford youngsters .
The English Schools Trophy is effectively the schoolboy F A Cup , played for by about two hundred district teams throughout the country , and ending with a two legged final , at which Oxford have appeared on four different occasions ; the earliest back in nineteen O eight , and the most recent in nineteen seventy four , when unfortunately , as with all the previous three , we were defeated , on that occasion by Manchester boys , yet er the home leg was played in front of a crowd of twelve thousand people , which was the highest recorded crowd at the Manor that season .
Okay Mickey , it 's a , it 's a Monday night , had to think there for a minute .
What , what are you up to this evening on the sport front ?
Well I 'll be going up to watch that match that Hugh 's just been talking about .
I mean , twelve thousand at the Manor ?
I can't believe it — there 'll probably be a few hundred there tonight though .
But other news locally : Aylesbury United , they 've been drawn away to Dagenham in the fourth qualifying round of the F A Cup , and that match will be , and I 've checked this out , Dagenham play at the Victoria Road , and that 'll be on Saturday the twenty seventh of October .
Last year of course they did superbly , they beat Southend who were then in the fourth division , and look what 's happened to them , they 've gone up to the third division .
Before losing out to Northampton who were bullies , I was at that match at Buckingham Road and I thought they were bullies , especially Bobby Barnes , not the wrestler , used to play for West Ham , but he plays for Northampton now , he 's gone now , but they were , they , they were naughty .
I thought you were getting yourself into trouble there again , but you tell me he can't be listening to you .
I think he 's gone up north .
Yes fine .
The Chairman of Oxford United , Kevin Maxwell , says unless he gets planning permission for a new twenty two thousand seater stadium , the club is going to have to close .
Plans for the leisure complex in Blackbird Leys were released at the end of last week , and if planning permission is granted , it would include a bowling alley , restaurants , bars and a health and fitness centre .
Mr Maxwell says ‘it 's the club 's last chance’ .
If we don't get er permission , then er the club will cease to exist in Oxford .
Is that definite ?
That 's definite yes .
I mean , it 's , it 's er , it 's er very regrettable that it literally takes er a very good er Cup er run for Oxford to stand any chance of breaking even in a season , and if you consistently lose anywhere between ten and fourteen thousand pounds a week , er it 's almost inevitable that you will have to close .
So is it your last attempt at er trying to retain professional football in Oxford ?
It 's very much the last attempt — not er , not for , from the point of view of negotiating or er , but , but simply a matter of fact , er we need erm we need to move , we need to have additional sources of , sources of income , that er the type of facility that we 're looking to build will give the club to put it on a firm financial footing , and at the same time to give the local people of the City and er the , the surrounding County er tremendous new facilities .
Do you think there 's enough support in Oxford for you to be able to fill a stadium like that ?
Aah , now that 's er , that 's the er sixty four thousand dollar question .
I'm very confident that if er we have er the best first class facilities and that we can actually attract er new supporters , we can attract their families and we can actually look after er children , we can look after anybody er that wants to either come to the game er with their family or friends .
Er .
I'm quite positive that if we provide the facilities , people will come to watch .
What about local businesses , are they going to be getting involved , are you going to be asking for involvement from local businesses ?
Very much so , because er this is going to be a , a very substantial complex , er I think that er the involvement of the local community and local business can involve , can , can start with simply the construction , can go on to er the different , er the different types of businesses , I mean I'm not , I'm not in for instance in the licensed trade , but we 're certainly going to need people who are in that business , we 're going to need restaurateurs , we 're going to need er all types of local business , businesses to actually get that centre er thriving .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Composer and conductor Leonard Bernstein , who 's passion and flamboyance ignited audiences around the world for decades , has died in New York at the age of seventy two .
He was America 's most prominent conductor and known for compositions from symphonies to musicals ; his most famous was West Side Story .
Paul Woodley sends this tribute from New York .
For nearly fifty years he 'd worked with the New York Philharmonic , the orchestra 's manager , Nick Webster , was one of the first to pay tribute to his talent at America 's best known classical musician .
We at the Philharmonic , er Lennie 's family are especially sorry to see him go , he meant a tremendous amount to all of us .
The passion , the energy , the excitement that he brought was extraordinary , was , was special beyond words .
Leonard Bernstein started on the road to fame in the early nineteen forties when he was assistant conductor with the New York Philharmonic at the age of just twenty five .
The regular conductor Bruno Walder was taken ill , and Bernstein suffering from a hangover had to take over for a Sunday afternoon concert broadcast on radio across America ; he captivated the audience and the critics , as much with his conducting prowess as with his gyrations on the podium which earned him the nickname ‘Leaping Lennie’ .
It wasn't classical music that brought him his widest audience , but musicals like ‘On the Town’ , ‘Candide’ and ‘West Side Story’ .
Stage shows made Leonard Bernstein a very rich man , but he said he cared little for the money , his great love was for the music .
Money means absolutely nothing to me .
I mean as long as I have enough to take care of this house and my children , that 's alright .
It never occurs to me to want any more ; I sign contracts without reading them .
But when it came to music , he was a perfectionist , never satisfied to rest on his fame , he once said ‘when I give the perfect performance , then I will die’ .
Leonard Bernstein dead at the age of seventy two .
Traffic is still slow moving on the M twenty five between junctions fifteen and sixteen clockwise , that 's between the M four and the M forty .
On the M forty between junctions four and five , that 's between High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , there are two narrow lanes in both directions , with a contraflow for a short stretch about midway between the two junctions , and it also is down to single line traffic at times , as required .
A forty one , High Street Aylesbury , there are restrictions for traffic and Galley Lane , Great Brickhill , in Buckinghamshire is closed .
In Oxfordshire on the A forty three at Weston on the Green , there are lane closures there , that 's between Bicester and Banbury , and on the A forty one London Road , Bicester , there 's some resurfacing work taking place , and that 's causing restrictions to traffic going both ways .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And I 've no problems to report on either or trains .
Oxfordshire County Council has picked up two of this year 's Oxford Preservation Trust Environmental Awards ; the accolades aren't given lightly , and Moira Haines from the Preservation Trust says the County Council 's Awards are well deserved .
We also look at new buildings as well as refurbished ones , and the County Council have actually got an award in both categories .
So why exactly did the County Council get its honours , for what specific buildings ?
Well they got , there are three categories of award ; there 's a plaque which is the ultimate honour , and sometimes we don't ever award any , there are certificates and there are letters of commendation .
Well the County made certificates for the Polytechnic phase two student hostels off John Garne Way , er that actually for phase one was about the last time they got an award at all , and er the panel were very pleased with those , they said they had a nice community feel , and yet the occupants had some privacy , they thought they , and they were pleased to see how well phase one had weathered as well .
And then , that was the new building , the refurbishment was for the County Hall .
Now you could say that was perhaps maintenance , but it 's all been cleaned , it 's been repointed , there are new lanterns , they 've done all the paintwork and they made such a beautiful job of it , it 's really almost for the craftsmanship and the care that we gave them a certificate for that as well .
How important are these awards ?
Quite important , because we only give them for buildings which the public can see .
It 's no good doing the most lovely building right down a drive where no-one can see it , so it 's part of the environment for all of us .
And er it , it 's much pleasanter to work and to look at a pleasant environment than something that , that isn't .
I mean we gave a certificate for St Aldate 's Courtyard for instance , because we felt it looked really very nice and so much better than the office block across the road .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Six hundred thousand people in this country own video cameras , and a new programme by Granada television , called ‘You 've been framed’ is looking for your classic moments caught by the video camera .
Irene Daniels , who 's the programme 's researcher says ‘if you have a clip that makes you and your family laugh , then it 's odds on it 'll make other people laugh too’ .
Of the clips she 's received so far , her favourite involves Doreen and her dog .
She took her Great Dane puppy for a walk for the first time , when I say she was a puppy , she was huge .
She took her to , to the Sands and let her off the lead and she went bounding off , and she looked even funnier actually because she , er Doreen the owner had three little Yorkshire Terriers who made Penny look even more huge .
And then she came bounding back and could n't stop herself , went straight into Doreen , knocked Doreen off her legs completely , and she was just sprawled out on all fours , it was just hilarious , we , in fact we did an action replay on that because you had to see it again to believe it .
But Doreen was fine afterwards , I mean that 's something else that we 're very careful about , we , we would never show any clips where people are really hurt .
Particularly er children or animals who have no say in it at all , we , we take the view that er it 's a family show and we take that responsibility very carefully and very seriously .
Mm , because you , you erm have er the , obviously that you could be sent some dubious tapes ?
Yes , we have , I mean other types of , of clips that we wouldn't show for different reasons , for instance we , we got one last week where a chap was decorating his lounge and he 'd locked the camera off on himself , but he had no clothes on , nothing funny happened , he was just decorating with no clothes on .
It gave us a bit of a giggle in the office , but I have to say it 's not the sort of thing that we would show to the public .
Mm , not the something that 's sort of , funny that happened by mistake , something that was rather planned in that case
That was very planned , and , and on that subject of planned and set up clips , I know er it may be tempting for people to do that , er but can I just say that we , you just get a gut reaction for anything that 's planned , it might even be cleverly done , but you can't actually rationalise it , you just know if something 's not , not real , not , not accidental , so er I wouldn't really encourage people to , to do set up pieces .
If you 've a classic clip , then ‘You 've been framed’ , Granada Television in Manchester is looking forward to it ; send it to Irene Daniels .
And that was the Fox Report for Monday the fifteenth of October 1990 .
Drugs was found during a routine search by customs officers ; the heroin was concealed under textiles in the back of the Turkish owned vehicle .
It brings the total amount of heroin seized by customs officers in Kent this week to over a hundred kilos , two million pounds worth was seized from a car at Sheerness ; a fifty three year old Turk , Nemet Hanifi Kaboulu has been charged with importing heroin , he 'll appear before magistrates in the morning .
Leon Robbins , I R N , Dover .
Doctors say most people in Britain are likely to be drinking dirty tap water .
A study from the British Medical Association says levels of contamination from pesticides are rarely deadly , but it calls for more research into long term effects .
Here 's Judy Sedgewick .
Chairman of the working party which produced the report , Sir Christopher Booth says he wants the government to impose tougher controls on the water industry .
Most of the population do have a low level exposure to pesticide residues in tap water .
We therefore recommend that there should be a graded timetable reduction in the use of conventional pesticides , particularly where alternatives are available .
But Food Minister , David Maclean , has dismissed the report as outmoded , vague and inaccurate .
Neil Kinnock and Mrs Thatcher have clashed in the Commons over Britain 's entry into the European Exchange Rate Mechanism .
Mr Kinnock says the Prime Minister is too frightened to debate the issue .
Peter Murphy reports .
Mr Kinnock said the Prime Minister had set the Madrid conditions for entry , they had not been met , so she 'd caved in , he added .
isn't it now obvious Mr Speaker that her own personal position on this issue is utterly impossible to justify , and that she 's just plain ‘frit’ .
Mrs Thatcher rejected the charge , making it clear it was the Chancellor 's responsibility .
Unlike the Right Honourable gentleman , I have a most excellent Chancellor , an excellent , a superb
Labour M P 's jeered ; after all it was a year ago that Mrs Thatcher heaped similar praise on Nigel Lawson , just before he quit .
Peter Murphy , I R N , Westminster .
The Chancellor 's parliamentary private secretary has resigned .
MP Tony Fable says he 's quit so he can have his say on Europe .
He says he has the greatest respect for the Chancellor , but wants the freedom as a back bencher to speak openly about his views .
Hundreds of British lorry drivers are still stranded in Europe tonight because of a violent blockade on the border between France and Spain .
Spanish lorry drivers started the blockade as a protest over rising petrol prices , then their French counterparts retaliated by blocking their side of the border .
Owner of a Cheltenham haulage firm , Ralph Davis , says his drivers are trapped and the situation is nasty .
It 's very violent , there 's people been injured , trucks have been burnt and damaged and a lot of tyres have been spiked and er you know , generally it 's like a riot on , on the border , but the rest of Spain , it 's , it 's fairly peaceful , but all the roads are blockaded ; the drivers only problems are — where they 're getting stopped , is the facilities , they don't have any .
Foreign Secretary , Douglas Hurd , has failed to win a new deal for Palestinians from the Israeli Prime Minister , Yitsak Shamir .
Mr Shamir refused to reverse his decision not to allow the United Nations to investigate the killing of at least nineteen Arabs by Israeli security forces .
The first pack of Desert Rats is now trying to cope with the soaring heat of Saudi Arabia ; about four hundred troops in the seventh armoured brigade began arriving there today in an air lift from Germany .
From Saudi , I R N 's Phil Edwards .
The first plane load of Desert Rats was met by the Brigade 's Commanding Officer , Brigadier Patrick Cordingly .
He arrived before them to coordinate their integration into the first U S Marine expeditionary force ; he says the first task for his men will be acclimatisation with desert temperatures still in the high nineties .
We 're all ready for them to go .
Conditions are jolly hot there , and they 're going to have to get used to that quite quickly , the big thing is to get them through and out into the desert as quickly as possible .
The men are now looking forward to Saturday when the first Challenger tanks arrive ; it 's these that 'll play a key role in any ground battles should war become unavoidable .
Phil Edwards , I R N , Saudi Arabia .
Independent Radio News .
It 's Tuesday the sixteenth of October 1990 .
First a look at some of today 's main stories in some more detail .
A report just released by the British Medical Association , is warning that most people in Britain are likely to be drinking , be drinking contaminated water .
The study —‘Pesticides , Chemicals and Public Health’ argues that although the levels are rarely fatal , little is known about the risks to health from long term exposure .
The B M A wants tougher controls on the use of pesticides ; Sir Christopher Booth , the Chairman of the working party which produced the report , also wants the Department of Health to set up a pesticide incident monitoring unit , in addition to a reduction in the use of chemicals .
I don't think we can say poisons , that , that implies that it 's damaging health , we don't know that .
What we do know is that most of the population do have a low level exposure to pesticide residues in tap water .
Our problem is that we don't know whether long term exposure to those levels is in fact hazardous or not , we just don't know .
And the position we take , er as doctors advising the public here , is obviously to err on the side of prudence , and we therefore recommend that there should be er a graded timetable reduction in the use of conventional pesticides , particularly where alternatives are available .
What sort of chemicals are we actually talking about ?
Well all the sort of chemicals that are sprayed onto crops , are used for food preservation , and there are a wide range of them .
I 'd rather not er deal with them individually by name because many of them are comm , commercial products , but er there are a wide range of them as you know , that are used in commercial food production .
In concentrated forms , they can , these can actually have very serious effects on people 's health .
Well , we hope that it doesn't , er but of course if pesticides and other chemicals are misused , and , and er , er are used in ways which , which are not recommended by manufacturers , yes , they can be harmful , that 's quite right .
It 's six minutes past six .
Today is World Food Day ; it 's been launched by the United Nations as a reminder of the crisis of poverty and hunger in the developing world .
Refugees are particularly vulnerable to the dangers of these situations ; the world refugee population is around twenty five million .
But the U N High Commission , responsible for their care , has a budget deficit of forty million dollars .
The refugee studies programme at Oxford has announced it 'll be holding a symposium on the food crisis in March .
Lucy Bonner has this report .
Governments who take in refugees , refugee organisations and U N representatives are among those invited to the symposium which will address the food crisis .
According to Dr Barbara Harold-Bond , a major problem is who carries the can .
We 're trying to raise the question —‘who is responsible , who would I sue if all my children died in a camp on the Thai-Kampuchia border , who would be liable for , for those deaths , er If I'm there totally dependent on food aid , and the international community says it 's feeding me and they 're not ? ’
So you 'll be urging governments to do more ?
We 'll certainly be urging them to do more , and we 'll be urging them to do it more efficiently , and we 'll be urging them to be much more accountable .
I mean , do you know how many people die in a refugee camp ?
Well it 's not surprising because these kinds of records are hardly ever available ; if there 's research , usually it 's kept classified , because research isn't actually done on mortality and morbidity ; there isn't accountability in the international food aid system to refugees .
The refugees kept in the camps face many crises of diet ; not only is it not balanced in some cases , but it may also not arrive on time , causing disease and death .
One month you might get the beans , they might get through , another month , the rice might get through , another month you might get two months of oil .
But you can imagine running your household on that kind of a system , supposing you got the whole food basket , and supposing it was adequate , could you make your children eat the same thing day after day , after day after day .
Of course , you could n't , but poor little severely malnourished children are often given a , a kind of gruel which might be healthy , but to get them to eat it is very difficult , so kids , lots of things happen and .
So we 're hoping to address all these issues and er and also to try to bring people back to the awareness that food is a basic human right , the right to eat is a basic human right and , and that we have to find ways to make sure people enjoy that basic human right .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
If the Foreign Secretary and Witney M P , Douglas Hurd , thought he was going to get any change from the Israeli government , he now knows he was wrong .
After three hours of talks in Jerusalem with Prime Minister Yitsak Shamir and Foreign Minister David Levy , he came away with little more that a promise of more talks about the plight of the Palestinians .
From Jerusalem , Defence Correspondent , Paul Maurice .
For days Mr Hurd has been criticising the Israelis for the harsh treatment of the Palestinians , so it was only politic of the government here to invite him to the Yadvashim memorial to the Holocaust .
It was almost as if the Israelis were saying ‘if you think the Palestinians are suffering , see how more than six million of our people died at the hands of the Nazis’ .
Within minutes of leaving the museum , Mr Hurd was in deep conversation with the Foreign Minister , Mr David Levy ; the two hour session was conducted through interpreters , but Mr Hurd and Mr Levy had a long conversation afterwards in French which both of them speak fluently .
But it was plain afterwards that the Israelis had not moved one tiny step closer to accepting the United Nations Commission of Enquiry into the Temple Mount killings last week .
They have more er discussions at a senior level er of these particular problems , that there is in fact scope for a useful political dialogue .
At the end of the news conference Mr Levy was asked a question in Hebrew , to which he replied in the same language ; there was no translation , and Mr Hurd was forced to summon a member of the British Embassy staff to translate .
Whether designed or not , most observers took this as yet another snub to the Foreign Secretary .
In Hebrew , Mr Levy had spelt out the case for not accepting the Commission , because Jerusalem is the Israeli capital , and as such , shootings were a domestic matter .
But he added that the internal enquiry would publish its findings shortly .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's ten minutes past six , I'm Jane Markham .
You can expect delays on the A thirty four between Botley and Hinksey Hill , where there are long term roadworks affecting southbound traffic .
Banbury town centre , it 's the Michaelmas street fair on from today until Saturday ; there are various road closures and some traffic is being diverted , so that 's causing a bit of extra congestion to Banbury town centre .
Over in Buckinghamshire , Galley Lane Great Brickhill , that 's closed for roadworks .
And on the M forty , between junctions four and five , that 's between High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , it 's down to two narrow lanes in both directions , and a contraflow system for a short stretch about midway between the two junctions , also that 's down to single line traffic at times , so that could slow you down quite a lot .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And so far the buses and the trains seem to be running rather well .
Still to come : the Royal Pioneers from Bicester are on their way to back up the Desert Rats in the Gulf .
It 's a young platoon , it 's a young company , so , er yes they should enjoy it , it 'll be an experience that they 'll not get er anywhere else .
Now with a look at the day 's local news , here 's Paul Kirby .
The Health Minister , Virginia Bottomley has said in the House of Commons this afternoon that haemophiliacs who contracted the H I V virus through imported blood products , can not expect further compensation .
Around a third of haemophiliacs are treated by health specialists in the Oxford Region .
Conservative M P , Patrick Cormack , asked the Health Minister at question time , ‘if the government believes in action not words , then would she accept that action so far was unsatisfactory.’
The fact is that there was no case of neglect in these particular cases .
We accept the very great tragedy , and that 's why such significant resources have been made available to those families who were so grievously affected , amounting to an average of twenty eight thousand pounds each .
But it can not be accepted that every time there is a tragedy in the Health Service , where there has been no professional neglect , that instantly there should be compensation .
The implications for us all and for all health care would be enormous .
There 's been an accident on the A four twenty three road near Banbury .
A four year old child was taken to the Horton General Hospital in the town , with cuts to his face ; three other people were also taken to the hospital , one with a suspected broken pelvis .
And there have been two burglaries in Bicester ; last night a Ford truck was stolen and ten and a half thousand pounds ' worth of roofing was stolen from a roofing supply store .
Oxford Crown Court has heard how two masked men allegedly stole seven thousand pounds after terrifying cashiers at a dairy in Banbury .
Forty one year old antiques dealer , Albert Street , and director , Fred , decorator , Fred Holden aged forty three , both deny robbery and the unlawful possession of firearms .
Lucy Bonner reports .
The prosecution alleges the two men helped themselves to cash , having forced the two cashiers to lie on the floor at gunpoint .
It 's claimed the pair then escaped to Streetshome at Lexton House in Middleton Cheney , but both were found out two days later when they attempted to buy antiques and jewellery with used notes which had been marked .
The prosecution also claims the men produced false alibis , not realising they had been captured on police video at Streetshome on the day of the alleged raid , the case continues .
Fox F M News , Paul Kirby reporting .
It 's a quarter past six .
Leaders of Britain 's freight industry are calling on the European Commission to help free U K truck drivers trapped by road blocks on the French Spanish border .
The Freight and Transport Association wants the E C to step in after French lorry drivers put up blockades in retaliation at protests by their Spanish counterparts over fuel prices .
Spanish truckers are virtually holding hundreds of British lorry drivers hostage , and many of those trapped are too scared to leave .
This report from James Baize .
Spanish drivers are threatening to slash the wheels of any trucks which try to break the blockade .
They 've also blocked off the railway line , and British drivers say they 've been threatened at knife point .
John Walraven from Faversham in Kent has been stuck at a border customs post for eight days .
We can't go nowhere .
We are all a little bit down , you know , so we , we can't go nowhere .
There 's a lot going on , but we , we 're not getting involved , the safest thing is to keep out of sight , you know ?
Have you heard reports of violence against English drivers ?
Oh yes , anything that moves , has , has had their tyres slashed .
There 's two vehicles out there , and out of fourteen wheels , they 've had ten each slashed .
Press attache at the Madrid Embassy , Roy Osborne , says they 're doing all they can to help the stranded Britons , but he says conditions at the border are getting worse .
Certainly it 's , it 's , it 's tricky for them , obviously we don't know how long this strikes going to continue , and people in the area are facing er some initial food shortages , and basic commodities which would normally be moved by road , and indeed even as far as Bilbao this morning , there are a shortage of reported , of a , of basic necessities like milk and bread .
Er .
Obviously if you 're stuck at the border post it 's much smaller and therefore conditions will be that much worse , because erm the border 's not just capable of coping with this kind of number of people stranded where they are .
Diplomats have offered the British drivers accommodation away from the border town of Irun , but they 've all opted so far , to stay with their vehicles .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
A local army regiment has left an Oxfordshire air base this afternoon for the Gulf .
The Royal Pioneers from Bicester are heading for Saudi Arabia to carry out logistics operations in support of the famous Desert Rats .
The Pioneers will by now have completed the first leg of their journey to Cyprus .
Paul Kirby reports .
The one hundred and sixty strong Pioneers left R A F Brize Norton early this afternoon ; they 'll be joining Major Colin Code who went a few days ago .
Second in command , Paul Hancock , says they 'll be acting as back up to the Desert Rats at bases in the north-east of Saudi Arabia .
Primarily , it 'll be defence and security for the logistic installations , erm , dumps of ammunition and , and other stocks , as well as er guarding some of the headquarters locations .
Secondary we provide specialised labour to the ordnance , that 's the supply services , to the transport services , to the engineers and to the medical services .
The men aged from eighteen to twenty five , and are mainly new to service abroad , but Captain Hancock says his men are ready for the Gulf .
Well we 've had three weeks of normal work up training ; the guys are well aware of what the role 's going to be out there , and we have practised normal training , normal multi-training we 've just revised , we 're all trained soldiers , and that 's how far we 've gone .
Platoon sergeant Gary Howarth says ‘all the men are looking forward to the experience’ .
It 's a young platoon , it 's a young company , so , er yes , they should enjoy it , it 'll be an experience that they 'll not get er anywhere else .
But the men are also leaving loved ones behind .
They 're not expecting to return until Easter , and Private McCutcheon 's wife , Julie , says she 'll find it hard to cope without him .
I feel quite sad , and I'm going to miss him , because he 's never been away as long as six months before .
Are you going to write a lot ?
Oh of course , yes , you know , fifteen letters a day sort of thing , that 'll be about it , yes .
This is the Fox Report , it 's nineteen minutes past six .
It 's been a lively afternoon in parliament , here 's Sally Arthy .
Letters have been flying between number ten and Mr Kinnock 's office over a Commons debate on Britain 's entry into the Exchange Rate Mechanism .
The Labour leader wants Mrs Thatcher to address the House ; the Prime Minister says her Chancellor John Major should do it , at Question Time this afternoon , Mr Kinnock brought the matter up again .
Does the Prime Minister recall that on twentieth September , she was adamant in her own words , that the Madrid conditions won't be changed and that they include getting inflation near to the European average .
Will she tell us whatever happened in the following two weeks to make her completely cave in .
Mrs Thatcher replied that the government could have waited for inflation to come down .
Conditions had been met and there was so much speculation about when we were going to go into the Exchange Rate Mechanism , we took advantage of the excellent opportunity which , which
Order !
Order !
We took advantage of the excellent opportunity of monetary conditions coming within their limits to end all the speculation about when we should go in , and go in .
Mr Kinnock attacked again .
isn't it now obvious Mr Speaker that her own personal position on this issue is utterly impossible to justify , and that she 's just plain ‘frit’ .
John Major had taken Britain into the E R M said Mrs Thatcher , and so he should answer questions in the House .
The Prime Minister then went on to praise her Chancellor to shouts of ‘unassailable’ from the rowdy opposition benches .
The word Mrs Thatcher had used to describe Nigel Lawson before he left the Treasury .
Unlike the Right Honourable gentleman , I have a most excellent Chancellor , an , he 's superb
Order !
Order !
He 's a superb Secretary for Trade and Industry , and I shall be here answering questions every Tuesday and Thursday , and I hope one day he may know how to ask a good one .
In a second challenge over entry into the E R M , the Prime Minister said she was amazed by the small mindedness of the opposition benches .
‘didn't they want Britain to go in’ she asked .
It 's six twenty three .
Local government Minister , Michael Portillo , has been asked to give Oxfordshire special consideration when assessing grants to the County 's Community Charge levels .
Mr Portillo has been meeting with two leading Conservative Councillors from Oxfordshire to discuss the impact of the Poll Tax on the County .
Conservative leader , David Walden , and Bloxham Councillor , Keith Mitchell , asked the Minister to bear in mind Oxfordshire 's extra commitment to Social Services , the National Curriculum and increased expenditure on the County 's roads .
Conservative leader , David Walden , says they managed to convey the extent of the County 's problems .
We er emphasised to him the impact this would have on Oxfordshire 's er spending requirements and er the hope that the er spending that we get , and we get it in two ways ; one is through , called the standard spending grant , that is a general grant that was given to authorities to spend as they wish , and the other is a specific grants which are given for particular purposes , and some of them cover the legislation that I have mentioned , which we are required to spend specifically on the items for which they 're given .
Was Mr Portillo able to say categorically that ‘yes , Oxfordshire will benefit , next time the budget is planned’ .
He wasn't er able to be so positive as that , but he did certainly give us the impression that er that he 'd listened very carefully to what we had to say .
I think there were one or two er new items of information that he had concerning Oxfordshire which he didn't realise before , and he certainly gave us the impression that he would er , er take these into account when assessing the share out to Oxfordshire .
I think we have to say that er I would imagine that plans are well advanced for the nineteen ninety/ninety one/ninety two settlement , er so it may not be immediately that er we will get the benefit of what we said to him .
But we do have a measure of optimism that they might reflect themselves in further years like ninety two/ninety three and onwards .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
One of the country 's top environmental pressure groups has published details of a survey which shows horrific pollution of lakes in Scotland and Scandinavia caused by acid rain .
The National Society for Clean Air who 've carried out the five million pound survey said power stations in Eastern Europe are the main cause of the problem .
The Society 's president , Sir John Mason , revealed the survey 's disturbing findings , he says they prove acid rain is causing pollution far greater than anyone imagined .
We found that in areas of Southern Norway and Sweden , and areas of Scotland where there are hard granite rocks and thin soils , that many of the lakes and streams have shown er a progressive acidification since the industrial revolution , and that this has accelerated in recent years , until about ten years ago , when er the emissions of So2 from the U K , particularly fell , about , between about nineteen seventy and er today of about thirty or fell forty per cent drop .
And that 's beginning to show er up in the chemistry of the lakes and streams , some recovery of some lakes are already recovering in response to that reduction of emissions , but not all by any means .
So how much damage is that causing ?
Well quite a lot of the lakes and streams have lost their fish , of course that 's the , that 's the most important thing , between , particularly salmon and trout , and we have discovered that they are killed not so much by the acid , but by the aluminium which has leaked out of the soil by the acid water , the acid rain , and er that er the fish find this very hard to tolerate .
They actually er attack the gills er surfaces of the fish so that they lose body salt .
Whose power stations are causing this ?
Well , the er power stations all round the , Northern Europe are affecting it , as far as Norway and Sweden are concerned , er much of the pollution comes from Eastern Europe er and erm something like ten to twenty per cent comes from the U K as far as Norway is concerned , and five to ten per cent in Sweden .
Er .
In the , in the , in the U K of course , er and in Scotland , most of the acid deposition there comes from our own power stations .
Do think the rest of us in , in , in the Western world have a duty to give them money to , to help sort out the pollution problem ?
I doubt whether we can afford it , I doubt whether , I think the problems are so immense , er what really means is down I think , tearing down most of their industry and rebuilding it from scratch .
And er I don't know where the money would actually come from doing that .
As far as East Germany is concerned , no doubt Western Germany will take care of that now , er who could or would be able to do it for Poland Czechoslovakia , Rumania and the Soviet Union , is very much more difficult to see , and of course , if the West were to rebuild all their , all their factories , er and they were all modern , and with their cheap labour force , they would then com , almost completely er destroy our industry I guess in competition so that we would have a , that would be another problem I guess .
So there 's really very large economic problems here .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
John Duan Fu Suan is a Roman Catholic priest who 's in prison in Vietnam .
Amnesty International are unhappy about the circumstances of his conviction and they 're trying to find out more about it .
Clare Middell is from Oxford 's Amnesty International Group , Clare , how much do you know about this priest ?
Unfortunately very little , er we know he 's been in prison since nineteen eighty seven and that he 's been sentenced to ten years , but we haven't been able to determine er under what charge , what happened at his trial , whether he was given defence , er access to a lawyer , those kind of things , and er Amnesty believes that he 's been er imprisoned for his beliefs .
How did you come to find out about him ?
er Well it 's been allocated to the Oxford Group and the Central Amnesty found its information through er government releases , the media in Vietnam and er people from , who 've left Vietnam since .
So what sort of thing can you do to try and get him released ?
We 've er , at the moment we 're in a campaign of letter writing where we 've got er a body of people that regularly send out letters to er all the different government officials in Vietnam and to the Embassy in er London .
Er .
We 're also circulating a petition round , anything that 's trying to get the public awareness of it .
Because it 's , it , it can't be very easy to , to make contact with a , a regime like the Vietnam regime , I mean are you hopeful that it 'll actually do any good ?
I'm very hopeful because er , Vietnam since nineteen eighty six has been under a process of economic and political reform , and they have released er a large amount of prisoners over this time , and there are still a number of prisoners , such as poets er religious people that are still in prison , who are hoping that , with their renewed effort and attention from the media , this 'll er be changed .
You say you don't know what he was convicted of ; do you have any clues as to the sort of thing that it 's likely to have been ?
Well it , it 's likely to be of charged under one of the loose clauses of anti-government er activities which really could mean anything , and so there , it 's more likely to be that , and if so , we have to look at the evidence then that was used to back up this claim .
Have you had successes in the past using this method of , of trying to bring it to public attention ?
Yes , it has been very successful , it does depend on the country , but it , it does work .
It 's pretty heavy er clockwise on the M twenty five between junctions fifteen and sixteen , that 's the stretch between the M four and the M forty .
On the M forty itself between junctions four and five , that 's the stretch between High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , it 's down to two narrow lanes in both directions , with a contraflow system for a short stretch about midway between the two junctions , and at times , it 's down to single line traffic .
A thirty four between Botley and Hinksey Hill , you can expect delays southbound due to long term roadworks , and Banbury town centre , it 's the Michaelmas Street Fair until Saturday , and that means there are various road closures and some traffic being diverted .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And I 've still no problems to talk to you about , about the buses or the trains .
Still to come , on the Fox Report : Students from the newly reunified Eastern Europe , Eastern Germany , visit Oxford , and say ‘it wouldn't be a bad place to work’ .
I'm quite sure that er there are teachers from that part of Germany who would like to , to work in your country .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , it 's six thirty one .
Customs officers at Dover have made the biggest ever heroin seizure in Britain ; it 's sixty kilos with a street value of ten million pounds .
The drug was found in a container vessel under a consignment of textiles .
The government is dismissing doctor 's fears that millions of Britons are drinking water which has been contaminated by pesticides ; the Food Minister , David Maclean , describes the British Medical Association report , detailing the concern as outmoded , vague and inaccurate .
The Chancellor 's parliamentary private secretary has resigned because he wants his say on Europe ; MP Tony Favell says he 's quit as John Major 's right-hand man so he can air his true views from the back benches .
Fourteen Mafia bosses have been arrested by Sicilian detectives after a woman 's Mafia Godfather lover was gunned down by the organisation .
Police say the man was charged with drug trafficking and other , other Mafia activities around Sici , Sicily 's west coast .
Weather for the Fox F M area : After some early evening sunshine , the night will start dry ; cloud and some showery rain is going to spread in from the south er to parts of the region by dawn .
The lowest temperatures — just nine degrees celsius , forty eight degrees fahrenheit .
It 's six thirty three .
The British Standards Institution , Kitemark , more often seen on goods like washing machines and fridges , could soon be appearing on solicitor 's headed notepaper .
The Law Society and the BSI are drawing up plans which would allow firms of solicitors to apply for a kitemark .
Peter Taylor from Banbury solicitors , Hancock , says firms who were awarded Kitemark won't be judged on the number of cases they win , but the quality of their work .
It does mean that the way in which the case has been handled , the way in which it 's been approached , the cooperation between various departments in a particular office , has been done properly , and if the client has the opportunity of winning , he will win and not lose by sloppy work in his solicitor 's office .
When is this all likely to , to start ?
It 's at a very early stage at the moment , there , there is a code being drafted ; it 's got to go through various processes and probably won't be in general circulation till December/January .
Will you be applying for your er , your own er company of solicitors ?
I think it 's , I think it 's quite likely we will , most solicitors who are worth their salt will be contemplating doing so .
The problem is going to be the sheer weight of administration of schemes like this , and that 's going to make it very difficult for the small firm , because the solicitor sitting at his desk is his own manager , his own salesman and his own factory floor worker .
He 's got to fulfil all three roles , and the more managerial work going on in the office , the harder it is to find the time to do the work for the clients , which is what produces the fees .
The solicitors who , who get the kitemark , where will it go — how will people see it ?
I think it 'll be something which they can show on their headed notepaper .
Not outside their front door on their plaque ?
Probably not , but it , it is , it is at such an early stage that I'm not at all sure what advertising you say to speak , can be made of it .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
This week is National Chest Week , a first for the Heart , for the er Chest , Heart and Stroke Association .
The charity is also funding many research projects , and one of the beneficiaries is the Radcliffe Infirmary where Dr Chris Gerrard is Chest Physician .
Dr Gerrard , what sort of things will you be researching ?
Well we 're looking at a particular condition of the lung that affects patients in intensive care ; it 's a disease a bit like pneumonia , it 's called the adult respiratory distress syndrome , and it 's a disease that we believe is associated with a lot of fluid in the lung , and a compatriot of mine , Dr Young , and Dr McQuillam have been working on a research that er has asked the question —‘if we reduce the amount of fluid in the lung , do these patients get better and get better quicker’ .
And they have applied two rather unique techniques to study this question ; it 's a technique that 's er , er rather unique to Oxford , it seems that across the country , most people have looked at this particular problem of reducing the fluid in the lung .
And so far , with our results , it looks as if it does not seem to have a major impact on our patients , so we may be doing something that doesn't er particularly help the patients , and this is very important since we spend a lot of time doing these sorts of er procedures in our patients .
Now I mentioned that this was Chest Week and it 's the first time that the er Chest , Heart and Stroke Association have had a , a , a week specifically aimed at people with chest problems , or , or looking at chest problems .
Is it , is it a , a major problem , is it a major medical , medical problem ?
If you add up all the various er stroke and heart and lung diseases , er you account for possibly fifty or sixty per cent of all the deaths that occur in Great Britain each year .
So it 's an enormous problem , and certainly worthy of everyone 's support .
Now Lynne Taylor is Regional Executive for the Chest , Heart and Stroke Association , Lynne er is it , this is er as I said a new week , are , you hopeful that it 's , it 's working well ?
Well , we want to obviously make er people aware er both of their chest , I mean we 're coming in to the autumn , the winter period when er people who have er a residual chest problem will suffer far more , than say in the warmer , dryer and summer months .
Er .
But also to make people aware of the Chest , Heart and Stroke Association , what we 're trying to do , and that we 're there to help people as well as being er an organisation which just hands out money to er doctors .
We 're there for , to give the help and advice that people need on the day to day living , er because a person with say with a respiratory illness , er would need a lot of benefits er they , their lifestyle has to change , and often their home and adaptation has to change with , around it .
Now your a charity aren't you ?
That 's right , yes .
How , how do you go about raising your money ?
Ooh , various methods , er at the moment , we , there 's just solely six of us throughout the whole country , that er work on appeals , er we raise money through various means er from flag days in the street to major fund raising efforts , er and events that we organise er round the country .
Is there anything coming up locally in the next er
er November , mid November , we 've got an assault course er based at Bicester barracks , er army barracks in Bicester , and we 're inviting er various people over the age of sixteen , who live in and around the Bicester and Oxford areas er as well as down into Aylesbury , er if they 'd like to come and take part , and it 'd be sponsored for the Chest , Heart and Stroke Association and the work that we do .
And that 's mid November ?
That 's mid November , yes .
And do , do people have to apply to the Association ?
That 's , well no , if they , if they apply either to myself or my colleague , er I am based at St Edmunds Hospital in Northampton and my colleague is based in Birmingham , er they can er , er apply for an entry form and then for the sponsorship forms .
Now though Chris , this er is a charity and obviously you 've , you 've got research money from them ; if there wasn't a charity like this , would you be able to do the sort of research that you 're doing at the moment ?
Well , certainly this particular piece of work would have been held up , er the salary that we 're able to provide for this young researcher was absol , absolutely essential , and in Great Britain there is an enormous reliance on charitable funding for research , it 's absolutely essential .
Thank you both very much .
Thank you .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
The reunification of Germany has opened up new opportunities for many in the East , including a group of East German teachers of English who are visiting Oxford this week .
It 's the first time they 've been to Britain , even though some have been teaching English for twenty years ; they 're staying at the Oxford House School of English , and will also visit the Oxford University Press as the trip has been made possible by an East German publishing house .
The teachers believe language teaching will now become easier for them , and say the political changes have given students fresh motivation .
Now they know that in listening to information given by television , on television , er on radio , they can buy newspapers produced in Great Britain .
Another er important point is that now we can make use of text books that were not available in the past , we got a lot of help from er West German publishing houses , because they provided East German English teachers with er text books , with cassettes and other teaching material , er and that will help to improve the whole teaching situation in that part of Germany .
Do you think that education will suffer , what was East Germany .
I think there will be many differences in our education system now , we don't know what er system we take from West Germany as you know , we have to overtake nearly everything and we have to lose many things which were quite good in our old system and now we don't have the chance to er to bring it into the connection between East and West Germany , so that is one problem .
But generally I think it will become better .
In our own system over here , we 've had people criticising the shortage of teachers ; would any of you consider coming over to Great Britain to teach ?
That would be a very great challenge for us to do , especially because we have never had the chance before to think about that , but er now I think that could be , er could become reality and I'm quite sure that er there are teachers from that part of Germany who would like to , to work in your country ; maybe er English teachers er from East Germany teaching the German language here , that 's one thing I could imagine .
And for many of them this would be a dream to , come true .
You 're listening to the Fox Report , I'm Jane Markham .
Still to come : Lester Piggott back in the saddle , back on form .
Well the longfellow goes for his whip on Nicholas , but he 's got the advantage .
Nicholas it is in front Amiganamore and racing up towards the line , and it 's Nicholas , the maestro is back .
Financial report with Halpern and Woolf , keeping Oxfordshire in business .
Early U K share gains behind firmer overseas markets were eventually replaced by minor signs of the market worried about recession .
Falls on Wall Street had a knock on effect in London and by the close , the Footsie one hundred was down eighteen point three at two O eight three point six .
Prices of gold and other precious metals fell on rumours that Saudi investors are selling gold for sterling ; on the foreign exchanges the pound was fractionally down on yesterday 's close , ending the day at one dollar point nine five seven five , and two deutschmarks point nine six eight five .
Today 's shares : Abbey National down four to two two three point five , British Aerospace up four to five hundred and thirty nine , British Airways up two at a hundred and thirty nine , British Gas down five to two one eight , British Telecom went down four point five , ending the day at two hundred and seventy point five , the Goodhead Publishing Group went down two to fifty six , Metalbox were up thirty seven to one one two five , Morland Brewers down three at two six five , Oxford Instruments remained at two thirty , while Thames Water stayed at two hundred and twenty eight and T S B were up nought point five at a hundred and thirty eight .
Today 's major movers : Wellcome up ten to four hundred and sixty eight , and Glaxo down nineteen to seven hundred and forty four .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Graham Taylor has announced an unchanged side for tomorrow 's European qualifier against Poland at Wembley .
Mickey Ianotta our sports editor is here , Mickey , are you happy with who , who he 's chosen ?
Mmi Well I'm happy , but I'm never happy about playing Poland because it always brings back memories to me of the early seventies .
Now I can't remember which English player it was , either Bobby Moore or Norman Hunter , I think it was Norman Hunter because he played for Leeds , but they made a mistake and they scored a breakaway goal .
But they had this goalkeeper , do you remember him , his name was Thomasescu , he was about ten foot two , eyes of blue , and he stopped everything , Kevin Hector had a go , Alan Clarke , they all did , even Peter Shilton in goal .
It just goes to show how well he 's done , he was playing in the early seventies , but we should win ; what we 've got to do tomorrow is not just win well , but we 've got to pick up those points , we must win .
It 's a European qualifier and we do need the points , because Poland away are always difficult .
You 're going to be on the edge of your seat .
I trust they still haven't got their goalkeeper playing ?
er who , Poland ?
Yes , the one , the , the ten foot two eyes of blue bloke .
Well I don't know , you never know with these Eastern European sides , they 've always got something up their sleeve Jane .
Okay , what about the Oxford pair Jim Magilton and Paul Kee , are they going to be playing for Northern Ireland ?
Well I 've tried to ring Billy Bingham their manager today , but he can't make up his mind , he , he , apparently he 's going to name his side tomorrow .
I don't think Paul Kee will play , and to be perfectly honest , I don't think Jim Magilton will play , but we 're going to have to wait until tomorrow ; Billy Bingham just can't make up his mind .
, Well we 'll have to wait for that one .
Now Witney Town are in action tonight in the first round , first leg of the Southern League Cup against Gloucester ; special guest tonight will be the Sheffield Wednesday manager , Ron Atkinson .
But of a more serious nature to manager Malcolm Mackintosh , is their latest injury problems .
We 're losing Dan Taggart with ankle ligament trouble er caused the ache on Saturday , but we , Brian Flannery 's back after his flu bout .
Now you said it 's going to be a tough game , so a message ‘let 's get the whole of Witney down there’ .
Yes , hopefully we 'll get a big crowd today , Ron Atkinson 's coming to present the , the new strip before the game , so we 're hoping for a big crowd .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
Mickey , amongst the many local games tonight , I suppose you 're going to be at Marriott 's Close , are you ?
Yes , I urge everybody in Witney , put down your knives and forks , record your favourites on the video , come on down to Witney , give the lads a cheer , they are playing Gloucester City .
Ron Atkinson 's not the only attraction there , and they 're a tough team , top of the Premier Division .
But other games tonight : At Buckingham Road , Aylesbury United , third from top in the Vauxhall Premier , they 're playing the side who were top — Kingstonian , so they 're going to expect a crowd of nearly two thousand .
And do you know what they do at Buckingham Jane , their nicknamed the ducks , and all their supporters have these warblers that go quack quack , so hopefully we 'll hear a few of those tonight .
I might hear them at Witney .
In the Southern League Cup , first round , first leg , Buckingham Town , The Robins , they 're at home to Bury St Edmunds , and we 've always got one of these , now I know how Phil Angel feels on Saturday .
Wellingborough against Brackley in the Hillier Cup , that 's being played at the Dog and Duck ground , I would imagine it 's blow football in a pub , and finally , in the Overton Papers combination , pretty boring this one — Watford Reserves against Oxford Reserves .
Hmm , well , okay , last night Mickey , you and I just about wrote off Lester Piggott 's career , and er today , well inside the last furlong of er one of his three races I believe today , this is how Rapid Raceline 's course commentator John Penny , saw the closing stages .
in the distance and it 's Nicholas being pressed by Amigamanore , these two matching stride and the long fellow goes for his whip on Nicholas , but he 's got the advantage .
Nicholas it is in front , in front of Amigamanore and racing up towards the line , and it 's Nicholas , the maestro is back , he 's come back with that Nicholas .
Lester Piggott from Amigamanore , .
Well there you go Mickey , did you have any money on this one — I bet you didn't after what you said last night ?
Well no , no , I didn't fancy him yesterday , he was a bit rusty , he needed a day to get back into form , but two winners ; lets mention the other one , that one in the Biddistone all age stakes , Nicholas was there , six to four on , trained by his good lady and half and hour later , in the four o'clock , finish , Shining Jewel , romped home at eleven to one in the Gainsborough Claiming Stakes , a division two race for three year olds .
You know , I thought he was about fifty odd , but what I must mention Jane , must n't forget in his first race in the three o'clock , he came last on Ruddy Cheek .
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
An emotional reunion after more than fifty years has taken place today , between two Britons who were evacuated as children to the United States and their American foster mother .
Along with hundreds of other children , Dinah and Clifford Matthews from Totten in Hampshire , were shipped across the Atlantic to safety .
Their story forms the basis of a new exhibition at the Imperial War Museum .
Mark Phillips was there .
It was an emotional moment back in nineteen forty as Cliff , Dinah and their sister Sheila waved goodbye to their family and friends and set sail for America .
Cliff , who was just twelve at the time , remembers it was an exciting journey .
Well it was during the height of the er blitz ; we went in convoy from Liverpool , way north up amongst the icebergs which was exciting , and er then we came down to St Lawrence to Montreal , and then went down to er New York , and then eventually to er , we were dispersed around the countryside , and , and er we were fortunate enough to be sent to Cincinnati .
The children met up with their new foster parents , Bill and Janet Matthews .
My husband went to er a meeting of the English Speaking Union , whatever that is , and they said there was going to be need for homes for English children .
And so he said ‘well , we have three sons , all of whom were going to war , and er so we would have room for three children .
Of course , in England we were used to er especially at the beginning of the war , we had tea in the afternoon of course , and er when we got there it was dinner at night , with you know , meat and vegetables every night , that sort of thing , so it was quite a surprise .
And , and er my tummy took a while to get used to it .
I went from a er boy 's school and all that that implied at the time in England , strict discipline , uniforms , that sort of thing , to er High School , a mixed High School in Ohio where the atmosphere was totally different , much more relaxed , much more friendly .
The concentration frankly wasn't so much on education I think , er as it was in , in er bringing people up .
Both Cliff and Dinah loved life in America so much , that although they were shipped home after the war , they both decided to move back , and they now live there with their families .
The exhibition which opens today at the Imperial War Museum features their letters and memories of the time , along with those of their fellow Atlantic evacuees .
On the M twenty five between junctions fifteen and sixteen there 's some heavy clockwise traffic , that 's just between the M four and the M forty .
The M forty itself between junctions four and five , that 's between High Wycombe and Stokenchurch , there are two narrow lanes in both directions and a contraflow running for a short stretch about midway between the two junctions , there 's also down to single line traffic at times .
You might er be subject to delays on the A thirty four between Botley and Hinksey Hill where there are some roadworks on the southbound carriageway .
And Banbury Town centre , there 's the Michaelmas Street Fair going on until Saturday , so there are some road closures and various diversions for traffic .
Martin Lawford , A A roadwatch .
And it 's not been too bad in the rush hour on the er local public transport ; I 've no problems to report to you on either the buses or the trains .
Cambridge University Press have just published the Cambridge Encyclopaedia ; a one volume tome with over thirty thousand cross referenced entries .
Paul James , who 's the publisher 's marketing manager , er for their reference section , is travelling the length and breadth of the country to promote the encyclopaedia .
I asked him if he didn't feel a trifle audacious in coming to Oxford , home of Oxford University Press .
Well I'm not daunted I think , challenged I think is probably the word , but I think there is room in the market , I mean they have their Oxford English Dictionary say , which is one of their flagships you might say .
We have now the Cambridge Encyclopaedia which is probably as important to us as the dictionary is to them , it 's a really important new publication for us , and a book which there isn't really an equivalent from Oxford , so I think there 's room for both of us .
So this , this is the very first Encyclopaedia ?
From Cambridge it is , yes , er that 's actually one of its great strengths , because it isn't a thing which has been revised and added on to , it is completely new , and before we actually made it , our editor , David Crystal , er actually is probably the only person in the world to have sat and read through from cover to cover four other encyclopaedias , to find out what was wrong with them , how they could be improved .
And having done that daunting task , he then attempted the even more daunting task of putting all this information together into this enormous book , and it is , as you see before you , a very hefty tome .
It 's , it 's a hefty tome , but , some encyclopaedias run to about you know , fifteen volumes , so it must have been quite an editorial job actually .
It is , er it being a modern book as I say , completely new , it 's , it 's , it 's part of the desk top publishing sort of revolution , so the actual data base is , is all held on computer , on a magnetic tape and is actually much bigger than this single volume book .
But this is probably as big a book as you can get in one volume , which we wanted , we wanted a single volume handy desk top encyclopaedia .
So this is as big as we could get without it falling apart , so it 's a nice handleable book , though a little heavy .
Being on a data base , I suppose it means it 'll make it slightly easier to update when you come to update it ?
That 's , that 's right , it 's being updated now even as we speak .
I mean the book itself is just published last , er Thursday I believe it was , and er so it was up to date , is up to date until the summer , which is you know more up to date than any other book , so it 's got things like : Greta Garbo dying , and Princess Eugenie being born and Nelson Mandela being free , and of course it 's the first encyclopaedia to have all the details of nineteen eighty nine , the , the upheaval in , in Europe , all the political changes and whatever .
But of course the minute you put a , slap a cover on this information , it begins to , to change and people die and new governments are elected and whatever , er so yes , we are , we have in our employ someone who 's sole job it is to read all the newspapers , er watch the T V , all the media and keep all the information up to date , so the , that 's a full time job really and they 're working on the data base day and night
You 're listening to the Fox Report .
John Voight , the American film star , perhaps best known for his Oscar winning performance in Midnight Cowboy , is in Oxford for a couple of days .
Tomorrow he 's giving his first ever lecture at the University Examination School , which is actually open to anyone , not just students .
He 's here at the invitation of Jewish groups , the Habad House and the Oxford University , the Heim Society .
Tonight at nine , he 'll be at the British premiere of his latest film at the Phoenix Theatre in Oxford .
It 's his first film for five years and he told me it 's been creating quite a stir , because of its subject matter .
Reincarnation , deja vu , astral travel , the God force , is it all true ?
Eternity — something like that , you know ? , in some way , it 's a tale that in , the , that embraces those er thoughts that so many people are thinking these days , and yet I'm an old fashioned fellow , erm and I say that by saying er yes , this , this is some , somewhat of a er new age category , all these things .
Er .
And yet really , it harkens back to er very ancient thought , er half the world of course is teaching reincarnation , and even the Christian and Jewish world er have in their history the teaching of reincarnation , so it 's not something brand new .
But erm for us , we just felt well maybe , maybe there is something to that , maybe there is a possibility , erm in that area , in , in talk , talking about eternity .
Do , do the themes in your film echo the sort of themes you 'll be talking about at the er the lecture on Wednesday .
Well , I'm sure that there will be some folks at the lecture that will raise those questions , I , I have so much to say and I 've been making notes .
I have a , a little formal statement which I 've composed which says a very strong thing , and then I have you know , just a , a , quite a lot of little pieces of information that I'm composing so that people will get a , a view of me in my little journey .
And er the subject matter of the , the lecture is ‘Searching the heart of humanity , to find the common bond’ , which is of course , it 's , it 's just like my film ‘Eternity’ , it 's a huge , you know , it creates a huge expectation , but I'm not afraid to step in front of people now and , and er you know , present myself and say ‘well let 's ask the big question , let 's , let 's go for it , so er so it should be quite a lot of fun tomorrow .
Although these subjects are quite imposing , I think that er that both events are going to be a lot of fun , that the movie 's a love story basically and er it also has a lot of humour in it and fun , and the lecture er it 's not , not only quite serious in , in a sense that , with the topic , but it 's also quite audacious , and I think that , that er there 's an element of fun to that too .
In other words , I 'll tell a few anecdotes about my life , I 'll expose myself to these students and the people who are interested , and well you know , what 's going on with me and we , we 'll have some fun , so it 'll be anything but dry .
And Jon Voight 's film ‘Eternity’ is premiered at the Phoenix Theatre at nine o'clock tonight ; his lecture is tomorrow at five o'clock at the University Examination School , and all are welcome .
And that was the Fox Report for Tuesday the sixteenth of October 1990 .

cos it makes a fun funny humming or buzzing noise because it picks up the vibrations through the table otherwise .
Now then Pen and pencil would would be a useful idea .
Now what did we do before ?
Erm we 've done time signatures , compound time signatures .
Erm
Yeah didn't we ?
tonics all that sort of stuff , diminished , augmented
We did some intervals
intervals .
Yes .
Right .
Now can you tell me about time signatures ?
What , what are the two types of time signatures ?
Compound
Mhm .
and erm what 's the other one ?
Simple .
Simple .
Yeah .
Just ordinary simple and compound .
And there 's
Simple and compound .
Yeah .
Compound 's things like six nine , six nine erm
Nine twelve
Yeah .
That sort of stuff .
At the top .
That 's the top number .
Erm .
And compound is three four .
Tha that 's comp that 's compound .
Now compound is always six .
Oh .
Simple is just ordinary three beats a bar ,
Yeah .
four beats in a bar , two beats in a bar .
It 's the compou think of compound as being the one that 's more difficult to think about .
Six eight times , nine eight times .
Yeah .
Right .
Still leaves three two three or four beats in a bar , but they 're compound times .
They 're dotted beats .
That 's really all that compound means .
It means dotted beats .
Erm what would twelve twelve four ?
Think about twelve four cos that 's a compound time .
It 's got twelve at the top .
Erm it may help to look at it .
Cos you can't think about it straight away .
Think twelve , and it 'll be twelve what ?
Dotted semi-quavers .
No .
What does four stand for in an ordinary time signature ?
Oh crotchets .
Right so
So .
if there are twelve of those .
Twelve crotchets .
One two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve .
Think of them in groups of threes and that gives you four dotted ?
Quavers .
No .
Semi-quavers .
You 're , you 're going small
Yes .
and you 've got to go the other way .
Oh yeah .
It 's erm
If there are tw if there are twelve crotchets and each of those are in groups of three .
Dotted minims .
So you 've got four dotted minims .
So twelve , I mean if you can remember them twelve stands for four beats in a bar anyway
Yeah .
and if you just think what twelve crotchets are going to be divided up into
Mm .
it 's going to dotted minims .
Cos you know it 's going to be dotted something or other .
And if you were to see er an extract of music for example here 's a twelve eight one .
This one actually tells you it 's in twelve eight time .
And it 's asking you to put in the bar lines .
Where would you put those bar lines do you think ?
It would al I think it probably also asks you to to group them properly .
But just for the moment we won't worry about the grouping aspect .
I think , assume everything starts on the first beat of the bar as well .
Okay .
It 'll tell you if it doesn't .
Erm
Eight stands for ?
Quavers .
Right
One two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve .
So obviously the first one would be there .
And probably if it 's going to be a whole one
One two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve .
So in fact there are just two bars .
Now how would you actually group those notes ?
Erm it 'd be groups of three again wouldn't it ?
In groups of three .
Those two 've got to be grouped together .
One two three four
Er it 'd be sort of half of that .
Half of the erm crotchet .
I don't know how you do that .
Can we go backwards .
One two three four five
You can only do it if you miss out that .
One two three .
One two three .
And that leaves you with a a little bit
Right .
Yes .
It actually explains it .
Exactly what they want you to do .
Er where you 've got a note that obviously goes over a beat as in that one there
Yeah .
you 're , you 're going to have to write two quavers and tie them .
Is that what you said ?
Yeah .
It might have been what you said .
So those two okay .
That one will be joined to a quaver beat , so that you 'll have a group of three .
And another quaver , those two will be tied the join taking them onto the next group of three and so on .
So basically you 're splitting this in compound time ?
Yes .
So it it 'd still sound
Cos that , that actually looks as though it 's the half way part of the bar too doesn't it ?
So , and you , you don't actually go over the half
Yeah .
way part of the bar with one single note .
If you 've got a note it 's got to be held .
You actually split into two an and use a tie .
If you 're in two time or four time which you are .
You 're in four four dotted crotchets beats there aren't they ?
You will sometimes be asked to er look at something like that and then put the time signature in .
These have got the time signature in but you 're , they 're asking you to put in the bar lines and then grouping the notes properly .
As in that one , you 've go you 've got to alter what they actually put there .
Not going to alter the sound of it .
The sound must still be the same but you 've got to alter the notes for grouping purposes .
That may happen in any of those .
I wonder if they 've got any here now that haven't got any time signatures , because that 's the other thing that they they like to give you .
Down here .
Add time signatures .
Alright .
Let 's see what you can make of first of all that one .
And whether they 're all compound , they may not all be compound .
Some may be , some may not .
I don't know .
Find the simplest bar in each one .
this one .
Looking through it that is the simplest one cos you can see
Yes .
at a glance there are two
It 's all , it 's all
groups of three aren't there ?
Yeah .
So that 's obviously going to be in compound time .
What though ?
Erm
Fairly easy to put in a time signature .
Six twelve .
Six er now wait a minute .
What 's four is for crotchets .
Eight is for quavers .
Double it again , sixteen .
Six sixteen .
It 's gonna be sixteen .
So six sixteen .
And that actually means two dotted crotch two dotted quavers I mean , doesn't it ?
Cos each group adds up to a dotted quaver .
Mm .
So it
Yeah .
As you 've got here .
That 's right .
In fact , if anything , which is the easiest way round of doing it ?
To be , if you 're asked to put in a time signature ?
It 's not always so easy to to group notes .
I think people find that more difficult than actually saying what a time signature is .
Mhm .
What about that one ?
Erm
Take the simplest bar .
Three quavers .
So the time signature is ?
Erm three eight .
Three eight .
Now
And it 's grouped in a dotted crotchet .
Yes it is .
Now is that compound or is that simple ?
Three eight is simple .
It 's simple because it 's just got three at the top .
Mm .
It looks as if it ought to be with the compound ones but it 's not .
It 's just an ordinary simple one .
But it 's quaver beats instead of crotchet beats , that 's all .
So that was a simple one , that one was a compound one .
We 'll do one more .
What about this one ?
Is there an easy ?
No they 're , they 're all , virtually all exactly the same
Erm
timing aren't they ?
They 're not quite the same .
two three four five six
Yeah .
six erm six four .
Yes .
Six four which is dotted ?
Minims .
Two dotted minims .
Yes , yes .
Two dotted minims in a bar .
That 's one of them .
And that , in fact that 's probably the simplest bar isn't it ?
Because
Mm .
that 's a group of three .
Much the same as a dotted , dotted minim .
Erm simple or compound time then ?
It 's
Six
six four
four
that 's simple .
No , compound .
Compound .
Two , three , four or five would be simple times .
Six , twelve They sound more complicated
Mm .
so think of them as being compound .
Right .
That way round then isn't so difficult .
That I think you I think most people find it more difficult having to group the notes in the right , in exactly the right way .
So I think .
This is actually a grade four one .
We 'll lead up gradually to grade five .
Yeah .
I'm not going to go all the way back through grades two and three .
You started on two I think .
Or you 've got Book Two .
We 'll go , we 'll go from
I think .
here .
And anything that you find you don't know then we can perhaps go back on just the bits that you don't know .
Because you 're not going to have to go back on many of the things .
This book , these books are quite good because they do give you a little bit of explanation .
You 've also got er other books or another book at home which you can refer to if you need any extra .
Erm it might be an idea to go back .
You won't find you 're going to take much time doing some of these .
If you do exercise one for the time being don't worry about that one , exercise three .
Shall I write it down ?
Yes , it would be a good idea , wouldn't it ?
Mm .
Do you want to write on the back of
It would be because you 've already got some in here haven't you ?
I think I probably
Yeah .
Actually I 'll carr I 'll carry on on
And the date today is the
The twenty eighth I think .
Ah the twenty eighth .
It 's the next thing on isn't it ?
So if you 're looking in the grade four book put down page four , exercise one .
If you have a look at each one of those .
Rather than write them in the book , just put the answers down either on a on a piece of paper .
As long as you put clearly what it is you 're putting in .
Then I can just use these books over and over again .
It 's a bit pointless writing in them .
When it comes to exercise three that 's on page five , exercise three .
When it says add bar lines it won it won't hurt you to actually write those out .
Because
Okay .
you really need to group the notes .
Well the notes are grouped but you 're gonna add the .
Write it out because it 's all good practice for
for you actually .
At er writing out notes as well .
So you can do exercise three .
Not that one for now because that 's doing something different .
Now which are the ones that you 've got to to group ?
So far over here .
Right .
Page page eight starts exercise six .
In fact do all of those .
Do A through to F .
And that 's grouping notes plus the bar lines .
The later ones are always quite hard .
And they 've given you they 've actually given you , not in this one , but they do give you the clefs here .
They 've given you the clefs .
Did we look at those before ?
Alto clefs and tenor clefs ?
Er don't think so .
Have you come across those before ?
come across these .
You 've come across the treble and the bass right ?
and the bass , not these alto or whatever .
Erm if just take just think of singers at the moment .
Soprano is the highest , then an alto
Soprano , then an alto , tenor , bass
tenor and bass .
Soprano is the highest voice .
Then comes the alto .
Then the tenor and then the bass at the .
Oh right .
So is
So
that 's that 's alto .
So is that one up from
It 's one down from
the treble .
Think of it as being the next lot down if you like .
Then there would be a tenor clef and then a bass clef .
The only reason that , that you 're using a different clef is that it 's actually putting middle C in a different place .
On the stave .
So that for example an alto doesn't need so many notes , high notes , but needs a few more lower notes .
So if you just kept your treble clef you 'd have a lot of lines possibly that you were n't using at all .
And having to add a lot of low ledger line notes .
That saves doing that .
Because they position middle C .
Middle C 's actually positioned between those bits there so the middle line there becomes middle C .
Which means that you 're unlikely to have to have quite so many ledger line notes .
Although this has got one or two .
But not as many as you would have if you were using the treble clef because you 'd probably end up with a lot of lower this is wha , that isn't a particularly good example really because it has n't given a lot of lower notes but normally you 'd expect to see more notes down on these lines .
Soprano wouldn't go down that far .
A soprano would only go down to about erm oh about what ?
Middle C is probably a bit too low for , for most sopranos .
But an alto would go a lot lower , would go down probably to an F or a G .
So that these notes would be low .
If that 's middle C you can te what would the bottom line actually be ?
Bottom line ?
That 's C
Er it would
It 's here .
er G .
C A F , you 're right , yes .
Erm so that in fact a true alto would be using most of the notes there .
And just a few ledger lines above .
Unlikely to be using whereas if they were using the treble clef for most of the time
F G .
Yes .
And then the other one , the tenor clef .
Have they given you a tenor clef ?
No .
They 'll give you a tenor clef a little bit further on .
They may not actually put the tenor clef in till grade grade five now I come to think about that .
But there 's no point in
Not learning it
about it now because it 's just as easy really .
Tenor clef looks exactly the same but middle C is now there .
Next line up in fact .
So because a tenor sings a little bit lower you 've got more of the lower notes and fewer of the higher notes before you need to add start adding ledger line notes .
Sometimes of course you 'll , they 'll still need ledger line notes up there .
And perhaps one down there but not very likely .
So it 's just to make it much more comfortable to look at .
Just means you have to get used to thinking , right if that 's if , if that 's er er a tenor clef then that note won't be it would be , be an A in a bass clef and F in a treble clef .
What will it be for that clef ?
In this erm oh
Going downwards going backwards is , is more difficult isn't it ?
Yeah .
Much easier working upwards from C .
That line 's C .
So that line
C .
would be ?
C A F D
Er C A E You go one below it .
Oh yeah .
You know F is next in fact C yes .
That 's A , that 's F , that would be D so it 's between the two which , which is an E .
And if you were going above of course , that note would be ?
E .
E and remember that it 's the E just above middle C .
And that 's the E
Does the middle C
always come up on a line ?
Well it 's yes it does in fact .
Mm .
I hadn't actually thought of that before .
But yes it does seem to .
I suppose theoret theoretically you could actually move middle C to wherever you wanted to have it .
But generally speaking they us they use just the four clefs .
Now certain instruments use the alto clef .
Just a minute .
Hello .
Oh hello .
Alright .
Right I 'll fetch him , I 'll fetch him .
Yes he 's here .
Oh somewhere he is .
He 's jus just upstai he 's just upstairs so I sha n't be a moment I 'll go and call him .
Gosh she 's going to have fun with this tape .
Go on out you go .
Right Yes .
So middle C then can be almost anywhere .
Yeah .
What instrument do you know about do you think that uses something other than the treble clef and a bass clef ?
Or have you come across the one that
Erm instrument that I know .
Well that , that you might know .
It 's not actually a percussion one but it 's er in fact I don't , I think most of the percussion ones tend to use a a bass clef don't they ?
Yeah , yeah .
If you see one at all .
Yeah or erm xylophones and glocks and those .
Except they use treble and bass
They use the treble don't they ?
Yes .
Er Bass or whatever .
Yeah .
Xylophone .
Yes , it 's a treble .
And a vibraphone ?
Just I 've got one of those nice little
Yes .
It 's just like a , a small sort of piano .
doesn't have a very long
key keyboard .
It doesn't I don't think .
Quite an
It 's a piano and it 's
odd range .
It 's very high .
Because in fact although it 's written from there all the way up to there , erm that is it starts at the C above middle C and goes up
Yeah .
to very high the unfortunate thing
snare drum .
I think that 's played on the bass what would be on the piano an A .
Yes .
It , it , they
use cert certain lines don't they ?
They use yeah erm
So that you , you get to know what is
I think it 's er
what is what .
A is the bass drum .
Yeah .
er
I think it 's G they use as the high-hat and there 's all sorts of things .
Yeah .
I don't thing they one thing they don't give in this book is a complete score
Yeah .
which oh do they ?
No they don't .
No .
Which of course I 'll ask yeah I 've got plenty of those sort
Mm .
of things anyway .
You have to know an awful lot you know for grade five .
You , you 've got ta have quite a wide knowledge .
You , you don't have to , need to know anything in , in depth but you 've got to know
But you 've got to know shallow a wider range .
Yes that 's right which means in a way that you 've got to know quite a lot .
There 's erm an alto , no , yes an alto clef , isn't it ?
For trombone , no , it 's not , it 's for , yes it 's for one of the trombones , isn't it ?
Tuba .
Oh I erm found out what that brass instrument we could n't think of .
What was it ?
Euphonium .
Euphon yes .
You 're erm isn't it silly
Mm .
I 've , I 've
because you see I could see wh exactly what you were talking about in my mind
Mm .
but I could not think of its name .
Yeah .
I got into the car and I was still erm thinking all about this
It 's , it 's , yeah .
and my mother said straight away , oh you 're thinking of a euphonium .
Yeah .
That 's the one .
Yes .
It 's so silly isn't it when er you know that you knew it all the time .
Now then .
The one I'm looking for is what , have I got to the strings yet ?
No I haven't got back to the strings .
These just use the bass or the treble clef .
And when you get back to the There we are .
The strings .
It 's the viola that we 're actually looking for .
Sort of bass violin .
Sort of bass violin , yes .
There we are .
That 's the one that uses it .
So that you see even in a score it would be written like that .
So that 's the only , only instrument that you generally see , actually see using it in most , most schools .
Unless you 're going into some of the tenor erm and alto

Can I sign those for accuracy , please ?
I'm taking the silence to be assent .
Matters arising on those minutes on page one .
On minute one one four , I'm using my privilege as a chair to hang on to that ; the fact that the Poly are to hold a conference on health and housing in the new year .
I 've asked that members be invited to that , I'm sure some of you 'd be interested to do that .
You may recall that this committee has asked for a health and housing conference but we seem to get under it rather a lot of times , nothing it appears to be happening .
Can I have your agreement that we write to the director of housing and ask for his position on it ?
Will you agree that we do that , rather than have the same thing coming up time after time .
Anything else on page one ?
Also on that , chair , just to clarify the situation , because I know it 's a bit vague , we are erm asking the health authority to run the erm meeting with other local authority counties , do you remember ?
The referral agency 's to be in B ?
Right , lovely .
We 're doing that .
Great , thank you very much indeed for that .
On page 2 , matters arising .
Sheila ?
One one six , chair .
I would like to congratulate the officers for that day .
It was a very educational day , but extremely harrowing afternoon , which is still living with me .
And I would like to say at this point I was very disappointed that we didn't have any other conservatives with us in the afternoon .
Could I suggest probably in future that if we do that we have the harrowing parts in the morning so everybody can see it .
Can I say about that little dig at the conservatives , I did actually have
No , we were expressing our sorrow , Graham , I assure you
Yes , well , I have had a recent case , erm of within the ward that I visited , so I am aware of having the number of problems in the past , I am aware of the problems , but I could not for personal circumstances do the afternoon that day .
I understand , Graham
I do rather resent it when there are other council committees , there 's Town Hall Strategy Working Party in the afternoon , now if we 're going to be sure that we can all get to this without conflict with other committees , erm I had to be there on behalf of the Lord Mayor because she had duties , erm and I was very sorry not to be able to come , because I have dealt , visited many occupational , I wanted to visit the officers , and you know , it isn't always possible where you have a conflict of interests .
Is it possible perhaps if when we have another day , I take the point that perhaps the morning 's but then again we 're bound to miss something else , If we can have it a day that is clear of other city councils
It may be
Could meet before
that if we pass on some of your comments at the end of the section , maybe they 'll be able to arrange , maybe in two or three months time a visit that most of us can make , particularly those of you who missed it , because it is an important experience , but obviously quite difficult to arrange , because it involves real tenants and real people but we can pass that back , and I'm sure the officers will consider it .
Chair , erm on that , if that could be arranged in two or three months time , perhaps we can see how the Charter of Commerce is working out , because I think many of us are very interested to see how it is working out , we could erm discuss with somebody who 's in bed-and-breakfast , who could then erm tell us how the Charter of Commerce is working .
Very appropriate remark , Michael , the charter is up for review at any event , very shortly , because it was on a six-month trial as it were .
So I agree with that , thank you .
Page three ?
Yes , on page three , one twenty , chair , we asked for a date , the date of that conference is the thirteenth and fourteenth of December .
That 's probably helping Nora .
It 's not on the minutes , but just to remind you , the thirteenth and fourteenth of December , thanks Tony .
Is it to be in the Town Hall ?
Is it in the Town Hall , Tony ?
Blessed if I can remember , chair , no .
In St Catherine 's , Vice Chair suggests .
Page four ?
On page five , those of you who were at the last council meeting will know that the City Centre Management Working Party were charged with the responsibility of looking at the whole issue of street trading .
They have now done that and they will be making a report , I hope , fairly shortly , either to us or or both .
On item four on page five , you 'll see that we said ‘relevant papers to be sent to all members of council’ .
Pragmatically , I suggested to the officers that a summary of those papers be sent to all members of council in the interests of saving paper , and that if you see something you want to know more about , you then go and talk to David Turner , is that agreeable ?
Otherwise you will be inundated with paper .
Item one two four , Highways and Traffic do not agree with us on touting .
And I'm sure we shall sit quietly over that .
Page six , Matters Arising , page seven , yes ?
I was just going to ask if we have a diary ?
Tony ?
Not at this stage , chair , next committee you should have .
Thank you .
Okay ?
Can we use item one two nine on the minutes , first of all to say that some of us were at the H I V awareness training session last week , with Robin , we enjoyed it enormously , she 's hiding behind the thing .
Looking for the right word !
So we want to say ‘thank you very much’ to Robin , and also , this is our opportunity to learn officially that Robin is leaving our employment , I think in February ?
Yes .
And it 's an opportunity for her and me to say a couple of words to us , and for us certainly to thank her very much for her service .
I just wanted to let you know that in February , won't be hiding behind an OHP , erm I 'll be taking up a post with the European Commission , working with Aids services throughout Europe .
erm I'm very sad to be leaving Oxford , I 've very much enjoyed working here , and it 's been good to work for a council with such a high commitment to H I V , and to fighting Aids , and erm I very much the support I 've had from the committee and I hope it will continue erm in this way .
So thank you very much .
I'm sure Health committee 's commitment to the post will continue .
And I'm sure I speak on behalf of you all when I say thank you very much indeed to Robin , you 've done an excellent job , and we shall miss you .
Thanks .
Can I chair just draw your attention to one or two items .
I hope this committee will , since everybody else is doing it , yet again , my absolute , the officers and the management on Northway Community Centre
It 's on the agenda Betty , you 'll have another bite at this cherry .
Oh is it ?
Yes
Oh , sorry , right .
Anything else on page seven ?
Most items are on the agenda , actually .
On page eight , item one three two , can I draw committee 's attention to , says she , feverishly flicking through the pieces of paper , to a letter that John Patten has written to us , you 'll see what we asked Amanda to do on our behalf , Amanda Root , Women 's Sub also asked her to do that , and John Patten , surprisingly enough has written back , his private secretary has written back , she continues to say , ‘Mr Patten is used to getting communications from Chief Officers conveying the views of committees , he has never had any correspondence from Sub-Committees through other officers’ .
Now , I wonder whether the opposition members might not like to take that up with their M P .
I think an MP is there to respond to correspondence , and I'm very surprised that he takes issue with one of our officers because she doesn't happen to be the Chief Officer , and I'm very sad about that .
Can I just ask , I'm not usually a member of this committee as you know .
So you might be out-of-order in speaking , in fact .
Can I say that sub-committees , as I understand it , report to main committees ?
Yes they do .
So , in fact , had that decision gone to the main committee , or is it going , is it coming here now .
This was a decision of main committee , on page eight .
I understood it in fact from what you said that it was a decision of the sub-committee .
Women 's sub also happened to say the same thing .
Yes , Mavis ?
Sorry , if I could just clarify , I was actually at the meeting of Women 's Sub , erm as was Robin in fact , and they , the Women 's Sub-Committee considered the minute of this committee , and endorsed erm , in fact , Amanda didn't write until the meeting of women 's sub , because it was being considered by them , but erm they didn't add anything substantial to what was this committee had said and they did .
I just think it is , in fact , a great shame that the MP only acknowledges some letters if they happen to have the kind of status that he appreciates .
I don't think there 's a defence for that .
Betty ?
Well , he seems to have been conspicuous by has absence in respect to these things .
He has been invited to talk to other committees in the past and has decided not to do so .
Now , I don't take very kindly to that .
Whatever he thinks of the political make-up of this council , he owes a duty to the city and to his council .
And I think this is a an another example of how little he seems to care for this city .
Well , on the specific issue , which is item one three two , are we agreed that we write quite clear but nonetheless firm letter to Mr Patten , explaining that we are minded to ask him to comment on these matters , it this time comes from the Chair and the Chief Officer about and perhaps he will therefore take it more seriously .
Are we agreed that we do that ?
Graham ?
I was just going to say that I'm sure he it 's not that he didn't take it seriously .
It may well be he felt that there wasn't necessarily the full authority of the city council and administration sub committee .
Now clearly , he responds every day to individuals of the public .
Here , I can only think that he was saying , ‘well , we don't know that there 's the full authority of the city council in this view’ , but erm I'm not going to put up a defence , I just think that what we do is basically stress from yourself and from the chief officer that we do want this file known .
Could I have a copy of the letter , please , can I take it up ?
You certainly can , Anne , thank you .
Other matters arising on page eight , you 'll see on item one three four that we did investigate the possibility , did we , have we got a response on that , of an officer being part of the joint care planning team .
I wonder if the county have responded to that , yet ?
We haven't had a response .
We haven't got a response , fine , okay .
Item eight , any more Matters Arising ?
Item , erm sorry , page nine , on the Food Safety Act , we did write , the Chief did write , to Andrew Smith , to ask about the position on the Food Safety Act , as far as monies go , and I will read you the response , it was a question in parliament .
‘The Government has estimated that local authorities in England will need to spend twenty four point seven million pounds in ninety-one , ninety-two to carry out the additional duties resulting from the Food Safety Act .
This additional cost is being taken into account in a total of aggregate external finance .
The post to be twenty-six point oh five billion which will be distributed to Local Authorities on the basis of standard spending assessments .
My Right Honourable Friend will be announcing our imposing Standard Spending Assessments in the near future.’
The implications for us are that we shall have to find it very hard to ensure that we get a share of that grant to spend on implementation of the Food Safety Act .
I would suggest that the government would be a lot , lot better adding a ticket to amounts of money , which said ‘You either spend this money on implementing the Food Safety Act , or you don't get it.’
Future Labour Government 's committed itself to doing that , and I would suggest that the Secretary of State should do it , because we 're not guaranteed to receive that money at all .
erm Anything else on page nine ? erm On Nestlé , Chief 's reminded me that we have got , I received today , a long letter from Nestlé , basically saying they won't be coming today .
I shall make that letter available to the solicitor who we have asked to check out with Estates , and with other authorities regarding the way forward , if we wish to make any public statements about our dealings with Nestlé .
I'm not putting it around the table , because it 's a very long letter , and I don't think we could have a worthwhile discussion on it right now .
Yes , chair , actually gave it to this headed copy of it to consolidate erm with regard to contacting Leicester and Leeds Councils that have also sort of taken action against Nestlé , that 's still being done .
The officer at Leicester 's not available at the moment , so he hopes by the next meeting erm if Leeds have an opportunity to see that letter , and perhaps have a short report on what this council does with respect to Nestle/1 and also what other councils have done .
Michael ?
Yes , erm , going back to the original thing that brought this up , that we should descry people from using Nestlé 's products , erm , in fact implications will be quite wide , because they now own Rowntrees , and they own Cross and Blackwells , and they own all sorts of other companies .
Now , is it the intention of the people who asked us to take this action that we should just boycott Nestles products , or we should do the whole range of the conglomerate that owns all these people like Rowntrees and Cross and Blackwell , and many other companies as well .
Because this , erm , I think it 's quite far-reaching to erm get all hot on this , and I don't think we realised the full implications .
Yes , the implications are very heavy , I had not realised what you 'd just said , and we should refer that to Amanda and indeed take all take it on board , otherwise we 'll be taking on the world .
Yes , probably should .
And probably should , yes .
Item one four oh , believe it or not , Doctor Root did write to Mr Patten on this issue , and guess what he wrote back ?
‘I 've received a letter from your Health Promotion erm Liaison Officer , can I ask you if this was sent on your behalf ? ’
‘On which committee meeting was the letter considered ? ’ , he doesn't trust anybody , this guy , does he ?
I propose the same action again .
He 's obviously keen on structures and procedure is the Right Honourable Gentleman
Must be a past experience !
Yes .
Well , he 's taking a lot longer and costing us a lot more money in terms of letting us know his view .
Actually , to comply with the minute , it should go to the City Environmental Chief Officer .
Yes .
Well , as you know , we always say the City Environmental Health Officer , and the officer responsible then does the work , we 've seen to that on our committee for years
If you look at a department like the Director and Engineers department , every letter in fact has underneath it the City Engineer , even if its signed by somebody else .
I mean it is a possibility , and if he 's going to be awkward perhaps we 'll have to just make sure that we do that , which is presumably fairly easy , if the post goes out from the same office .
I take your point Anne , but I would prefer to help the MP understand that the nature of the way that this department is run is that officers do take responsibility for their specialist areas of work , the senior management has always supported that , and I don't feel minded to change it because the MP finds it difficult .
Well , I certainly will take it up if I get a copy letter , I mean it is obviously that some departments act differently , and I understand that in any case this is only a letter from the secretary , it 's not him , so I mean , I'm quite happy to take it up if I get the copy of that , and explain that this department act , does rather differently from some of the others .
And we shall certainly do that as well .
Chair , the letters that do go , the majority of the letters that go to MPs and members are signed by me , though they 're prepared by the officer who 's the expert in different fields , but these two letters went when I happened to be away from the department , and that 's fair enough , I 'd rather they went than sat around waiting for my return .
But , they also go on headed note paper which says Oxford City Council Environmental Health Department and all the other stuff we put on the top , erm and it 's perfectly clear that they do come from the City Department upon your behalf .
He 's being awfully bumptious , let 's be honest .
Chair , can I just help you here recently , because we 've had a recent case ourselves erm , this is an ironic twist to this , because Councillor Patten 's being writing to the County on Highway and Traffic issues recently and sending us a copy , and it 's stunned us a little bit , because normally they would write to us direct , but there 's a sting in this because we don't know whether we 're supposed to respond to him now , or the county .
And the county don't send us copy letters , so , chair it does need sorting out as far as we 're concerned as well .
It really does doesn't it .
I can see the Press headline : ‘MP with knickers in twist’Anything else on page ten .
Okay , apologies for absence and substitution .
Chair , I have none , I'm afraid .
May I say that Mrs Kurtz , I would have thought has sent her apologies , and I'm substituting for her
Sorry , I should explain to the committee that I was informed that the secretary who normally does the minutes for the half past one was sick , and had , she 'd been sent home by her doctor at lunch time , so I came back from lunch and had to come straight into committee , and I do apologize if I have missed bits of paper or whatever , I 've gathered up everything I could , but that might well be one of the things that I 've left behind .
We accept that Councillor Kurtz would be honourable in these matters , do we accept Councillor Tiffany as her substitute .
Yes
They 're not saying a lot are they ?
I had erm I was going to be representative of this committee at a erm safety seminar for three days at the beginning of this week that I wasn't able to go to , and Councillor Kurtz has very kindly gone in my place , which is why she is not able to come to this meeting .
Ah , well in that case
We do appreciate that explanation .
No , I think sometimes it 's forgotten not all that many , you know , these remarks about us not being there .
There 's not many of you !
Only three that can be there and
We 're quite happy that there 's not many of you Anne !
Okay , so we accept that Councillor Tiffany is now substituting Councillor Kurtz and may now take her full part in the meeting .
Can I just ask your permission for our proceedings this afternoon to be tape recorded by Caroline , and I 've forgotten where you come from , Caroline ?
From the University Press , from Oxford University Press .
From the Oxford University Press .
Will you need to know why she needs to tape record ?
Thought you might !
Yes .
Would you like to tell us , Caroline ?
Yes , it 's for the dictionary project , we 're doing a , erm we 're trying to build up a database at the moment of transcribed spoken language .
We 're happy to take part in that !
Could we have that repeated , please , I didn't hear it .
She 's of the dictionary project that 's looking at transcribed spoken language .
Oh , we 'll have to be careful , then , won't we !
You may have to be careful .
Perhaps you ought to tell her that John Patten is no longer with the environmental health .
He is in fact .
Is he still there ?
haven't seen him for about two weeks .
So we 're all happy about that ?
Approved duties .
You 'll probably need help filling round here .
I was going to say , I have no idea , unless there 's , if they 're on the agenda , I 'll pick them up and see , if there 's anything else , you 'll have tell me about it I'm afraid , chair .
I'm not immediately aware of anything else , but members , please rack your brains as we go through , Diana ?
You gave us , you gave us some dates on page three , item one hundred and twenty , thirteenth and fourteenth of December .
I believe we 've taken a decision on that for the health conference , last time round .
I 've got one on page eighty-one , but we 'll come to it on pollution control .
They 're are some others too , chair , on the seminars and conferences we 've listed .
We can do on the way through , okay .
I think there is no urgent business .
erm Well , as I understand it there is a report on the authorization of officers , which is urgent business .
Ah , that 's right , sorry
Yes , chair , and I don't have copies and , you do ?
Well , I have some , I thought they 'd gone round , but this is , erm sorry
Chair , it was one officer whom we 've got on staff at the moment Karen Wheeler who 's away nursing her new baby , and it 's to authorize that officer to carry out certain roles under the health and safety
Can you circulate that , the committee is accustomed to seeing it .
I don't think it should cause you any problems , but it is something that 's come on late erm as a result of maternity cover .
Right .
Ian Waterhouse is with us , probably wondering how on earth these meetings get off the ground at all .
Ian , you 're the community services manager .
We have a paper from you on , can we settle down a bit .
We have a paper from you on page eleven .
Can I ask you to limit yourself to some five minutes .
I apologize for that , that , but we have a very heavy agenda , and members start falling asleep around five , and if people have questions or comments , perhaps they .
Welcome to our committee , and we hope we 'll be working together in the future .
Thank you , yes , erm thank you very much for inviting me to attend to those meetings and giving me the opportunity to meet you all .
Having worked for a number of years now in community health services , previously erm in Yorkshire , in fact I 've only been down in Oxford about four or five months , I 've learnt how important it is in fact to make good working contacts with members and officers of other organizations , and particularly of local authority organizations .
I'm therefore doubly grateful to you for giving me the chance to meet you today , and I hope that some of the contacts I might make today will stand me in good stead in the job that I'm doing in Oxford over the next year or so .
I have sent round a briefing paper , and rather than go right through that , what I 'd just like to do is to highlight two or three things about myself and about the post that I now hold , and I would be pleased to answer any questions that you might have during the next two or three minutes .
Firstly , just to set my own context , I 've been in the health service now for just over twenty year .
I went into the service in nineteen seventy as a national trainee , and I'm therefore coming from the administrative branch of the service .
I'm not a qualified nurse , or a health care professional .
I'm an administrator by background , and I think that 's interesting , because one of the things that we are trying to do in the health service is to open up our management posts to people of all professions , and to recognise that management is not the prerogative of any particular group , but that we 're looking for the right people to manage our services from wherever they might come , and I'm one of three people who has a responsibility to the senior manager in the community at the top , for the managing on a day-to-day basis the health services in Oxfordshire .
Of those two colleagues , interestingly enough , one is a health visitor by background , the other is a nurse , but someone who practised or has n't practised , but as a district health community planner for a number of years .
So you can see that we have quite a mixture of people in terms of our backgrounds professionally .
The purpose of general management is to try and ensure that in the city that we are getting the best value we can from the health resources that are in the city , and I have the authority now , and the responsibility to spend the budget that I 've had allocated from the Oxfordshire Health Authority , by Gerald Simon who 's the general manager .
So a big change in the way that we are arranged has actually come about through the general management structure , and we 're hoping that this will give us more room , if you like to start looking at priorities , and to move the budget around in accordance with our feelings about those priorities .
In that task I am assisted by a team of six managers , all of whom are professional nurses and district nurses or health visitors and they of course are there to advise me on professional issues , and to share with me the management task of using the resources of Oxford City in the way that we feel is best appropriate , and in doing that , I think one of the important things for us to do , I don't think we do it quite as well as we should , is to work more closely with the local council , and to look really at what the needs of our local communities are for health , and to try and make sure that the feelings that might well be expressed by individuals , either individually , or through caring associations , or through other statutory agencies , or through voluntary health organisations , are actually given a chance to be there , and to influence our , that official policy and constituents , and to , to influence the planning process .
I 've made a note of a potting of that briefing paper to you .
I personally see this is as one of my major objectives over the next year or so , and in a sense it makes me trebly grateful to be here today , because I hope some of the contacts I might make today will enable me to work alongside you in what might be called even local Berkshire band , and to try and get more a multiplicity of views from different organisations channelled through our own value objectives .
And it is the exciting part of my job is to make these links work , start to build on them , and over our links in the city on the environmental and group with Tony Benn , that 's that 's doing a very good job , he is a platform for this , for each other , but I think there 's a lot more we can do locally erm within the city to build those links , and to work together for better answers for the city , and I hope that , on a practical level , one of the things that interested me was your grants team for local organisations , and I would like to think myself here today , we might look at the health authority , and try to join with them to make some erm practical contribution , particularly to those many carers , and groups of people who have problems , and we 're not all just professionals best able to put over during our normal nine-to-five or eight-to-eight days , we we can .
There 's a lot we can do , I think , to help the community in a wider sense , and I see that as one of the key elements of my work , to try and make that work .
And I'm not too concerned with the day-to-day management of individual professionals , I 've got a team to help me do that .
What concerns me is looking at the and trying to forge new creative links with other organisations , statutory and voluntary , in the best health interests of Oxfordshire residents .
That I think is my main concern , with a request in a sense to you for supporting that over the next year or so , because I 'll be trying to perhaps get invited to the meetings , and perhaps we 'll be inviting officers from the authority to join me in looking at ways of building up that local context in planning to get that into our formal planning systems .
That will be my key message , and the other thing I 'd like to emphasise today , and I 'd be very grateful for some sort of early response to that .
I have discussed it with Dorothy Tomkin I think we have a genuine desire to move to a more authority-based planning system , erm , we haven't got the methods of doing that yet , and I turn to C B S and to local authority and to the traditional carers for them to join us in that .
So thank you for giving me the chance to , to air that view .
There are means to get a response and I'm grateful to take the temperature of the water .
Right .
The temperature of the water will inevitably be variably , and I'm sure we certainly welcome , lots of people will welcome your philosophical position .
I would say just two things ; the one on the rates scheme , we certainly as a health committee distribute fifteen thousand pounds a year and treat these as important pledge by work .
We can't deliberately do not maintain those voluntary groups which we feel are appropriately and better funded by the health authority .
The health authority has for years not shown any signs of so doing , I have to say .
I don't want to be cynical at this stage , but years of experience that show that the health authority has no intention of doing that .
And the other thing to say to from me is yes , we would love a multiplicity of views to go to the District Health Authority , I and my predecessor Betty Stanford , who were District Council Members on that health authority , we were there and able to listen to and able to contribute to the debate , the Government White Paper has taken us off , so that is not a good start in terms of how you involve the city and the district with the policy decisions of the health authority .
So that 's my bit of bad news .
I can see Arthur , Betty and Liz .
Chairman , may I first of all declare an interest in this .
erm Under the new erm system erm every G P must at some time during the visit erm persons over seventy-five .
Now , what are you doing to ensure that erm that this is carried out because a lot of elderly , they will not go to the doctor , but erm the doctor I believe has got to go and see them .
Now , what are you doing to really see this is getting off the ground ?
Well , I
Ian , can I ask you to save the questions and respond at the end , otherwise you 'll find the discussion takes much longer , is that alright ?
Although that may not be appropriate view of that , but , Betty ?
I was going to raise the very question you raised .
There we were as representatives of this city , people who are in contact with erm people who have got problems , we were
Can you press your button , Betty ?
in my view thrown off without any reasonable excuse , because I felt that I could bring a lot of expertise to the health authority .
They may not have thought of it as expertise , but when people said to me a particular ward is dirty , I went and looked at it , and in a very short time , within about ten minutes , that ward had got a massive clean-up team in there , that 's the sort of thing that I felt was useful .
That being said , I mean , you 've lost now local , local erm expertise there .
What I want to ask is , firstly , who are you funded by , and these teams , I note erm paragraphs three erm these nurses and so on , are they existing staff , or is this a new team , erm management team which has been set up at yet more expense to the health authority ?
So , basically , I want to know are they taken from erm a team which is already in the health service , or are they new posts funded , and funded by whom , bearing in mind the constant complaints we get from the health authority about lack of funds ?
Thank you , Betty .
Liz ?
Thank you .
I'm finding myself somewhat confused , I mean , I was interested that Ian had mentioned the practical voluntary services as one of the groups that he would wish to work with .
I think that recently we seem to have had such , so many changes in the health authority , so many different peoples in the post who all seem to be doing the same sort of thing , who 've got the Family Health Services Authority set up , but it would seem to me that some of the things that are on this piece of paper are things that I understood were being done by the Family Health Services Authority .
We have a joint planning officer , and we 've got quite a lot of joint erm of joint planning going on between the voluntary sector and the Health Authority and the Social Services .
We 've got a whole erm , a whole erm organisation that in fact the Council for Voluntary Service only this week made an appointment with a very , very , very , very small amount of money that 's been made available on a very , very part-time basis , to actually assist with that , with the planning that 's going on in the voluntary sector .
And I think that we 're constantly hearing about new people , new systems of working .
erm New people who are being put in posts to liaise and to do this , that and the other , with a shrinking voluntary sector .
With a voluntary sector that is erm constantly needing small amounts of resource in order to deliver an enormous amount of service to vulnerable people .
And I think that the time will come some point , when the voluntary sector will say , ‘Well , we actually don't have time to talk erm to carry on talking about what we 're doing and how we 're doing it .
We actually much prefer to get on with what we 're there to do , and to , to offer services , to find , to find ways of supporting vulnerable people .
So , I think my questions are , one , where does this post fit in the Family Health Services Authority ?
Two , how does it fit in with the Joint Planning Officer who 's also ready in post ? ,
Three , how will it fit in with all the locality planning and all the work that 's already been done in joint planning between the voluntary sector and the local authority and the health authority .
Thank you very much , Liz .
We 'll keep you going all afternoon at this rate , won't we Ian .
I 've seen Anne and Nonnie and I don't particularly want to see anybody else .
I'm glad Liz is confused because as one of her predecessors I'm also confused .
I mean , you know , we 've lived with this planning .
There 's always been planning with the people on planning , and it seems to me that the paragraph that begins ‘A key area’ , we 've got some more planning .
And I think really what 's needed is actually going out , I mean , it could be a useful new thing that , a new departure that other people haven't done .
In other words not sitting there and asking people to , erm people in authority , erm sort of people of influence , ask them what they think , but actually going out and visiting people and groups , and I was going to ask whether this would be copied to the women 's sub-committee , because there are many , many groups of women who never have a chance of saying what they really want , and I don't mean patients , I mean potential users of the health service .
erm The Health Service has been very much male-orientated .
I'm very glad to see that there 's quite a lot of nurses here , and I presume that quite a lot of those are women nurses , and I think that this is terribly important , and I think a useful thing with this new service could do is to go out and talk for instance to the meetings of women 's organisations , to old peoples ' clubs in the afternoon , and actually ask people what they would like , and get them talking in a nice informal way , rather than waiting for somebody to let them know what they think , because I don't think they 're going to get it .
So , I think that would be a useful thing for a new planning section to do .
erm My ears pricked up when Mr Waterhouse did in fact say , I though he said that it wasn't necessarily help in monetary terms , but some of these people might be willing to help in kind , or in sort of helping as people with some voluntary organisations , and I think , if that was what he meant , I think there again that might be very useful , because voluntary organisations are always looking for people to help .
So those are my few comments , thank you .
Thank you Anne .
Nonnie ?
As someone who has to ask occasionally for a care package for an individual , do I take it then the penultimate paragraph that this is the planning , you know , how you 're going to produce a care package for an individual , this is what you refer to in the planning system , and that you 're getting together with Social Services to get this care package together ?
Yes , Okay ?
Would you like to tackle that lot in the best way you can ?
Thank you , yes , erm to take the final point in terms of care packages , yes , are officers are working on , Social Services officers , on the professional care assistant care packages .
Yes , but at what level ?
Do you yet know at what level that 's going to be organised ?
I don't know .
You don't know , so that 's part of the planning system that we 're working on ?
The working groups are currently on working on that , and they , my colleagues I assume are talking to the the officers of the Social Services about that , what is happening , but the final outcome has yet to appear .
Just answering the first question on assessment of the over seventy-fives , that in fact really should be better left for the to say .
I'm not part of the organisation .
They have a responsibility for managing the U G B Contract , and you quite rightly said that one of the arguments on that contract , assessments of the over seventy-fives .
I belong to the Community Oxford Health Authority not to the Family Health Services Authority , so that 's just to clarify that , that did cover two questions that I was asked .
In terms of Primary Health Care teams , they are existing members of staff , or health visitors attached to General Practices , and we call that collaboration if you like .
In terms of a planning process Anne was talking about , you 'll have to forgive me for being relatively new to Oxfordshire and coming from an area where we had a planning system which was largely the one I was describing , and the planning role that I saw I wanted to develop was very much already mentioned which was actually going round to small groups of people , to the local caring groups on a much more informal basis , and getting their contribution about that and then feeding it back into the system , which you say is there in a sense .
I don't think it 's rooted firmly enough in the localities .
And it 's that part of the jigsaw that I want to concentrate on .
So if there 's anything , there 's a slightly different approach to it , and one thing that we are being urged to do , through the very way in which you mentioned in another context , is to make sure that facilities are appropriate locally , and developing policies within that .
I don't make any apologies for that , and maybe it is going over the old ground , but unless we do it , unless we try to do it , if we 've done it the way before been and it has n't produced what we , what we want , then surely it 's not for us to sit back and say , ‘Well , it 's been through that and it has n't worked’ , surely we ought to try again , and that 's what I hope to be doing , sort of value your support and see you .
Yes , can I say to you that what you 're hearing is members ' experiences of the past .
mhm
I'm not sure that you 'll be able to uncover dinosaurs as it were .
Well , no , but I
But of course in terms of partnership , you will have our support and any way we can aid and abet you then we shall do that , erm but you can tell from the questions and comments that we have some distress about the
Yes , I get that , yes
Ian , thanks ever so much , it 's not necessarily been an easy ride for you , but we 're glad to know you and we look forward to meeting you again .
Yes , well , I hope so , we can sort of work it out .
I'm sure of it .
Thank you very much indeed .
Bye
Thanks , bye bye .
You can stay of course !
don't blame you !
Can I just draw your attention to your item on Urgent Business .
Do you all have sight of that ?
It 's headed up ‘Appointments and Authorization of officers’ and you 're asked to authorize Stephen Stansfield , a non-professional health technician , as detailed in para .
2 , it 's a very normal and routine bit of work for you .
Are you agreed ?
Agreed .
So that we can get on with this work .
Thank you very much indeed .
On to item six and seven .
You 'll remember we do this on an annual basis .
It 's very efficiently organised for us to do .
We 've got Keith Dryer here , I think , of the engineers .
Keith , would you like to press your button and introduce us to item six , street collections in Oxford .
Thanks , Chair .
Basically , the latest , and I must n't take any credit , and there seemed to be some credit , Chair .
This lady on my right , Katherine Powell , does all the hard work and committee reports , and I thought it only fair to bring her here today , because she 's the person that does the set fifty-threes ,
She does ?
She 's one of the members you can come to .
So Katherine can answer the details on the report .
Right .
Welcome , Katherine .
I didn't realize that 's who you are .
I'm the one who 'll always be late getting a reply back on the set fifty threes !
So Katherine , do you want to say anything on the report at this stage ?
I 'd just like to point out that erm on the street collections as you 've always done before , AvaRag and NovaSports don't generally get passed , because they don't actually help anybody in Oxford .
Right
That 's the only thing I 'd like to bring to your attention .
So , you can confirm for us that NovaSports are still in that position , and I think some of us understand the nature of Avarag .
Yes , erm they 've got a sports centre in Nottingham , and that 's the nearest thing they 've got to Oxford .
Thank you for saying that to us , yes , I wouldn't have actually picked it up .
Chair , can I just ask , I mean , so it 's organisations that are Oxfordshire rather than Oxford City .
Yes .
That 's tended to be our line .
They 've not been tested solely on that , but it 's on the question .
Well , unless people have specific to Katherine , as I say it 's presented in such a way , this report , that essentially we 're asked to agree the number of permits to match the number of applications .
I would suggest to the committee on page sixteen on our recommendations that we do make the point about Avarag and NovaSports , just in terms of consistency , and I would expect you to want to continue to do that .
So does that mean we still grant twenty-three Saturday city centre permits ?
That doesn't alter that position , Katherine ?
No , Well , it will go down to twenty-one .
Quite .
Could I ask on page seventeen about Blue Cross ?
We have got erm some organisations , the ones I can think of is the Animal Sanctuary that we are all familiar with .
erm I , does Blue Cross have any connection with Oxfordshire ?
Yes , they 've got a farm in Burford .
Ahh .
Can I ask that you agree on eight one A to grant them twenty-one Saturday city centre permits , and you 're clear that you 've left out NovaSports and AvaRag , and you understand why ?
Graham ?
I have a great deal of sympathy with all these organisations anyway , and the tremendous number of volunteers that come out on the days .
I'm just wondering whether in fact every Saturday that you 've got , bearing in mind this is not flag days , this is in the street .
Yes , these are street collections .
That we really are putting a tremendous number of people on the street over the course of the year , erm that the general public are facing .
And while I think we ought to do what we can , I think there 's a line which ought to be drawn , and I do honestly wonder whether twenty-one , it was eighteen last year , and I just wonder if perhaps we should erm try and switch some of these to mid-week , so that we 're not seeing it virtually every Saturday of the year .
Okay , Betty ?
I just wanted to say to you , firstly I declare an interest in OxRad , not pecuniary , of course , with money , however , but it is on behalf of charities , it is the only way they can generally raise some two three hundred pounds in a day , or sometimes a little more , that is a tremendous help to charities .
And I think that erm twenty-one is nothing like too many , in fact that 's not even half a year .
It doesn't mean that in fact that erm that there are twenty , my maths are right , that does mean that there are thirty one
Thirty-one .
Where there is not a collection , I think that 's perfectly reasonable .
Well , of course , there 's flag days as well .
Yes , well then we 're also making provision for disaster funds coming up , emergency funds .
Can I say that we are now organising quite tightly the business of street collections , and I think if committee are minded to reduce the number of collections that we allow , we should decide that before we come to this meeting , because I think it 's very difficult in practical terms to do it at this stage , and therefore I would suggest that we do agree twenty-one , not withstanding what Graham said , we can take on board some of what he said , and maybe the month before we are asked to take this decision , we have an item on the agenda where we discuss the principle before we get down to the practicalities .
Would that suit you for the time being , Graham ?
I think so , It made me feel that some actually seem to be quite keen to have suburban or mid-week , even though they 've had city centre ones in the past .
Some clearly want to switch to city centre .
But I did think that it might just ease the pressure on Saturdays , because , following what erm Betty has said , in fact , as I make it it 's forty-five Saturdays out of fifty-two , and bearing in mind Bank Holiday weekend , Christmas and that sort of thing , it 's virtually every Saturday in the city centre there is a collection .
Now that 's fine , but I know some people who are in the city centre every , on Saturday , feel very guilty if they 're not constantly giving , and I do think we want to get that balance .
Clearly we want to support the charities , and the organisations but erm .
I was just going to make a quick comment if I may on Oxfam , because I noticed that they 're down for the street collections and for the flag day , now next year 's their fiftieth anniversary , so I think it 's quite appropriate next year , but I do , my own view is , that we will get , we ought to get one comprehensive list of all these organisations , for both the street collections and the flag days , with an indication in the column of whether it 's flag day they 've gone for or a street collection , so that we can identify that sort of situation .
Right , I mean , that seems quite sensible actually .
I would just like to point out that suburban and mid-week flag day erm street collections alternate with the city centre the following year .
That was committee decision a number of years ago .
Right , Anne .
I think there does come a point when there is resistance .
I mean , we all know that having to shake tins , the number of people who go past by on the other side , and I think that we do have to be careful with the numbers , and even those people who normally give do get a bit fed up if there are too many .
So what I thought was that it was quite important to look at all these organisations that do seem to me really to have nothing to do with Oxford or Oxfordshire , and that we should be very careful .
Now , if we are going to , for instance , allow I mean there 's one organisation , number five , which says it 's a national , although it 's called Cherwell Round Table , which says it 's just a national body raising funds for numerous charities .
Now , if we 're going to allow an organisation like that , have we no erm chance to say that after they 've had their collection , we should like to have some indication of what percentage went to Oxford , so that when they apply again , we can at least know whether this is actually a genuine local organisation or national .
And a lot of these organisations , it 's very difficult , because there are many that a lot of people are in favour of , like , well , take King George 's Fund for Sailors and so on , but how do we know , I mean , there might be two people they might help in Oxford over the course of the year .
I do think it 's a difficult one , but I do feel there is a limit to the number , and therefore we should be careful that the ones we agree to are the ones that interest local people .
Right .
I think we certainly agree with you in terms of locality , and it 's open to you at any time , I would have thought , to be in touch with Katherine , and say , ‘Would you follow up on x or y’ .
I think if the committee did that then we 'd be back to what five or six years ago , when a whole afternoon was spent on that and I wouldn't commend that to you , but can we perhaps have a word with the officers at a later stage , take it on board what both Graham and Anne have been saying , and obviously not trying to do that in a meeting like this but try to prepare for it a month before-hand .
Is that reasonable at this stage ?
Yes
so we can get progress ?
Chair , could I make , could I suggest maybe that in future when you ask organisations you make it harder for getting a license for street collection , that you tell them that you 'll want to know exactly the proportions , but I mean put it back on to them , rather than be you having to bother to it in the future .
Right , is that not done ?
It is to a degree , on the application form that each charity receives , it has to state whether it collects for people in the Oxford area , but not as a percentage .
I think that , more , not sort of say a general question like that , but say that after the collection has happened that you want returns for the number of people in Oxford that have benefited from the number of groups in Oxford that have benefited .
I mean , I think a lot of national organisations that are giving , I trust that are giving money to people actually do want to know that sort of detail about where the money is going , because , if I go through this , I mean , I would have to say that I should imagine that a very small percentage of the money that has been collected on these flag days will actually get back into Oxfordshire .
I mean , my knowledge of the organisations that are there tells me that .
I mean there 's organisations like Oxrad that clearly , the money will only be spent in Oxford city .
And the bit about it is that there may well be other small organisations that might , erm be better , erm I mean , have , might benefit people more in Oxford city , or in Oxfordshire , aren't getting in because
No , that 's not the case , it 's open to them to apply in any event .
I know , but what I mean is that when they see the city centre , the people who are walking up and down the city centre , they see all the national charities , they don't necessarily feel that they 're organised in the same way and therefore that they should be participating , and the whole palaver of getting a licence and applying is actually quite difficult , it 's not a simple , it 's not something , we get numerous telephone calls in the office saying ‘Well can I go out next Saturday and rattle a tin for such-and-such’ , and you say ‘Well , you can't’ , and it 's left much too late , so that people don't know about the way you get licenses to rattle tins in city centre .
don't know about the issues to do with house-to-house collection .
Are we getting , erm collecting erm in the shopping centres .
They just don't actually have that information , a lot of small local groups , and I think maybe the C B S could work with the Engineers department in future years and try to get to those groups , because I'm sure a lot of them , actually if they were given the opportunity in time to get in , that , that you might have a lot of people applying for flag and whatever than you do now .
Well , by all means , let 's do that , and has been represented in committee for some time , we have responsibility for licenses for some time , and if there isn't a dialogue now , then there 'll be a good reason why there isn't , and I , I take what you say , Liz .
But certainly , if we have something like fifty applications , then we 'd be into a much more complex procedure .
We can see why we don't , and I'm not clear about the reasons why we don't , but there you are , Michael .
Chair , another query about a couple of the comments made just now , about priority being given to organisations which disclaim their proceeds in Oxford or Oxfordshire .
I had a cheque for some thirteen hundred pounds raised by the local branch of National body , a body like Round Table , although it wasn't Round Table , it was another body like that , and that will buy thirteen houses in Everland in Southern India .
Well , not a single penny will be spent in Oxford or Oxfordshire .
Now , am I to take it that sort of appeal will have a very low priority , I mean , how about Oxfam for example ?
Oxfam doesn't have a low priority , clearly , erm there are , certainly we have an S.O fifty-three procedure for disasters and so forth .
But there isn't a direct slot , Michael , you 're right , for a project such as the one you 've just described .
I mean , maybe what I'm hearing from the committee is that we take it back and look at the criteria and the ground rules .
I just would suggest that we don't do it in this committee .
But what we certainly can do is take note of what you 've said , and ensure that we get it together for you to be consulted before we take decisions next year .
Graham , you 've had two bites , and I really
I was only going to agree with you actually , and I was just going to back-up what Michael said , and say that obviously we 've got people like Amnesty International , and I know it 's a very hard-working local branch , but obviously , the money it 's raised is going to benefit people overseas .
Hopefully so , hopefully we haven't got people within the city of Oxford that need Amnesty 's help !
Right , can I leave you then to the recommendations on page sixteen , notwithstanding all of the suggestions and comments that have been made , that we this year grant twenty-one Saturday City Centre permits , and the officers are clear twenty-one and not twenty-three , that we grant eleven City Centre , mid-week and suburban permits , and do you note that whoever is unsuccessful in obtaining Saturday City Centre permit will be granted one of those and given priority .
Yes ?
Will you agree to grant three band collection permits , which you 've done before , which are usually great fun , I must say .
And D is part of what Michael is saying , it gives the chair , vice-chair , opposition liaison member the discretion to allow for usually natural disasters , and we would obviously want that discretion with your support .
There 's one final thing , and that is on page fifteen at the bottom , it 's a list of organisations which were given permits for St Michael the Northgate .
And I'm not quite sure why Age Concern , which has had this for I think at least twenty years for their Christmas Carols , which is not included .
But I don't , the fact that they 're not included does not mean that they can't have it , because that would be disastrous , because they do rely on that
It doesn't , they just haven't requested it this year .
Well , I mean , that is absolutely nonsense , it 's tradition , I'm sure they 'll have it .
Can you take that up with Age Concern , Anne ?
There 's a limit as to how much we can do for half the people in this committee are members
But you see it 's inaccurate anyway , because it 's five two during nineteen ninety five , and they had it
This year
They did for last year .
I mean , it 's for Christmas this year that we want it .
Well , can you get them together with Katherine fairly rapidly , is that a good idea ?
I mean , there 's enabling and enabling , isn't there for heaven 's sake .
Chair , on the recommendations erm on item D , I'm a bit unhappy about the use of the term ‘natural’ disasters , because I believe that many of the disasters that people in Oxford are actually giving money for are man made disasters , particularly matters of international economics and the unfair burden , erm unfair distribution of wealth which places a whole sector of the world in poverty , and I think , you know , you do get a magnificent response from people in Oxford to these charities , and we must be aware that there are a whole number of greater issues involved , and while I hear what you 're saying earlier on about you can't take on the problems of the whole world , I think when people are actually giving money to charities for example , like Oxfam , they are often unaware of these issues , and we do have a wider role in making the , joining with organisations like Oxfam in spreading public awareness on these issues .
Right , I agree with that , and I think that we 'll simply leave out the word ‘natural’ in future , won't we .
Have we agreed that as a committee ?
Indeed , we have all agreed , I take it the recommendations under eight one in order that we can make progress .
Which left the word in ?
So that we can report back , a month before decision time next time round ?
Are you happy with that ?
Item seven then is on page twenty-seven .
This is flag day , which essentially means house-to-house .
Is there anything you want to say about that , Katherine at this stage ?
No , it 's quite straightforward .
Right , the only comment I have is members will remember that we got slapped in council last year because we issued a permit to LIFE for a flag day application .
I sat down with LIFE and worked through their philosophy , erm in line with our own as it were , and they agreed , and I would ask them to agree this year that any paperwork or any leaflets they distribute make it very clear that a choice remains for a woman in terms of whether or not she should have an abortion , because LIFE is fairly , yes , Michael ?
Did you check their tenancy agreement , because it was a pretty Machiavellian , Dickensian tenancy agreement , if you 're found smoking in bed for example , you were out the next morning , those sort of things , and I think you really ought to look at that very carefully .
We certainly did last year , there 's no reason why we can't monitor it again , so they know we are watching them quite carefully .
That might have been for very good environmental and health reasons .
Yes , I should hope so .
I think I would commend LIFE to you , but it will be with the same conditions and terms as we did last year , with which they did comply .
Are there other questions of queries on flag days or are you happy to approve them as they stand .
That 's on page twenty-seven , six one , twenty four flag day permits to be approved , and we allow the officer to decide how they will best be distributed across the city .
Are you happy with that ?
And then on six two , do you wish to grant a permit to allow a flag day to take place on one or two days during nineteen ninety-one , for the Royal British Legion ?
Can I have someone move something on that , please ?
Yes , I 'd move that erm they 'd be granted two days .
I 'll second that .
And you 'll second that , cross-party approach to this , are you all agreed ?
Thank you very much indeed .
Can I ask , I know we 've got Amanda Root here , who 's going to help us in the Health Action Area Report , I also know that she has an ailing child , can we then take the item eleven , health action areas now on page fifty-eight , so that we can let Amanda go back to her commitments .
The joint report from Amanda and Phil .
Amanda , do you want to kick off on this ?
Thank you chair , erm many of you will perhaps know that the health authority did some pioneering work looking at different standard mortality ratios in different wards in Oxfordshire , and came up with some rather disturbing evidence that some of the wards had significantly higher incidents of death for people primarily in the forty-five to sixty-four age range than others , and Phil and myself wish to continue that work by targeting those wards with a range of measures designed to alleviate some of those health inequalities .
And in this report , we 've just outlined a very preliminary start to what we 're doing .
We 'd obviously , we 'd like to get the agreement of this committee to continue that work and to take it up to the various bodies and consultation .
And , erm to develop it there 's a timetable in the appendices about the progress we envisage making .
We 'd like to confirm by the end of this year which wards we 're targeting and how we 're targeting them , which range of erm measures that we 're going to undertake .
is that we 've been involved in health strategy for the past over five years .
The ultimate test of any health in the city strategy is what we do about the health divide .
We have to do something about the equity target .
And that 's extremely difficult to do something about the equity target , since National policy , the distribution of income , housing policy , all the things that we tackle on this committee and committees of the council have a very significant effect on the health of the people who live in the city , and it 's not in our control .
Nevertheless , it 's our belief that through health promotion programmes which involve cooperation with communities themselves , that we can in fact do as much as we possibly can do to actually alleviate some of the erm differences in health status .
So our belief is that erm with the relationship we 've been able to build up in this city , with confrontation and community participation , with the targeting of the small resources that we do have , as a council in collaboration with the other , the resources of the other bodies , that we can in fact do something .
So I 'll do this and I think Amanda would agree with this that this is the ultimate test that will help us in establishing can we actually do something about target one of the World Health Organisation , which is to narrow the health divide .
That 's out test .
I would also add to that that I think such work would help us in terms of targeting more effectively the existing resources we have in terms of service delivery .
Are there any questions ?
Sheila ?
Chair , I 'd like to ask Amanda , I did St Clements and Petersfield .
Is there any possibility of , in the near future of doing a council estate , like Barton or Blackbird Leys ?
erm Yes , certainly , I , I would suggest East and St Clements because they have got quite high ethnic populations , and we can perhaps be hoping to start there , because Environmental Health 's already worked there , targeting some of the multi-occupation properties , so they 've got a very high proportion of black people living there , which means that they 're also quite important in the sense of deprivation , but , I mean , we are also very conscious that we should be working on a council estate , and what we , what I would like to do is to simultaneously be starting working in erm a particular sets of communities , is to be given work in consultation in other wards , so that you know , six months down the line before .
But thanks for the point , and I mean , I 'll make a note of that and take it up to the health authority .
Betty and then Ruth .
I'm a little surprised , chair , I could ask Amanda , but erm , Iffley is erm on the list , bearing in mind , recalling the erm point figures , where Iffley are if I recall correct was fairly well down on the league table , and Marston was something like erm six or some place .
erm What connection is there between unemployment and deprivation ?
Thank you .
erm I agree , and I actually think these figures are relatively crude , but I mean , there is , clearly there are correlations between low income , which most I mean unemployed people have of course got , and ill health .
But certainly , something like Iffley 's relatively surprising , it could well be , it might be because there 's quite a high proportion of retired people or something , so the figures are actually distorted .
erm What , what we 're hoping is that erm the university 's undertaking some research to actually look at the links between very small geographic areas , postcode in fact , and ill health .
So when that research becomes available , we 'll actually be able to be much , much more specific about where we 're targeting , because I agree it 's , you know , some of these are somewhat surprising .
Nonnie
Yes , in one five , erm they 're practising notes from Eynsham it does happen to be in Cherwell ward and not North ward , erm there is a booklet out about health and housing in Cutteslowe , and I wondered what the connection between , you know , not being on this committee , but these health action areas , and what in fact is happening in housing , because the director did assure me that other wards were going to be treated to the same erm treatment .
So I don't know whether that is what 's referred to ?
Hang on , can I just check out your question , certainly we 've taken the Cutteslowe health and housing audit to this committee , and so has housing
Yes , yes , but that 's not going to be the only one , as I understand it .
That was an external one in fact
Yes , is that 's what 's being referred to erm by the university work , because I think it 's
It isn't actually
Is that so ?
It isn't .
The other question I 've got is presumably all this is still being done within what we 've got in the budget , or is it , are there going to be extra bids ?
You know the answer to that question , Non , there 's going to be no extra bids .
No extra bids .
This particular section 's taken some slices already , so we 'd better watch what we say to them .
They 're doing it within their own time and resources , but it does seem to me to be a very appropriate area for Michael ?
Thank you
It 's certainly will be difficult , Chair , but in answer to Mrs Tidley , what 's happening to our housing , the answer is we 've stopped building it .
Government policy we don't build any housing , and therefore we 've got five thousand on the waiting list , and that 's why health is a major problem for a lot of people in this city , because we 're not building any houses , she knows that , and she and her party do nothing about it .
We 're doing an awful lot in
Thank you , Gerald .
Yes , well , I particularly welcome this erm concentration on areas , I think it 's an excellent idea , particularly in relation to housing , I think what we will find interesting is that a whole number of Oxford citizens , perhaps indeed from Barton , Blackbird Leys , Marston originally , who are badly housed in these areas and waiting in the most appalling accommodation for the opportunity of a council home .
And I'm sure that this report on the health action area is going to show some fairly , erm give us some fairly staggering erm revelations about about the health of Oxford citizens that 's going to surprise people at large when they find out how badly people have fared over the past ten years when we 've had the Tories in office who 've really done their very , very best to make the health divide of this country in a very poor state .
Hear , hear
Thank you , Anne
Sorry I was going to go down to get an authorization from Age Concern , I missed the first bit , but erm if resources are allowed for this work , would it not be better to aim them at priority areas , and not wards , I mean , in other words , to put it to the areas that needed most .
I mean a ward is going to be seen as rather a big area , when within wards there are priority areas .
That was really my point .
I don't think I 'll bother to answer the remarks that others need to say of course tremendous resources have gone into the health service over the past few years , but I think whatever government is in power , it will never be enough for all the new developments in the health service , and that is always the trouble , whoever would be there would find it difficult .
erm Your comment on wards , I think this is a way of the officers giving us something to work on and take a decision on .
Once they have a decision to work , then I would doubt very much actually they 're going to be into every corner of St Clements and East , or ignoring council estates altogether .
We have to allow them to take some decisions within our decision , I think , but I'm sure they 'll take your point anyway .
Diana , and then we ought to come to a decision .
Yes , I'm sure , I mean we obviously all appreciate the fact that within wards there 's an area of deprivation and an area that isn't deprived .
I mean , many , many wards , but that doesn't mean that we should therefore ignore a ward because it 's got an area that is not deprived , you 've got the , I think that by choosing East and St Clements as areas , that they seem then quite sensible areas to start with , nice central , fairly central location .
I was going to say , when it comes to paragraph five , do you erm suggest that you actually think in terms of church organisations , they 're not mentioned , and I look forward in in paragraph seven one to the seminar , the working seminar that 's going to be in the near future , and I hope that we 'll soon get a date , so that we can get it in our very busy diaries , in the hope that we can come along and learn more about this .
Thanks very much , Diana .
Could we add mosques as well to the churches , please ?
I'm sorry , I should have said all religious groups .
All religious groups !
Can we come to a decision there please .
Yes , just on the sub-ward level , of course there 's really , there 's a lot more investigations to go into targeting the resources , just I mean to target them in a city by having these standard mortality ratios for wards , but they 're all below ward level , and target the specific areas .
erm That 's one point , the other point is of course , we have already targeted of course in working with the groups that we 've defined as erm ones whose health status is at risk in effect , so this is a supplement , this is actually translating those targets we have already defined into a locality planning exercise .
So we 're testing , those priorities are still holding for us that but we 're applying them to the localities .
Thanks very much .
Can I direct you then to page sixty-one , recommendations in paragraph eight .
You 're asked to support the general move , that we have set out from this report , and you 're asked to agree to St Clements and East Ward , and I think we 've heard Mandy and Phil acknowledge that there may well be a case for looking at an area of council housing , which we will leave them to do , and also to approve the set of objectives , which I particularly welcome , on page sixty-two and sixty-three , which will amount to a work programme , which I would have thought we were all very pleased to see .
Can we endorse that , and ask the officers to come back to us and keep us in touch with their work .
Are you agreed ?
Thanks very much indeed , thank you both , and I .
We need to move somewhat quickly , and I am reminded that , I did see Caroline come in , but we have two people who 've come in connection with item fifteen , Community Concerns in East Oxford , are you agreed that we take that now , so that they can
I think it ties in very well with the item we 've just discussed .
Thank you , Graham .
Item fifteen , and Shereen has just arrived as well .
Caroline and your visitor , would you like to join us at the table , if you want to join in .
So we 're turning to page seventy-five .
The paper is in fact written by Shereen .
I don't want you to think , Caroline that we are acquitting you rapidly , I will try to acquit you rapidly , but I am also delivering what you 've come for .
Well , thank you , chair , for inviting me here .
erm do you want me to speak to this
Please do .
Caroline Morrell , from OCADU , do you want to press your button , Caroline , so that everybody will please sit down normally and naturally , and maybe moved a bit closer to you , they 'll pick up what you 're saying .
erm But I raised this at the alcohol forum , because erm sometime this summer I had a phone call from Mr Bailey here , who is a resident of East Oxford , to express his concern about various problems erm in East Oxford , problems that were posed to residents there .
erm I think in fact it would be better to ask Mr Bailey to explain what his concerns were erm I 'd just like to say first although initially it revolves around problems of drinking , I'm looking at other issues of East Oxford , in that recently there 's been a great deal of concern about glue sniffing in sections there , and there have been various letters from residents in the local newspapers , and I think there 's a general level of problem for people living in East Oxford , and it 's not just that the people there want the streets cleaned up or whatever , they want something constructive and helpful to be done for people .
So
Welcome , would you like to take two or three minutes to talk to us about your concerns .
Right .
I should say first how this matter arose .
It arose because some neighbours in my street effectively started behaving which was totally antisocial .
There was a small group of young people who , as it happens were also associated with the bed-and-breakfast on Iffley Road , erm and several of them had moved between this house and the bed-and-breakfast .
Their activities ranged throughout the day and night and reached a peak of basically making a noise nuisance of themselves , there were other troubles which I will mention later , in which they would be playing two or three different sound systems , and at its worst , a full drum set in the early hours of the morning , obviously keeping their near neighbours not only awake but in a state of some anxiety .
I live directly opposite to them , and there were two of their neighbours who effectively unable to carry on a normal life throughout most of the time that they were there .
This was taking place on five or six nights until early mornings a week for several hours .
Eventually a noise abatement notice was served on them , and erm immediately after that the landlord offered them a hundred pounds to leave , and they left .
He did that because they had not only annoying his neighbours , sorry , their neighbours , because he had once been one of our neighbours , but also they had damaged his house , and they had already cost him probably about two hundred pounds in repair bills until the house itself , broken doors , window erm the wall , and bit of the roof and so on , and there was every reason to believe that this would just carry on .
Now , erm I think I should make clear that I have some personal feelings on this , and I just want to say something very briefly about my neighbours , something I actually don't agree with .
erm There is a general concern I think with multiple occupancy that there 's , a whole way of life of East Oxford is changing , and not for the better , and indeed I was part of this when I moved into the area ten years ago .
erm And the , a lot of this was not specific to drug or alcohol abuse but simply to multiple occupancy .
And we 've now reached a situation in which there 's something over twenty percent of our streets is multiple occupation , erm and this is noise and other activities in relation to that are the things that cause the sort of low level of concern , and this was just the peak on top of that of major aggravation .
erm I think there are one or two of the elderly tenants in particular who felt really very anxious about activities at night time , and they 're going to have their property stolen , or things thrown at their house .
I mean these people , there 's things like throwing broken milk bottles , throwing milk bottles into peoples yards , removing bicycles , picking up my bicycle , as it happens , and throwing it down several times , erm going down the streets playing a sound system full volume at two o'clock in the morning , which generally left people feeling they didn't know what was happening .
This was only part of a general sort of pattern as it were , where people were beginning to impinge on their lives , there was another well-known local alcoholic there who was knocking on doors trying to get money off people , and there 's several elderly people who gave this woman money , because they were frightened that if they didn't something would happen to them .
So I think I can express some of my neighbours concerns , unless , particularly , not particularly worried about those , but there is a general feeling that things are getting worse , and that they 're not safe in their own homes , among the more elderly .
erm And obviously a few people don't like the sight of people on the Cowley , the Cowley Hospital site , and things like that .
This doesn't concern me .
I do feel I 'd like to say one point about the people who were in this house , that it 's quite clear , all of them I believe were under care of the social services , erm and I don't know enough about their history to say whether they , where they 've been before , whether they 've been in some half-way house , or just been thrown out of some mental institution .
I'm virtually certain that the woman from whom we had most of the aggravation had been .
She was clearly mentally disturbed , and the reason that I got in touch with the legal project was to see if there 's anything that could be done by them to start giving her some way of getting in touch , getting to solve her problem .
Obviously this was done out of self interest , but I really , the woman was in real pain .
She was an extremely angry , very bitter woman , who was determined to get everybody around her as angry as she could , and she succeeded , and I don't know where she 's moved now , but I'm sure she will go on and do the same thing , and frankly , I despair of anything being done unless there is some provision made for people such as herself , and one of her friends in particular .
That 's really what I 'd like to say .
Thank you very much indeed , I think that 's fairly fair , but none-the-less honest way of setting out your feelings .
This is quite a specific issue , and I'm not sure that this committee on this day is in the best position to discuss it in detail .
Obviously I 'll take your advice on that .
I do think as far as placing people in houses in multi-occupation , we acknowledge that .
How is it done , by whom , who thinks about it , is it planned , is there support , and for that reason we are arranging a meeting , Frank , together with the Health Authority with all those agencies who do place people , sometimes quite sick people as you rightly point out .
So that is certainly on line .
Now , I know that what Shereen asks us to do , and I'm sure Caroline as well , is to organise a multi-agency meeting .
We 've done this on the proposed East Oxford Education centre .
I think we can very usefully do this , and iron our way to this .
What we need from you is really a specific proposal about the kinds of groups and individuals that you want us to sit down with .
You can either do that now , or we can agree in principle that we will take this up .
Perhaps chair , vice chair , and opposition liaison member if you feel that 's suitable .
And call such a meeting .
I think it will a long way , but you 're quite to draw it to us , and to ask us to set out on that road .
Michael ?
Yes , chair .
What sort of people would you involve in this meeting .
I mean there 's a lot of voluntary organisations who are working in this field , I don't know how you would just make sure you got them all .
The resources are pitifully small .
I mean , I'm involved in doing some statistics for Windmill House , the probation service , and we 've found that the sixteen-to-eighteen-year-old provision in the city is very , very small .
I'm sure it 's the same for many of the other groups who 've got problems .
But , erm I hope you involve all those sort of organisations in your discussions .
I would imagine that Shereen would apply the same kind of pattern as you did to the de-toxification centre meeting , Shereen , and I felt that there were a great many people there , a great many interested , including the voluntary interest .
Betty ?
Well , of course , chair , a lot of these problems are arising out of the so-called ‘care in community’ .
I was hoping we 'd avoid the political discussion , Betty .
Well , you know , I mean .
We 've a job to do here .
Well , you know me , I don't normally become political , but let 's face it , this is one of the direct results of throwing the money to the community without any after care , and I was particularly concerned , with my other hat on , only last week , that a young man told us his address was now the night shelter .
Now , because his time at the Bridge had ended , he had nowhere else to go , except to the Nightshelter .
Now , I thought that was quite inappropriate for a young man like him , who had nowhere else to go , so there are many , many multiple problems for people like this in this city , and anything we can do would be appreciated , but I really don't know where we would stop , there are so many problems .
I would ask members to be brief , otherwise we shall actually lose matters off this agenda today .
Liz , and then Patrick .
Chair , can I suggest that some of the people who are actually involved in this are actually asked themselves rather than agencies that might be working with them , because I think that , that most of the , the sort of people we 're talking about are actually very sensitive .
And they know about what 's happening to them , and know that at the end of the day , it doesn't matter about what their behaviour is , it doesn't matter about what happens to them , because nobody cares .
And I think it 's very , very important that they 're involved .
Through the Princes ' Trust in the month we actually give grants to something like twenty people , just to get them off the street , because there was nowhere else they could turn to .
And I think that there 's a massive problem that needs to be addressed , and I think we should involve those people themselves , also in looking at what the issues are , it 's all very well for people to decide , workers to think that they know what the issues are .
I very often think that that 's not the case .
Yes , I think we 'd all agree with that .
Patrick ?
Thanks , erm the report refers to East Oxford , which is of course for two wards , East and St Clement 's , but the problem extends city-wide , and I think the solution should be seen as a city-wide solution .
Yes .
Do you want to finally come back ?
Yes , I 'd like to add one point , matters that the house continues in multiple occupancy and is successful at the present , and the landlord is not prepared to say that he is being now an agent of some hospital or other .
I'm sure that he is , the people who 've come from there , quite clearly recovering alcoholics or mental hospital patients , or possibly people from prison , and I 've known enough people in my time to know this .
And it is working very , very successful at the moment with the current set of tenants .
However , there 's clearly a need for some sort of monitoring and for some support erm other than erm some other support .
The landlord is not prepared to come up front and say that 's what he 's doing .
Unfortunately , I suspect because he fears a reaction from his neighbours , and I'm afraid he 's right .
He 'd be very aware of what 's likely to happen .
He is trying to do something about it , though , I'm sure .
Right , and this will call for some sensitivity in terms of how we handle this .
Caroline and Shereen , is there anything else you want to comment on , otherwise I would ask that you 'd come back to me on this in more detail .
I think I 'd just like to add that I think that this could possibly be a very big piece of work .
Exactly .
And I think it would actually need , if it 's going to be taken on board , somebody appointed to look at this , or it be put in somebody 's job brief and I would have thought ideally that it would be placed with the community worker , and I don't know quite how we 're placed for community workers in East Oxford , but maybe it 's something we could put to that department .
I hear what you say , and I hesitate to make any further comment on that , given the current climate , but let 's set about just examining the shape of the difficulty at the moment , and see what we can as it were immediately deal with ourselves , and what we can try and persuade other people to help us to know .
Will you come back to me in terms of who you want to invite , taking on Liz Kermey 's point about involving people themselves if they so wish , and we 'll consult with the opposition liaison member and the vice-chair .
But in principle we agree do we not , to back multi-agency meeting , given what we said in the discussion and we will come back to you with something that 's maybe a bit more specific , and more easy to discuss , may I say .
Thank you very much indeed for coming .
Thank you .
Thank you , thank you for bringing it forward .
Thank you very much .
We 're back to the normal agenda , item eight on page thirty-six .
Will you also while you 're looking at this look at page thirty-seven , which is the pollution and nuclear issues control sub-committee .
You will see there there has been a detailed discussion on this white paper , and members from that sub-committee made comments .
I would suggest we do not need a second read of the discussion , but that can people keep an eye on , or try and change what is already there on pollution itself .
Peter , you 're introducing this on page thirty-six .
Yes , I think it 's totally clear that what we need is a short message , and it 's a white paper , and therefore it 's inviting a message , so what we really need is a short message to go with the A B C and the government act on the two S P 's and I would give an undertaking at this point that it will go under the chief environmental health officers ' name .
Yes , quite .
While you 're thinking about it , there are three quick things that you might like to add in , one is on page seventy-four , which , erm seventy-four ?
I think it 's seventy-nine , Peter .
Yes , seventy-nine , it 's the , in particular one a , I think concerns this community greatly .
The document included no indication of the role of local authorities , or the resources needed by local authorities .
We intend to take this recommendation for action .
And if you actually look at this paper , there 's quite a bit at the end of the day that the local authority will need to do , and I think we need to underline that and to get money .
The second point , briefly , is that the white paper has turned its face on the establishment of an environmental protection agency , and independent environment protection agency , and erm , you may feel strongly , I know there was another report that came out just about that time that erm was advocating it , and you may feel that what is needed is a central , independent environmental protection agency .
This paper only gives erm an , what is called an integrated pollution inspectorate , now unfortunately with those sort of central inspectorates is that after the public 's attention has drifted on , they tend to be erm , they tend to dwindle in numbers , as we 've seen with the present pollution inspectorate .
Now , thirdly , is on this question of C O 2 emission .
If you look at the report , White Paper , you 'll notice that it 's sticking to a , a freezing of the nineteen-ninety levels by the year two thousand and five , and you may feel that you would like to see this country come more into line with the other E E C countries and ask for a freezing by the year two thousand .
So those are three , anyway , three things erm that you might like to think about for a short message for a response to the White Paper .
Michael .
And can I ask members not to repeat the discussion of the pollution sub .
Just be very brief , chair , erm could I ask that we have a report before council on this , and I know it will be an extra two hours on the poor council debate , but I think this is so important , and it does affect the planet for hundreds of years to come , and I think if we can't have a discussion on this in full council , well , it 's the most important thing we 've had for years probably , and I think we should have a discussion before council sit .
Can I ask for a list of the full report before council , so it will give us a chance to have a debate there rather than here .
You can , and we will .
Anne ?
It was just on a minute on page seventy-nine , I think we want to get the support of local M Ps , one a has I think , has been just indicated , is contradictory , it might be better to say , ‘although the document indicated that local authorities would be expected to undertake extra , an extra , or extra duties , the resources needed are , no indication was given of how there would be extra resources , or something like that , you see it 's contradictory at the moment , it says there 's no indication of the role , and then says that they would need resources , and actually if you look through the document , you will see from time-to-time it is indicated what local authorities are expected to do , for instance recycling of litter and the lot , and I think that that might be actually picked up by M P 's and say , ‘Well , what actually have you , do you mean to say’ , well , what we 're really saying , are we not , that here is an indication of things that we 're expected to do , but as usual , of course , the government has n't indicated what erm where the resources were coming from .
Kate ?
Sorry , chair , would you wish , when we consider this , do you wish to make the amendment ?
Well , you won't be able to do that until we do consider the , I mean , but , the reason I referred to page seventy-nine , is to ensure that we do not repeat ourselves , and that those of us on the sub-committee , remember what we said then , and decide whether we want to repeat that .
I mean , on the items of wording , I mean , that can be done on two sub-committees .
Yes , fine , I just asked , just checking .
Are there items that people , I mean , I take the point about freezing C O 2 emissions .
That 's woolly to say the least .
We may want to make the point that if we are to be committed to doing something about the global warming of the ozone layer then we will need to say when we will do it by .
And ensure there 's a programme which achieves that .
Are there any other additions to that , if not Patrick .
Yes , I 'd like to support Michael in the setting up of an environmental protection agency .
I think that if we leave it to
I don't think it was Michael who suggested it .
No , I didn't .
Well !
It was Peter .
Oh , yes , Peter , sorry .
I think it would skip to environment being the prerogative of local authorities , there will be a great variation across the country , and I don't think anybody seriously would expect that to happen about health and safety at work , and I think the same should be true of the environment .
Right , just to move us on , then , since you 're all going to have a go at this at council , yes ?
Sorry , I just wanted to refer to page eighty-one , erm sixth form conference , thirty-three .
Yes
erm Students will be asked to report back to the next erm sub-committee
Yes they will
So , shall we have a full report then to the next environment and health protection sub-committee of that report .
Yes .
Can I just bring you back to the item before us , which is ‘This Common Inheritance’ , and ask you to endorse the sub-committees suggestions , i.e. repeat them , as comments from the health committee , with the additions from the vice-chair on environmental protection agency .
on point more adequately made by the deputy about C O two emission , are there any other comments that people want to make , or are you agreed that we refer back to council as it is ?
Are we then taking up the point that Liz Spokes made on item one a , on page seven .
Procedurally Nonnie we can't do that till we come to the sub committee .
Well , so that is how it 's going to council .
I think it 's a great pity .
Clearly that will not be the case that that 's how it goes to council .
But procedurally , we can amend it when we get to the sub-committee .
Is the sub-committee then going to meet before council .
No , we have not yet taken the minutes for this sub-committee , I have simply asked you to take it together with this agenda item .
All I was going to say was that clearly I agree with one thing , but one would assume that as the paper is a really a general outline that we would be seeing specific targets as the agenda 's worked through over the next two three years .
Oh , yes , if the government 's still there , I'm sure they 'll do that , yes .
Thank you Graham .
Well , I think they 'll be a government still there !
No , yours .
Labour !
Can I then move you on , and we will correct the pollution and control sub committee minutes when we get to them just and Nonnie .
Item nine , there 's a report for the half year ending on page forty-one , Tony ?
Yes , chair , erm , I was supposed to give the figures if they 'd come out at this time .
You 'll notice one or two minor changes .
You 'll notice that instead of complaints signed in what would be technically the paragraph where they talk about service requests , because many of the requests we get from members of the public to provide a service are not necessarily complaints , but they do need our help .
You 'll see that both the number of requests for service , and the number of visits made are well up on previous half years , and although some of that is due to probably the highest figure on insect complaints we 've ever had for six months , and erm it 's not all that , much of it is lately the department has been very , very busy indeed .
On food control , the level of food hygiene inspections at seven hundred and thirty we 've achieved by buying in consultants to do some work for us in our priority area , and we 're were able to do that with Derek Welk 's retirement , leaving us with some unspent staff , and so we 've achieved a higher figure there than we expected we would do .
erm My cause for concern , and I think it 's one that 's been echoed in a number of places , is the still very high figure for food-poisoning outbreaks , for food-poisoning cases , erm you 'll see we 're not as high as the previous comparable half-year of last year , which was ninety-two , but that included the Keble outbreak , which you 're well aware of , but at thirty-two for Oxford for a half year , that 's a very high figure .
We haven't had that sort of figure very often before .
erm The national figure seems to be , the national figure of food poisoning cases this year looks like being in excess of sixty thousand .
erm it was around fifty-four thousand last year , and the figure 's just going up and up .
The answer to it I just don't know , but the Food Safety Act deals with some of the future , some of the future objectives in terms of better training for people who handle food , and tighter controls on food businesses , so it 's something to look forward to , and hopefully in years to come the figure will begin to drop .
On erm food and noise , we 're still very , very busy indeed , and our figure for noise inspection is higher than it ever has been before , and the comment that was made under that section will show you that some of that most certainly is the amount of work that the team had to carry out during the summer , one of the benefits of our glorious summer is that most of us slept with our windows fully open for three months or more and one of the dis-benefits was that if anybody else down the road had a party that went beyond normal bed-time , everybody shared that , and our team was very busy in consequence .
erm On occupational health , and I don't plead for those figures , because for a time , until Helen left to have her baby , we were fully staffed , and the number of inspections and the number of notices served and the number of prohibition notices served are very encouraging indeed .
The impact of the section has been very broadly based in the city , and for the first time we 've added for you in very brief terms , a Domiciliary Health information of just the total number of visits made by the city health care , erm and the level of work in terms of notices served , and prosecutions , note , going up in most of the sections , particularly their units they 're small numbers , but they are significant , just the same , and the table on the top of page forty-four , erm as I said earlier , I think we reached the highest level of insect complaints in the summer that we 've ever had to deal with , it 's very usual for us to deal with a thousand , over in the summer period , this time we dealt with sixteen hundred .
An amazing amount of work carried out by the three members of the pest control team , with some additional help with larger jobs during the summer period .
Thank you , Tony .
I 'd remind members that this report also goes to council .
It 's very useful if you have detailed questions on this particular report that you do let myself and the chief know well in advance , so that you get a detailed answer , quite frankly .
erm I 've seen Graham , Anne and Diane .
Yes , erm very , very quickly , erm I notice that the swimming pool and river bathing visits had more than doubled , I just wondered what the cause of that was , and whether in fact it was mainly related to the swimming pools or to the river bathing bit erm places , and the second one is , regarding the noise , I notice that it has shot up , the number of visits to seven twenty one , but in fact , the prosecution 's only gone up to one , and I wondered if Mr Fenn could tell us whether in fact because of the higher profile that had been given to this erm activity , due to its possible cut , whether in fact more people are aware of it and there were more
Undoubtedly
should we say , complaints of a casual nature , rather than a particularly serious nature ?
Well , .
erm On the question of the river samples and pool samples , yes , I think one of the city pools , one of the school pools we had a bit of a problem , so that took much of concentrated attention of it for a period of two or three weeks , so that 's probably a reflection , I don't think much of it relates to the river sample .
We take samples throughout the year from the river , but they 're really at background level , and not very helpful I must admit , in terms of getting the quality of the river improved , we can't do that .
On the noise question , yes , undoubtedly the increased erm number of complaints is partly due to the higher profile that was achieved during the summer , but erm no , I don't think that the complaints were frivolous , they were complaints that were , that needed attention , and there will be one or two prosecutions following through .
Remember this set of figures closes on thirtieth of September .
Very often prosecutions follow on sometime after the event happens .
It may be worth saying , Tony that Graham 's already talked to officers and it 's worth your while talking to people on the house-to-house duty rota .
Parties then with noise , just imagine going up to the door where there are fifty or sixty seething people in there .
In order to serve a notice you have to get a name , and that 's enormously difficult , because I mean , practical difficulties need to be taken on board , Anne and then Diana .
Well , having had to avail ourselves of the help of the officer who got rid of our gigantic wasp nest , I should like to say what a superb job they do , but I just wondered in view of the tremendous number , whether there is some kind of way of preventions .
I know in our case , and therefore probably in a lot that it isn't always possible , they 'll always find a way in , but if there was some perhaps advice to people it might bring down this number of complaints , that you could perhaps do before the wasp season begins , I don't know whether that 's a possibility or not .
I don't think it 's possible , chair , but I will talk with Clive Williams who 's our expert in that .
I think the main reason for so many wasps this year is to , warm summers , and but it 's basically the long summer period , because we started , you see on the wasp complaints in May , which we don't really start until half way through June , and we kept going right through , right until the middle of October , and they normally stop round the end of August , so that 's the main reason ; a very long , hot summer .
Thanks .
I 'd like to second Anne 's congratulations really , to the , to the men who deal with wasps nest , because they 're very usually men who come along !
They are all men .
They are ?
Well , I know he was a man , I saw him !
All of them are .
And , I certainly have taken steps to make sure that I don't get a wasps nest , but in that particular area again , because he begged to point out to me where the wasp was getting access to , a little tiny space above my bedroom window , and that has now been sealed , so hopefully the wasps another year will find a home somewhere else that isn't quite so close to my open bedroom window .
So perhaps if people were aware of some of the places where wasps can go within their home , they might be able to sort of take those conscious That wasn't actually what I had
Well , be quick then !
Nothing , nothing fascinating .
I just wanted to know what on page forty-two under ‘Water sampling’ , what the bracketing figures say four u stroke s , one u stroke s , etcetera meant , and on page forty-three , why under ‘programme and revisiting inspection’ this four one nine p was starred .
I just wondered what those contexts and you will be bound to be asked it in council if it 's not asked now .
Thank you very much , Diana .
Thank you .
Chair , we do class as unsatisfactory those samples that the laboratory would covers don't reach certain standards , whatever the standard may be , and that 's why we concentrate on that figure that the bathing unsatisfactory at one particular pool , where there was a serious problem .
And the starred items , I think the starred items , I'm not sure now , I think , can you help here ?
No , I'm sorry , Ken .
I'm pretty sure that the
Programmed visits ?
Programmed visits , yes , I think they 'll have been debt inspections that have carried out , whereas the higher figures above them are audit , and these are the ones that take more time , and are programmed to deal with everything , you know .
May I suggest , may I suggest that 's put on the report before it goes to council .
Thank you , Nonnie finally
Yes , erm on page forty-one , ‘unsatisfactory samples’ , we have six others , erm is there a general category below six , like meat or something like that ?
If there was a general category , I think it would be put , however .
Yes .
The category ‘others’ , under ‘unsatisfactory samples of food’ six .
Yes , they could be a range of things , chair , I 'll check out what they are and make sure you 've got some
Okay , Nonnie .
Yes .
The only other thing I would say is that you 've got domiciliary health there on the bottom of page forty-three for the first time , a thing that we certainly asked for on your behalf .
I suggest that the figures you 've got before you are not terribly , terribly useful , and that you do invite domiciliary health to come back to you for three months to talk to you about their work in terms of the visits , the visits that they do .
It will be a whole lot clearer to you then , but it 's there basically because it was asked for , it 's inadequate because that was all they could do on the day , having been instructed to provide it .
So I apologize for that .
Could I ask , Chairman , chair the number of successful prosecutions ?
You 've got it later on in the agenda , Arthur , can we wait for that one ?
And the report for the half year will go to the council as you 've heard .
Item ten , Matthew 's been patient , where is he , he 's there .
Food control in Oxford on page forty-five .
Can I ask you before inviting you to speak to us in two or three minutes on this , say that the recommendation , in a sense I think it has been overtaken , in that there is now under fifteen a the very distinct possibility of a transfer of a very technical post from the pollution section by the end of the year .
That 's to say someone is leaving and we are going to take that post out and put it into the food section , and on b , I would say to Matthew that before committing us to a budget of two and a half thousand against a background of ten percent cuts , I would suggest that the health educational help-line and their day-long courses for E H Os might be made good use of in the forth-coming year .
But
Thank you chair .
I think first of all , I 'd like to be very brief , but just to say the purpose of this short report with the appendices has not got any special status with food control , just set the record straight as to what we are capable of doing currently and what we can't do .
erm That was with the current staff resources with certain changes since the summer .
Now , it 's obviously very good that a position is going to be replaced by a technician , for which a , which at the moment is elsewhere in the department .
What erm my view is that we have a current shortfall , and I think the figures highlight this , and the shortfall is in the highest of the high risk , if you like , the ultra high-risk area of catering .
erm Although one would hate to be , I don't want to be accused of being elitist and saying that E H O 's must do a particular job , but what I would like to say it that we need people who are trained to a sufficient level to be able to do the ultra high risk catering area , as distinct from other high-risk areas .
It 's my professional opinion that we have a problem there in terms of training and expertise , and I feel that , as you 've said , the technician is forth-coming , we will be obviously having to draft very , very carefully a job description , but I feel that training requirements will be such that it will be very , very difficult to fulfil those requirements and indeed to cope with this ultra high-risk catering area .
It 's my considered opinion that the only way we can do that is by an E H O , and we will find , eventually , that we will suffer continued short-fall in terms of ultra high-risk inspection .
I think it 's fair to say that we 've gone a long , long way in Oxford to breaking down barriers with regard to the inspection priorities , and we are in a position within the city where we have nature of , if you like , technicians and staff that are doing jobs that in many other surrounding areas , and indeed throughout the country are the prerogative of E H O , and these include areas specified as high-risk by MAFF , and include a great bulk of all customer and consumer complaints .
The only area that I'm saying is in need for careful consideration is that related to risks associated with the possibilities of food poisoning and very high-risk food handling .
I think really that is all I can say , chair , erm in addition to your comments .
Thanks very much indeed for your report , Matthew , it 's certainly very informative , and in an ideal world , I think we might have made a different decision today .
Are there comments or questions immediately , Catherine ?
I do have a question and , and it has n't made , that has n't made it particularly clear as to where we are , you hinted that , and I think that was also seconded here that there might now be a post of some kind to carry on for instance the thing that I'm particularly worried about is that there 's a sort of hiatus in the heartbeat awards , which I think would be a tragedy if that happened , and I want to be absolutely sure that that is , isn't so .
Do I take it that actually the remarks that have just been made are really in favour of having a third E H O , but that in fact that that in circumstances , will not be possible .
So I really , what I'm asking , is that perhaps it could be set out exactly now what stage we have reached , and what the recommendation is as from today .
What you have before you is Matthew feeling and indeed , I would take it , supported by the chief officer .
erm There always has been the situation since Derek Roberts retired , and in fact his post was put in the pollution section , where there was only one E H O , the agreement then that there would be a swap straight E H O for technician swap , but food had traditionally , as long as I 've been involved have three E H Os .
Now , I don't expect Matthew to support that for one moment , but what I'm saying to committee is that is our pragmatic solution at this moment .
I don't expect the heartbeat award scheme to suffer , I will be in touch with Matthew fairly closely to ensure that , but I think the position of the labour group is that we can not support these recommendations as they are but we offer you a compromise solution .
Nonnie ?
Yes , erm , presumably the training for a technical post in the pollution section will give kind of basic bacteriology , which will be , you know , essential for going over into the food section , erm I mean , what will become .
I think that 's probably not the case , it isn't a person we 're transferring over , it 's a bit better than that , it 's a post , which means that Matthew can advertise with a particular emphasis on food background .
He may be right , he may not be able to recruit the ideal person .
On the other hand there are some qualifications that technicians may take , we may be lucky , we may get such a person , and I hope so .
Yes , so it isn't a person .
Right .
Matthew , are there , erm Diana ?
Thank you .
It 's a , it 's a fascinating report and having been involved in the Food Forum discussion , when we , it was reported to us that we 'd actually lost a community nutritionist , I read this with great interest to see just how now the professional was seen through sections .
And , I mean , reluctantly we have to accept that this is not an ideal world , but I mean , just now , we were actually looking at the number of food hygiene inspections that have been done over the last few months , which have increased enormously , it just means , I mean it emphasises the fact that food has changed , food , and the number of places that are actually serving food now I mean , the corner shop does sandwiches .
Everybody seems to be producing food , wherever you go food is on offer , food is for sale .
I realise that many of these are not high-risk areas , but they are areas that our officers have got to , got to keep an eye on .
And numbers are increasing while our staffing has actually , actually decreased .
erm We 've got to recognise the professional advice that Matthew is giving us in this report , that he , he needs professional trained staff , and it grieves me that really we can only offer a technician when he is asking for something more .
But we are giving , we are giving him a post , another body , and hopefully with a very careful job description he will get a trained person , because we also recognise the fact that Oxford 's a marvellous place for people to come .
The environmental health department is seen throughout Britain as being a nice place to come .
I mean , I keep hearing that when I come into the environmental health department , that , just that people are interested in what Oxford are doing .
They keep busy , don't they .
Well set up .
Yes .
So we 're one of the important environmental health departments , sure , so hopefully we will actually get somebody who is really very good , a food technician to assist in this erm field , and there have , I hope that through Food Forum we may well be able to help Matthew with his , well not just Matthew , but help , help that section with the nutrition advice that he feels is still lacking in his team under the circumstances .
Thanks very much Diana .
Can I just remind members that , I mean there 's a member of the technical staff in this room now .
We have a number of technicians in the environmental health department who do some sterling work , and I know that no one here would want you to suppose that they are a kind of second-string person .
They do a different kind of work , they 've traditionally done considerably responsible work within Oxford City 's Environmental Health Department , so there isn't a suggestion on the part of any of us that they are somehow lesser beings , because that is not the case at all .
Can I put it to you that we can not today accept the recommendation on page forty-eight .
But I do move today that we transfer the technical post that will become vacant in the pollution section by the end of this year to the food section , and that Matthew together with the chief environmental health officer consider how best to write a job description , and advertise for that post , and that while I do not see us securing a budget of two thousand five hundred pounds as under fifteen b , I do recommend that the health education authority are contacted , that their help-line is used , and that our E H O 's use their premises in the coming new year .
I am assured that they are advertised in the Institutions Journal .
Matthew , that isn't all you want , but maybe we 'll be able to discuss this again in twelve months time .
Thank you very much for the work you 've put in .
Alright .
Thank you chair .
Thanks .
I note that we have Terry Randal here .
Maybe we should take item seventeen and allow him , is ten minutes going to be enough ?
erm I 'll try and do this in ten minutes .
You 'll try and do this in ten minutes .
Let 's straight into seventeen then , I 'll just remind committee that we need to move to the confidential section at five o'clock today in order to get it finished .
Item seventeen is the age-well project , the report is circulated on page a hundred and eight .
We 're particularly delighted actually that Tony Randall has come along to share his own very particular views on this project .
You 'll remember that we had a pilot project in South Oxford Health Centre , Tony is one of the G P 's there , I'm expecting that he 's going to be very positive about this project since we all are , in terms of it 's practice service delivery .
Well , then Tony , tell us about how it feels at your end .
Okay , I 'll give you a very brief background to the project .
It started in the Autumn of eighty-eight , when Phil approached me and said , ‘Look , we would like to consider putting our services that we do offer to finance in a more effective way’ , running alongside that was a project being run by Oxfordshire Health Authority where they were sending postal surveys to elderly people ; people over the age of seventy erm sixty-five at one point , and were getting back a huge amount of information on their perceived needs .
We thought perhaps we can use that as a goal standard , and pick up what actually happens with our project to compare the two .
So that 's where we were in the autumn of eighty-eight .
By spring of eighty-nine , when the project had started , we 'd gone quite a long way down the road , we 'd decided that we wanted to be looking at what was feasible in general practice .
Get this machine working over here .
What was feasible general practice , and whether that was the best place to be contacting the local people .
Now , the reason we particularly were interested in this was that from the questionnaire we already were beginning to get back some information , and we discovered that eighty-six percent of people had seen their G P in the previous year , and maybe if we could introduce them to the age-well project at some point during that contact , we would be able to achieve something .
Against that there 'll be seventeen percent of this population was seeing home-helps , five percent was seeing social workers .
So we though that we would try it in general practice .
Next thing to do was to set up a form .
Looks horrendous , but bear in mind these elderly people have just answered a sixteen page postal questionnaire with no help .
And what 's more eighty-six percent of them answered it .
And I was quite impressed by that .
We gave them a sheet of paper which said what we were , what we 're doing , and said please , if you want any help in any of those areas , just tick the box , and if you don't want any help , tick this little box , and that 's what they had to fill in .
And they were given this when they were brought into the surgery by the receptionist .
We discovered very rapidly that if it was the doctor that had to present the age-well project to the patients that quite often they forgot to do it .
In greater detail I could look at what kind of coverage we 've got , but I think in ten minutes I don't have time to do that .
Suffice it to say that amongst the people who were not contacted by this project within the first year are some of those seeing doctors on eight occasions .
The receptionists are much at giving out these things than doctors .
They can do it while they 're waiting , could n't they .
On the back of the form , we simply have a method of writing down anything that 's interested , and also includes a sticker of who the person is , a particular one .
So I thought we could look at results now , which are probably the thing that 's most interesting .
Just taking that form with those boxes , that 's how people responded .
This thing breaks it down by age , as I say , we 're looking at seventy-fives and over .
More than half the people don't want any help at all .
Well , I think that 's , we can accept the point easily .
erm Quite a lot of help required in areas of the remit of this committee I would guess , things like home , security and safety , heating down here , quite a lot of people want help with heating .

No , no , I agree .
Are you laughing
Why don't you
at my feet ?
Mm .
I think you should wear those at appointments .
No , my clients get a big enough giggle as it is .
I don't think
by your slippers .
Do you have anything to do with the Hampton Court area Steven er , work-wise ?
Well , have I been there ?
No , erm there 's an office there isn't there ?
Or have we got an office in Hampton Court ?
No , I don't think we have .
Oh .
I thought we were you know , working up there .
Well , no , it 's not General Portfolio .
Actually , just started working for General Portfolio .
It is in Kingston .
Might be .
There 's not one in Kingston .
Sharon .
I dunno .
Where d'ya meet her then ?
I met her from , she used to work at Kirshaws .
Oh .
Probably applied the same time I did .
Oh .
She smokes like a chimney .
Mm .
Have you ever seen anybody completely obscured by her own smoke , it 's Sharon .
.
Chuck us the water would you ?
She 's a bit of a goer as well int she ?
Is she ?
isn't she ?
Yeah but
didn't she order a punch so she was drunk ?
No , that was Tracey .
I thought Tracey and Sharon used to get drunk at lunchtime on a Friday and have a punch up .
No .
Only Tracey would do that .
Our Trace .
Ah .
Oh dear .
Oh .
It 's supposed to be a bit it 'll stick up don't worry .
No , it 's ours .
don't poke it Martin , or else
it 'll .
There 's nothing worse than somebody poking your pudding is there ?
No .
It smells absolutely foul .
don't come and poke yours , do we ?
You do .
She does .
don't .
We never , we never cook anything
cos we ai n't got a table .
Well we have but it int got any legs on .
No , she must be working out of the Kingston office cos we don't
I would have thought so .
we don't have one at Hampton Court .
No .
Or Hampton .
Su sugar .
Oh .
There you go .
So how are you Susan ?
I'm not very well .
aren't you ?
You got this cold thing everybody
She 's fluey .
else has got ?
She 's fluey .
Yeah .
Mm .
This one mine ?
One of these days , I live in hope for a bug going round that everybody else has , but not me .
I 've always got the one , I'm always the one saying to you fiddle , everyone seems to have that
Yeah .
including me .
Tt .
I 've got a sore throat and a bit of a cough .
And I do feel genuinely rough .
And you ache , don't you ?
I ache from here to the top .
I think it sounds like flu .
I had a thumping headache yesterday .
But that seems to have gone now .
Mm .
I 've put
Stiff neck as well ?
Yeah .
Ooh yeah .
Oh here 's some Marmite crisps if you want any ?
No ?
Okay .
Be like that .
Well erm I was
absolutely freezing cold .
These always hit me .
It sounds awfully familiar I'm afraid .
Mm .
So I had a bath and I thought it 'd warm me up but I was , I was freezing were n't I ?
Yeah .
And I had to get the old erm quilt down .
Mm mm .
I don't believe I'm bad
all week .
Not usually this bad with a cold .
I mean , I 've been off college and stuff just feeling really tired
Yeah .
all the time .
It 's the .
Alright .
I mean , normally I just keep going , you know , and sort of don't , but I 've been so aching so much that it 's terrible !
Yes .
Is that my cup ?
Yes .
I think .
Yeah .
I wonder if we could get away with telling my mum that we 'll go away for Christmas and New Year .
Why , you going away ?
Well she 's going away anyway .
Oh yes you
Is she ?
you 're going to the Lake District aren't you ?
Yep .
Yeah .
We 've got it booked .
Have you ?
Yup .
Aha .
Oh jolly good !
We have .
We 'll be taking
I hate to tell you this but the er the forecast for the weather is pretty awful this year .
Snow ?
Lots of it .
I think we 're gonna have a
hard winter this year .
Hello !
Hello .
Hello .
Alright ?
D'ya win or lose ?
Hi !
Ah !
Where 's Jasmine ?
Hello .
Hello my plant .
Hello .
She 's gone upstairs .
Tell her I said hello .
They seem to be downstairs .
She hi
She seems to be .
Hello sweetheart !
Hello !
Whoop woo woo !
Mayhem !
Yes I thought we were gonna get snowed in up there .
Hello !
Well I ra when are you going up then ?
Twenty seventh .
The day after Boxing Day .
You woo woo !
Yeah .
Woo !
Woo , woo , woo , woo , woo , woo , woo !
Woo , woo , woo !
The fact that you don't mind talking about it .
Yes .
Yes there 's always the
Maybe
perhaps the Monday after Christmas , and then coming back the Monday after .
And I 'll ask
Maybe you could connect the tape to the television and then have a film on and just leave it running .
So the ac that 's the actual script .
I think it 'll be fairly obvious somehow .
What 's that ?
Did you win or lose ?
Not a lot .
Lost .
You lost ?
Where was it today ?
Mm dear .
Ah no , racing , ah , it 's cos I bought a horse , that 's why
Oh !
erm you might have lost a lot .
No I I , er
Have you been racing today ?
No I backed the first winner today and that got me out of trouble .
Er , don't give her those .
Why ?
Give her a brick .
No , she actually just , I haven't seen for a long time so she can have one of these .
No , but that 's excessively for her .
It 's not cos she only gets a little bit .
Where 's Jussy ?
Dunno .
Jussy !
Jussy man !
I 'll put them away in the fridge for you .
Jussy man .
How are your horses nowadays ?
They 're fine thanks .
Yeah , very well .
You been down to see them recently ?
No , cos I 've been away for a couple of days .
Mm mm .
She has been down in Dorset .
I always go back
What do you mean he gets his ?
does that one , that I'm not quite so much of the .
Yeah , but er .
Oh he 's got plenty of them .
Yeah .
Feeling like
the end of the world .
Death warmed up .
Mm .
How 's ?
Not bad .
But it 's bloody cold out there isn't it ?
I know , it 's a bit nip .
Cor !
Bit of a frosty one .
Bit of a , bit of a sad day though isn't it ?
Lovely , sunny
Oh yeah .
Same again tomorrow , so they say .
I like starting off the day with a ten mile run followed by
I like this one .
hot chocolate two rounds of toast
And that one at erm
and a piece of er , ginger cake .
stopped at the tea rooms after completely over the top ordering .
All the all this food started turning off .
Completely , the chocolate , hot chocolate with bloody whipped cream on the top and everything .
God !
I wish I 'd cycled six miles home !
So you worked it all off again .
I don't think so .
Not in , not in sixteen miles .
I should think you probably just about got through the toast possibly .
I 've torn off my bit .
I tipped .
Yes .
Did you er make that ?
Or did you
Yeah , I don't do , I don't do .
Want to go upstairs and sit down ?
Oh .
I will .
The food 's not far off is it ?
Well we 'll go upstairs and eat .
Shall we go upsta are we gonna eat upstairs ?
Yeah .
Can do .
Whenever .
Whatever .
Whenever , whatever we feel like really .
done ?
We 're not far off now .
What 's this in there ?
In the oven Steven ?
That is the .
That 's the starter .
Chicken .
Frederick !
Yes ?
This dog 's standing here again ?
Is he ?
Yeah .
Yes .
.
Yes , but I must admit I 'll sort him out .
I 'll see what we 're gonna do when the dinner comes .
Very thinly sliced .
Oh !
We haven't done the mush Kitty !
Very thin , and very thinly sliced .
You haven't done the mushrooms !
Oh !
Strewth !
Quick !
There you go .
Sa say it .
We always put mushrooms in it .
And erm extremely thinly sliced .
Yeah .
We always put these , just forgotten to do them .
Oh .
You 'll have to do them
Cut them thin otherwise they won't cook in time .
Oh won't they ?
Yeah .
What ?
Oh you 're
Three and half millimetres .
You 're
though Martin .
Sorry ?
Grab a knife then Martin ?
I got ta wash them first .
Okay , we need to wash them but it doesn't matter too much does it ?
I 've got to
No .
scrub them haven't I ?
Well it is , I wrote it down when we were on the list
Wash her hair .
and Steve put it on top of here .
Shampoo and rinse .
Look Martin , those mushrooms .
What , that list I gave you earlier on ?
Yes .
I don't think you could argue with that .
The mushrooms .
Right then take
Like if you 're gonna be happy in this household
Test the finger you are they just oh God , they 're much bigger than we had already .
So how many are you doing ?
Well it 's the thought that counts .
Oh !
Well that 's enough .
Mm mm .
That 's quite a little gadget isn't it ?
Where d'ya put
Excuse me !
Saves gunging the old erm
Sweet , no less .
One very small knife for slicing the mushrooms .
Deep emancipation .
I'm busy .
Well he 's gonna pay me back tomorrow .
Oh .
Actually they 're quite clean these mushrooms .
How 's the business been recently ?
Erm , not too bad .
I don't know how that one got in there .
Yeah , not too bad .
Could be better ?
Could be worse ?
Well , it can always be better can't it ?
It is
Thing was I knew he 'd forgotten something .
I was just looking for something .
You see , I could tell these things .
Well Martin , Joe , er er Martin just said erm what would look nicer in there are some erm some mushrooms , and I looked and I thought , well we always do mushrooms in
You stupid boy !
there .
There should be mushrooms in there .
And lo and behold there isn't .
Come on , chop chop !
Did you put in those thingies ?
Yes .
Nice hat !
Keeps you warm , yeah ?
That 's the only thing .
Perhaps I could do with another one .
How are you Thierry darling ?
I'm alright thanks .
You ?
Okay .
I heard you were in the er
the bath were n't you ?
I was .
Yes .
Well and truly in the bath .
In the triathlon ?
Yes .
Second out the water or something ?
Yes .
First , first .
Where did you finish ?
Not second .
No .
No , I was about twenty sixth from the end actually , but
How many ?
Twenty sixth .
wasn't bad , and I finished .
That 's good .
That 's pretty good
Which is alright
twenty sixth .
considering it was fairly considering it 's pretty er
Cos only about ten men finished in front of you or something ?
Yes .
Oh no , there were more than that .
I was twenty sixth in the women 's , not overall .
Still , that 's good .
Oh right .
So I had to put up with the , I had a really shitty cycle and then , my run was , you know okay
Well you probably
for me , but
you probably tried hardest in your swim didn't you ?
Well I don't think I did really , I just wasn't very sharp really .
I , well I know you have days where you just you feel alright
Had you
but then
prepared alright ?
you just go across , not really .
Cos then , the Worlds
Right .
were only a month before so I sort of war wound down a bit , so
Yeah .
I mean , I wasn't really feeling , you know when some , sometimes you know you 're gonna do really well and sometimes you think , mm mm
Er er yeah .
not really terribly prepared for
Pass today .
this one .
And you feel alright but people just go shh ooh ooh past you .
That 's
Yeah .
life really .
Just got ta do what you can really haven't you ?
Absolutely .
Yeah .
I'm just gonna put an extra layer on .
I'm not
That 's okay .
gonna
Say , that 's alright .
I was just I wouldn't be bothered anyway .
No you probably wouldn't actually .
You know me .
Oh God !
What ?
In fact , Jon 's
Yeah .
here .
I haven't seen him for ages .
Well I haven't either .
Whose lager 's that ?
I mean whose thingie ?
It 's mine , I was just gonna give it to you .
Is it ?
Well in that , actually I 'll come and sit on it and then I can fondle Jon 's knees while I'm there .
I'm not speaking to you , not with that on .
You don't have to say anything .
Who 's got the best knee then ?
What ?
Oh well erm different quality of knees really .
You 're joking !
Mine 's all bone .
That 's what I mean , you know , depends
Bony knees .
depends what turns you on really .
You never know I might be
Are you sure because erm when we were away er James took some photographs
Yeah .
and I saw just how bony my legs were .
Were in shorts .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Ooh !
Vegetables !
Ah that 's alright .
I got terri I mean , honestly er I mean people are so
Well that 's a point , speaking of photos can I have the ones you took at ?
The ones of me .
Please .
I mean , I realize you 've probably got them pinned up by your bed , but
Ah , I 've made them up into poster size .
Yeah .
Get three D ones made up .
Are you , are you coming to that dinner ?
No I'm not .
You 're not ?
No .
Yeah I know .
Martin won't let me come cos he says it 's too expensive .
So , when is it anyway ?
Oh probably the er er it 's worse than I do sometimes .
No , November the twenty something .
Oh great !
That 's very helpful .
Yeah , I dunno why , I sort of oh yes well , I assumed we were going and then he said it was too expensive .
And then , he sort of thought well funny sell my body .
I don't know .
I dunno .
It 's something like twenty quid each .
That could take me ages to earn .
What d'ya do ?
Depending who I'm selling my body to .
I'm a student so I haven't got any money .
But , judging by how crap the Christmas dinner was I'm not really particularly tempted , but
Tell him you want to go .
That 's what we 'll do anyway .
Will you dance with me if I come ?
What ?
Yes .
That means I will .
Yes .
Okay .
As long as it 's slow .
Oh , alright then .
Sounds good to me .
You 're warned though
That 's worth
I 've got two left feet .
that 's worth twenty quid .
That 's alright , if you tread on my feet I 'll just pick you up and carry you then .
Yeah , that 's true .
And put you over my
put you over my shoulder .
You probably could .
A fireman 's lift then .
Oh dear .
And we can disappear outside and everyone 'll be talking .
Oh yeah !
Absolutely .
You 'll have to deal with Martin though .
Can you run faster than him ?
Erm
no , I can't even run for a bus .
Actually probably wouldn't , probably wouldn't be very bothered actually .
I 'll just have my bike outside and quickly get on .
I should .
Yeah .
Oh dear .
That erm Mark rang up
Oh
rang us up yesterday .
Hello it 's Mark from the Tri-Club .
I thought Mark from the Tri-Club , Mark , who the hell is Mark ?
Who from the Tri-Club ?
Well I didn't even , well he didn't even occur to me actually I must admit .
Excuse me a minute .
But er going to the loo are we ?
Alright then .
Can you bring me a cup of tea back ?
One sugar please .
Erm yeah , so I had this
I had thi yeah I had this long conversation not knowing who the hell he so I said well are you going , I was thinking Kingfisher , so I thought well , I said are you going training tomorrow night ?
He said training ?
What training ?
I said well , you know , and I thought it could be somebody here as well .
Let 's face it , I made a complete prat of myself .
And then Martin , I sa I still could n't think who it was .
Martin came home and said oh is that Mark fro Mark from Woking ?
I thought , ah , ha !
The wrong bloody number .
Oops !
Yeah .
But honestly , how stupid !
It could , could it not be anybody ?
Well I know .
God !
Could have been a if I didn't know any attractive Marks Tri-Club
Oh , so you di
so I thought it 's a fairly safe bet .
I mean if it ha if somebody had said it was Danny from the Tri-Club I would have had a
I would have been in there , you know .
Oh .
Just on the off chance .
Just on the off chance it was that Danny .
Ha !
I mean , how stupid to ring and say it 's Mark .
Yes .
I mean , that 's like ringing up and saying it 's Jon really isn't it ?
But I do ring .
You do ri well we know you well enough to know your voice though .
It 's the bear .
Yeah .
Absolutely .
Who 's that girl ?
Yeah , that 's Sarah .
She 's not as sexy as me is she ?
It 's what you call
in fact I'm not even sure it was female then .
Not that I'm insecure or anything .
It 's alright , you can try and .
Oh dear .
How 's Nat ?
Fine .
Oh oh !
Gone to the cinema tonight or summat .
Eh ?
Gone to the cinema
Oh oh .
with the girls from work .
Oh that 's nice .
Where , what have they gone to see , d'ya know ?
Ah she did say .
Oh oh !
I take so much interest in her .
Yes dear .
That 's nice .
See you later .
Bye !
Oh God !
Where 's Thierry with my bloody cup of tea ?
Well do you want any while I was in there ?
Just bringing his now .
I was thinking of going up for something myself , but I really can't be bothered to move actually .
Fifty miles for you ?
Yeah , that 's what we normally do .
Is it ?
What 's Thierry supposed to do , about fifty six ?
Seventy five
Seventy five ?
is the total .
Oh , including your twenty
Including , yeah .
Something 's definitely burning .
Is it twenty five to ten when you go past the door .
You lazy bugger !
I said I can't be bothered to get up .
That 's alright , I 'll let you drive me all the way round once so , he owes me a quid you see .
Oh .
I see pay day 's started .
Yeah .
Who 's left their hat on the fire top ?
I told you something 's , I told you something was burning .
After that last place in there .
Can you smell it ?
Yes .
Oh !
, ,Thank you very much Thierry .
You 're a star .
I had erm you had to get up , out of bed of Sundays ?
Oh !
Bloody hell !
Men !
Eh !
Yeah .
I was , I was quietly groaning away thinking oh God it 's quarter to eight thank God I haven't got ta get up .
Ten minutes later , wurgh , can you
Tap on the door .
can you push the van please ?
Pushing an old van , I mean I ask you !
Yeah .
Yeah .
Stuck at the bottom of the hill .
A ho how he thought I was going to move it I don't know .
And then , and then
First he , first he scratched it .
Yeah .
And then , ten minutes later , I got a puncture , can you drive me out there ?
Tt !
Cor dear !
Some people , eh ?
What car have you got ?
Peugeot .
Peugeot two O five .
Peggy the Peugeot .
Pretty nice .
Mm mm .
Oh God !
I 've been so thirsty for the last hour , I could n't be bothered to go and find a drink .
I 've never ever been at college after six o'clock , it was very exciting .
How old 's he ?
Six ?
Twelve ?
How old is he ?
A bit young .
I thought you said he was fourteen .
A bit young for me .
Even for me , eh ?
Mm .
Even for a little baby like you .
I know .
The youngest , the youngest below me I 've ever gone for is three years younger .
Well that was that was fairly excessive .
And that was when you were six .
God he was sexy !
No , it was when about
about seventeen and he was fourteen .
God he was fabulous !
The best kisser I 've ever met .
What do you mean ?
You 're a nympho on the quiet aren't you really ?
You are aren't you ?
On the quiet whore .
Whoever types this up is gonna have fun aren't they ?
Mm ?
Whoever types this up 's gonna have fun .
I sure might like to .
Let 's go and see
Oh good !
How is the old studies going ?
Oh okay .
Boring really .
Actually erm I'm not really into it at the moment because I can't sort of make myself get in there , you know ?
Miles away .
Mm .
I'm just too used to being lazy really .
I can't cope .
Yeah I , I know how you feel mine 's mine 's .
Do you have write-ups and lots of work ?
Oh oh !
They 're not like that all the time .
It 's just been a bit of a surge once a month .
Just once a month ?
Yeah .
Just for a week every month and go a bit over the top .
Once a month .
Hero !
What time 's this matey turning up ?
What matey ?
Your ?
Or have you got it already ?
No , we got ta go down to Kingfisher and get it .
We 're gonna be late home .
We 're gonna be late home .
Mm mm .
Did she tell you what her luxury was while you were away ?
Sitting up painting her nails at midnight , in bed .
She said it was just wonderful not having anybody shouting at her to turn the light off .
Mm mm .
Oh dear .
I said my luxury when Martin was out was eating half a very large cream cake .
And ho drinking half a bottle of wine .
We didn't quite decide which was more the .
Kitty , what are you doing Sunday ?
Are you gonna go into London ?
What do you want me to do then ?
Good question .
What ?
Are you with Martin ?
Eleven o'clock .
Probably .
If it involved marshalling , definitely .
Well you can stand up .
Are you waiting ?
Yeah .
Well you
I 've got ta stand up just now .
you 're gonna stand on my foot in a minute then I'm gonna kick you in the bollocks with the other foot !
Ooh !
Ooh ooh ooh !
Oh that 's good .
It was a thingie reaction
Yeah .
isn't it ?
Reflex .
Yeah .
If I sit here , if I sit very still he 'll forget about me .
He 'll come this way in a minute .
Have you ever had that done it 's so bizarre , I tell you .
What , being kicked in the bollocks or no reflexes ?
Yes .
been kicked in , in the bollocks .
You get it done when you go to the doctors don't you ?
Yeah .
It 's bizarre cos it 's like you haven't got control .
You feel like a puppet .
Oh blimey !
Do you think I might just find anybody here who 'd like a really good snog ?
Not with that cold , no .
Well it 's not infectious any more .
Well I would love to .
I think Martin might get a bit upset .
Well he doesn't wanna bloody snog !
He 's off kissing .
He doesn't like kissing , he noticed that after two years .
I don't really like kissing very much .
Oh for God 's sake !
Now you tell me !
Sex is so much better .
Ah ?
Eh ?
Swallow , swallow .
No it 's not !
It is .
Not if you try hard .
Vastly overrated I'm afraid .
Yeah ?
Mm ?
It 's vastly overrated .
And it 's hard just to get all the way up .
Yeah .
Oh yeah ?
What are we
Yeah , the .
Come on then .
He 's not looking .
It was the only time I 've worn four layers on the top in a race .
Yeah .
And it was the full kit , you know .
It was
Oh yeah .
er it was
Mind you , that 's what they all say though .
Yeah ?
Are you cold ?
Are you wanting me to warm you up ?
Want my jumper ?
Mm ?
Do you want my jumper ?
haven't you got your ?
Tt !
Oh !
I'm really cold .
Still I 'll survive .
I know .
I 'll warm you up .
There 's still something there yo there 's still something there you can't be that cold .
Go on .
Do your natural duties .
Gosh !
Ha !
The end of the Worlds , you know how cold it was there , and we were all going down the finish tunnel you just , all of the blokes you just thought
There 's only three of the blokes .
there 's nothing there !
It 's gone !
It 's gone !
Well
There 's only fifteen altogether .
Not that , not that I look at that sort of thing on a regular basis so
They go
Well when they 're just standing there in a vest and shorts then there isn't much else to look at is there , really ?
Yeah .
Then yo
It was Saturday or Sunday ?
What ?
Are you
Twenty fourth .
Twenty fourth , is it ?
Well that 's why Doug 's going round asking about Sunday is it ?
If you are going it 's best to
Where is it ?
Women in , she 's gonna win women 's categories .
Where is it and what is it ?
isn't there one in November or something ?
You 're shivering !
Is that just cos you 've got your leg like that or is the other one shaking ?
Sorry , that one 's shaking cos you 've got it tucked up , cos I'm touching you isn't it ?
Yeah .
A bit
Eh ?
excited .
You like coming along here don't you ?
I do .
What 's this ?
I like touching Jon 's leg .
Yes .
Are you recording ?
don't !
Get off !
She 's taping it all .
Yeah , I'm doing a local project .
But so far we 've had erm , we 've had who likes kissing and who doesn't .
Sex is better with Jon cos he does it better .
And I'm a nymphomaniac .
It sounded quite good to me .
All good clean stuff .
I know .
I 've got ta hand it in on Friday so I'm getting a bit desperate .
Better not mention I shave my legs on
Oh no !
on Monday .
Yesterday .
Yes , the kinkier the better really , you know .
I 'd like to know where you 're supposed to stop .
What d'ya mean ?
Which particular section of the conversation are we talking about ?
Dunno .
Where you 're supposed to stop
Jon
shaving your legs up to .
Oh right .
Jon obviously doesn't know where to stop .
It 's painful .
If he 's that good .
You should u use Immac it 's less painful .
Sorry ?
Use Immac it 's less painful .
Immac ?
For your legs .
Immac ?
Evil smelling pink stuff that you put all over your legs and
Wax ?
leave it .
No , no , no .
And then you leave it
Nitromorse for legs .
then you leave it for erm
five minutes and then all your hairs drop out and then you , then you just wipe them off .
It 's great .
I 'd be a
It 's quite a good chat up line .
Get a girl to do it for you .
Yeah .
I , I 've often had that fantasy actually .
I think most girls have a fantasy about waxing some blokes legs .
.
Oh !
Ooh er !
Baby !
Martin has his waxed .
He was very brave .
No one would wax mine .
Really ?
Not many places will wax men 's legs .
I dunno why , but in a way
Yeah , Gill can do it .
The sports centre 'll do it .
It 's yours .
You 're making me feel really guilty .
Stop it !
I 'll be afraid that they can see my tummy .
No !
You can't , you can't see , you can't you could cover your legs with it though
A bit .
could n't you ?
Yes , well keep your pants on , that 's all I can say .
What are you doing ?
What did you say you were doing Sunday ?
I thought you might have forgotten about me Doug .
No .
I don't know .
What am I doing ?
Has Martin said what I'm doing already ?
And where is it ?
No , well Martin looked through the diary .
Where is it ?
It 's at Potter Street .
You 're going as well are you ?
What 's that ?
This thing on Sunday ?
Wahey !
No I'm gonna watch my wife on the hillside .
Oh I see .
I thought she was
Yeah .
going too .
Can you not er bring her along afterwards ?
She 'll be really chuffed .
Erm , I don't know what I'm doing actually .
That 's very helpful of me isn't it ?
I shall ask Martin
How 's it going Doug ?
when it gets a bit nearer .
Pardon ?
How 's it going ?
Well , it 's not very good actually .
But I still have to put some of the blinds out again .
What happened to the one I did last year ?
The last time I did you put me on blind bends .
Did I ?
And then said afterwards , I put you there cos they stop for women and not men .
So I
Hey ?
had to throw myself in front of a speeding car !
Stop !
Ha aargh aargh !
The legs .
You trod on my bloody foot !
At least I wasn't wearing a stilettos .
True .
That 's the one where I marshalled with you last year actually wasn't it ?
Yeah that 's right .
That 's right .
And you came , you came and tied his dog to the back of my car .
Yeah .
They 're gonna
And the
run away with it !
and then wrote himself a note to remind himself to untie the blooming thing .
Oh yes .
Dear Doug
don't forget to untie the dog .
And you can just imagine him rid
You can .
driving away with it
Absolutely .
Woof !
Nicely then followed the car .
Yeah , true .
It 's easy .
I don't .
But then you start to overtake him seventy miles an hour or so .
Dog 's yapping .
Yeah .
Well I reckon that erm Andy ought to sort mine out .
And he 's rowing with that blonde chick .
And you 're so jealous ?
I am .

Like , who was it who reckoned there was a corner on a boat ?
Well you reckoned there were n't a corner on a boat .
There ai n't .
There is !
Oh shut up !
Ach , you do get corners on boats !
No .
Boats are shaped like a bloody rugby ball shape type
No they ai n't .
One end is and the other one ai n't , and it was a yacht and a yacht , they got little rooms in or something cos innit ?
Oh that , th the rooms are shaped ni , like to the size of the boat , you nonce ! !
Let 's ask your Mum if there 's , if there 's any corners on a boat .
Of course there ai n't .
Just ask your Mum that .
Yeah .
I bet she 'll probably side with you .
But , I , I know for a fact there ai n't .
You don't know .
Fucking hell !
Bollocks pal !
how many , many corners in a boat ?
They 're shaped like rugby balls !
Shaped like rugby balls .
don't start !
They ai n't shaped like rugby balls .
Goes round like this and then it goes square at the back .
They 're not square at the back !
Do you er , have you got any whatsername there ?
What ?
Brochures .
Brochures ?
No I haven't .
Then you see a boat and .
Oh bollocks brother !
There , there are , ships .
Oh ships , Kev , but I'm talking about boats .
Well a boat is , a ship is a boat you prat !
No it ai n't , a ship 's a big fucker !
And a boat 's a little fucker !
Yeah .
That ai n't shaped like a rugby ball .
That ai n't , that ai n't , that ai n't
Kev
They do
that ai n't , that ai n't , that ai n't
They 're all , they 're ships Kev .
that ai n't .
Kev , they are ships .
They 're ships .
That 's a fucking weird ship !
I wouldn't sail in it .
don't you think it 's a fucking ?
Yeah , you don't , you don't sail in ships anyway .
That is not shaped like a rugby ball .
Er , and you don't get seagulls swim er , swimming in the sea .
Yes you do .
Yes you do , you dill !
Why do you think they 're called seagulls Kev ?
Der er !
You don't get seagulls
Seagulls do swim Kev .
They don't swim .
They do swim .
They they jump into , they dive into the water .
Yeah , they fly .
And they do swim cos they 've got the feet for it .
They don't
Yeah right .
they don't fly in the water Pete .
They do .
flying in the water .
No .
Al , alright Kev .
Yeah .
Flying in the water .
Alright Mum ?
Water seagulls fly in apparently because erm .
Yeah .
They go in the ship you dick !
Dick arse .
They .
Well why is there
Oh , a load of
alright
bollocks .
alright , so they draw fish on the side of the fucking ships !
If you say draw it wrong , who cares ?
If there were n't then just go home .
Go home .
Do you think so ?
Erm , now I am home so sod off !
Go to bed then !
I don't wanna go to bed .
Ask Silko .
Yeah .
He 's only a fucking newsreader .
That 's Trevor MacDonald .
Excuse me .
This ai n't .
A bunny .
He 's black though .
I know .
No , d'ya know what he says after his news speech ?
Yeah .
Let 's get a coffee
D'ya
now .
Nah .
Do you wanna erm
Go for a quick one before it closes .
Yeah .
Before it closes .
How do you know ?
They said it .
They faxed it , I T N faxed it just to the Big Breakfast .
They said it .
Did you never know about your mind .
You are .
What you doing ?
What are you doing now ?
Well you said I could keep it .
.
Stop messing around .
Shut up Bamber !
Shut up Kevin .
No I won't shut up !
Yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah !
What you doing ?
Oh you 're not doing that silly thing ?
Told me to turn it down .
Oh what about
Looks like Arthur 's scoring in one and I think his brother scored another .
And hi , his brother could score again .
And he does .
Turn it up a little bit more .
Seagulls don't swim .
It 's like saying puffins don't swim .
It 's like thinking fish don't swim .
a superb effort !
He does a little dummy
.
Flies in the water .
Penguins don't .
They do fly in the water .
It does fly in the water .
It ai n't got a to fly in the water .
It has .
It ai n't got them under the water .
It 's just got a picture of water , and they 're next to it .
So why is the water right behind them then ?
If there was really be water on top of them .
, no shut up !
Shut up !
Biggest fucking thing .
Let 's have a look at it Kev .
Alright .
Da , da da da da da da da da ah ah ah ah !
Oh !
What 's this little fella .
gonna be scared now .
Ah !
A C Milan !
He 's the Turkish Champion .
What happens if they went one nil up ?
They , they drew it .
Take a , take a shot now .
!
On penalties .
Penalties !
This is in Turkey .
I reckon if me and you , get the team playing each other get both , get two away goals , whatever , take it into extra time right , we both get a goal each and go , imagine going to penalties or something .
It 's a Argentina match or something .
Get one put in together .
No le , make it , don't make him score in extra time just
Yeah , make , also make
leave it .
one put them in together .
Yeah , shall we try that ?
Yeah .
don't you wanna know your child .
So here he comes , looks as if we 're .
I just thought of something , what happens
I don't re , I don't think so .
Cos when you 're .
Oh that 's my microphone .
Who was it who first said that they 'd witnessed something ?
Yeah .
What ?
Well you not , you liked the but erm
No I never .
You did .
No I never .
It was you or Peter .
Who was this ?
No it wasn't .
It were n't me .
It was either you or Peter .
It were n't me .
You then .
No it were n't me .
It were n't me , I never played .
Do , don't get , don't get me into this .
Oh !
I dunno where he is .
It were n't me .
Can you place a shot ?
Turn that up !
Yes .
Please !
Probably go back stop .
I can score your point now .
No , no , that 's that thing called .
Bull boy back stop .
You 're playing this .
Bollocks !
You 're a blue oyster in disguise .
You 're a blue boy
It 's meant to be a tenner .
Oh .
Nine two on aggregate .
Ah !
What a tenner between ya ?
No , tenner for each .
Yeah .
It 's the spirit !
No , if you only you had a fart coming .
He just went or it sounds like .
Pa .
It sounded , a little breather .
Pa .
Okay , you was all quiet until you went
No , Kev , no .
I didn't go raargh aargh !
Well I don't think I did so
Yes you did .
No I never .
Yes you did .
No I never .
You did .
No .
You did .
No .
You did .
No .
You did .
No .
You did .
No .
Look , you 've been repeating yourself again .
Yeah , so are you .
No I ai n't .
Yeah .
I di , I ai n't repeating yourself .
Did , you did .
You did !
I ai n't repeating yourself .
So I done alright .
Ha ha !
So funny !
What 's he got playing like this .
Rumbled it .
Seven eight
You 've done it again .
Do him you wanker !
Joe or something .
I know .
Half way down .
Sam 's brother .
Sam 's there .
If Sam came up to you and you ge your Mil , you had Millwall and Sam right , rips it off right , ripped it to pieces and that , started burning it , and he give you a Wimbledon shirt in return what would you do ?
Probably do the same to his .
Mm .
What , then you 'd give him a Millwall shirt ?
I 'd give it back .
I got a and my Dad was going
I 'd kill him !
Your Dad 'd kill him and all .
I know .
I wouldn't .
Poor old Bobby .
He 's always had to find a new friend , he don't trust me .
a good friend , ah !
Pass !
I wanna be your friend .
He for a lunch .
Far from a friend .
I wanna get you expelled .
Bollocks !
Paul .
Joss ran into the wind .
Oh shot !
Ha !
Oh a excellent boot , enough far .
Someone should tell Joey .
, but someone 's already told him .
Oh sorry , I'm on the .
Whoever listens to this your Mum 's like fish and chips , a come slap-up .
Good goal .
I reckon those kids are getting Hooray ! .
Oh it 's on there .
.
Oh it 's too smelly at Millwall .
Hey .
I says at , Arsenal ! , it 's not against fanny and Chelsea .
Who 's this fanny and Chelsea ?
Oh yeah , cos I know it 's wonderful .

cos I got the earphones .
Oh no that 's a point it won't just , I can't
Well
hear what they say .
Cos sometimes these
Walkmans have a built-in speaker something like that .
Yes .
But I thin , this one has n't so
I can put it all down .
Are you following it ?
Did you hear it on the radio this morning about the research that the , these people are doing ?
No .
They were talking about language on Radio Four and erm what people e , it isn't anything to do with the training course we 're on , it 's the language .
It 's nothing to do with T N T or anything er at all , it 's just er they that organization has wro written to a number of large companies and asked them to er record er , so many , er tapes so they can analyse it .
But really they 're looking at the the er sounds you 're making and the language you 're using rather what , they 're not interested in what we 're saying .
what people ?
What age ?
on me .
What is it for ?
And I won't ask you what situation
you were in when you found that out .
Right .
Let 's have a look at what yo , who 's gonna represent us on the old er features and benefits this morning ?
Phil .
It 's gonna be Phil .
Oh right Phil .
Elected .
Good old Phil .
Okay .
What did we
have ?
Good of you to volunteer Phil ?
Sorry ?
Good of you to volunteer .
It was , were n't it ?
Do you want me to , to write it up for you
Yeah
somewhere ?
Yeah ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
Can you talk us through
Well this is
them ?
what I 've done , I done about seventeen of them .
Right .
Well we done about seventeen of them but mainly on the super mail side but we stick to the one sort of with
Yeah .
Erm on the first one it 's the before nine service er basically
Yeah .
a benefit for the customer that it is a guarantee before nine .
Erm it is obviously beneficial particularly for banks and financial institutions to use
In what way ?
Well they start work quite early and they can get cheques processed erm situations like that .
Yeah .
So what
And then
what , what 's the benefit then ?
Just , what is the benefit .
It 's there at the start of a new day .
See
It 's there somehow .
that 's the benefit ?
Describing the feature is only describing the feature .
Mhm .
Before means , nine , means your getting it there before nine you said and er , that means it 's there nice and early .
That 's describing a feature .
Mm .
The benefit of getting it there early and a little leap word which takes you from a feature to a benefit
Which means
Well done .
Which means that so you have to make
Ah ah .
it into sentences by a little leap word
Actually I 've got it on here but I just don't like saying it all the time .
I 've got a
Ah ah !
I 've got it on top of bank though .
Okay .
Right .
Before nine
You just wrote that though .
Eh ?
You just wrote that .
Yeah .
Which means you , that you can start what was your words Jenny ?
So you can start the working day .
means that it 's ready for the start of the working day giving you a
Eh ?
that 's the real benefit .
Alright .
There at the start of the working day , giving you , you 've got ta say that next step and tell them , okay , if you can say so what , you haven't told them the benefit .
Okay ?
So what ?
Let 's see how many so whats you can come up with after this .
Okay .
Go on .
So what 's the next one ?
Again , before ten thirty it is a guaranteed service before ten thirty which is a benefit .
No .
Before ten thirty guaranteed is a feature .
It is built in by design .
We build that in .
If you build it in by design , like we build this in
and the design of that was so that it will stay on , built in by design .
And should stay on .
Which means that what did we say yesterday ?
Right .
And therefore helps with your presentation simply .
That 's the benefit .
Right .
So , the fact that it 's guaranteed that , we 've actually built that in by design which makes it a feature .
Mm mm .
What he , what the customer gets out of that is what ?
So
Well , on , on the ten , ten thirty one
Yeah .
I 've put it very similar to that of the nine o'clock one really .
Which it , it is .
It 's still
Yeah I 've I
the elements of time really , yeah ?
That 's it .
It 's just cos I , I could n't do a lot more about that one .
What other things , what other things other than giving them actually
Cheaper .
They 're paying less
Well it 's , it 's an option
and they might
as well isn't it ?
They got an option .
sometimes get it before
Nine .
nine .
Yeah .
It gives them , what does , what does options give you ?
A choice .
A choice .
It 's choice , and I feel I'm , I'm able to choose what does that make me feel ?
Good .
In charge .
In charge .
Can I use the word control now then ?
Yeah ?
You 're saying in charge is sort of like , I am in charge which is like this .
It is if you make the customer feel they are literally
That 's right .
Yeah .
in charge of their
Now
service .
They like that .
I like to know what 's happening .
Yeah .
Adrian
Yeah .
said look Ka Kath , got ta get to Plymouth tonight , I need to know .
Cos you , here he needs to know as well , don't you ?
You sit here today knowing that something 's gonna be done .
Because it could n't wait until lunchtime and that , that 's perfectly understandable because he wants to feel in control of what 's going to happen to some degree , rather than just be at the mercy of someone else 's position .
He wants to be part , you know , influence that decision , and that 's important to all of us isn't it ?
To know where we stand .
You know people say , I like to know where we stand .
I like to know whe , know where I stand .
People love the feeling of being in control .
And the before nine guarantees , just give them the time factor again .
Er , that enables that they choose how much time they need , er because it , do I need to go that time or that time ?
And that gives them control .
And as you say it 's one of the best things that they want .
Because , when you subcontract it out , has anybody changed hairdressers ?
Or changed banks ?
Use a service where they 've changed before now ?
Mm .
Was there an element of risk involved ?
Were you a bit concerned at the time making the decision ?
Worrying about what might happen ?
And everybo , when you contract out something , when you ask someone else to do something for you .
Ooh oh !
There 's just that doubt .
Obviously , repeat experiences , good ones , gives you peace of mind .
But what I'm saying is , it 's this that you really want .
And becau , that 's one of the most valuable benefits you can give a customer time and control .
Any more ?
Yeah the er , the noon one .
Mhm .
You 're fo , guaranteed
Oh yeah .
before noon .
Oh sorry .
The noon , yeah .
Again , we come into which means that what ?
Well it 's , I put down on here that er , it 's a benefit for customers that possibly their shops close half day where they can have collections , er sorry deliveries in the morning so that they 've got benefit of having deliveries A M
Right .
only .
Well done .
Again , we 're back to being involved
Choice , yeah .
and choice .
Well done .
Yeah .
And als , erm and on them three services is what we said a few moments ago , they got the choice of three different options .
Right .
So that the
Really , you 're giving them time and control and it 's up to you , it 's an alternative choice on the whole thing .
I dunno whether a price would be a feature or a benefit .
I mean it 's got ta be
I think
a benefit
Yes .
to them .
Be , yes certainly .
But obviously people always receives the choice doesn't it ?
If , well it 's a value judgement they make isn't it ?
But I don't think selling price saving is a , I don't think putting money up front first is a good idea .
No .
Because if you put it up front first , what do we now discuss everything around ?
Money .
Money .
That 's right , yeah .
D'ya see what I mean ?
That dictates .
That 's right .
What I'm saying is , you always assume that that is people 's er albeit , which it is obviously isn't it ?
But
You 're detracting from the real issue of their needs .
That 's right .
That 's right .
Why , I mean it might not be worth anything , I mean , you know , it 's a value , you can't , you can't start influencing them about money to early , because it 's the value benefit of that that they 're really looking at .
So I would keep money well out of it .
Last thing innit , really ?
Yeah .
Because when he makes out mu , bi how much is this worth ?
Is what , is where the money thing is coming in not , how much he saves on the level of service .
And then he makes a value judgement .
Is it worth it ?
No .
You get a taxi sometimes don't you ?
To places .
You don't have to go in your own transport .
What 's the deciding factor ?
Are there special taxis ?
Mhm .
No .
Is it worth it sometimes ?
Yeah it is .
Would you use it as an everyday mode of transport ?
Yeah .
Mm mm .
You see what I mean ?
Some people do .
Some people get taxis everywhere .
Do their shopping with a taxi .
Because for some people there may be a value judgement made about it .
I don't know .
But what I'm saying is , is that everybody makes their own value judgement and be careful that you 're not making , imposing your value onto them .
Th they 're free to judge .
Yeah ?
Next one ?
Saturday Saturday delivery .
Right .
Erm , again it 's an option for them to have if need be .
Er , but I 've put down here that erm but possibly some retail outlets although the Saturday is the busiest day of their week they might important merchandise to arrive particularly at , you know , Jaeger shops , expensive shops where like the price of the item warrants paying a Saturday surcharge .
Alright .
So certain areas can have delivery Saturday .
What are the things apart from the value of the item ones in erm you 're right Phil , by the way I'm not saying you 're wrong .
The urgency of the package .
Convenience .
If a restaurant needed a microwave cos they 're open all weekend they could n't wait till Monday .
Well what about erm working weeks for industry and commerce .
A lot of
Six
a lot of factories
Yeah .
do open on a Saturday
That 's right .
and they don't actually do collections , they don't actually do , do any production .
What do they do ?
They do all the
Cleaning .
clean up on a Saturday .
Right .
I 've put that down .
Mhm .
Put that
Right .
down .
Mm mm mm .
Cos
That 's what we want .
Obviously , it 's again , it 's control so , so a Saturday delivery
could give you the benefit of erm reduce down time .
Have you heard that expression ?
When , if a production line is going and the production breaks down but er if we can reduce our time , has anybody worked in a in a , er , a co , an industrial environment on , what sort of cost saving could you
Well
say er , a production of say two hours would be where you worked , would you know that time ?
Er er
On a production line ?
choo choo choo choo choo choo
Er , to give some , but none of us have worked in that environment and it 's not something we 're familiar with .
To be honest it 's really difficult to put a cost to that .
Hundreds or thousands .
Er , thousands .
Thousands .
I mean we 're talking big numbers an hour aren't we really ?
Yeah .
In the steel industry we 'll probably
I mean
talk in terms of both .
Tens of thousands
per hour ?
Yeah .
Terry ?
Yeah ?
So what I'm saying is , is getting a delivery if you can't get something there in time I mean , it may mean that you know in advance that you need something done and you can deliver in a normal working week , but maybe it 's inconvenient in a normal working week .
Maybe , there 's nobody really there , maybe it 's engineer brought on site .
Yeah .
Because you 're not , although you 're using the power space , the power er er of the production line or equipment , they might not be , that might not be what you 're making , you 're just using that kit and you need the supplier of that kit to bring an engineer in and you need to get a part of it , but you want control of that rather than just waiting on a supplier to do it for you .
Yeah ?
Mm .
And that reduces our time .
We are now talking a few over there .
It may be making
Quite quite often you tend to find in industry where er , if you 're dealing with mechanical bits and pieces
Mhm .
if you 've got one bit that can't work without another bit , and the bits can be relatively cheap , say may only be about twenty P a bit , but if the twenty P bit doesn't arrive to work with the other bit
One of the
then it 's worth twenty thousand .
I suppose it 'll be into your .
.
Well said Andrew .
Do you know what this is ?
Mm .
Well that 's a bulb , you need one without the other , so if that doesn't arrive so you 're knackered .
What do you reckon it 's used for that ?
What do you reckon it 's used for ?
That sort of thing .
Probably used for machinery
Yeah .
If I looked on one of your er account entries , it would probably say fastening .
Now to me , what 's a fastening to you ?
Zip .
A zip .
Zip .
Mm , yeah .
A button .
A button .
Yeah .
But fastening is a complete industry .
It 's how we 've , on the actual er vehicles there is actual metal fastenings that 's holding the whole trailer together .
Rivets .
Yeah .
Rivets , or fastenings .
Right ?
This 'd probably be used for a construction of some sort I would imagine .
Would you ?
Maybe er
Bolting tasks .
Bo , holding machinery through er a base of some sort .
Yeah .
Some , I mean it 's the sort of item that people probably buy hundreds of to hold items down with or construct something , er er put something together right ?
How much do you reckon it 's worth ?
Not , not a lot .
Be interesting , ha ?
About four pound .
I don't think it will be but
Four pound .
Which bit 's worth more than the other two ?
The bolt is .
Yeah .
Do you
Either .
reckon they sell them like that ?
D'ya think they some people buy cos they need more oops because they need more of these than these at some time ?
No .
Or , they maybe replacing some of these but they got plenty of these , or they 're replacing some of these but they 've got plenty of these ?
Yeah ?
I reckon that you 'd probably buy those cheaper than this item because of the raw materials would you say ?
Yep .
I mean
Plus that 's a lot , lot smaller .
They probably come in sets , yeah ?
Or people order them together , yeah ?
If you were ordering hundreds and hundreds of these would you put , express them through a parcel delivery service ?
No .
Someone else here .
Well probably not , no .
Would you probably ,
Well no .
how d'ya reckon people buy these ?
How are they delivered ?
At a time .
Box .
Box .
They probably get them on pallets and stuff like that .
Tell them to ring back ?
Yeah .
And er
so , if I was to walk into the place that was selling these
Hello .
what sort of picture have you got of the environment I'm in ?
She will call you back .
Industries .
It 's in a heavy industrial warehouses , they 're , they 're , they 're
they 're probably pressing these out at quite a rate of knots aren't they ?
It 's er Bob student they 've asked to interrupt the .
Oh !
Oh well I apologise for that then .
You 'll need a then won't you ?
Shall we go up ?
Apologise for this .
Hello .
You can carry on .
Where were we ?
Where were we ?
Construction engineering manufacturing .
Construction engineering .
Oh , well I think we 've got to the point haven't we , where these are probably cheaper than the bolts .
And they 're
Hello .
they bolt like this in pairs
Hello ?
How did you get
as , as a pair .
then ?
but what tends to happen ?
Probably if you 'd brought something from M F I .
You got one missing .
Missing .
You got one missing .
You got , you know .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
And what usually goes missing ?
The bolt .
Nearly always the nuts .
Mm .
So er , what we 've got is a situation where somebody 's ordered maybe a couple of thousand of these
But no nuts .
but they want , no , they 've got the nuts as well .
But inevitably they 've been sort of thrown in a corner and people have fiddled around with them like I 've fiddled around with this and we find we got what , twenty or thirty of these missing .
Now , we 're talking about a totally different situation .
The weight is different the numbers are
significantly less and so you might well consider the need to use this means
we , can't use them as you were saying earlier Adrian , yeah we can't use one part without the other .
Yeah .
It is necessary .
So , this now becomes very urgent .
And so we might well Express these then or even send erm
I suppose for the construction industry you 're then looking at
perhaps when you po produce like the channel tunnel and things
Yep .
like that , where it 's labour intensive that you 're paying people maybe thirty , forty , fifty pound a hour
That 's right .
And if they 're sitting there
Yeah , that 's right , yeah .
on their backsides waiting for nuts
, you know
Yep .
then it 's not just the intrinsic value of the items themselves
Yep .
It 's the
That 's a consequential loss .
In fact you could in
in
yeah in fact that 's a fir , that 's a very good example you see , because in that situation you might well pay more for the carriage than the value of the item
Yeah .
because of the other things that you 're losing , er guys sitting
Mm mm .
on their backsides
Overtime
getting paid whatever it is .
and cost , overheads .
O , other machinery maybe , maybe you 're burning electricity unnecessarily because of er having to keep
To stay warm .
compressors and things running .
Allsorts of costs may well be impinging on this .
So you find yourself maybe paying well over the price of the value of the item
Mm mm .
just to get it there because it 's urgent .
Think of any other examples ?
Well clothing might have said , important merchandise , clothing
Yep .
In a place I used to
Eyes .
work
at least I think at work
operation Pete is it ?
What , what was that Carly ?
Eyes .
Yeah .
Course , yeah .
Mo
Organs .
Most products used in er manufacturing , whether it 's in pharmaceuticals , food , industry , er all products that rely on , you know being there on time
Yeah .
to meet , meet that kind of .
I mean , even deadlines isn't it ?
Magazine
Yep .
deadlines .
well my wife 's in the rag trade and this morning she 's got er , a fashion show starting , and I 'll bet you , I don't know this , but I 'll bet you at least two of her manufacturers will have sent her samples to put in that show which probably will arrive at nine o'clock this morning .
Now how they 're gonna send them I don't know , but I can assure you they will send them in a hurry .
Cos they were probably putting buttons on , or doing the last stitching
Last night .
last night .
That 's it .
Mm .
Now it isn't , th the value it doesn't matter there .
What they 're doing is they 're sending it so that somebody will place orders .
And they could find themselves with , you know , somebody asking for a thousand of an item and it 's well worth their while therefore , spending a bit of money getting it there .
That was Adrian 's , also , that was Adrian 's point .
Exactly Adrian .
Yep .
And this is when you 've been on the receiving end of it .
Now , some of us haven't .
I 've never worked where I 've had to get materials together and you know , sort things out .
I 've worked in advertising .
You see it in the crisp industry , they 're all
Yes .
they 're all
well
No salted crisps .
We were
well to be fair , first i
Times I got that in .
ha , how can I say , what , whe when you 're talking about fa , I mean fast moving consumer good are fast
Mm .
moving off the shelves and into the shop and , what we would do was erm deli people now do er , stock an order by computer and , and people like Sainsburys were doing that in the seventies , you know , and they would actually work over er work on erm data erm , from their computer and order er erm you know , okay , they 'd be an event at the weekend or something and they 'd , they 'd of , increase it or something , but they would technically work out exactly what the throughput of certain items were .
And it goes through the till now doesn't it ?
Yeah .
Well , yes , they have a comput
yes they have the computer software .
In my , in my day probably someone did it a little bit off that , different
Maybe .
but the , but the proce , the , er the , the whole thing works on the same principal but now they 're doing it without , with less effort .
Now what I'm saying is , is the retail trade or the sharp end of th , you know , i it 's , it 's very much , it 's staying alive .
If you over stock , you 're dead !
You know I mentioned
Yes .
the manufacturing point , from that end , not from the end- user to get the products , to , to the retail
Yeah .
outlets , I meant that
Ye , you 're probably right .
But I mean to be fair we used to we , warehouse thousands of tons of potatoes in Leicestershire , you see what I mean ?
We 've made
Yeah .
we make er , you know you feel , ah my factory we thinks looking at
Like a .
see looked at , looking , looking , look how we treat our potato , aren't they gorgeous !
You know , and tha , we wouldn't go and have a look at a parcel machine system we 'd look at lovely potatoes , .
And Marks and Spencers use the same potato .
Can you just get your girls to wear their hats on each layer and we 'll have your potato , the , you know , that 's how you used to get the Marks , get their Marks and Spencers account .
A , but what I'm sa , wha the point you were making Adrian , is tha , is is that 's what you 've got ta keep in mind about every time you walk into a business or phone up a business , that it does matter that it 's in , your , that 's not what we want cos I'm telling you , you know , don't you know , the security guys photographing , you know , lampposts and stuff like that .
But if it 's a bolt that holds a lamppost down and they 've under under-ordered , there 's not , but they 're with them , then we can take those .
The other thing is , is docu , documents are the same .
If , there are , there are industry working to deadlines all the time .
I in Terry was just mentioning his wife 's business , in advertising , d'ya , would sell the advertising space in your feature or your magazine or whatever try and get the bleeders to send you that what they wanna put in it !
A friend of mine sends things like that and they got ta be and the proofs have to be sent .
Honestly !
You know .
Oh trying to get companies to decide
how they 're gonna say , what they 're gonna say , coming up with art work ideas and whatever .
And it was always to , ye , you know , you ask a commercial artist what sort of lead time , that 's another , another er another word that you might come across , because again , you don't want them to speak our jargon but we can speak there 's .
You know , if I said to Terry 's wife , Mrs , how much lead time do you need to set up your show ?
What would she say ?
What does sh , what do I mean by lead time ?
To set it up , the amount of time it takes her to get it up , be prepared
That 's right .
for it .
what about we , and if I , if one of her suppliers I asked them , if I said well okay , if we feature your outfit here , how much lead time you ne , do you need from order to production ?
What do I now mean ?
If I place the order today how much lead time do you want ?
What do I mean ?
Actually the time from er
Time .
when the order placed to the , when it 's gonna be on the rack and ready .
In i , actually in my shop is what I mean .
Now
It doesn't work that way in the rag trade that .
Remember I was saying to you about the whole of the rag trade ?
I know it 's gonna cost sending them by the way .
Mhm .
And the rag trade was also upside down ready on the trailer to come across , I won't bore you with the way they do their budgeting for example , but what happens is , my wife will go to one of those suppliers and say yes , a number of my people want to buy that dress so we want a thousand of them .
And I want them on , such and such a day .
Alright .
That 's no problem .
It 's not
Fine .
how long does it take you , what 's your lead time ?
So really what 's the , what
You get it there on time .
What , what you 're saying is , is the lead , if I ask that question then now they would say , tha when , when do you want it ?
That 's right .
It 's like , if you go to , I 've heard , I 've not been , but if you go to Hong Kong , you can have a suit made overnight .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
That 's a tailor-made , handmade suit that is stitched
Mm mm .
overnight .
And shirts .
And shirts
made .
In Thailand while you wait .
Cos they will just say , they 'll just sit down and make it .
Measure you up make it cos they want the money .
Cos , that 's what they need .
Because labour , there 's loads of it and it 's very cheap .
And really , what the rag trade 's famous for is labour , very cheap .
And that 's why they can
Stretch it .
That 's right .
And that 's why they can
You 've been watching House of Elliot .
What I'm saying is , that 's why they respond in that way , which , in in other industries and comp , businesses , er , we have different er , things to consider don't we ?
Like arranging where they 're bought and so on .
Now T N T do something , when d'ya want it ?
We 'll get it there .
We 'll get it there .
Because , I mean , if we can't do it through T N T overnight i , if tomorrow 's too late who do we use ?
And if they say well , we want erm seventy five different locations served with crisps stands by ten o'clock tomorrow because our advert is going out on national T V tomorrow can we do it ?
Yeah .
And we then go and recruit , we 'll go the , you know , we 'll go to the job centres and get them .
Mm .
Or , they 'll turn round , if the money 's , if the money is big enough , they 'll turn round to anybody who works for us and say , d'ya wanna join us ?
Come and join us .
Get your kit on and do a bit , d'ya know what I mean ?
And they 'll just ask people to partake and we 'll get it done .
If it 's , if it 's , feasible we 'll get it done .
And that 's the sort of ethos that T N T 's got .
But we 're likely to make more money at it than perhaps the sweat shops do .
So what I'm saying is , is lead time in lots of business is highly valuable but if you can cut down the delivery time and give them more lead time you 're actually extending
Yeah .
the lead time by tightening up and this is where your time deliveries come in .
Because , although it 's before nine erm , the next morning erm you 're actually giving them now more lead time , you 've given them another day because an , sometime tomorrow you know , if it gets there at two o'clock and it 's off-loading in in in at the bay and someone checks that it 's been received and then someone makes a phone call to tell them it 's there , and then they 're doing something else , and then they come down and have a look at it , how many boxes do you think are sitting on loading bays that don't get looked at for a day or two , or three , or four , five when they 've had a next day service ?
Quite a few .
Quite a few .
Mm .
My other half ordered from a catalogue disc drives to assemble compu , er a home computer and he was looking very carefully cos computer parts can be quite expensive and he was looking at national catalogue for the best prices .
He knew exactly what he wanted , or , or the range of things he wanted , and the price that he , he was price conditioned and working out which was the best price , priced package .
And oh !
Look at that place in Southampton , can do me a disc drive for two hundred quid or whatever it was , I don't know why but I can't remember the price , but let 's keep it at two hundred pound , And he phoned them up and said oh your price is very good on that one .
Right .
Yes it is .
There 's a lot of people ordering that one .
Okay then , can I have one ?
Yes he said .
That will be two hundred pounds plus V A T , plus thirty pounds carriage .
He said thirty pounds ?
That 's a hell of a lot to be asking , you know , why is it so much ?
Oh it 's express .
He said right , oh so I 'll have it tomorrow ?
He says , no it takes thirty days to get here .
Sorry it wasn't thirty days , ten days to get here .
What service does he need Carly ?
I can deliver to you next day , but it takes him ten days to get it here , what service does he need ?
Mm ?
Before nine .
Before nine .
Mm .
Say it again louder .
Carriage forward .
Carriage forward .
It 's called carriage
Can you
forward .
co can you explain to those who don't know what it is cos it 's
Yeah .
a , it 's a stupid name isn't it ?
Carriage forward .
Sounds like the , talk about the horse before the ca , the cart before the horse .
In the first place you 've got three companies , A B and C C 's your manufacturer
D'ya wanna draw , do you want to draw it on here ?
Yeah , wait a minute .
You got three companies A , B and C .
Erm we 'll call B the carrier sort of like the go between if you like A , is your say , shop and C is your manufacturer .
Now you may have a customer that comes into the shop at A and they need something desperately , they walk in the sho , may walk in and say look I need that compact disc player , my life depends on having compact disc player and shopkeeper no see now we haven't got it .
But what they can do in this case is the manufacturer 's at C , but the manufacturer can not deliver to the shop until maybe two weeks time they can phone us , the carrier , we will then arrange for someone to go to manufacturer at C , pick it up , bring it to us and then we 'll take to the shop .
Right .
All for a charge of course .
Right .
So that gives what , to the shopkeeper ?
Control .
Control again .
Now what else we could do , well said
Customer satisfaction .
that 's , that 's that 's well said , but we can also do third party
Third party .
carriage forward
Oh yeah .
that 's why , that 's so that we can give the shop his control of supply which actually like my da , you 're saying if it was a computer disc supplier he could have next day delivery to him and then next day delivery to my man .
Mm .
Right ?
What we can actually do is suggest to the C , the C D or the computer shop your manufacturer can send directly to Peter via us , I then say via us .
Aye , you 'll get the bill .
Mm mm .
But we will send the bill
To that shop .
you can
Mm mm .
send them the bill and we 'll send them the goods .
They , Peter , if he found out where they were coming from what might he do ?
Phone them .
To the supplier .
He might cut out the middle man you see .
Cos he might be able to go straight to the ba , the
Yeah .
Now obviously , we don't
want to lose his business so we protect him but we don't say it 's coming from there .
We are , we represent him , it 's his delivery van
Yeah .
that delivers to Peter .
And that 's third party carriage forward which is even , and Peter 's even happier because he doesn't even have to wait two days now , he gets his delivery next day .
And the bill he , that he gets at the same as the time as the delivery , and what 's normal credit conditions ?
Thirty days .
Thirty days .
So when does the thirty days start ticking by ?
We get our money back much quicker .
That 's right .
You do .
So instead of waiting ten days for delivery and then the invoice being , tha , you know being delivered with the goods when you open
Yes .
it up there 's the bill the bill can be eleven days in advance of that which means improved
Well that means everybody 's happier .
The manufacturer 's happier
That 's right .
cos he gets his money quicker .
Well done .
The shopkeeper 's happier because he gets
Aha .
his money quicker .
We 're happier because we get paid quicker and the end-user 's happier cos he 's
Aha .
got his product quicker .
That is it .
And if the shopkeeper uses our service all the time he doesn't have to carry any stock .
Yep .
Yeah .
Right .
Improved cash flow .
And if he doesn't have to carry any stock what does that mean with th er in terms of his capital being tied up .
It isn't .
He can do
He could
what ?
Open
He could do so something else .
Another shop .
another shop .
Yeah .
D'ya see ?
But d'ya know something ?
There are businesses out there that don't understand that .
They probably don't even know we exist .
D'ya know , d'ya know
Yeah .
why ?
D'ya know why they don't know it exists ?
People like shops .
I don't know why it is , no .
Because nobody has target them .
Yeah .
That 's right .
Anthony ?
I 've seen a lot of companies like that
Honestly .
just recently .
Why , why
Can I tell you another reason why as well
Peter rang this computer
because
in Southampton and he said we can give you next day this , they won't , they won't enter into it , we can give you next day delivery but it takes ten or twenty days .
And I bet you , if you look at how many of your accounts are not using carriage forward when they should you would be amazed .
Existing on your roller now .
And so , why so many don't know about carriage
I know .
forward
Yeah .
They don't understand .
That 's it .
They don't understand what it means .
Th , ca , what do most people use carriage forwards for ?
Just collecting from somewhere else and bringing it back to themselves .
Bringing it back , sending it back .
Yeah .
Invoice them
let me , the o the other thing we can do is if it 's broken the shop can send it back but the man , the other person pays .
Yeah .
Mm .
That is also carriage forward .
Comes back to the person .
And a lot of our carriage forwards are
Are
returns .
Yeah .
And then they put in a claim form .
Or sometimes they 've got an account in your name .
And that 's why we don't make money on carriage forwards cos we don't sell carriage forwards for the positive reasons , we say , well if they don't want them send them back , or if they 're damaged send them back .
Yeah .
Or if you have to have , I used to do it for erm West Bro , er Northampton Brewery .
Banson 's
Banson 's
Brewery .
Erm , it was , was Banson Brewery .
Er no it wasn't Ba , Banson 's Brewery , erm
Anson 's
no sorry , I'm I'm in the wrong trade , it was er gas cylinders .
And we used to send back the erm
The valves .
the valves .
They used to er se , we could n't carry the empty ga , you can imagine that 's not express parcel stuff , but the valves er , would sometimes need er replacing and we would send them a valve and , and while , instead of having any down time , we would give them you know deliver the spare , have the spare come back for repair .
Do you understand ?
Cos there 's a lot of this maintenance thing that goes on as
Mm .
as well isn't there with businesses ?
It isn't just service doesn't end at the sale , so , a lot of things have to have after-care don't they ?
Or
Mm .
a service contract with them and there 's lots of business , repeat business .
Another one we did , er , out of South Wales was hip replacement kit
Gosh !
to erm the hospitals and erm they would appar , I might be wro , I'm sure this is the way she explained it to me cos one of the girls in the branches did explain it to me once , and they said they have a choice of joints , like the doctor would say er
New brain .
your due to , you know , you , you were due for your hip replacement .
Right .
And what they would do is have a look and say ooh that 's , ooh that 's about your size , that 's about it .
Right .
They don't make a joint do they , for you , you , you , you and you ?
They 're all sort of standard sort of size pieces of kit .
Cos it 's an engineering job really isn't it ?
Yeah .
You know .
Yeah .
Providing you 're looking after the blood supply , I mean , you know , the cardiovascular bit , you know , it 's a bit of an engineering job .
So they , th , you , you have a choice of hips , and they also have a bit of saw , a bit of sawing kit and screw in , you know , have delicate screws .
Cos it 's , it is pins and stuff isn't it , that makes
Yeah .
the hip work ?
So they have little screws to , you know , to go into the bone and little er delicate instruments which are highly developed instruments and manufactured by certain pattern .
And they actually supply them in special sealed containers , you know , little cases that er , so , when you 're doing a hip job you have a little kit come from the supplier .
And what they do , is they give them a couple of choices of bo , you know , hip joints to go for and the guy decides , the surgeon decides , does his job and then the kit goes back to the manufacturer again and then when the , another hospital orders it they make up a , another kit .
Obviously there 's a lot of sterilizing going on in the meantime and all this .
But they don't , these tools are used again , and again , and again you know .
The screws they make are , are to be there in the body and the parts are in the bodies , but the bits they don't use come back and then they are put back into stock again .
And our service was so good to hospitals , , that they 'd be somebody on the table well where 's the bit ?
Mm .
She 's just getting her anaesthetic now .
Well where 's the bits you know ?
And they 're ringing up er Julie about it , and say Julie well , they 're here .
What 's happened ?
Because the service was so good they 'd all , you know , they 'd forget about the delivery that would be there .
She 'd supply them .
So it was there ?
Yes .
Already
Yeah .
there .
And then one day it didn't .
can't find this bit .
They 're always going down for anaesthetic , we can't find it .
Now she 's just had a pre-med now .
Right okay .
We can't find it .
Can you find it for me ?
Okay then .
Traced it .
But of course it took a little bit of time , an hour or so , and th , the woman came round again , they said can't do you today
can't find the joint .
So , she came back out of er pre-med , had a nice happy half hour on a bit of valium and came back out of it again .
Went back up to the ward cos there was no bit .
Do you know where it was ?
In the erm gate house at the hospital .
We had delivered it but they hadn't taken it from the gate house to you know , normal procedure but they , we delivered it normally but they hadn't taken it to the exact part of the hospital it was going to .
So , Julie sent the patient a bunch of flowers and sh , and said sorry for the de , for the delay , you know it 's there tomorrow , and she had this , she had it done again .
But really , what , all they wanted to do was save face from the hospital because it wasn't our fault but she used a bit of you know , we won't embarrass the hospital we 'll say
And then our customer 's happy .
bit of customer care , but really
And , well
we all , we 'll lose face with the patient
Mm mm .
because we int gonna , we haven't got ta worry about what she says about , but he sa , the hospital didn't wanna lose face , but I mean , the hospital said thank you .
Cos they were saying will they tell her , you know the part has n't come and , so we said okay , let 's pretend the part didn't get there .
Send her a bunch of flowers .
But really it had got there but again But what I'm saying is , that service of carriage forward we were making almost as much money on the kit coming back cos we could have charged another
It 's five quid isn't it ?
Yeah .
It 's five pound at the moment is it ?
It has been up to nine or ten pound for
Mm .
return .
Because it ca , most , we do lose a lot of money on carriage forwards .
If I talk to , if you talk to our operations they will say , oh my God !
Do you know why ?
Because , we don't know what we 're carrying .
A lot of carriage forwards
are returns and damages .
Mm .
And they 're in a terrible state when we pick them up .
Because , you can imagine working for us , you received something and thought that 's no good and can't use it , what happens to it then in your warehouse or despa
Just sta , lays there .
And what happens to it while it 's ?
Kicked around .
Kicked around .
Kicked about .
Right .
Broken .
Broken and all that .
And , what did you say that we get a lot of claims on carriage forward ?
Damaged foodstuff .
You have to insure them don't you , carriage forward of course ?
Yeah .
That 's why we have to
So
No you don't .
Yeah .
Tha that means we 're paying out
But you see the problem is
if we do actually find out .
Yeah , you see the trouble is though we 're so open to abuse .
because
Yeah .
people , they don't rush back , they don't wanna urgently express back a carriage forward , they don't work .
What they want is , they get on the phone and say that 's no good , send me another one .
And we send them the replacement , and they let the broken one sit there .
How many times have you supposed to have taken something back or have it repaired or something and it 's sat there , and it 's sat there , and it 's sat there , and it 's sat there and it 's collected du , I 've got things round the house that I 've been working on and that I 've got ta , I 've got ta and it 's collected dust .
You know , that 's another project that went sort of slowly the way .
Erm , and what I'm saying is , we don't address the things that aren't urgent
Yeah .
we only address the urgent things .
But we do leave
Yeah .
ourselves , well we 've got ta protect ourselves as carriers against other people saying ah !
We broke that , or that was broke er , but we 'll blame the carrier now and look at it , then our security guy goes out and they know it 's been sitting around someone 's you know , it 's been there for months !
And er , we we , we are open to abuse on them .
But that doesn't mean to say that what Danny said was very valuable , and as you said Adrian , the four , the four parties , the receiver , the thirty party receiver , the people who are paying the bills buyer and us are very happy in many cases with using carriage forward in a positive way not just for returns
Mm mm .
yeah ?
The returns do get a bit dodgy I find .
But we still do it cos we insure it , we , charge an extra fiver every time then it 's good money .
I'm stopping you through your list Phil .
Well I mean , I 've got a
Any more ?
quite a few on here .
Is there any ones that you want me to pin point at all or
Erm le , what I wanna do is just get , just insure that we know the difference between what is giving the customer the , the benefit and the features .
So we probably won't go through them all .
But
No .
let 's just discuss our way round a couple of other things because these are , this is your product knowledge now isn't it ?
Yeah .
This is what you need to know about selling the service .
It 's no good , er talking about how you do something , how you do is not what they 're interested in .
So whats , that 's how you do it .
How do you do it ?
the customer .
It 's , it 's what can please me .
Cuddly toy .
What 's in it for me ?
The with them factor .
What it is in it for me ?
Okay .
I 've got liability options .
What d'ya mean by that , liability options ?
Well like being insu , like people have got a choice of different options of insurances and
That 's a good one .
Now if I said , ooh !
We offer good liability options .
We can give you transport liability at , what level 's that ?
Aha .
Five thousand pounds , ten thousand pounds , and fifteen thousand pounds costing three , three , six , and nine pound respectively .
Five , ten , and fifteen .
Which is forward transit .
don't be like that .
What is the free ?
Fifteen pounds a kilo .
Sorry , five , sorry I got that one .
Three ,
Six and nine .
Six and nine .
and nine .
And the free one is ?
Fifteen pound a kilo .
Right .
Okay .
Now what I'm saying is we , because we have good liability what can that imply ?
You 're getting a
How can you sell it 's properties then ?
In the likely event
In the likely event
In the likely event
Likely event so
Well we won't us , it won't graduate any
but does it have to do got this
You 're committed
liability ?
you 're committed , you 're committing to your service
It 's like life assurance .
on the fact that you can offer you your high rate of liability .
Cos by offering a high rate of liability it 's , it 's suggests that we
Concerned .
that we care .
And say we co , we , we 're committed .
Rather than see non-damaged if you like .
We 're limited I won't ta , I don't like using the word problems without .
The reason why
What about the
we can afford to offer such good liability cover is the risk is very minimal .
Is small , yeah .
The cost is very minimal .
Yeah .
Mm .
That 's what you 're saying isn't it Adrian ?
Yeah .
Good .
We can get excellent
Try to find the words but you had a good , good case there .
We can get excellent rates from insurance companies
That 's right .
because we are so good .
Now we , actually
Yeah .
we are our own
I know about this .
inge , we 're our own which means that we are , our problems are so limited that we actually carry the liability ourselves , we don't even have to use an external company to get the rates on .
We are so , so what I'm saying is , we can afford to offer marvellous cover because it 's , because erm , the risk is minimal .
Dixons Starsfield got er , the same as ours really , got .
Who does ?
Who does ?
Dixon Starsfield , Dixons , Currys .
Right .
Where they , they offer extended five year warranties .
Now the chance of you actually needing a
Yeah .
five year warranty on a T V is .
That 's right .
They generally don't go well .
My friend li , my friend offers a lifetime guarantee on his leather furniture .
Lifetime .
But the way
It 's a it 's not .
It 's a ex , it 's an extra selling point that 's what
It 's like when when
Exactly .
you sell me a
When you go to buy it you think oh I 've got a life I can change it .
you take out , I think most people take out
life insurance
don't you ?
you don't expect to die but you just cover every
That 's right .
eventuality .
That 's right .
That 's the pitfall .
But what
Yeah .
what what the insurance salesman do is do wobble you a little bit so that you will take it out , you know , can you afford down , if you were forty having a heart attack leaving a wife and young child behind .
I mean , they do tell you , they sell on that way don't they ?
Yeah .
Yeah well they do
To sell , sell them .
they sell you som something to do with it .
You say that , that is negative .
Cautionary tales .
Yeah .
You know when somebody 's at , when someone 's at a lowest point , that 's when they go straight in
Anything for a sale .
Yeah .
and you get them to make a will afterwards .
It 's co
you see salesmanship is applying psychology , you know , and a lot of people , I mean , wha the reason why insurance companies are justified is a lot of people are protected by it , you know .
You don't always know what 's good for you , you do need someone to say .
Mm .
And you 're twenty one
Can you explain it to me again Kath
Mhm .
about the options there please ?
Right .
What is it that you are , you don't understand ?
Well I understand that you get fifteen , it 's just that I 've got a lot of customer where I got business that is depending on the kind of insurance that we give them , based on what our
Yes I understand .
competitors are offering .
Erm , the fifty P , P a kilo up to fifteen thousand , that I
Yeah .
That 's pro-rata .
Yeah .
That I understand .
Fifteen pound per kilo .
Oh sorry I co , sorry , fifteen pound
Yeah .
per kilo up to
Pro-rata .
Up to a thousand kilos .
which is , yeah , that I
That 's
that I understand .
So , if it only weighs kilos you will get how much cover ?
Thirty quid .
Er thirty , thirty quid .
Yeah .
You understand that , right ?
Yeah .
Now
But when you got to the options , now
The full liability , yeah ?
what are you saying now fi , up to five thousand pounds ?
Per item , per per assignment .
Right .
Regardless of weight .
What 's that , what right
You 're buying a aren't you ?
You pay three pound extra
Oh extra ?
Yeah .
On top of your own
On top of
Oh that 's right .
on top of the fifteen pound per
No .
kilo ?
No .
On top of whatever
No , no .
price the customer 's paying .
Customer 's rate .
How do you achieve a rate
Sorry can , can anyone
say if you
can
well
I just say
he doesn't pay fifteen pounds a kilo Adrian , he pays nothing .
He pays the rate you ask him to pay
Yeah .
and , inbuilt in that rate Mr , is fifteen
Oh I see .
pounds coverage for every kilo of weight .
That 's right .
So if you have a thousand kilo pallet it 's fifteen thousand pounds .
But if your item weighs a half a kilo , we 'll round it up to the first kilo so that 's any valid for fifteen pounds .
Right .
Now obviously that 's worth a lot more than fifteen pounds to you isn't it ?
Right .
So what I suggest you do is pay an additional three pounds which means that that is now covered for up to five thousand pounds regardless of it 's weight .
Right .
Now I understand .
Are you happy with that Adrian ?
Yeah .
Now , the reason
Yes , yes .
why you give them different options right .
Thank you .
On , on , on the same day they only charge nine pound and i , everything 's valid up , insured up to fifteen thousand pounds per consignment .
Are you happy , yo you happy with that then ?
In actual fact , sorry to point it , that 's consignment contracts .
Right .
But yo ,
So
i I haven't , you know , it , because when you read it it doesn't always make , it goes in there , and I understand
Right .
people getting a little bit confused about that .
But , that just means the levels of insurance , as a risk , ah , you know , and we 've just put a rate in to , to represent the , the levels of insurance because we charge you more if we insure you for more then .
Erm
So if I 've got a customer that 's sending erm quite a lot of parcels but have got a
Now parcels , have , what is the , what is the , what is the erm definition of a consignment ?
Cos this is regarding consignment .
When is a
Ah ah sorry , it 's
So , what I'm saying is
it 's solely for , it 's erm i , yo you could have six or seven parcels all picked up in one consignment if it 's picked up by that carrier
By one carrier .
going to one address at one time .
So that 's one consignment .
Now if say , let 's
So it 's one consignment .
keep it
so
to a dozen .
Okay , so you got one consignment
You 've got a dozen items I want a dozen items
Yeah .
Which is made up of one consignment .
One consignment .
You 're only covered per consignment , so the whole twelve together are only insured for fifteen
Ah ah , ah !
thousand .
Aha .
What he must do
Is make sure that each individual box
becomes a consignment .
Ah ah .
He 's got to label up and pay for at a consignment rate each item .
He
Cos
can't
I understand .
Can he put that on his er , consignment
or
note ?
Can he actually put a , a tick o on a box , you know when you fill in a consignment note ?
Yes .
D'ya know when yo , d'ya know when you put one on each parcel
You write a co sep separate consignment number
Yeah .
for every consignment .
If if the customer feels that every item he 's sending out
Is valuable .
is er is valuable , can he do , I dunno. a dozen individual consignment notes and then tick the particular box
Yeah .
that he wants ?
That would work out
Yeah .
then
That one .
because he 's gonna pay
Yeah .
he 'll be paying
If that 's what he wants .
Yeah , that 's it .
If he needs five thousand pound coverage on each item
On each one .
He 's gonna , he 's gonna have to pay for it .
he 's got to send five , if you 've got a twelve well twelve percent .
Now , can I put it another way Adrian ?
I'm just trying to get an edge on my competitors
Right .
cos , I
Let me put it another way then .
This is only what we publish .
If you know the value of the level of insurance your client wants
Right .
and if he wants to send them as one consignment , but now the value is twenty five thousand pounds collectively you can ring up Stubbings and as , or get your F and A to do this for you , Finance and Admin , ring up Stubbings and can you give me a special rate for these goods and ar , can you give me what I can charge them for special coverage to take it higher than our normal coverage of fifteen thousand pound ?
Oh I see .
Now what they will wanna know is the ins and outs of everything that you 're sending .
How delicate it is ,
As most insuring company , mos most brokers or people like that .
how value it is , and most insurance , yeah , that 's right through a brokers .
Would you have to send in a profile ?
Do you have to send it in ?
Yeah .
I 've never done it but I think you do have to send that in .
And can I please recommend you speak to your finance and admin people and they will say , now don't expect to be saying , oh that 'll be no problem , because we na , we ai n't got a F and A like that , they 're always to caution , you know .
They 're all
Yeah .
don't think you can do that son !
You know you 'll get this thing , don't worry , say okay
Cor !
Now , do we ?
We don't know .
Been looking everywhere .
I dunno .
Anywhere er
Who would call ?
My husband
Er erm , you , you could n't , could put a call through .
can't .
Er , well you could leave a message then ?
No .
Well done Jenny .
Very good .
And just all the right format
Yeah .
of questions there .
How did it feel about ringing and asking questions that were ?
Did it throw you a bit did it ?
Yeah .
I mean really you 're saying
I could
I can't think of anywhere to go , my God !
I mean , she 's saying well what do you exactly mean by this question ?
I mean , I wasn't the world you know .
Now
Erm
did she hesitate for some time before the answers ?
Yeah .
Mm mm .
and what did Jenny do when she hesitated ?
Lis listened .
She did , but she did something else as well .
She went ha !
She went off .
She went
Mm .
Everything .
And you say ooh , come on , come on .
Come on
Have I said the wrong th
Did you feel a bit uncomfortable when she hesitated a bit then ?
Mm mm .
You we , and it feels like that when you 're on the phone .
Now all she was doing
now you can see that you can read those messages about the hands went didn't they ?
The shoulders went , the face went long .
Mm .
Ooh !
Er , oh !
You could see her thinking about it , but you could n't have heard that on the phone .
Yeah , you do get silences like that sometimes don't you ?
And you get silences on the phone and you 're thinking this is going down like a lead balloon .
No !
She 's engaging brain it takes her some time to come out to the phone instruct the whole thing .
Yeah ?
don't worry about it , ta , the pregnant pause
is to use .
On a moment 's thought for them to sort of .
Did you feel the pressure of having to ask the questions till then , when , when they were asking you to do it to to plans ?
Very much so .
Yes .
And you will feel like that and you sit there Oh God !
I 've got ta do that .
Yeah .
Preparation , good preparation will help that .
Relax , Jenny , relaxation will help that as well .
Just
Mm mm .
breathing calmly and waiting .
And , when she said anywhere was that enough information really ?
Do you really wanted to know where Jenny had , where Mandy had been on holiday ?
No .
Would , wo , would you liked to have known more ?
I would have .
Mm .
Mm .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
How could you prompt her to expand on that ?
Er
Could you give me a few examples ?
Well done Paul !
That 's , oh yeah , how did i , repeat the question , an an and emphasize on the word .
Mm .
Could you give me an example ?
Now if you say it in an ex , in a , in a do you want to give me a few examples ?
You 're a bit Yeah .
All she 'll say , no I
No .
can't .
If you say ah !
Neil says you 've been everywhere , what are the type of things , that you know , you can use tone and voice cos they can't see you .
It 's all in the voice what you put into voice .
Bill had the opportunity to sit face to face with them and you catch his eye , you you used to er time to er use , use hand gestures and show things to them on , on presenters .
You haven't on the phone .
Can you give me a few examples ?
Could you expand on that a little ?
We what was your question Phil ?
Yours was a good one .
Aha .
Where have you been ?
Yeah .
Th the , the fall on the , the repeatedness , the broken record that sort , when you repeatedly question .
Ah !
Where have you been ?
Oh I 've been to , or you rephrase it in another way .
Well done .
Very good .
And don't lose , just because she said I wanted to know , they didn't answer me .
Stick with it .
Even if it means a few phone calls .
What exactly do you mean by that ?
Sorry , I 've never worked in your industry , why is that ?
Yeah ?
And follow it up with a new question .
So the experiences , although it 's got nothing to do with your product , is what is gonna actually happen to you on the telephone out there .
Yeah ?
Mandy , would you like ask Jenny a question ?
Yeah .
Erm how long have you been driving ?
Two and a half years .
So when did you learn to drive then ?
When I was seventeen .
And what were your ideal car ?
Er a Rover .
So I give you the choice of a , a Lamborghini or a Rover what would you rather have ?
A Rover I think then .
Ah .
So if I let you drive my Rover home , would you ?
Definitely .
Yeah .
And if I let you drive my Rover home , would you ?
She said yes to the actual question .
That was more than a closed question , it was closed
Oh right .
would you ?
You said would you drive my Rover that 's the question ?
When you said we 'll talk about that question last .
And the others will have to wait till they come up again .
Ah ah !
Right .
Well done .
See that , excellent .
Right .
How did it feel Jenny asking a load of questions ?
Straight out were n't they ?
Yeah , when she was saying asking them
And the , that 's right .
Now , the other thing is Phil because he 's got a new experience with it , struggled to find a question .
Right , he knew what she was talking about , she 'd got it written down and she was gonna get that information .
But sometimes it can sound too I know this didn't happen
Yeah , comes a bit too
it 's just
I mean I'm not suggesting you , you behave like that on the phone
but what I'm saying is , awareness now , I'm just slagging off the awareness .
When it sounds rehearsed , it sounds , like , that .
And it doesn't sound quite as clear as if you have to think about who you 're talking to .
So the fact that you struggled Phil
Mm mm .
to find the next question , the customer knows you 're thinking .
Ah that 's interesting .
Try and get that now buy yourself a bit of time
Mm .
think about that .
Let me , let me think about that .
Do you mind if I come back to you on that one ?
And if you can't stand the heat get out quick and come back to it .
But it , eventually it will sta , you 'll think afterwards , oh God !
I didn't know the next thing .
Analyse what you did
Sure .
then think about it , and there 's always another call .
Yeah ?
No problem at all .
Okay .
Now , that was very well done .
No problem at all there .
Paul , would you like to ask Carly a question ?
I didn't understand it .
I 've done three questions of each .
Oh God Paul !
Do you understand it now ?
No I , no I understand what you 're saying , it 's just that I thought you said three questions of each .
I done three open , three limited , and three yes and no questions .
Would you , would you wanna erm , d'ya wanna
No I 've crossed them all out now .
Okay .
Go on .
Well away you go then ?
Sorry , well I 've
The blurb .
got that one .
My , must be my mistake .
Well I thought you would have got it in black and white .
I got a big
No go on .
in the mornings .
Go on Paul .
Carry on .
Carry on .
Hello Carly !
Hello Paul .
How long were you seeing your boyfriend then before you married him ?
Er , about six years .
About six years .
Whose idea was it to get married ?
Both of us really .
Yeah ?
Right .
How old were you er when you got married ?
Twenty one .
Do you live at home with your par , er your parent 's home or erm do you live in , in your home ?
Well currently with my parents because we moved down .
Are your parents ha
Or moved up I should say , sorry .
erm are your parents happy with your choice of husband ?
Initially no .
Well , I was afraid of the answer then .
Well done .
That was a very
good question Paul .
Yes obviously .
Excellent
Keep you on .
Excellent questioning Paul there .
Well I did have some more but I thought no I
Ah , thank God for that !
.
How did you feel about answering those questions ?
Fine .
No problem ?
No .
Again , speed
But I think erm
Sorry go on .
Sorry .
No .
Answering back I thought he could have given me a bit more time cos I wanted to say something else and he was
Ah ah !
That 's interesting .
Yes .
You could have got more information Paul !
But I didn't .
Ah I know .
But I didn't
But just
want any more .
I thought it was , it was , it was , en en en
No can I just , can I say
encroaching on her private business .
the er yes I know .
I know .
I don't care .
It 's only an exercise and , and you
Yeah .
and you have e , your own agendas there , obviously .
What I'm saying is is sometimes slowing the pace and simply
Yeah .
let her think a little longer because and then she 'll say , oh !
And then she 's just think of that .
With Phil 's hesitance we got a bit more .
And Phil was thinking I wonder whether this is about and I'm trying to think of the next question .
No .
Which is the question of what you feel when you 're in the field out there trying to work something through .
Which calls
Actually you 've hit the nail on the head there didn't you ?
Mm ?
When you said Phil thought he wasn't , I'm not listening .
No .
Because that 's what it 's all about .
Yes .
And when you 're listening you 're watching for body language as well .
Mm .
And so if you have not been concentrating on the question
Yeah .
you will probably have recognized the body that says I'm prepared to give you more .
Now , to be fair that comes with experience .
Of course .
Listening , as you become more comfortable and you become , you 've done it a few times you know what you 're gonna have to say and then you , you er , you listen more carefully to the answers .
But the listening is the key .
Paul had it well prepared and really she sa , but sh all his answers met with a logical sequence didn't it ?
Mm mm .
Very well done and he spent a lot of time working on that did you notice ?
I'm not saying that 's , okay , you got a bit misled by the instructions but don't worry , but he still gave you could see that you know he was , you know , he was just
Yeah .
you know , he was caught in a
He was concentrating .
train of thought .
He was erm , he was trying
Thanks .
very hard and e , good , good preparation does take effort .
I mean I know we 're only playing here , but it does take effort and , practised effort becomes easier it doesn't become hard work .
It 's like playing a good game of squash , squash , to get a better game and it 's not so hard because you 're off to , you , you 're fit for the game .
And that 's what you 'll do , you 'll become fit .
You 'll be a better player .
As you say , when you 're on the phone you get those silences you just of go , mm mm , mm
Well done Jenny !
And like ,
Well erm , what 's ha , what would you call those ?
Right .
Okay .
They know you 're listening .
Listening noises .
That 's very good .
That 's very good .
Right .
All
Can I do , just make one announcement ?
Yes .
Please do .
Just to illustrate how important this thing is , you 've probably all come across and it really irritates me , you see people interviewing people on television and they 've got their clipboard there and they 've obviously got a prepared question so they can't falter and fine , that means they 've prepared it .
And they ask a question and somebody 's very open with the answer and they da , they just , sa expand on that answer and then , two or
Aha .
three questions later they ask them the very question they just answered
E e expect
and that really irritates me !
And that 's purely and simply because they 're just not listening .
Oh .
The easiest thing in the world to take off that question
Yeah .
so that it 's
so think about that because
Yeah .
And you 'll lo
you don't want to get the backs up of your customers by asking them questions .
That is right .
And you 'll losing the point of why
Absolutely .
you 're asking the question .
See
Aha .
you 're not , you 're not paid to ask questions , you 're paid to get in , information .
Info .
Yeah ?
That 's the point .
So that fact that you can't think of a next question Phil
Mhm .
don't worry , you 've got some information .
We can all ask questions later okay ?
What you really want then is a way to sort of happenings or embarrassments because you 're a bit stuck of where you want to go .
Mm mm .
That 's interesting .
Let me write that down .
Ah !
You 're giving yourself some new , you know .
I think one of the things Phil can do in that si
don't worry about it .
or anybody could do in that situation is having asked a question , they 're a bit hesitant about er , the next question then simply throw in there to buy yourself some time something like ee , is that all ?
Or , is any more that you can add to that ?
Just to give yourself a bit of time
Mm .
Or repeat the question .
for the next question .
It will help
Yeah .
you .
Like we 've just suggested .
Oh have you ?
Or , what was your way of doing it before you said ?
When , when you wanted to know where Mandy went ?
Can you give us , tell us about that Paul ?
Well I kept asking her , it made hard work , yeah .
Yeah .
What did you do to her ?
You 've not been listening have you Paul ?
You know whe when , when we asked
He 's still
Well I thought she didn't know that .
No he 's still sitting back on his reflected glory now .
And rightly so as well .
Well done .
Carly would you like to demonstrate yours
Kath .
now ?
Er
Could I say , say something ?
Yeah .
I just think I just think it 's quite important for us all to realize I did a , when I used to do a similar job to this it took me a long time before I realized that the customer , you know on the phone doesn't know that your you should n't have asked an open question there
Oh .
on the close and it comes , it just comes with practise , get all
Right .
from practise doesn't it ?
Which is exactly it .
what I'm saying is is , you can , it doesn't matter how you ask the question , but sometimes
what I'm trying to help you practise , cos we 're not , we 're very good at asking closed questions in conversations but don't very often recognize , but you know , we , we we we , we 'll zip backwards and forwards , and that 's okay , but I want you to do consciously is know what type of questions you 're asking because you can sometimes be hitting a brick wall and thinking I'm getting anywhere here and it 's because you 're asking too many closed questions .
Mm mm .
And you 're making it sound like an interrogation .
Erm , especially when you 're in front of a screen er or you 're in front of a , a form that you 're , someone 's saying get the traffic profile out and th what they send , what they , how many they send , it can sound like an interrogational .
Get the buyer , get the product , get the carrier , get , and so on like that .
You 've got to be careful that you are not losing the skill of a conversation .
Mm .
Open question what th va , advantage of open question is , is you do a less of it and they
More of it .
More of it .
And that 's why it , on a foundation course we keep the questioning very simple .
Justin 's experiences has tooken it , taken it further than that which is brilliant , and he can apply those skills straight away .
And if you 've got those skills apply to them job , I'm not suggesting you don't , but remember the first part of a , a tele , er a telephone or a face to face sales negotiation is , th th two of these and one of these .
Right ?
You should you be posing the questions and letting the discussion take place .
Posing the questions , controlling it but posing it and letting it go .
Right ?
And you 're gaining information .
When you 've gathered information a , and and come to a conclusion erm interesting , we may have something for you there .
And that 's when you get your presenter out and start matching to what the customer wants .
Now you 've gone through an alternative yesterday and we know , we ta , we don't talk what is built in by design , what do we talk about ?
We tell them what 's built in by design and then we
Tell them the advantages .
of what they get out of it .
. And we keep it simple .
One feature maybe one or two benefits and you don't have to tell them the whole story .
Mm mm .
As you said Bill , pull out the benefits and features that are appropriate to what you 've heard .
Er , there may be something you 're interested in there ?
Now there are tighter ways of actual sales negotiations but we haven't got the time to go into it today .
You 'll have to come back on your selli , your course to do this .
Okay ?
Or you ca , if you can do it on your own , brilliant !
Run with it now .
But what I want you to do is gather information , this is your answers , and match what you 're doing er , what we sa provide with what you found out then .
Okay .
And you 'll find out what method by just simply questioning them about the .
Let me just check before we start that everybody 's got this .
I'm sure Danny , Jenny , and Carly have , but just because we 've gone half way , can I just let the other three finish off their presentation ?
Cos they 've sat and done the preparation .
Carly .
Okay .
Hello Paul !
Erm , I know you 're allergic to food and drink , so you keep on telling me , what sort of food are you allergic to ?
Just about everything under the sun .
What sort
Dairy products erm dairy products , oranges various fruits .
Remember the listening noises .
Right .
Mm .
Yes ?
Er , can't think of anything else specific at the moment .
But it 's just about , I 've got a list at home , it 's about this long though .
Right .
Okay .
Erm do you actually
What type of question is that when you do actually ? him .
What type of question
A minute .
Yeah .
And then , give him a choice like , can you
A choice .
what were you going to ask Carly ?
Do you actually
I was gonna ask him , do you actually eat the products still to a limit ?
Right .
Okay .
It 's a closed question there .
Right , that 's right .
How can you change ask , ge get to that , but say it as an open question .
If there are limits
No .
That 's a closed
question .
What do they begin with ?
Sorry , they 're the words which you were .
Which foo , which food do you eat ?
Yeah .
They 're the words true .
There is nothing to give me
There was no last night .
these are open questions .
You said , do you actually eat the products that made you allergic Paul ?
Right ?
What you 're saying how can ask any of those , any of those sort of questions ?
This is a very useful one .
Just by .
How can you ask but using that word at the beginning of it ?
I am allergic to almost an anything .
And you wanted to know do you eat almost anything don't you ?
Yeah .
Do you still suffer ?
So , what , what word do you make it into an open question ?
Can you have them ?
How
Just
How
How much of this food do you eat ?
How much of these
Yeah .
do you ?
Mm .
Which food .
Does anybody have any other suggestions .
Mandy , you were saying
Which foods do you eat ?
Which food .
I was gonna say which food do you
Which foods , yeah .
normally
But that 's still sort of limiting a bit though isn't it ?
Yeah .
What I want , what food ?
Types .
What , what is it ?
What 's , er er , erm , what off this list do you feel ?
It 'll come to
Yeah .
you .
Alright .
We 're gonna ask another question then though aren't we ?
Right .
Right well , can you ask your third open question ?
Okay .
Third open question .
What was it ?
I can't
What food
What food
off this list , what do you actually eat ?
No , she 's already asked him what they
What do you actually eat ?
Yeah .
Please
Yeah ?
Erm what food ?
That would be useful , yeah .
Yeah .
What foods do I eat ?
Erm , I get everything , I'm allergic to at the moment .
No , I'm allergic to everything and I still eat it all .
Yeah .
Going by last night apparently , ordinary roast .
Yeah .
Okay .
Let 's get back
to the point , the point of the questioning .
Carry on Carly .
Go on then .
Erm
Wha
are you scared erm
No .
Are you scared , what type of question ?
An open .
Let her work it through for herself .
Oh yeah .
I know , I know that your trying to help her .
But I'm trying to make her brain work not one of yours .
No , I have got a .
I want to borrow , I want to borrow we can borrow your brain tomorrow Mandy .
We 'll probably need you again
Erm
tomorrow .
What I'm saying is , are you , what er
Yeah .
what does it , what are you trying ask him Carly ?
I dunno .
What was your second , answer to your second question ?
Sorry .
I eat lots
I eat , I eat everything that I'm allergic to , virtually .
I'm allergic to everything but I still eat it all .
That 's the information you 've got so far .
Right .
Is there a special method of cooking your food at home , not obviously outside ?
Now nobody help her at this stage .
Is there a special method ?
Wha what , how are you gonna answer that Paul ?
No .
Now , what sort of question is it you 've asked then ?
Closed .
Right .
Is there a special method ?
Which of these can you ask to get your open answer ?
What special
Shush !
I'm asking
Oh !
Carly .
How do you cook your food ?
Well done !
What , or how
how do you cook your food ?
Thank you .
Thank you .
Well done Carly !
Yeah .
How do you cook your food Paul ?
How d'ya cook your food ?
I don't , I get my mum to do it .
Right .
don't worry about that .
Now you 've got to
Okay .
go into
Yeah .
a limiting one ?
If your mum doesn't do the cooking at home , who does it ?
I go out and buy chips .
You do .
And er
No sorry , go on , I 'll , I 'll be helpful on that .
I do .
You do ?
That 's no help Paul .
Carry on .
Oh okay .
Next question .
Do you like your cooking ?
No .
Well , well done !
Well done !
Well that was a hard effort !
Very well done !
Thank you , thank you , thank you !
Well done !
Jean , would you like to have a go ?
I want to know what happens to him .
Er
I know !
That 's what I was
I 'll save the best till last .
Hiya Danny .
Hiya .
Hiya .
Erm , where do you wo usually buy your clothes from now ?
I beg your pardon ?
Where do you usually buy your clothes from ?
Oxfam .
Er
I 've just recently changed to Next but I used to buy them from Oxfam when I used to live here .
Oxfam ?
Good shop that is..
Put it down now .
Right yo you go , got to Next ?
Well why do you usually shop there , in Next ?
Erm because it 's got the Next label on it and I like that outfit .
What do you think of the staff in Next ?
I think they 're a load of pompous gits !
I'm .
And do you consider price or quality more important when you buy your clothes ?
Quality .
Quality .
Good question .
And erm , do you spend a lot of money , money on clothes ?
Not if I can help it .
No .
Excellent !
wasn't that good .
Yeah .
Good .
It was good .
Right .
You can keep your pen on the table .
He 's gonna stab .
I have this , it 's , it 's it 's it 's
It 's like being stuck on a telephone line .
it 's a really annoying habit I 've got
I know .
I know but I just can't help fidgeting my bottom .
I know it 's annoying , no .
I know it 's annoying .
But I have anno
It is annoying though .
with a pen .
Do we all agree , we say annoying ?
Yep .
Yeah .
Okay .
Quiet , please , for Daniel .
It 's incomplete .
Think of a word .
Thank you Jean , I 'll forgive ya .
Erm what type of music do you like ?
I like most types of music but erm at the moment I'm , I'm into U B forty , I quite like them .
You say , now erm why do you listen to this particular music ?
I think my daughter really weaned me onto it .
I didn't have much choice , I wasn't listening to it anyway so then I got quite to like it then .
Yes , you .
Erm where do you listen to this music ?
Er , it 's just at home usually .
So , do you listen to this every day
or is it like
Oh no , just occasionally
just sort of like
occasionally
when you 've got a bit of spare time ?
It 's usually at weekends you know
Ooh !
Excuse me .
I listen to them .
Yeah .
Will you have this music played at your funeral ?
!
Oh God !
Mm ?
No I don't think so .
Erm , I need that one there .
You sound like a copper .
That one there .
A what ?
He sounds like a copper doesn't he ?
A copper .
Aye .
Jean , you know what the answer is don't you ?
I don't know .
I don't care , I'm not there .
Yeah .
Well done .
Well done .
Lots of informa , I know it 's not re , I know we haven't talked about selling T N T , and I 'll , your questions aren't really about this time , I 'll do that in a minute .
What questions can we ask about T N T , to T N T potential customers ?
We asked about music , we asked about food , we asked about holidays , we asked family , we asked about , what was Ja , Mandy 's questions to you Jane ?
What was your
Driving .
question ?
Driving .
Driving .
We asked about , what was your question to
Music .
music .
Er , er clothes to Danny .
What questions do you want to know from customers about , what d'ya wanna know about them ?
Their business .
About their business .
What about their business Justin ?
What is the question that you want answered ?
Do they send goods out ?
Do they want a carrier ?
Do you use a carrier ?
Right .
How regular ?
Can we assume that something moves out of most buildings ?
Yep .
Yeah .
Yeah , we can .
What sort of things move out of any business premises .
Papers
Letters .
or letters .
Documents .
That 's right .
Something 's likely to move .
So yo , rather , do they send goods out ?
Can we assume that one anyway Ju , maybe not goods
Well I su
but there 's , something moves that needs a delivery
Mm mm .
somewhere .
Would you , would , wo , I mean , just the way , what made you feel that it wouldn't be the case ?
But would you mean
Well er , well I 've , and added two hundred mailers
Mhm .
in like two days and
Yeah .
that 's the fir , and you ring up hairdressers and
Mm .
vets and all sorts
Mm .
so you had to ask them .
Mm .
A couple
Some people just have , some people will will never have a need for a carrying service .
Yeah .
No , there is some
Are you , sort of
Okay , you were talking about , you you 're talking about your target customers were sort of like abattoirs and hairdressers and stuff like that ?
Yeah but you know the mailers that we did , I mean
Right .
that that
They were just registered businesses .
we were told to ask
Right .
you know
Okay .
do you ever have a need for a carrier
Yeah .
at all ?
You know before you start giving them all the spiel
What type of question is that though ?
Do you ever have a need
Closed .
for a carrier ?
It 's closed .
Yeah .
Cold .
It 's , still a
You have to open .
How can you ask to that ?
Yeah , you could say that .
Well there 's , they need to know a little bit about you .
So you said , you know , good morning , my name 's Kath .
I'm a , the business repre , I'm , I represent th er , T N T super mail , I er , am responsible for business development here
you 've recently received er erm , a some information from our company , am I right ?
Yes .
Yes .
Or I know you 've recently received some information , that 's good .
I can see that you are a hairdresser now what question do you wanna ask ?
Would you ever need
How often do you have a use for a parcel carrier ?
How often would you ever send , or something into your company , or have something sent out especially , by perhaps a customer request ?
So you need to know how often , right ?
Assume something goes .
I guarantee something 'll go .
It might be once in
Yeah .
bloody blue moon and you may not be worth putting on your and calling every six weeks Mandy , but , it might be worth asking it in a more open way .
Because Sod 's law 'll say if you ask it open , you 'll find summat out you never assumed .
Mm .
Yo you know .
You never thought .
Well actually , yes we 're the head office
for a regional group here and as well as have a , er an actual service for hairdressing we also have a distribution er control shop at the back .
And , we have our own delivery service to our cu , to our own network .
Now what 's the question you can ask this hairdresser that got his own bus , I know I'm using a , a an extreme
Mm mm .
point , they 've got their own delivery service .
What else would you like to ask ?
Is there any place you can ever not go to ?
What areas does it , do they tend to serve ?
What happens if give me an scenario , a cautionary tale like the insurance man does to his customers .
You sell
God forbid
God forbid ?
God forbid that you should ever lose parcel and Mrs on Newcastle has n't got a wig base any more
your reputation 's going to be in tatters , isn't it ?
What do you do in that situation ?
What are you gonna do ?
Do you know the one thing in that
God forbid !
he said , and I wrote it down here , which I think is wonderful , probe th the past problems and future worries .
What would happen if
Yeah .
in the future ?
What has happened , when
Mm .
is past .
Yeah ?
That 's a very good question .
That 's how they do , sell insurance cos e everybody knows who they 've use , had a mishap and not insured .
Because if you say , have you , what type of question 's this ?
Have you ever had any problems ?
It 's a closed one .
Na , no .
And what they gonna say ?
No .
How difficult was it Mandy to think when Jenny was asking you about your holiday ?
It was quite difficult .
Why ?
Mm mm .
And you , you gave mono , what 's the word ?
syllabic .
Syllabic .
Syllabic .
syllabic .
can't get my teeth right .
Monos , one word answers didn't she ?
Long words like .
What I'm saying is , is if customers
feel like that and if you ask , if , they must say yes , no , because it , to engage , hang on th the phone rings , ring , ring , ring , ya , yes ?
Yeah ?
Erm , yes right er , yes .
You know , and they 're in this sort of
Mm .
mo , very
Yeah .
fra , ma frame of mind , you got to demand and wait for the answer , even though it might take a minute for the to say erm , erm , oh we use erm , you know , we 've got a , a , a local van that comes and se , like , you know .
What happens if Well , oh sa , pwurgh , I don't know , I mean she has to wait for a week .
You know ?
You know .
Or we rush one over to her specially , make a special journey .
Right , now where d'ya , what do you wanna go , what question do you wanna ask her next ?
Someone other than Justin now .
How do you achieve that ?
How do you achieve that .
Good question .
What sort of question is that Bill , open or closed ?
Open .
Open .
Wo !
That is open question .
How do you achieve that ?
Now sometimes what salesmen do is suggest the answer , do you do this ?
Do you do that ?
Do you do that ?
Do you do that ?
Shut up !
don't keep on .
How do you do that ?
Quite difficult eh , er well usually somebody goes in their car , you know .
She 'll send her , or I 'll le I 'll let someone go , someone from the shop go .
Now what do you wanna ask ?
You think of the problems .
Could this possibly leave you short handed ?
No that 's a closed question .
Closed .
. Right , a good question .
A very good question .
Could it leave you short handed ?
Change it to an open question .
How do you manage when this person 's out delivering the goods ?
Hang on Justin .
Same question Paul
Yeah .
but what it means is , what 's the difference ?
Well , you 've got ta .
That 's right .
Or , you shut up
and I start talking , you 'll find out more .
How do you manage ?
Really ?
God forbid !
How do you manage ?
Touch wood .
Oh !
You don't say ?
Honestly ?
You 've got that , you blow the problem up a bit .
Hang on in there now , you 've found it !
Mm .
That 's where you wanna be .
I don't care whether you can't work a rate out I don't care whether you know nothing about T N T , you 've found a need .
Do you want some help ?
You got to the close , do you want some help ?
And they say
Well yes .
what are you offering ?
You say , I 'll tell ya .
I 've got my , my
Oh yes .
.
Ah !
Yeah ?
That 's when you , you get your question .
You 're in there .
Yeah .
Your
Oh Justin !
now you 've got ta use those features and benefits to explain .
So you 've got ta be thinking and know which features to pull out .
You don't have to say we are a multi-national company with a hundred , in among hundred and ninety countries , we have a sales , a fleet of three thousand in this country , you don't have to give them a list .
D'ya remember going through this and what did the fella say on the phone , can you remember ?
You 're too big for us .
Too big for me .
Too big for me .
You 're too big for us .
Or
Yeah .
This is a , this a smaller regional office , you 'll know that we have a local depot here in Lan , in Stockport .
wherever you are , if it 's a local set-up .
Yeah ?
And you relate the features in the right way to that appropriate package , that problem .
Yeah ?
And in closing you simply say do you want to use us ?
Shall we go ahead with it ?
What other ways can you have to close a question , when you want , wanna get a green light ?
You 've presented your offers out
Can we get some ?
Get some help .
Shall we start , shall we start coming up ?
Erm , shall we start , you might not even have to get the , shall we start it , the ball rolling then ?
Mm .
What other ways can you ask them if they wanna get the
Would you like me to arrange an appointment ?
Would you like me to , yes , maybe ha , if you ask a question and haven't established what ?
You 've got ta establish something else .
Just wanna to try , get them to try , try it .
Yeah .
Would you like to u , can you see yourself that service ?
What d'ya wanna know now ?
Where ?
Quickly .
You can't wait , see how the a , it begs the other question ?
When would like to start ?
Would you like to start now or
good .
Mm .
I'm gonna have to let Carly have your go now ?
Cos you 've got to get two , you need to , you need to really close there don't you ?
I'm gonna stop it there folks .
Have I given you something to be going on with ?
You have , yes , thank you .
Thank you .
Very interesting that .
I 'll be keeping this for the next few days with me looking after it .
No he , he said didn't want it .
Can we take
Yeah .
You better take , we 're spending , we 'll be , yeah , you can spend more time there .
Kath , what am I doing tomorrow ?
What , what ?
Stick up walls .
That , .
Come on then .
phone calls can we make ?
Ah that 's alright then ?
Same as this .
Thanks Kathy .
Okay .
Thank you Kath .
I won't be here tomorrow .
See you soon .
Oh that 's alright then .
Hopefully .
You 'll tha , you 'll , yes
So we can ring you up .
have a brilliant time .
Oh righto .
What I want you to do , I don't want to delay you because of your erm trains and I 'd will have hate to be the ones that keep you any later , you have an
I know .
evaluation sheet
Yes .
and you have your agenda , will you fill it in and send it to me ?
How shall we send it ?
Right .
Which service would you
Internal .
like us
You
to use ?
you do that
Three day .
Who is taking these
When did you want it ?
through to the
Me .
Oh are you Justin ?
Will you send me yours ?
Okay .
Will the others fill them in now .
Oh !
Jenny , I need to get your
Can we fill them in tonight and
my bag out of the back .
give it in
Can you give me it tomorrow ?
but give them in the morning cos we 've got to come over in the morning haven't we ?
Shall I give the keys to
Well what are you gonna do now then ?
Are you gonna drop it down ?
I 'll go and
I dunno .
Cos I haven't thought .
Oh brilliant !
You 're gonna stay .
You 're gonna sit down and do them now .
I 'll give the keys to you in a minute .
Have you got time to do it now ?
No , cos we 'll be going in a minute .
I 'll do it tomorrow .
No you 're se , you 're sta staying
Said we 've just got ta stay here .
to do them now .
Yeah but I thought we should get cracking in the car .
We can't really stay , you have to come in in the morning .
Yeah .
Danny , you 're , you 're getting your er , you 're gonna wait for yours are you ?
I 've already done it now ?
See you !
Nice meeting everybody .
.
Take care .
See you later .
No Carly , it 's too late to do it now .
Yeah , hopefully .
I just got a message from .
See you later mate .
Would you fill that in now
See you later mate .
and then sleep on it ?
Are you feeling alright my dear you look a bit ?
See you back at the old sales office .
No I don't .
Yeah , you could say that .
No ?
I don't feel in here .
Right , see you later then .
Cos I 've been spectating
I know .
John never said .
You look a bit , I 've lost you somewhere now .
Thanks a lot .
See you Mandy .
See ya .
See you Mandy .
Bye .
Give me a ring .
Yeah I 'll find out .
Even if it 's .
Cos I don't know your number , give me a ring between one and three .
Give you a , a chat to you .
Freephone number .
Ah !
Oh good !
Oh sorry darling .
Of course !
Of course !
See you Danny .
Bye Jenny .
Bye love .
, back to your car yes ?
It 's , Jenny
Yeah well we 'll going anyway so
will you , be alright when you get to your car ?
Yeah .
No stay here with me I'm gonna walk
No but she 's got a phone in the car .
Take care ladies , look after yourselves .
Yeah and you Bill .
Yes well this is .
Best of luck Bill .
I hope to hear from you .
Get some .
Oh I see .
Yeah and you .
Oh I 've got to see if Frank 's changed .
Well no , you can do it first .
I dunno , but we haven't got any .
I need them .
Well in , twenty minutes .
Well yeah .
In twenty minutes ?
So you 'll be back here at quarter past four
Alright then .
and you finish the .
Okay then .
So you don't have to .
You know that would be better
Wo oh oh oh oh !
Yeah , I think she wants I'm trying
Oh that 's better .
don't worry .
Everything will be fine .
Alright .
Well I 'll bring him back here .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Well where are you going , are you not coming back then now ?
Alright .
What , what room number are you in then ?
One , twenty eight ?
Yeah .
Right , I 'll give you a ring when they
Well er , once I 've had my dinner .
Cheers then .
See ya .
Ta ta .
See you later .
Yep .
Bye- bye .
Ta -ta .
I do get I mean it 's come back
I think it 's , it 's down there
you might say it 's with , with .
What 's second , third and fourth ?
Jenny I thought would ring .
See you later .
I 'll see you back at the classroom round there
What room number are you in ?
tomorrow morning
Okay .
then Bill ?
Thanks very much .
My stomach 's churning .
I 'll see you when you come down tomorrow then .
If you 'd like to go and get a cup of tea
No it 's alright John .
from the canteen
Bye !
you can fill that in down there .
If you 'd rather have a cold drink
We got a same day driver picking me up at five fo , five thirty outside the hotel .
Oh right .
Five ?
Well you get off .
On same day service now ?
Oh you 're going same day are ya ?
Yeah they said erm
Can we see
Said it could be better
I 'll get it .
don't worry .
Use my cell phone .
Can we cube ya ?
I think this is a telephone shall I tell
No I think Mandy 's in the area .
phone , does anybody know how I'm gonna get one ?
Hello .
Where 's Jenny now ?
She 's gone down to pay for the , get something out of the boot outside .
And help me do .
Oh has she ?
A fiver .
Oh , you 're a hard women , och I 'll buy you .
David 's getting them in .
What ?
Or thre er Terry .
What ?
Are you getting a lift with Justin ?
No I just said .
No .
Er Justin
I want erm my and my bag .
No Jenny 's coming back , I think .
Justin 's not coming back .
I think
Justin
he 's taking , has Jenny ?
Jus , er Justin 's got ta come back in
I know .
a minute .
Jenny 's come back in a couple of minutes .
Justin 's not coming back .
Well
Yes .
he 's got ta come back
Yes .
hand his folder in .
I said
Yeah ?
that to him .
Do you wanna go and get yourself a cold drink ?
Oh oh .
The girls in the canteen want to lock up and go home .
It 's alright cos Jenny , Jenny 'll be back .
Shall we do our
We 're getting
Well so
picked up .
Complete this up here .
No , no , my bag has
Then you come back here .
Alright .
Go and get yourself a
And if I don't see her , you can wait another twenty minutes .
Alright .
go and get yourself a cold drink and bring it back up here .
?
Yeah .
I dunno if she 's coming back .
That 's a closed question .
Ah !
Mind you , well that is .
Shut the door
go and get yourself a cold drink and come back and .
The only ones I 'll let go are Carly and Bill , they 've got ta catch a plane , er train , and Justin 's got to come back before he heads back to the hotel .
But while you 're here leave it covered like this and it 's a bit .

Oh Jesus Chri !
Jean !
What ?
Here 's your breakfast , come on !
Come on get up !
It 's after nine , it must be about twenty past to half nine here 's your breakfast cu Christ get out the way , get out !
Bloody dog !
Jean !
I got you cornflakes toast I didn't do an egg you 've had enough was round there left another tape tape recorder .
What
She 'll be round on f excuse me !
She 'll be round on Friday afternoon or Saturday some time I said we 'd be here from four o'clock on Friday so I 'll take it down to John 's today then it 's away to work I 've got the rubbish in the bins right ?
Raymond took money out of your money , got cigarettes and a paper and the house is tidy so I 'll get the twenty past ten bus later .
Have you no matches ?
She was saying that the shop she was in was selling the turkeys that we got , for three ninety nine I think it was a supermarket or somewhere was selling them
Three ninety nine ?
No three fifty .
Aha .
Patch !
Stop that !
Fucking lighter !
Have you got a light Jean ?
You should of bought pe oh there 's some petrol under the sink I put paint thin thinners in this you know , stripper ?
What for ?
I thought it would of blown or lit .
And this fucking Patch , get into the house !
Get in !
And stay there !
Sit !
There was a fella shot dead last night in sp er Don .
Do you remember the bar we went into that night with Sally and Perry ?
Remember the Saturday night over in east east Belfast ?
Yes .
Erm and er and that Audrey or Aubrey and and nobody knew well he ran that bar .
He was the manager of that bar .
They U D A according to the T V .
What ?
Well they 're keeping an open mind about it yeah but skin you I suppose he his , I have all .
Jean I 'd fucking do it to you !
No but
I know , why ?
Raymond
I mean
won't speak to you if you
You 've been in bed for eight o'clock last night it 's now nine what 's that , thirteen odd hours ?
Ask me the time I was up at ?
You could lie in actually .
No no , no no no no no , ask me what time I was up at ?
What time were you up at ?
Half five this morning letting the dogs out in the back so I said to hell with it , I'm not going to bed again !
You won't lie in when you can't
Well I slept all night Jean .
You know what I had this morning for my breakfast ?
Ha !
One , two one , two , three , four four seven oat cakes !
You know the triangle shaped ones ever whatever ?
Seven of those .
You
So I ate a whole packet all of them !
Ha !
Ha ha ha !
Look at them cornflakes .
then Jean , you 'll need proper su so you 'll need sunglasses .
Window open ?
No .
Does the li does the light not hurt your eye !
Do you want the fan on ?
England , Scotland and Wales and er showers here .
Lovely weather
Lovely weather for ducks !
What was wrong with erm the cassette thing ?
Ah , they thought it was the cleaning head .
What ?
Apparently they thought it was the cleaning heads by the , the heads of it , I don't know , I know nothing about it .
Well according to counter , that 's still going .
gonna get a couple of he ah ah tapes that we had ruined of our own I said no .
So she took the first lot back you know , the two boxes
Aha .
and gave us a another two boxes .
Ha !
What 'd she take the tapes back for ?
No she bought a second lo a second twenty lot of twenty and I give her the first lot back probably .
I know but she was nothing to with the tapes it was
No well she just , just to say they 're not starting to count again .
Oh .
So I 've now got from Monday , twenty .
And each lasts approximately forty five minutes .
So if I take one down today no I 'd need a couple wouldn't I ?
Mhm .
Well I'm taking four anyway to see what happens and the booklet .
God bless .
Well what booklet ?
You have to put a book in first , that I was first to speak this morning , you were second and then it 'll be either Kelly Ann or Stephen next .
Ooh yes .
But I don't put yo I don't put every time they speak , put your names in once on each page is enough .
Oh I see .
So if I start another tape I think I 've to put their names in first right .
Cos the listener will be able to tell who is speaking .
Oh .
Raymond said he was sick this morning .
Was he ?
Mhm I said oh he was sick last night and sick this morning .
Some sort of
What ?
well he said it was like green bile !
wasn't that a cle a they were pouring in th in the
on the bucket ?
Aha .
Oh that 'll be , well have the both of them then except my underwear and socks What do you want done , before I go out ?
Nothing .
Well I 've got ta get shaved and ba you know those dark blue trousers ?
Mhm .
to leave them in the cleaners ?
We 'll see .
Get them out for Easter I mean white lines up the seams
Pass the please ?
Where 's the bi
Oh
Eh .
Enjoy that breakfast .
I did , it was lovely thank you .
Do you eat all the toast ?
You mean all the toast ?
There was never any !
Sorry , what am I eat all the toast !
I think I 'll put on a jumper today , or a pullover it 'll be cold coming out of John 's tonight .
You 'll have to do your own boots
What boots ?
You remember the snow boots we had .
Not at all .
You know when you put those boots on and the string rather because they they are what they they look like with the they 're called boots .
.Ha !
Wha what date is today ?
Twelfth .
right .
What are you gonna ?
Rita returns home in Coronation Street er
Is that all it says ?
The Golden Girls on for half an hour .
Is that all it says , Rita returns home ?
Yes .
Er all else on !
Oh This is your Life you like that .
Oh .
I missed the last Friday night .
There you are there 's an article on Easter eggs right Cadbury 's Buttons the verdict of that is very , a good design , reasonably good value cost per hundred grams is eighty seven point five P .
Cadbury 's Roses verdict neat box but too much packaging and they cost a hundred and one P for a hundred grams .
Cadbury 's Creme Eggs over large box too much packaging hundred grams , they cost a hundred and nine .
Rowntree 's Rolo verdict clever use of packaging good value cost per hundred grams eighty eighty P .
Rowntree 's Smarties verdict small box and packaging kept to a minimum , good value eighty three pence per hundred grams !
And Quality Street Egg verdict , the box makes the eggs appear much larger than it actually is cost , a hundred gram , ninety nine .
So the cheapest is Buttons
The Rowntree 's , no Christ , you 're not listening !
Rowntree 's Smarties is eighty three Cadbury 's button is eighty seven point five and then Rowntree 's Rolo is eighty eight the dearest is a hundred and nine P for the Cadbury 's Creme Eggs .
Oh I see .
And it cost two pound thirty five for a hundred and thirty six gram egg and two forty gram Creme Eggs .
No , couple of draws .
People prefer a couple of big bars o
True .
Cadbury 's Cadbury 's Milk Tray .
Well that Galaxy is lovely and creamy .
The what ?
Galaxy .
Cos you 're paying actually for the boxes , it says .
Her
Best place for him Jean !
No place for a dull !
What would you like for your tea ?
It 's not a matter what I would like Jean , it 's what the hell is in !
I would like a soda baking soda !
Mm ?
It doesn't matter .
teacher admitted fifty three victims .
Admitted to what ?
Hurting fifty three victims !
He 's a mild mannered grandfather who accused of murdering thirty five children and eighteen young woman across the country over twelve years .
Oh
The youngest was a boy of eigh eight the of twenty two .
Must of been .
Christ , an innocent man earlier on was forced to co confess was , was e was executed for some of the killings that he did !
Another committed suicide while waiting trial .
My God !
The victims , many of them homeless , were blinded and torn apart in a frenzy of violence .
He enticed them with a promise of dinner and a chance to watch his video .
How awful !
As soon as they saw a lonely person , they had to drag him off to the woods Jesus Christ !
Here 's the son of Kirk Douglas has been jailed for five days after kicking a policeman !
They say he 's a pig 's ear queer !
He 's not !
Film stars get away with everything !
Well he didn't , he 's in he 's inside for five well days anyway .
Five days
You know your woman that started all the controversy about the eggs ?
Edwina Currie .
Yes .
She was offered a job in the government and she turned it down !
Oh
It says because her boss would of been Kenneth Clarke is it ?
And er apparent eh Kenneth Clarke , apparently they don't get on .
I 've promised Shirley
Yeah .
Your man at what ?
That 's another man .
Who was ?
Thomas .
Oh the big fella from Saudi Air ?
Mm .
And what about him ?
And he says hello Jean , all about you and he says , is this for you love , and I says yes and I said
Well you should of told him you were fucking burning the place !
Why ?
I said about to see him and I says no , he says I should of kept the houses and just done the lot .
Good grief , how could you !
Well we 're living like fucking ants two up and two down , outside bogs !
Jesus Christ !
It 's alright for some ah !
No wonder you 're trying to
Ah but he means put a bath in a bathroom in , the way you know they did up the Donegal Road .
What and you 've no back yard !
No space for hanging clothes , no space for walking !
I certainly I ha
He says your when a ambulance comes for people who are sick they have the and there 'll be somebody who maybe really seriously ill by the time tha that they ask where to get to such and such a place by the time they 're there sometimes the people dead !
ever should be er measured by the street map of the city of Belfast
for all the cost it 's not such a big place anyway .
Excuse me !
I 'd of get lost in Sandy Road
Mm .
now .
I did .
Well like Christie 's Manor had to show me out of it her and her her daughter !
There you are .
Cos she said to me she said Christ thirty years in Sandy Road you get lost in it !
It
Andrew was talking about Da and
Dotty .
and he said
Councillor Albert .
aha and he says I 've been to the nice wee man he says he remembers ah going round all the houses looking for somebody to do in Apple Street and he went and told what 's his name ?
Dotty did ?
Aha he went told , what do you call him ?
The , the first house in Street , beside the shop ?
what Diddy 's friends ?
No that 's Boyle Street
What Street ?
Scumbergh Street
Oh yes , directly beside the old house ?
No aside the wee shop at the corner of Street .
Oh yes , Hannah .
Hannah
Oh yeah .
and she says no , go down and get Edith and er
Edy ?
Aha and he done caretaker for years
Mhm .
for her .
Sunday School and
I remember coming in here .
I says cos I said that fellow I says my husband 's mother for years I says , in fact and old photographs in the house we have of and his wife and a whole crowd .
have you ?
And I says to I says erm
It was hell fire and those preachers none of your high church there !
Paisley and Ian Paisley .
Well that was after Albert giving out
Yes .
load of shit !
Aye cos I remember
and the big .
He was a little rogue !
Who ?
Albert .
God forgive you !
He was , he stole the fucking ey ornaments out of instruments out of the Salvation Army saw them in his house one day , up in the loft and there was enough musical instruments to start up twenty bands !
Accordions , trumpets a bugles , everything !
Well everybody
His daughter was a nice she was a nice she was home a couple of times , I met her .
Very pleasant , awfully polite , but very pleasant She used some of those jars ah ?
She used , used jump it we could put them on her cupboards , you know , make her something a bit bigger , they 're gonna get that off there .
And sh what 's in those coloured bags there ?
John 's stuff .
That well that 's the third for him .
Does he ?
Aye .
I says , and I says
Buck .
Was she out today then ?
She was out yesterday about oh sorry , he 's querying the arrears , he said he wasn't there for what , two months ?
Aha .
Which he wasn't , and true , he was living with me .
She wants to know where she 's living I said , oh I know where she 's living she 's in she 's now got a property down in I says and I , I be honest er ooh she said to me , yeah sorry oh who are you ?
Are you his father ?
I says no I'm his brother-in-law but I know all his details and I said , he wasn't here !
And no matter how little re rebate he gets it 'll be a help to him , why should he pay for something he didn't get ?
Alright ?
Then I said , have you got him a house yet ?
And she says it 's strange , but there 's no movement in the Conway Estate there 's usually a good turnover of people who 're moving in and out .
Wait a minute it 's no good there is no movement .
There usually is a , a , a , vacant houses but at the minute it 's at a standstill .
Right so that means if there 's nobody moving out , John can't move in ?
He neither filling another form , I says well I 'll fill it in tonight for him he 'll sign it and if I post it tonight you 'll probably get it tomorrow .
I won't be in the office she says until er May the fifth and nobody else will deal with it so there you are .
This is what , April the what , the fifteenth , the sixteenth ?
What is it ?
About three weeks .
Yeah , well there you are .
Yesterday was the fourteenth , it is the fifteenth .
What ?
What did he put down ?
He didn't , he didn't fill it in .
Ah he says , what about talking money ?
But he doesn't want to talk money he 's hoping to get that bitch to come back and live with him and she doesn't like us !
Well you can't blame her .
Jean , we don't even have see them you know what I mean ?
He doesn't have to pass our door to get the bus stop , he doesn't have to pass our door to get to the schools
or the children .
He doesn't have to pass this way to go to the shops .
It 's
It will be handy for me though .
I can't see her coming back really I mean she might come back for
Well Christ well what did you get yesterday you found her clothes , her trousers and her knickers !
She must have been staying there at the weekend !
She might stay for a a weekend or something , but I mean erm
Aye get her end away he 's , he 's no scruples !
Here , put these clothes away .
He has n't
Did you phone Kate ?
No , I haven't .
No , well phone her see how she is .
Now if she says why we were not here or say say she tells you she called on Saturday and we were out just say to her Raymond was drinking stout !
Fuck her I was drinking stout on Saturday night and normally don't do it because we 've simply no money ! on the vodka and say it wasn't even enough to buy a carry out but don't say it unless she says she was here !
Oh can't see her coming for Saturday night .
No .
She was here on Friday night .
She mentioned the silver teapot to John .
I said to him we made her a cup of coffee out of a teapot that was bought and she says she was talking about it .
I didn't want John thinking that I said he would get her one .
No ,
There 's toilet rolls in there .
In that top one ?
Aha .
Can you not put them in the bottom of the cupboard and get rid of that bag ?
Jean , that 's what drawers are for ! everything , look at that dir lo look at that now !
I can take some down and put them in the cupboard .
Are you sure Jean there 's not a box of soap in there ?
Aha .
There is .
What ?
No it 's not the soap in that box is lying down in the coal hole .
What ?
The soap out of the box is lying in the coal hole , the empty box is in the bin .
Okay .
Hey listen you see these er the stuff you have in that cupboard there , the hot press .
Aha .
Now , you 'll have to go through it right ?
There 's no use in keeping things that you 're not gonna use okay ?
Now you , if you get rid of a lot of , of a lot of the rubbish right ?
Do you realize how quickly your clothes would dry in there in the hot press ?
All of them .
No serious , in summer , it 's alright now good wind blow you can get the clothes dried in a reasonable time but in the winter you can't
I know .
right ?
They would even dry quicker than if you put them over the clothes horse cos that 's what those slats are for .
There 's no use keeping things you don't need Jean , and you don't know anybody that needs them !
John never mind him !
If he gets a house he 'll need curtains , putting his curtains up .
Ha for God 's sake Jean if she 's gonna move back with him she 'll not want your stuff !
That 's why she won't move back in with him , cos she says there 's too much stuff there reminds him reminds her of her his ma or your ma .
I think she was glad to take it all mine .
at the time Jean .
I don't want to ge to get involved , but you just can't help and I don't want any of this shit out !
Now watch this
And from what I 've heard about her she 's always her mouth now !
There oh Christ !
Remember me at the weekend to look I think it 's only fuse right ?
Now if it 's only a fuse like mine I 'll get him one and we 'll be able to get the computer back down cos er the like right ?
Now these Easter eggs , I hope nobody 's touching them !
This table here what 're you gonna do with it ?
I was thinking of putting it in there on Saturday ,
Right then we 'll have to move that bed a bit .
Oh yeah .
You 'll have to get those books out the corner , you get up get up get washed and get dressed and we 'll do it now please ?
Come on !
Do you feel any better this morning ?
You were like something hanging over the edge of a nest last night !
You didn't know whether you were coming or going !
Alright .
Well , you get those boys to help you today .
They 're
I'm fri I , I don't care Jean , no argument !
If I'm not here you 're in charge and that 's it !
You 're asking them to
Right now what do I do ?
This way now I lift this side , that 'll be it , can you lift that ?
don't strain yourself when I lift , you lift Jean , put your hand under there !
There right , now is that better ?
No sweet wrappings .
That 's a good idea .
them on there .
though is it ?
Would you not be better throwing some of , you 've read them ?
You put the alarm clock onto the bed alright now let me see will it go in ?
Ah , I dare say there in that corner like that by the side of the now where are we putting these egg boxes away ?
Can you make a space over there ?
I don't want Is that the bigger box ?
Have you decided yet , who 's getting what ? get going , where are all these going then ?
Over there .
Oh .
for Jean next
Yeah .
Mother 's Day you 're , we 're all still here I said wear this and I'm sorry but
Well I sha n't bother with
for them !
I know , I know that love .
I can hardly say !
You know that I would do it properly for if I had to .
Yes .
Now
don't go making this into your Jean okay ?
Yeah .
You don't need that !
and you don't need that rather here I think these are all Melissa 's books .
Oh no they 're not .
I think it I think they 're thickies and they 'll wanna read something else !
Have you had been in to see
have you been in to see Mrs ?
I stopped
Which ?
Er do you know Denise and Dave ?
Aye .
Well some relation of hers was knocked down over there .
Over there a across the street here ?
No , round the corner .
Right .
And he was talking to Thomas
Thomas who ?
Thomas
Oh yes .
Why did he knock them down ?
No .
What
Just to tell you about Ben and he 's happily church .
Oh yes , that 's right oh still religious is he ?
Aye
And a how 's the chest , serious ?
Paul who ?
Paul
Oh next door .
called her name and
Well as long as she 's okay .
She 's on a wee bend , and she down the alley there
Mm .
laid out on the road !
God help her !
Oh the usual bicycle .
He 's not ours
And I'm .
Oh I took our books down to the library today and there 's two in three of got don't let them use my razor Jean !
They were shearing sheep with it !
There 's another five million things for the Jean !
Do you remember that black stone ring ?
Aha .
That Johnny had is it still here ?
No
I think it 's time Jean oh no that 's mine don't let anybody touch that !
If it 's yours then
What 's that there , that 's a good'un it 's not as not as heavy as I , feel the weight of that you feel that .
Oh yeah .
Feel the weight go on .
Now we 've got a buyer for that one at home well two for pound help to buy you a bed .
Kelly Ann the other day wanted to know where my where was the ring you got married in Raymond ?
No !
Yeah she said Aunt Jean tried to get me to work , but no !
And why not ?
There 's an Irish pound coin you 'd get about ninety odd ninety odd P for that .
Right now that 's slightly better .
Another thing Jean you can get the boys today is to clear their drawers out if there 's that they don't would you bring the plate down if there 's clothes
Are you going to ?
If there 's clothes that what am I gonna , if there 's clothes they don't want Jean into the bin !
There 's no use giving them away cos they 're rags !
When does Soggy go away again ?
A fortnight ?
Jean ?
If I hear any more talk about Soggy , what would you been doing if you were ?
And how do you clean these boots properly ?
I don't know .
I don't know if he 's gonna start it again , but I stopped him bloody !
This is what I was thinking of throwing out Jean .
What ?
Do you know those articles John got you ?
The wee plates ?
Why ?
Well we never use them and I 've another reason for wanting rid of them .
Ah ah ah !
Hiya Kylie , Hiya Paul !
hello .
Nice innit ?
Beautiful !
Beautiful !
Aha ?
and they never even
You run eight miles ?
Aha .
Jesus Christ !
Where 's my ?
You sick in the head or something ?
No I just
Where do you run ?
Whe o path turn er
What do you want ?
Do you hear a
Jean .
music ?
don't hear music .
up all the way along and er you come out along the road all the way up past
Aye .
is it Thomas ?
Thomas Thomas .
Park down there go round to up back around the Road
That 's heavy !
come down .
Jesus !
Where 's your puppy ?
It 's in the house sleeping .
Locked you out again ?
Got too pissed or something !
Yeah , better you than me !
Ah it 's sweet enough , I saw you coming in with a black one .
Aye .
Raymond was here and I was going out with her
Aha .
and the big dog hates her going out and I have to be on my own .
Right .
Brought her her in and you know wee Gavin ?
Yes .
got us wading through
Aha .
the fight happened he got out
Aha .
and he was fucking jumping about the
I only got to hear him start talking to your Raymond
Aye .
and he was going nuts !
He was going nuts !
And did you take him in ?
No I ended up putting them in the box Joan had him out yesterday .
Dad !
Yeah .
It 's her I want to get ready for Saturday , for this championship show .
Oh aye .
Has he not been to , a lot of
Aha .
Daddy !
What a way of starting !
He she should do well .
I hope she does love .
But she 's in she 's in for the championship , and then there 's a president 's club
Aha .
can have a good win in er ninety one so
Yes .
in our breed shows
Yeah .
and she got best puppies that 's her reward .
Lovely .
So we 'll put her in for it I mean with her form break it down , I hope they ask her to you know ?
Aha .
The other was sitting on our wall .
Hello lovely !
On your way t on your way to Disneyland ?
Right Paul .
Ta .
Oh wrong book !
Nearly the end .
Well there 's one tape completed Jean oh it 's only the side of one .
Right .
We this the first side of the
Right .
first tape .
Well paint thinners or white spirits doesn't light as well as petrol in these lighters !
What ?
I saw one on top of the bed I don't know where I put the other one It 's down here Jean .
God !
Have you tried under the bed Jean ?
What ?
But Is it under the bed ?
No it 's not .
Well have you looked ?
Where did you get that one ?
Beside the bed .
Well I put one on top of the bed !
But I don't know what I did with it .
Jean .
What ?
I was talking about Paul there .
Why ?
He says last night and never took or anything .
Well that 's what I thought , but anyway !
They 're putting shorts on him !
There 's your slipper there for fu You finished in the bathroom ?
I need a dump .
Well won't no more , so no problem .
Ha !
That 's one thing running at your own speed !
Ah Jean !
I was reading in a book the other day that if you get a bicarbonate of sodas , that 's baking soda .
Thanks .
And it takes the stains out of no , can it not get paint stains ?
Right , where 's this morning 's paper and I go to the bogs ?
I should n't be here I should be away on the bus .
Oh God !
Oh !
then ?
Ah no Heather I 'll throw them down there you 'll have to get lighted the fire try and some right .
Twenty Barclay please , and a box of Swan ?
Swan .
Three six .
How much is that ?
How much ?
Three six .
Is there any more in there oh no that 's right there .
Packet of those Duracell exactly !
One or two ?
One .
They all come ready packed believe it or not !
Oh no , no that 's more than reasonable good day , thank you !
Cuts where ?
There .
In your gums ?
No just on my lips .
Oh ca that 's only where they had to be you put the wee rubber mouthpiece in you see to keep your mouth open so that 's easy to open your mouth , sometimes people clamp their mouths closed and then they can't get their teeth out .
Right have you got your tickets ?
Er
Lift that book .
Right you gonna carry that for me ?
Yeah .
You don't mind ?
No .
Now , are your tickets down in the ?
Yes we know , we always leave our tickets we don't lost them .
Right .
Ooh !
So they know who you are .
Okay .
We always keep them cos it 's they can get you off
Right .
properly .
Well let 's go .
Right Kelly Ann !
Is Robert B , R B R O B B I T ?
Say it again ?
Is Robert R O B B I T ?
No !
What is it ?
For Stephen .
R O B E R T .
R O B E R T .
R O B E R T .
R O B E R T .
Robert .
Choo choo choo choo , choo choo .
Look , at er Stephen .
What 's that you say ?
Simon don't know why she left .
My friends are talking
Ah !
What are saying ?
Go ahead .
Mhm .
Oh very good !
Very , very good that is !
Black okay ?
Er , I would do those er black wait a minute !
Black , black black , black , black , yes .
But dar light green , or like dark green ?
Oh green .
Just er oh a light green .
Okay .
Have you go oh here we are .
Oh no no .
What ?
Those can be .
You don't have to do
Oh !
They 're
I would do I would put it up there .
I mean , what have we got there , that 's all .
Erm I would do it straight .
Do you know a scribble and a a .
Do you know that one ?
A scribble ?
I don't know .
What is it ?
Is it
Aye .
I put that down there .
Scribble .
I think it is a
You usually have them first .
Pardon ?
I haven't .
I can put this one down there .
There !
That 's a scribble .
You can make it yourself .
Scribble .
Was it the ?
I think so .
Say anything .
Which one of the ?
I only wish it were a new one .
What are all those different colours for ?
Well it 's blue .
Mm .
Doo be doo doo .
You 'll have to put it in and make one giant one together .
If you say so .
Do you think so ?
Everybody usually is .
Yeah .
I know .
I 've finished everything .
Now we can
Very good !
Very , very good !
I like that !
You see
People
you see the rifles ?
Aha .
You see these there ?
Yeah .
Now , now not not that part there at the bottom .
That 's where the
But you see that there
is .
brown
Yes .
cos that was wood , and that was wood , that was wood , that was wood , and that was wood .
So it 's dark , no what am I saying !
Er that there 's brown .
See that part ?
The
Mm .
or the butt
Right .
and they would be
Black ?
er , no well er , let 's see have you a dark grey ?
No ?
No .
I have no grey .
Only a pencil .
Only a pencil .
No !
Well let 's see .
What about
And that part there would be brown , up to there .
Up there .
Do that part first , brown , to see what it 's like .
And that part with , and do that black , yeah .
But leave those wee rings out .
Aye .
What will I do there ?
The bayonet ?
Ah .
Let me see .
On the bits just here .
Do do do that oh let me see .
Well I 've done that grey and I 've done the , and do the
Aha .
Hold on a minute .
pull grey ?
Now , hold on a minute .
Well do that part brown first , and that part brown up to there .
There .
And do , aye , you do , they 've got the rest of it grey , yes .
That 's brown , dark brown there and that there 's
What about that ?
grey .
What about the handle , the handle bit ?
All there ?
That there ?
Aha .
No , don't worry about that in the meantime .
That black on , which ?
Let me see .
Very good !
Yes .
That 's also very good .
See I'm doing this grey for erm in there make it
Well
all muddy .
well , that 's okay .
Now , what kind of an address is that ? ?
Erm it 's only coming from this way .
What ?
There .
No , but you put Donegall before road .
It 's D O N G A L L ?
It 's D O N E G A L L , Donegall .
D O A ?
D O , what ?
D O A ?
Stephen , how long have you lived here ?
Erm , two years .
It 's , you 've lived , er you lived in the , all your day !
It 's D O N E G A L L .
We haven't .
Mm .
Oh Raymond I 've done the butt black cos we 're weapon .
And the same ?
Oh I done the pull .
Well that 's okay .
That 's good !
Right .
Now what do we do ?
What does it say you have to do ?
The castle .
beneath the castle fort .
Alright .
You might have to wait for .
Okay .
What 's that there for ?
A skeleton .
See , and I 've just made out of the stomach .
Mhm .
Did the do
How ?
didn't you watch all the time ?
Do you watch all the time ?
No .
Because you know Patrick just scribbles ?
Mhm .
Does he ?
What are you gonna put in this ?
Yes .
Mhm .
Where 's the , where 's the brown ?
What ?
But Raymond
What ?
.
It 's that policewoman !
We will be hearing about Armagh .
Mhm .
About what a good time it is now .
Right .
And .
Do you want to have with me ?
Mm .
Are you doing County Armagh ?
No , I'm doing Belfast .
So gonna have your as well .
Oh well , it is a bit .
We 're gonna have a nice one .
Oh are you ?
Where 's the paint gone ?
Okay .
Give it to you for fifty P .
This is the best one .
Want one ?
No .
How long is the stretcher ?
I was gonna do it .
You could do , could do the people li like that .
Mm .
chocolate .
Mhm .
Erm , when he first came out
Do you want something to eat ?
No .
You just wanna watch a movie all the time .
What do yous wanna eat ?
Nothing .
Nothing .
Nothing ?
You 're tired .
Night .
Watch the rest of this .
I'm easy .
It 's up to yourselves if you don't wanna eat .
I 'll not force yous .
So make up your mind kiddies .
Christ that was on the way !
Yeah .
I don't know what happened to it .
Stephen is that fire alright ?
Yeah , I 've just got it going granddad .
Right .
Not that .
Sara !
Stop barking !
Get into the back !
Sara !
Sara !
Stop that growling neither !
What ?
Maybe there 's something in that
There 's something , what ?
No .
They want to hang on or something .
Erm what 's that ?
What you doing ?
Putting on my shoe .
I'm going to Martin 's .
If you 're going out to play in that street , it 's cold !
I know .
Take you 're er
I'm just taking a coat outside .
It 's raining .
Ooh !
What ?
I know you wouldn't .
If you ruin the I gave you you 're already in the ambulance !
Oh Jesus !
I wouldn't wear it !
Just take your turn , you see .
You 're going it alone .
Did you like that story I told you today ?
Aye .
I did .
Ee ee !
Hee ooh ho ooh ooh !
Get it off !
Mind you them !
You won't get my stuff I gave you !
You look more like a !
And really funny !
Oh yeah , imagine she showed you your mum .
Did you not get the sack ?
No .
Poor Robert !
How , how do you get the sack ?
Did you get the sack or did you just pack it in ?
No I got another job .
Packed it in .
What was your other job like ?
Gave me a lift .
Gave you a lift !
And then I , and then I started a to work for an asphalt company .
What did you do there ?
Clerk .
What 's that ?
Office worker .
Oh !
You mean that was like funny and working and that ?
No .
It was down at the harbour in Belfast .
And what did you do ?
Plenty of rocks .
And did someone give you a sandwich and you and you put it back !
Oh no , no , I was more careful about sandwiches .
No , what about the job ?
Have you got a , like a hair hair in your office !
What did you say ?
And he gave you a job going .
How would you him ?
What ?
The , the one that 's to erm get the job ?
I dare I see him .
I would dare I see him .
I would honestly .
Sure it 's more and get them brand new
No .
from Craigar Port
No , no , no !
I would like to say , or write to him to apologize to her but she 's probably dead .
What now ?
I dunno .
She was sh Kelly , get a shovel of coal on .
She was er maybe in her early fifties then and oh sure that was er nineteen oh eighty five , eighty five ,
Whereabouts is the coal ?
ninety five .
Thirty , thirty odd years ago .
Thirty nine years ago .
Fifty , sixty , seventy , oh she might be still living .
You go ahead .
You can put everything on the back .
Now you put the fire out the las so set it all nice and easy .
No , now that 's throwing it on !
You set the shovel on top of the coal that 's already there and tilt it and slide the other coal onto it .
Oh !
Stephen .
Now put that light that fire again with .
dangerous apart from that thing it is dangerous .
don't you 's ever try it .
Right .
Set that on easy now .
Set it down in the fire .
That 's right .
Now slide it .
Slide it down in that .
On you go .
What about that .
I 'll teach you something yet .
There 's the two the pieces of coal on the shovel .
Put that on , now that 's it .
Aye .
Have you seen what the they did ?
Oh aye .
You did ?
Oh aye .
Alright ,
Okay , I'm joking !
Right , what was it ?
One of the
Me ee !
Do you know that , her brother
What ?
in that series ?
He used to be in
Neighbours .
Neighbours .
Yeah , Mike .
He still can't act !
Get out of there !
Steve , .
Why do you have to shout at your dog ?
Did you tape record it ?
Is he sick ?
Why ?
You see the way his eyes are red or going pretty dull he needs wormed .
And what , why ?
He needs worming tablets !
There 's worms in him !
He 's had them .
Mm ?
He 's had them .
didn't give him enough .
Apparently when their eyes go dull it 's they need wormed .
Wormed , you need !
Look at mine .
Worms !
Need worms Sara .
Look at Kelly Ann 's hers are black .
And I'm the undertaker .
up the bum !
And I
can't talk now please !
Do you like her ?
Yeah , she 's alright .
Where ?
He 's shouting for her .
We were down in the bar , up the club on Saturday night your Aunt Jean and Raymond and I and this fella beside us was drunk and he put his arm round this woman 's neck , you know the thing , what about ?
And he hit her , sort of a , you know , a slap in the back but her glasses were loose they fell hit the steel base of the table crack !
What happened then ?
Her glasses fell off her head and hit the metal base of the table and smashed in two .
I think I told you .
There was something argument afterwards !
Where you going Kelly Ann ?
I'm just going to get Martin .
You 're not cold now ?
You not need a coat on ?
Just for the
Do you know you 've been off school from what ?
Last Friday ?
Yeah .
And you 've been out one day .
Yeah .
Were you out on Sunday ?
Or Saturday ?
He 's lovely !
I hadn't seen him before .
Were you not with er your mate what do you call
Yes .
her ?
Lynn ?
her boyfriend went down .
Oh the boyfriend 's ba ?
Oh she 's got
And
a boyfriend ?
I'm not gonna know him .
What about wee James who give you the wo ring ?
Albert 's gonna kill you !
We should deal with your daddy when he 's drunk .
Throw the towel over him and left him .
We could have left daddy .
You could drag him into the den .
I don't like him now .
In the black jumper .
Blake .
Is that what you call him ?
Blake .
Jerk you should call him !
Oh shut up !
Ha !
Ha !
Get that dog in the back .
Go on get into the back Sarah you fucking rotten !
Get into the back !
Get them in the ba , get her in the back !
Jesus Christ I would kill you !
That 's scandalous , that !
There 's something wrong with that dog .
It 's probably got cancer
or something .
.
Oh Chri something 's crawled up it and died !
Now keep it in there !
Any Penguins left , no ?
No .
That 's eight , yeah .
There .
Right , B .
What time is it ?
Six twenty .
Five thirty five .
It 's the fifteenth of the fourth ninety two .
Five thirty five P M .
Belfast .
So that 's right .
T V .
T V there .
T V show .
B B C .
Now oh Jesus !
So aha , and
Why did you look at ?
seven P L , .
What you whispering for ?
Kelly ?
What ?
What are you whispering for ?
Nothing .
No you 're not .
It 's quite good !
What 's wrong ?
My picture 's in there .
What picture ?
Oh , what , what book is it ?
don't know .
Found the picture .
I haven't bought all these things .
Oh !
was born on that .
He was born where ?
Orville Wright .
Who ?
Watch
Wright .
her !
You 're gonna hurt her !
No !
Ah !
Now you 'll did he hurt your leg ?
No , my middles .
Crunched it , so I did .
Are there any biscuits left at all ?
No .
No .
Is there a Digestive ?
Get us one .
No , get us two .
I'm feeling greedy .
Shall I get four , yeah ?
don't forget , I won't be home by about eight o'clock tonight .
Ha ?
But why ?
I think you 'll just have stay in !
What about soup or ?
No , I don't like anything in that cupboard .
All the rest are soup , .
And a handful of baking soda , tonight ask your Aunt Jean to make it lovely .
Do you reckon she 'll get in there ?
No .
That 's for your daddy .
I want yous to be quiet , I wanna hear the news .
Please .
I will be
Here , he 's back again .
Ah , don't do that to your daddy 's , give us that .
Cos your daddy needs that soda bread .
don't tempt me .
Go on !
Ah don't !
don't !
You ooh !
!
Come on wrap it up for you daddy .
Wrap it up !
urgh !
Wrap it up !
Ah .
Oh and we 're just not hungry .
We 're
Ah .
very deaf and it 's too late !
Ho !
What about this ?
She wore a red cloak .
Yeah !
Me and daddy playing shoot .
Whoop !
Boing !
You 're supposed to
You 're boing !
Yeah !
Boing !
But they 're bound to .
Why ?
Ah !
Ah !
You stuck ?
Watch your tape .
Watch it now .
Aye , do you need them ?
Yeah .
What ?
What ?
Ah , come on ! , take them off !
No .
The bird he wants a biscuit .
How about yours then ?
That 's what I tell you !
What .
I play with you .
Oh a nice little yeah .
Did you have one !
No .
Come on !
How many ?
Oh no you don't get any .
The them bottles are stinking !
I know .
They 're rotten !
What ?
Oh they 're like they 're not good for water !
don't do anything to me !
I could hear the !
Well you were hungry a way down there but you would make good child .
.
Oh oh oh !
Oh oh oh !
Oh oh oh !
Oh I thought was it .
I want those .
Just take it .
Oh !
Let go of it !
Oh no !
Let go of it !
Jes that began with an
Oh !
Okay then .
Those are very unhappy .
People like me
Well he 's good .
and he says he 's skinny !
I can't let you in .
Ah , but he 's solid .
Get off !
I'm begging you !
Be quiet !
Now hear this !
Raymond .
Mm .
See when your friend , that 's the jam , and bread , and butter all over him .
Do you ever , cu cos you could call him .
Bread , butter , jam man !
Stephen !
You know me Mr and all these phone numbers .
They should call him jammy man .
Raymond and the jam man .
Here , put that in the er sink please ?
I 'll wash it in a minute .
Thank you .
You tape recording everything ?
He 's taping everything !
I have to .
Yes .
Ooh miaow !
You watch what your daddy say there .
Remem remember what daddy said about that
What daddy said about the road .
main road .
Are you going to , dee dee dee dee .
And Mrs comes out the
I will not have that .
It 's
It 's so when are we going out ?
How did the big dog get out ?
I'm not .
You can get , you know .
Erm
He 's going to help me out
No !
She 'll be round the back .
Oh Raymond .
It 's still Ra Raymond 's dog just now .
Did it ?
Ho ho !
It 's not very well .
No .
What was she doing ?
Ha ha !
Jesus !
That 's going to take a long time .
Oh !
You didn't know that anyone was there .
You 're getting tall Kelly Ann .
You are indeed .
Get him off !
One of these days you 'll lead me across the road .
You 're the you 're erm you 're the lollipop man !
Then I 'll be going
Yeah , it 's lovely !
Look at that lava , look !
I know .
They 're trying to stop it .
wouldn't like to put your foot in that .
What ?
It 'll burn your feet off !
You could cook a chicken in that in about three seconds !
Yeah !
You could !
Why don't we have
Lift it out .
No , you wouldn't even have bones le you wouldn't even have bones left !
Look !
There 's a house destroyed with it .
Dear !
Dear !
Some people have asked me , Kelly , you 've got a !
They 're trapped .
I wouldn't sit there .
Why , well Raymond
What ?
just say you 're sitting there and the lava all just comes down .
Jesus !
it 'll still keep on burning .
It 's still gonna burn .
Aha .
I'm gonna be warm in my bed .
Right love .
See you later .
Oh Raymond .
What ?
Da-na !
Da-na !
So
Am I doing that ?
making !
Da-na !
Three coats !
Oh God !
One , two , three , and a T-shirt , a jumper .
You 'll !
No , got ta get getting that one off !
Ha !
Nothing new is there really ?
No Shaun !
I told you I can't get them everyday now !
Get my form every day !
Gorgeous !
That girl who was in the elevator plunged on the ninth floor she plunged a thousand feet to the sub-basement or there 's massive big springs on it apparently , I read about it .
Only read a wee bit .
Smashed to bits ?
Mhm .
Only got it that there 's news .
That should be in my daily .
Oh !
You should be getting out here ?
No , twenty past four when I start , like .
I 've , so then you 're gonna be sacked !
Have to aim at them , what time and you know things that You 're alright , don't worry !
There 's no
I assume that you 've left .
The kids !
Is that yours .
No !
It 's the people's. tell you in a minute .
Have you put your age down ?
Raymond , fuck yourself !
Alright , thirty nine right .
Okay .
Anything else ?
Fucking !
Belfast .
You know , what 's ?
What 's the matter ?
Fucking er
Where do yo where do you get
and then he well fuck you !
He says well just work on then till half twelve .
I said , we 'll have to first time and yet it 's all he wants and he was gonna take a day 's pay off .
Well
This is your Life .
It 's your man , Chris
Chris De Burgh ?
Mm .
Ah !
He was sick this morning .
Who was ?
The dog ?
The big one .
Did you
Can a
feed them ?
Aye .
It 's er they got fed .
And how 's everything going ?
Oh , alright .
Better go up and see Raymond .
Have you got ?
No .
No post ?
Is that , no letters ?
Thank Christ !
Sit !
Now you stay there !
There 's your ?
Tom Jones .
Now stay there !
What have we got for them , er Jean , for my tea ?
Plenty of soda bread baked .
Lovely !
What about you son ?
Alright .
What happened to you ?
Dunno .
I just last night falling in the bed just
I hear you got an injection .
Aye .
Ha !
Did you feel it ?
Aye .
They 're not ?
No .
Oh Jesus !
Did we get the tape recorder back alright ?
Aha .
The girl came this morning .
Said collect it on Friday night or Saturday some time .
Aha .
Can you not go to sleep ?
Do you want
No .
a cigarette ?
You need n't go into work tomorrow now .
There 's not a lot of choice ,
Bollocks !
If you , to hell with the money son if you 're not well !
To put it bluntly .
I hear he said you have your ticket to health you were n't gonna get paid .
That 's right .
I'm only just glad we can't I dunno then son .
You 're okay now .
He 's much better .
He 's much better up there .
Try and get a rest .
Feed the dogs .
Well you got enough today .
Where 's Brandy ?
I don't know .
Aye .
Oh aye !
You 're getting nothing !
Did you want a cup of coffee ?
You see where I cut the Busy Lizzie .
I did .
I seen it .
I almost chopped it .
Well he did more than er cut it .
Now you see these smaller ones ?
Aye .
Ruth 's cuttings .
Well I put them Jes they 're still coming out of it !
What is the point !
I put these in hoping and like , hoping that they 'll grow .
Those ones there , the three of them and that 'll make it , you know fill the pot .
And then , if they do take Jean
Right .
Do you want two or one ?
No , no put plenty of bacon !
If you don't want it .
No .
No he has n't got a
Oh well that 's good .
So he did .
He 'll have to go without pay and I told him there and then .
Good !
Good !
And what do , I saw Willie .
He says , well you 're a Kelly and Stephen said th didn't say read the paper .
Well
I think her are all down in the er
I wanna take her upstairs for him .
Aha .
The rest are so there 's about , a hell of a credit to King 's Hall !
Is there ?
Yep .
You want out Patch ?
Well you 're going out !
Go on !
If you wanna stay out , stay out !
Stay there !
Do you want your dinner Brandy ?
Just give her a bit .
It 's here .
Mhm .
Yeah , cos they haven't found why and then I said
Aha .
That 's me out .
And he said
Look at the dogs trying to get in Jean .
Look !
Under the fence .
Look !
I know .
Our dog .
Maybe they 're cold .
Look !
Patch !
Nothing like dogs though .
It was in there this morning , in a way , it 's got , got out somewhere .
I think it just came back here for the milk and then it 'll be away .
What ?
I fell asleep today again .
Probably , cos you were up about half five this morning .
Do you want your dinner Brandy ?
And I hope you eat this .
The Sun 'll be free soon down at the er
the what ?
That up town shop .
What ?
She 's going .
She 's going to remove her womb .
Well she , what ?
Womb .
Her womb ?
Fuck sake !
don't scare me Jean !
Tell me you 're pregnant , I 'll be looking for a camel !
And a star !
Cos you know what they say ?
What ?
There 's no camels come and play in my garden .
She used to work with me
And as long as you 're I don't care what star you 're following you 're not bringing those camel through my garden !
That 's all we need now is
Aye .
Better than a personal one .
It 'll be me outside looking for star .
Oh God !
Shut up !
Go on !
Get away over there Patch !
Patch !
Get over there !
Get in there !
Get , get the hell !
Go on !
You go and get yourself .
Go on !
Here !
Come on !
She 's in the car !
Patch !
Go get in !
Go on !
Oh where 's the where 's the paper ?
There 's gonna be a
Get in !
She 's after him .
Here ha !
Come here Patch !
Patch !
Patch !
Come here !
Get into the house !
Go on !
Go on !
Come on !
Hold the
Patch , come in !
Come on !
Come on !
Come on !
Tease the paper .
Patch come on !
Call him again .
Patch !
He can't get past the garage
Patch !
and me .
Come here !
Look .
Patch come on !
Oh and there 's Jan
Come on !
Patch come on !
Come on !
Come on !
Come on Patch !
Come on !
Come on !
Come on !
Well they 're calling me in .
Come on !
Come on !
Come on !
But no I want some
Well he 's not getting any !
Was he sick ?
I think he 's had enough .
Come on !
How 's Harry getting on with your driving .
Fine .
Good !
Well
Call him now Jean , the other dog .
Oh boy !
Do you want to go out Brandy ?
What do you want , you want your dinner ?
Go and get your dinner .
Go on !
Here !
Give him his dinner .
Call him over .
Do you want an egg rest of the baking soda .
Oh God !
No , love .
No !
What do you want ?
Just the baking soda .
What ?
The baking soda .
I 've stuffed myself with bread in your brother 's today .
When he was at work .
See that soldier that was killed in England ?
No .
His father had a heart attack when he heard the news !
.
I know , ho .
Terrible !
Every me a soldier killed during Raymond , do you want a cup of coffee ?
What ?
Ah .
You know what the girl was telling me this morning ?
What ?
That dog 's got into there .
Do you want a top on that ?
I do .
Aye .
Please .
Jean , one of our interviewers , er the girls was interviewing a man yesterday
Aha .
and he asked her to take off all her clothes !
Ha !
Fuck off !
Fuck the way off , you !
Big git !
Do you want a cup of coffee ?
Did you hear that ?
No .
One of the interviewers went into a house yesterday and asked her to take off all her clothes !
Here !
Here !
Oh go away !
Put your feet up .
I better let that put your feet up Raymond .
Raymond like put your feet up with around .
Like , go away and I get my dinner !
Jean , keep them away from that .
Oh but I need you to tell him because of he 'll , he 'll wanna he 'll wanna talk to me .
Here Patch !
When ?
Now .
Who ?
It 's over .
Right .
You better get up the stairs and tell Johnny what 's happening .
Oh !
You sure you 're okay son ?
Mm .
Now you got fed this morning Patch .
Excuse me !
Ah
What are they doing Johnny ?
They didn't wanna come back .
But he says but he 'll not accepts the eleven o'clock .
I says well Are you finished with your tape ?
No , thi , no not yet .
I says the only thing is I says I bring them in and then finishing is closed .
And there 's and I tiptoe downstairs about nine .
If I don't come up when he goes away and for the while he 's on just say he 's
How the hell can they say only when he fucking hear him coming down the stairs !
So I tiptoed downstairs when she knocked at the door
Balls !
I don't think it is Raymond .
Get down !
Get down Patch !
He 's a con man .
Oh she 's a con man .
What 's that on top of the speakers ?
On the television ?
don't know .
What is it Jean ?
Oh it 's alright .
It 's only a leaflet in the cigarettes .
Give him anything .
Jean !
They 'll be no more of this !
You tell if you see him tonight , in future , now it 's not right !
It 's not right and I have to lie for him !
It 's not right and to the wee fella .
He 's behaving civil and I , that 's not my form to do that .
And I'm not gonna do it any more !
No .
The dog .
A thirteen year old Belfast school girl swallowed seventy to eighty paracetamol tablets probably in the my Christ !
Probably what ?
Because her mother , she had an argument with her mother when they , er she wa she was caught smoking .
She died of liver failure .
My God !
Used to take four of them paracetamols .
Mm .
Yes .
You 're only meant to take them in small quantities now .
She 's , is that your coffee ?
What 's up now ?
Ah yes , I 've seen them on erm
I'm not sure .
Oh he makes .
Should have just stirred it in .
All the bits .
Sure , in a couple of days they must have finished ?
Ah .
What 's he got under there ?
stick it on her .
Are you going down to John 's tomorrow or Friday ?
Friday .
I told him Friday .
Yeah .
Say no .
I think I can .
She 'll just stay .
Is she very happy , Jan ?
Jean , that er antique fair should be on this month .
Mhm .
Do you wanna
It is soon ?
I would imagine that it 's very soon .
Mhm .
Should be near enough next Saturday .
Will it be as close as that ?
I would say so .
Ah , the first Saturday in every month .
It 's your first Saturday going .
I'm supposed to be going on the third .
Aye , maybe that 's what it is .
Bum bum , bum bum bum !
Urgh !
God !
I'm tired .
Sure you are from half five this morning .
I don't like your man there , that politician !
Say he 's very hot tempered .
Ah !
Aargh !
Patch !
Patch !
Come on !
Good dog !
Come on !
Sit up !
Come on !
Up here !
Come on !
Come on !
Up !
No .
don't touch that !
Stop that !
Stop it !
Stop it Patch !
Give me the mike you Leave it !
Get that out of your mouth !
Fuck you !
don't touch it !
Be a good dog now .
Where 's my pen ?
Who 's outside Patch ?
Patch !
Who 's outside ?
Eh ?
Yeah , poor cat coming round
What 's out there ?
and he 's away to get fed .
Mhm .
Why , is that mine you 're using ?
What ?
Mhm .
What did you
It 's only about ten minutes .
Well the
It 's slow .
Watch the end of it .
Ah ?
What ?
Wait till the end of this .
You needed
Them are in the
Yeah .
They 're supposed to be lethal .
They don't take sides .
Trying to keep the two sides apart .
Ah ah ah !
Thank you Raymond !
I barked at him this morning and he barked back .
woof woof !
Miaow !
Miaow !
Shut that door .
Right .
Oh !
Look at that Jean !
What is it ?
Lava , molten lava from a vol volcano .
So if it 's , if it was cold this morning then why is it so hot now ?
Because i it 's cold on the top warm in the bottom around the middle , and then it started to move again .
And there 's stuff coming from the behind
coming from .
Ray .
Excuse me !
What for ?
Here .
Take your time with that .
Give me a cigarette there Jean ?
Bloody matches !
I can't drink without lighting a cigarette .
You can't drink without a cigarette ?
Sometimes , yeah .
Yeah , I know .
Here .
Right dog !
Good dog !
Who 's in that bar in the Rosie erm who do you see ?
You 'll see the girls .
If they did report a rape and they 'd told him the woman opposite , at the top last night er , next week come back .
Their walkie talkies break down !
Their cars break down !
She must be .
She 's been crying all night really .
What ?
arrest him he just kept saying things .
Need more than that .
Not really .
Not once you 're in the
How much would you need
I know !
But you 're not gonna do the other times .
You 're gonna be away .
Well see , they 're twenty to three , right ?
Well not especially , you can get a lot of them made .
No , no , no .
I need to give him one .
Well that 'll leave three !
Aye .
One for
Who ?
Well that 's a terrible thing !
Oh aye !
And then .
Some you gave me wi when I changed .
It was very nice .
And people were remonsta demonstrating towards a plea .
Yeah .
I saw the fella , no , he 's in your mind .
Look at that !
A fella paid ten million pound for that painting today !
Did he ?
Ah look , look at him , fat !
Should n't really have that o th , all that .
He 's dead mind you , is , er it 's all like hundreds of years and years ago .
Th the owner ?
Oh aye !
Look !
Somebody offered him five million , the owner of it , and he turned it down and got ten million .
Lovely !
Look at that !
Oh !
This programme coming on is about people have bad dreams and all , and walk in their sleep and By Jesus ! .
The same thing a little while ago .
No .
He 's got that say the road name .
Terrorists aren't they
Johnny
Oh has Johnny still got it ?
But I don't know if there 's anything
No .
John 's still got it .
Oh !
Remind me to ask him in the morning for it .
Aha .
I 'll go up now .
Jean , I know it was windy today .
It was a lovely day !
It was lovely !
It was good drying weather .
Now .
can't you get them cleaner ?
If you can get them cleaner than that
I haven't got a decent pair of shoes you know !
The a pair you like aren't they ?
Mhm .
Did you do them ?
What ?
Did you do them ?
No .
Did you want them done ?
You know that dirty , wash them with something .
That 's right .
Get the polish here .
One Yes I know , and I can't find it .
Well that 's the way women should be !
They should be slaves !
As you were put on this earth for , to see to men 's needs !
Earned us money for drinking !
Make our dinners , make our beds , and put your arms round us in time of need , and cuddle us .
What about me ?
Well to hell with women !
Yous live longer than men Jean , so men should
Yeah I know .
be getting er
Well , do I take them off ?
No , your shoes .
Oh sorry !
Take them off .
I can't disturb the dog .
I will not take them off !
I can't disturb the dog .
Creep over the dog , creep over .
Come on , move it !
If you want them done .
Looks really
Erm , where 's your ?
Sergeant , what do you call him ?
The sarge ?
Come on now John !
Keep the dishes and all me coming to you .
Not who 's near the road ?
Shall I for you ?
No , no no .
Are you asleep ?
Are you sleeping there or what ?
He doesn't know he 's being filmed .
Wait till you see what happened .
But what , what 's happening there ?
He 's away to sleep again .
And that 's you waking up in the morning .
Yeah , we 'll watch that Jean .
Jesus !
Yeah , when Sylvia comes in you go downstairs they 're in behind her .
Put the pope on .
I see make my monies not out you fucker !
Jean .
I 'd say
Seem to be , he 's
Stop giggling !
He 's coming out .
He wants out .
Where do you wanna go ?
See they 're either asking what goes on .
Aye .
They know about it .
Here .
That 's funny !
You haven't got to have any .
That 's like in Charlie 's there the other day he was sleeping .
Why ?
Could you not ?
Aye , he 's not on it .
No post today ?
No .
Well there 's another fifty P
Well you must need it .
Come on Patch !
No !
What 's that ?
Good dog !
Good dog !
Well I went in yesterday in at Riannes .
.
Come on !
Get up !
He 'll be in your bed .
Patch !
Get away from that !
Come on !
Full of er , matches are in this .
I think if I get up at half five in the morning Jean , I 'll go to the park .
Oh !
They put in the er lighting system in in the Donegal Road .
Are they ?
Mhm .
Mm .
Go away !
Patch !
Is that fire okay Jean ?
Yeah .
Oh !
Patch , my toe !
Stop it !
You 're not doing my shoes with a black after
No , that goes for tan colour course it doesn't go
Yeah but
black !
But this kind of
That 's just to buff them up .
What about all the dirt in the tow a a and the cloth then Jean ?
Where 's all the black marks you wanna get out of them ?
You buff your shoes and the finishing touches with a very soft cloth and that 's not soft .
But Raymond , I'm not finished yet !
Oh I see .
Take those shoes off .
What 's that Jean .
Where do you wanna go ?
I 'd like you to change your name .
Mm ?
Right !
Oh , wait till I get sa I saw them .
They 're very good Jean !
Oh they 'll be very good !
Oh yes !
Saying , that we 're needing new , you can only get a good shoe , and I got a wee good shoe .
You know what you should do ?
No love .
see in and you get leather dye and dye them black .
Mm .
You see brown , that brown will go with grey or a , or a dark colour .
Pure black goes with everything then .
You bloody tread down and
What are you going on about Steven ?
another , or that colour .
Looks a lot like grey in colour .
Shoe shine mother , right !
Yes mam !
And go and wash your hands well Jean .
Wash them very well .
I'm going to .
That colour 's all getting to , my hands are all dark .
What Jean ?
Jean !
Aye .
What did you say ?
No it 's the best er medicine for you .
You come in and I 'll do it .
Excuse me !
Er I should get the doctor to call said I 'd get things
What was that , when you come out ?
Ah .
Aye , will you leave that Jean .
Where 's a T-shirt ?
There 's loads !
Here 's Raymond .
That girl goes on the manor and Jack
keeps guessing that 's what , I should have looked for .
There 's a shirt on there .
Oh aye .
don't , er you want these on the market , what do you think ?
I wanna .
Just think it 's best not to .
Those shoes looking a bit , good polishing up .
They 're just worn in .
Are they not them shoes ?
Ah ?
This chap at work 's got them on .
They 're lovely !
Jeez , they are indeed !
What size are they ?
Eight and a half .
Christ !
Do I turn ri right there ?
Mhm .
Just need to get cut ah , could n't you use that polish on them ?
Polish them up .
What time is it ?
Just stick to Fisons shoes anyway .
Oh I know , yeah .
Platforms .
Who is it the gi , there are fourteen sizes there
Oh !
you see .
washing them .
You may as well let him get the use of them .
They
Why don't you get them for school for him ?
Oh right enough .
They 'll never balance his foot on them .
Exactly !
Exactly !
And to one of them parents who
Mhm .
Thir thirty three .
Mhm .
That 's what I would say .
I put them away .
Oh !
I 'll knock out all my polish here and put them away and knock that off .
Aye .
Polish them up .
Cos that is , cos that 's just a better idea then .
Mhm .
So he gets
And the day before Wednesday these and it 's her bread has n't arrived with them .
Because her bread won't come .
I know .
Something like that I'm sure .
Got ta make sure the alarm goes off .
That 's okay .
Where 's the cigarettes ?
I better be sure it 's er , what Friday night cos I did before .
Are you not sitting down son ?
I'm off to get totally pissed !
Oh !
You 're going to get pissed !
It 's quarter to ten .
What do you want ?
Can I have er are worse things to do than getting
Now Now that 's not nice !
Jean .
I mean , if you stay sober .
When ?
You can join your Boy Scouts .
He 's a lonely
Give us a light Jean .
but just , he needs a wee drop
Give us a light .
of drinking .
So wha what did he say you had , a was it a high temperature you had and that ?
No , he took a sample of urine and that .
Brown shoes .
Do you wanna see them ?
They 'll do for best won't they ? and back now .
Jesus !
He 's only worn them in !
I don't think they 'll fit Willie but they 're too tight for him .
All they need is a , a lick of polish .
Aha .
Now no more lies for them it 's Oh you better get a big sheet of newspaper .
How do you feel Raymond ?
I'm okay lying there .
Knackered ?
No , not tired now .
Them two standing at the top of the stairs and
Oh aye , aye , aye !
Let me , come here Jean , let me see !
They 're Willie 's .
I know .
But Willie I'm rubbing these down .
and erm he 's doing us a favour and some round to get Patch and er he said he 'll get lots That 's all ready for Simon now and he forgot his bag .
What are the T-shirts like Jean ?
There 's a black one and a special one .
Right .
You better get a sheet of newspaper Jean , old newspaper because that 'll fly all over the floor .
I don't know .
I don't notice it .
Does it say there ?
What th what is it ?
Oh it 's just the Express but
Today 's ?
Well it is , ah .
Oh !
I was down at the library today .
Were you ?
Mhm .
And I bet that 'll never do it for sta too long .
On the T tonight it says there was a man started who started only started to do the pools , Raymond er , six months ago
And he won .
won two million !
A record two million !
What , in the name of Jesus , would you not do with million ?
Aye .
You know what I 'd do Jean ?
What ?
First of all , I would er buy a chest freezer then I would
Aha .
go to the supermarket and I would bung it of the best of stuff .
Then I 'd go down the town buy us all clothes then , you and I would go out for a private dinner Jean .
Aha .
And I would buy you the most
Elegant .
er , elegant piece of jewellery that I could find .
You deserve it !
Putting up with us all these years !
Damn little money !
And then we 'd all go on holiday .
Then , move house .
And would you be able to do all that then ?
Out of the ghetto .
Ah ?
Would you be able to do all that ?
With two million ?
Oh , four times over !
You always hear about these stories but never seem to happen to anyone .
The man wants to remain anonymous , and quite right !
Do you think I would , wouldn't put an X on a football coupon maybe they do .
I must start .
Oh it 's
Your life would never , your life would never be the same , but Jean yo yo you live in this country , you live in dilly forever .
Get nothing .
If I found you 'd won a hundred thousand pound I 'd kidnap you !
Do you want a cup of coffee son ?
Alright .
Cup of tea dear ?
Er yeah , please .
Jean .
What ?
There was a programme on today you 'd have loved it !
It was about an old people 's home
Aye .
but they were all stars er , in their day , you know ?
Stage and screen , you know , and radio ?
Yeah .
Ah God !
Some of them were a sorry sight !
Oh God !
It was very sad .
Yeah , one of them 's I think she was in her early eighties she , they put on a Christmas party and she sang .
It was good !
Hey ?
I enjoyed it .
Ask Raymond if he wants one sugar , or two sugar in his coffee .
One .
One he said .
What 's down there ?
I don't know .
He 's gonna get himself killed .
Was Micky in work today ?
Ah ?
Do you work with him ?
Aye .
Did you tell him you were n't too well ?
Oh aye .
That 's a stupid advertisement !
He 'd give up his job for a pint !
Aha .
Pint of beer !
Jesus !
What he 's gonna get on the dole money , he 'll not drink too much .
What you ask yourself is Raymond , how long does it take to charge up again .
I know .
Probably overnight .
There you go .
Thanks love .
What 's oh !
Is Benny Hill on tonight ?
No , was he not on last night ?
Oh maybe he was .
No , tonight he 's on .
What ?
Tonight he 's on .
What time 's he on at then ?
Jean , er what where 's the paper ?
Right !
Says it 's on , on at eight o'clock .
it 's on .
Is it ?
Yeah .
Sa ah June twenty seventh of Januar er September .
Oh , I 'll have to see
Erm
that .
Go down and saw it .
Lovely !
He 's in films .
Yeah .
He is .
Mm .
Very nice .
No it 's not on now eight did you say ?
Mm .
Go back .
Mm ?
Eh !
Get down .
Is the tape on ?
What ?
He 's not on tonight .
Benny Hill .
No , the Benny Hill , and that was on last night .
Well why didn't we see it ?
Must have been watching something else .
What tapes are there ?
What time is it ?
Half eight ?
Twenty five to nine .
Alright .
Well near as be damned .
You can turn it on to your B B C two , they wa there are , says a programme on a a thing out of humans , about soul .
The soul ?
A soul .
That 's nice .
Mm .
Was Karen staying late Friday night ?
They were .
They were indeed .
There 's a couple gassed themselves , and their son in their car because their dog died !
Fucking stupid
Oh dear !
are they ?
Bastards !
Fucking killing the child with cos of stinking dog !
As much as I like dogs , I wouldn't do that .
Jasper and Jennifer and the dad had their new car and it was coffin car .
And there 's a car for towing caravans and .
That 's sad !
I hope my headache doesn't .
Yeah , wait for me too , ah ?
.
Oh !
Urgh !
seen the shower ?
No .
Right .
I didn't love .
There 's an writing in the paper beside it her daughter 's pregnant by her boyfriend and she 's pregnant by her daughter 's boyfriend too !
Ooh God !
.
Dipping the wick !
Dirty fuckers !
And she 's
The daughter sh she was lonely she left the er the girlfrie her her daughter 's boyfriend threw the leg over .
Right ?
And now she 's found that her daughter 's
Pregnant with the same man .
Same man .
Now what would that be ?
She 's aunt and uncle and their aunt , and mother and oh the fuck !
I don't know .
I don't know !
Granny and
She 's granny and she 's mother .
Well she 's a mother there overnight , she 's granny to the
Daughter 's child .
I don't know !
So
And they have the father of the two children .
Is there anything else on then ?
Or .
Mrs .
Dunno how Maggie first sat down with him .
Ooh this is a horrible programme !
We always think with religion .
What ?
We always think
That 's not your , how do you afford so many holidays ?
It 's now fourteen holidays .
Sure they can not take one big er , holiday .
Ah ?
Then you owe me so many hours don't you ?
Was Carolyn there ?
What ?
in yesterday , but he phoned up and says er , I don't really want her to go .
Who ?
Aye .
She 's the one who lives down Latlogan doesn't she ?
Caroline had a stroke too .
That 's the hundredth stroke she 's taken !
Is it a te , is it a ?
Remember Joyce ?
Lived in Brown Square .
Ah !
She 's went to about ten granny and granddad 's funerals !
You get sacked after , I think , about the , the ninth or tenth one !
Well I can't understand it , because erm you get , now he 's getting paid and I'm scared to ask for another day !
Cos they 're after him .
They 're after him .
Maybe .
Maybe that 's who they 're against or something .
What ?
Oh aye !
Batteries !
Bring us two out .
Right .
Or oh no that 's a different box .
That 's the wee stand , remember me to give that back , it 's the stand for the mike .
Where are they ?
There 's the thing there .
Kelly said today that our that daddy had a , a book you know , about Northern Ireland guest houses and all where to stay , you call it .
Mm .
Says he 's taking you away , aye .
And I says well is he gonna stay overnight , you know , with these two ?
She says aye .
She says get him , get him to take your mummy .
Hope he doesn't want me to traipse about with Lisa .
Now , next day , er Thursday I 'll bring them up here Jean .
Take them to the park .
And we 're gonna be , he 's on the earlies next week , and the following week .
He 's on the early next week .
That 's what I mean .
But , George is off Monday and Tuesday but so if you were getting them , sitting here and bringing them up on Thursday John can come here and get his tea here and then take them home .
Aye , but I 'll have to go down next week because they 're off school .
That 's what I'm telling you !
On the brew day you could come up .
Bring them up , yeah .
And I 'll get their
And I 'd say to John
tea and John could come up here and get
Yes .
them and then take them down .
Yeah .
I wonder , is he trying to get her back into the house and she doesn't wanna come back .
Well , that 's alright .
She 's just have to
Is she , she 's in the
ask Graham , you see , if
Yeah .
she doesn't wanna , she 'll find
But if she
her way again .
Yes .
I understand that .
But if she 's living with someone else how does she explain her absence the weekend she goes to John ?
Unless she says she going to so to go over and spend a weekend now and again with her kids but er that sounds right .
Aye , but
And he doesn't be there .
But , I , what I can't understand is , why all of a sudden does he want her back and see the children , well for over a year he kept her away ?
Told the children lies .
Unless he doesn't know she living with someone .
You know that saying Jean ?
No .
Oh what a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive .
What 's that ?
This dog here 's taking over this house !
I know .
John 's dog 's not too well .
No ?
No .
What 's wrong with him ?
He 's very listless .
I said to Kelly Ann today , maybe it 's fucking , erm sorry , maybe he 's dying .
Cor !
I should n't have said it .
Sure Brandy 's fighting .
I was telling Stephen today the story of a did I ever tell you ?
No .
Did I ever tell you Raymond ?
My first job driving a lifting in the Harrow Street ?
No .
There was a Mr and Mrs , Stephen was and there was a Mr and Mrs , the caretakers , and they lived in the third floor of a flat there .
And , the first day I started right enough , they were awful kind , awful kind they were English people , I think .
They were .
He had a bad arm .
But anyway , er well I 'd , God forgive me !
He 's laughing , the boy !
Raymond 's jumping about laughing !
I dunno , er yes , I was eating jam , bread and jam today .
And anyway , the first day she gave me right enough , she came round every morning with my breakfast and brought it into the lift for me .
But , the first day she gave me bread with jam and butter on it .
Now , you know I can take jam or butter
But not butter and jam .
That 's the most revolting taste !
And instead , instead of telling the woman I I pretended to eat it could n't finish it I put it down the lift shaft .
See ?
Oh Christ , no !
The next morning the same thing happened and I still hadn't the courage to tell her .
Cos I was that grateful for her , you know , making it .
Ya .
Jesus Christ , Jean !
You wanna have seen the butter and the jam , and the smell of it !
I can smell it now !
Oh God !
But anyway this went on for weeks and weeks , and I kept on it down the lift shaft .
Instead of taking it out to the back and throwing it in the bin .
Mm .
Or you could
Right .
keep it in your pocket and take it home .
Never thi never thinking !
The lift shaft was about three foot deep .
Sorry !
Th the the well of the lift , you know from the er , ju , when you went to the bottom floor
Aye , at the bottom , right .
I would say there was a drop of about three feet , right ?
Down .
So anyway , after fucking weeks and weeks and weeks I had come out to me one day , and Mr came out and he said to me he had a wee bucket and shovels and he says er bring me down to the first floor so I opened to let him out and he gets out and he says to me , now take her half way between the first and second floor and stop her .
And I says okay , but why ?
He says I'm gonna clean the lift shaft .
Oh !
Well Holy Jesus !
Oh God !
Clean it ?
He says , I clean it every now and again .
People throwing , you know , cigarette packets and all down it .
Oh my God !
So when I could n't say a word , so he was able to open the lift door , you see , from outside .
Yeah .
The lift was immobilized .
Once the door was open it could n't move , so I could n't go down on it .
Well he jumps down into the fucking lift shaft and he slipped on i oh eh well you fucking bastard you !
You bastard !
Honest to God Jean !
He slipped on the jam and the bread and the butter .
Must have been bloody moulded and everything .
Bloody moulded !
Jesus
Oh hell !
Christ !
Oh my God , Jean !
What did you say ?
What could I say ?
It came up on his elbows and all , and his trousers were covered and there 's bloody jam , er this concoction !
Oh Jesus !
Jesus !
That 's terrible , isn't it ?
No , they were , they were awful kind .
I forget what I said to them but the they forgot , the next , I don't think I got a bit of grub ever , since then .
Do you blame them ?
Not until he left .
But I it was only butter and the jam today that er , thi this came into my head .
Oh my God !
That was nineteen fifty three .
This is nineteen ninety two .
And I , every now and again I'm embarrassed by it .
Every now and again I think about it and I'm deeply embarrassed .
You should be .
After doing that to her cooking !
Jean .
When he slipped in that muck he could have cracked his head against the side of the lift shaft !
And I could n't have been , I could n't get out to help him I was stuck between the first and second floor !
Well I took it up about six or seven feet , you know , from the ground floor .
Mm .
When I say the first floor , I'm talking about the ground floor and the first floor , you know ?
Drink your coffee lovey .
.Well in that today he says er when I seen the syringe coming out I just , I 'll not be in the room if he 's getting injected .
I wouldn't have let him give it to me .
Remember the time I took to vertigo ?
And the minute he walks through your bedroom door , I says no .
I don't want any injections .
I was in the toilet , giving him a shot , and I come back in and he just stuck in the syringe , there was nothing you could do .
Did he take a sample of urine away ?
No , he went out to the car and brought my cards , he said he 'd got it in my notes .
Oh !
And what did he say ?
He says his urine was alright and his was al
Oh well , that 's good .
alright .
But he said there 's all
Oh !
He won't take a breakfast in the mornings any more .
He goes straight to work .
And th , and then he said talking about putting weight on nearly .
What did he say ?
He asked , erm has he put any weight on ?
And I have said yes , because there 's a couple pairs of his trousers has ripped because he has put weight on .
Right .
But he didn't say anything when I said he has put a bit of weight on .
Raymond .
Drink affects us all different .
There are no two people affected by drink the same way .
I know .
Now we 're all individuals when it comes to that .
Now , you could be one of the people that drink harmed quicker than maybe , say or maybe I'm ta injured quicker than you with drink .
I mean , there are people who can drink va vast quantities never seems to affect them .
They 're up like a lark the next morning .
Jesus !
Me , like I mean , that 's got now , my age , I'm not fit for three days !
Well , for two days anyway .
But , it 's possible that , the same amount of drink , two people drink , taking the same amount of drink one is affected more badly than the other , or worse than the other .
Yo it 's possible you could be one of those .
So you wanna be careful , like .
There 's no way , Raymond , you should be able to drink two or three of those bottles o of that cider in ne in the one night , it 's not good for you !
Or vodka either !
Well you , you don't drink that amount , but you know what I mean .
Stop , .
Jean I 'd love a vodka now !
I 'd a love a vodka and coke !
I 'd give al almost anything .
Would you now ?
I would sell you !
You would sell me ?
No , I wouldn't .
I'm only , you know I'm only joking .
There er , there is none in the house
I know there 's not , maybe that 's why I 've Where did you get that lemonade up the stairs Raymond ?
Mm ?
It 's finished .
The cider , it should be ottoman ?
Inside the ottoman .
Did you get a bottle ?
I didn't think
No .
I get a bottle of that .
No , no .
Raymond said to me the other day , I asked him was there any lemonade ?
And he said yes .
He went up and got a bottle of Sasperella he said to me there was two bottles left .
So when the Sasperella was brought down , that was at the end of it .
And there was two bottles
Yeah cos you had the rest of the orange ?
No I didn't !
I got no orange Jean !
I gave you a drop about that much
Jean , you didn't !
You didn't !
You didn't !
Yes , I swore to God I did !
Jean you didn't !
Raymond I did !
You asked me for that ?
Oh yes !
I remember .
I said yes , and I gave
I
you some .
I beg your pardon .
I beg your pardon .
That pup 's , I think that pup 's absolutely taking over this house !
I like that dog .
Last time there is the same thing as last night , they 've lost someone as well .
You had a good day in ?
Mm .
They gave him a good , and he looked over his chest and his heart and er , pulse .
And his urine and everything .
Then they took your temperature .
I noticed you called him Chris again .
I said you 're on cars again John .
Ah .
Is your man talking that 's in that big programme ?
No .
What are the teachers trying to tell you here ?
No !
It 's certainly got the right ones there .
He 's not getting it !
Willie
Aye
Willie is
Willie .
got a few clothes and the better .
Let the dog out Jean if he wants out in the back .
Jean , the Golden Girls are coming on .
Okay .
Jean !
I 'll fix that up for you .
The Golden Girls are coming on in about what ?
Ten minutes ?
I 'll see to that .
Can you make or what was I saying ?
Is that right ?
Mhm .
I need one pound for the bus fares .
And thirty P for the paper .
Thirty for the paper and
But I think so then .
That 's twe , that 's three twenty for
Mm .
today .
And it 's twenty P eighteen , seventeen , be enough for
Right .
But you 'll have to before a day .
It 's only because you didn't tell your bloody brothers !
Anne .
She 's the only one .
And then having to actually pay us again .
I don't know what 's wrong with this paper , this pen won't write on it .
I know .
Hang on .
Did you say I 've done wrong then Raymond ?
Like I say something then ?
Ooh , there 's not shine in
That 's nonsense isn't it ?
What ?
I would get a better , I'm not saying I 'd get a better shine than that .
I would have them like shoes .
Turn that over to on your way past to four and I 'll make you a cup of tea .
Can I have , erm , I can't go up the stairs yet .
woof woof !
He took a front page off that .
woof woof !
Fucking mad !
Ah !
We can't all be sensible !
Woof , woof , woof , woof !
It 's alright when you 're going down , you spoil them and I say woof , woof , woof !
And then you see that .
Just a li little arm in there .
Look !
Suffering Jesus Christ and
Not wet ?
He should be there every time cos she 's gonna be out with the kids and all .
No , I can't get up .
Well where is she ?
Oh !
She must have came here to just number ten so far .
Lie down !
This is like
Oh we didn't phone yet .
We didn't book the leg of lamb .
No .
I forgot how many we got round here
Mm .
because we need n't to sit them down .
It 's just that er
I 'll tell her anyway otherwise we might have the sack .
Mhm .
That we could n't get out .
It 's the truth .
Oh there 's a skip outside Mo 's tonight .
wasn't there till this morning .
Oh !
Skip outside Mo 's with all the burnt stuff in it .
I complained .
After a , by the time you get off it was alright wasn't it ?
Aye Brandy , I know what you want Ah !
What you gone , right in the hole ?
The door 's open !
He wants you pat him .
Did you , did you have a new tape in ?
Not for sweeping .
Will you piss off !
John was home before seven tonight .
And I got the book it must have a bus you know ano , another , an extra bus on because he was allowed to get off at the tonight .
I think it 's the last one , as I said .
I was expecting to wait till about a quarter past seven .
What you playing at ?
What are you saying ?
It 's hard to be a woman .
To just one man .
What do want mum ?
I don't mind Do you hear thunder ?
It 's that got your feet on the dog , it 's stinking !
You wanna smell their dog .
You wanna smell their dog .
Why ?
It 's stinking !
And I mean , stinking !
She 's grabbing you , put her down .
Mind her tail .
woof woof !
Come away from that .
Why don't hear this programme Jean .
This was done years ago .
I 've no idea .
I meant to say Jean , you know the motor
You told me about the motor .
we 'll just say that Kerry and Sandy will be coming to collect it .
What ?
Then , a couple of minutes .
Thank God for that !
Alright Steven ?
I 'd like to go on there .
It 's the only way to be Steven .
No , you 're alright , sure .
This is great !
Ooh !
Er !
I 've been drinking vodkas all night .
Mind you it 's
Patch !
Simon must have bought me about five vodkas ! my throat .
Thank God I missed myself .
Friday night .
Took seven or eight .
My God !
Raymond would be on his back !
Eh ?
He 'd be on his back if he 'd had that amount of drink .
Drink makes me very tired , yeah .
I 'd have , I 'd have about fifteen or fourteen I'm , I'm knackered now !
Just fall asleep .
I wouldn't try and to go and fall asleep .
What ?
You won't believe it !
What 's that ?
Aha .
That 's a damn nuisance and all too !
Where 's the now ?
She doesn't have to come inside .
Right next to daddy there .
Right Kerry !
Take care love !
Okay Kerry ?
See you later !
See you in the morning .
Yeah , cheerio !
Cheerio !
Well , cheerio !
Do you reckon , do you reckon she 'll be alright ?
Better start walking there now , takes a bleeding hour to get round there !
Why , where does she work ?
I dunno !
God knows !
That 's what I mean , I 've got ta go out with the chippie van .
Johnny never went
I dunno !
You , you gonna hide them shoes ?
Well I'm not
That 'll be in there and give him a bit of encouragement .
And the er , I should think I said , er Ray they 're going
What ?
They 're going away .
Ooh !
They got to go out tonight .
I was standing there the other night
Aye , I know .
saw her go past me up the street .
She didn't ?
What was she doing ?
Kept fucking , blowing her fucking hair or whatever it 's called !
It 's called
My darling looks like that from half past seven onwards .
I didn't even talk with him .
You bad boys !
Said she 's been
Oh aye , she 's a lesbian in it .
I think .
This was on before .
Mm mm .
Do they know she 's
Mhm .
The ma does .
Is it you that 's got a paper ?
Dad ?
So , ?
Oh it was great !
Mm .
Well that 's nice is it ?
There was a bit in the box .
It 's empty .
I bet she 's eaten it !
But it 's empty .
Does it matter if she took it ?
Not at all .
Only children .
That if she 's I bet she 's eat the chop 's in her mouth .
Raymond please take that off !
She 's talking to me there so I have to .
Well there you are .
Know where you 're going ?
Aye .
Faint heart never won fair lady .
True .
Where is this road ?
Chip wagon ?
I think , yes , I have to go to the chip wagon .
Wherever that ,
Are you going ?
Aye .
I know where it is .
What ?
I just follow the nose .
Not at all !
Not enough bank notes .
Oh !
don't forget he 's in the
Go on the trams .
He 's in love !
He 's in love !
Leave him alone !
I'm not in love .
I 've never been in love .
Well , once .
But , she 's not gonna be wearing that
He loves his mama .
I know .
Well , it 's not that either .
Jean .
Been in love once .
I had , aye .
From Ireland ?
No , she were an English lass .
But she bit me !
Glad I kept a straight face afterward .
And where you going ?
Mm .
So er she 's on trial .
saying if our dog 's on trial that 's all .
See you later .
What that , where you 're , don't let them get out !
I 'll leave it till then .
Okay .
That looks better .
Are you sure ?
Aye .
Oh no !
You might them down on this .
Oh yeah , I know .
She 's fallen , she 's fallen for the grey woman .
Patch !
With Rose ?
Which one 's Rose ?
The one that 's always talking about her young day !
Oh about the farm one ?
Yeah .
Aha .
See , I was talking to Steven and I got lost .
Yes , I understand that .
Where 's the dog ?
Dunno .
Raymond , you 're like something out of the Wizard of Oz !
With that hair !
I feel it !
You said it 'd be all , where is he ?
So
I wonder where William is ?
I suppose so , if one stayed .
It 's only half ten .
We 'll have to get the girls back , Steven .
It will it will cost money .
There 's a wee square I dunno what you call the material , bakelite or whate , not bakelite , it 's a it 's for use in electrical insulation and when you it 's cracked I think , it 's not the grill , the wires of the grill the actual Patch !
I thought John says all
Johnny , get that dog down !
I thought John says all you have to do is replace the grate and
No .
It 's , the thing that you push it into , the two prongs will do .
It 's something else .
No , the two pro , the thing that the two prongs sit in is cracked so naturally say it had to go into a hole that size , right ?
Mhm .
And then , each side of it 's making contact and it 's gone into a hole that size , and it 's moving it ai n't making contact .
He , bet you he 's got toilet roll up there !
Well I'm not going up !
Patch !
He 's most probably waiting .
It 's not like that er , T V dog you see where big string of toilet roll , it and it maybe in fucking pieces !
Stop that Brandy !
Patch !
Patch !
Patch !
He 's up here .
Is he with you ?
He 's in our room Johnny .
He 's not with you at all .
Come on Patch !
Come on !
You turned into a rabbit Johnny ?
Come on Patch !
Come on Patch !
Come on !
And I want their names .
Go and ring that up .
Patch !
Urgh !
Urgh !
Urgh !
Urgh !
This time last night I was in bed .
You should be in bed now .
Raymond .
Will you take the big one ?
Do you want out Brandy ?
Patch !
Stay there !
Stay there !
Come on Patch .
Er , Brandy .
I should have taken you a walk tonight .
Eh ?
Come on up !
Come on !
Get up !
Danny Thomas is a man .
Hiya William .
Hi .
Alright now ?
Try them on .
Where were you William ?
At er
Well did you go there again Billy ?
You 're not twenty yet .
Did you see Q E D ?
Mhm .
Mm .
This guy wasn't it ?
Mm .
Scared if I get to my bed !
He must have thought he was dog cos you see him sniffing round .
Or doing something , then he leapt over the camera .
Mhm .
What sort of a game 's that ?
Sure , I didn't know him you see .
That 's
You 're telling lies !
They 're gone .
Will you give us it up .
I can't , look at the dog , Jean !
Jesus !
So it is .
Mhm .
And it 's general knowledge .
So ?
It 's not a game .
What 's that ?
Where 's you answer the questions ?
Like .
you 're right .
No they 're not .
Like , you want them , bloody take them !
Where did you get ?
So they are .
Did they pick you already ?
And you wanna see a few t-shirts .
Look at her !
And you 'll have to thank Sylvie .
Just say a wee thanks very much .
What about that ?
Now if you think they 're too tight I bet your come right out and rip them and come out over
Good .
Alright .
Good .
How long have they been on you ?
They 're a great shoe aren't they ?
They are .
These are the one , mum I wanted you to get ?
I know what you 're gonna do with them .
Keep them for school .
Right .
Your boots , or your braids , and them white ones for try the other one .
One foot 's bigger than the other .
Try the two of them on .
Oh Christ !
She 's sleeping in her room .
See the woman had to get the alarms .
Mhm .
Have you the two of them on yet ?
That 's er foot must be smaller than the other .
What ?
This one foot , they must be than the other .
Yes , that 's probably so .
Is it too small for you ?
No .
Are they comfortable ?
Right , honest to God Jonathan , they aren't .
I can feel it , that there .
Got ta get used to them though. , it 's .
No , say !
He doesn't want them and he 's not getting them !
I don't want them !
Aye !
They 're too tight .
That 's your daddy 's feet with a
You never look a gift horse in the mouth .
I think they 're alright lovey .
I don't think they 're too tight at all .
See Steven ?
Aha .
Daddy .
Can I listen to one of them conversations ?
There is no conversation son .
That 's
No .
mainly on
It doesn't matter .
Get her off me !
You 're scum !
Oh eh !
Do you know when this arrested ?
Tonight , yes .
What bread 's there ?
Well I moved it ah ?
That 's brown .
Ah , but what about the morning ?
I don't take out any .
No , but I do , and your mummy , and Raymond going to work .
Two , four , six .
You take two rounds Willie .
And there 's a bit of ham left .
Where ?
Where the tomatoes are .
don't take it all .
That is still leaving six .
Well then , if you take two and that 'll leave us six .
I want half of that ham left .
Mm mm mm .
Do you want thin or sli thick slice of bread ?
Do you want two rounds and thin ham would be lovely !
Well I won't be too happy if there 's no bread .
Well what do you want ?
What ?
Would rather have erm erm , prefer scrambled egg and toast ?
Jesus !
No , we 'll leave it till the morning .
but you haven't got ta get
Da da da ah ah ah , da dee
Is there no biscuits in there ?
Not in the wardrobe .
I asked John .
given him Thursday .
Mine .
I 'll , he let you have a couple .
Please .
There 's one packet of er
Well I 'll let you .
I'm not starting the box .
Well you , hold the dog up here in mid air .
No , I can't do that .
I'm only joking !
You sit there and I 'll get them .
I don't want any .
Balls !
Did you watch Inspector Morse as well ?
Parts of it , son .
Shame about the stupid didn't think it just happens .
Aye .
Tell me , where did er James get the tape ?
Neil ?
Sorry , Neil .
Sorry !
Well do you know what brought , brought it up about computer games ?
We were playing his tonight .
Right .
And I was looking through the videos there .
Go on , have one he says .
they got videos for nothing .
Did he say where he got it ?
But er he 's , er he was playing with that the other day .
With the one
Ah !
and that 's probably what he said .
Mm .
The dog 's dreaming .
Get them ?
No , I 'll just get them .
Look at the bloody dog !
What ?
Dreaming .
Found them ?
Shall I sit on the dog ?
You what mother ?
Not much to let down .
Willie the dog is getting to me .
What er
Every single , first night then , then Willie ?
Who ?
But it wasn't to be .
What 's wrong ?
It 's her .
Why ?
It 's that Angela is it ?
You seem to able to go in there .
They went to the back of the programme there .
Just do me a boiled egg and , and a round of toast an And like most of the bedroom
What 's that ?
They 're coming off .
Come beside you .
That 's right .
Come here !
Here !
Here !
Come here !
or sleep .
What 'll be best to do ?
I heard a certain story that you got a girl pregnant ?
No , she wasn't , alright , it was alright .
Well son I love this !
don't touch it !
don't touch that , Brandy now !
Brandy !
Whoop !
Dog !
Should n't be ne
Yeah .
don't even touch it !
Dog 's a
Ruined all , they are .
I 'll wring your neck for you !
That dog 's
That dog looks What ?
That 's Raymond 's , yeah ?
Mm .
Thanks .
Speak English William , for Christ 's sake !
Mouthful of food !
Go away rat pack Patch !
Go on !
I didn't know , I thought Lennox Lewis was finished with his boxing career , was he not ?
Mm .
I dunno .
I don't understand it , so I don't bother Jonathan .
Is he knocked out ?
What do you mean ?
Mike Tyson too .
Pardon me .
Johnny , what did you think of that fight earlier on ?
Who ?
Foreman !
Crap !
What ?
Well Lennox Lewis his boxing career has finished , no ?
He 's a big boxer now isn't he Jonathan ?
What ?
Shaun !
What ?
Shaun !
I said who !
We 're trying to get a conversation out of you and you 're grunting !
I says , aye !
Oh , that 's a conversation , yeah !
Got a problem ?
Mm .
Who ?
There 's no problem at all .
I know there isn't !
So tell me , you went to see this girl ?
I got another tape for the computer .
What do you call it ?
There 's no problem Johnny !
It 's just normal .
I won't , I can't understand what it is , but it says general knowledge .
Do you wanna try it ?
There must have been a series , general knowledge three that 's
I want to watch the
Mm .
football fir I'm watching the boxing first !
Is that Mickie Duff , the promoter ?
Aye .
He 's got bother with the police .
Turn it on , see what it does Willie .
Aye , go under the stairs .
I 'll try it in the morning when yous are all in bed .
I don't want anybody trailing at the back of that television with that new ariel lead we got put in !
Which I'm not paying for any more !
Right !
Ten , twenty , thirty , forty no it 's not enough .
I think it 's about fifty odd quid to get a remote control set a remote control handset .
Thirty five
Well let me see that stammer .
.
There 's a new one there .
This is !
Have you missed , you didn't seen your daddy have you , tonight ?
Er , give me a bit of rest , the thing will only answer , burn out .
Well , get her down again until Jan
Up !
And bring her home again
Aye .
if she 's
Come on Patch !
Come on !
Come on !
Patch !
Come on !
Come on !
Come on !
Come on !
Come on girl !
Come on !
Come on !
She 's up all night with the
Come on !
Excuse me .
Who 's ?
He 's lovely !
When you see Neil tomorrow ask him does , does he know anywhere we can buy some of them tapes second hand .
The A C twenty .
You just want any tape boxes ?
You 're gonna have to watch Jean , if anybody offers you them that you haven't already got them .
I know that .
We 're gonna have to take a list of what we 've got , and if we ever see an advertisement and we 're gonna buy them , say oh no , I 've got that one and that one , and that one , and that one .
But I 've now taken this out tonight .
Yeah , I expect that Johnny 's , do you ever do any ?
Where 's the matches ?
Does a dog carry around diseases ?
Yes .
Dad , you see for my no , I don't suppose there is any .
Look .
Well if I get those because I walk , the way I walk wears the front of the soles of the shoes down .
Right .
Right ?
And I can't afford it .
Can you put them on the back of that shoes ?
Not rubber soles .
Not rubber soles .
It 's out of time son and leave it .
You 're gonna have to buy a pair of cheap shoes , to save those when you go in church .
That 's okay .
can't afford to get them soled and heeled all the time .
Yeah .
Your dad has to sit and polish his shoes anyhow .
Patch !
Those ones ?
Aye .
The tan ones .
Put them down son .
Well I'm only looking !
See when you get them socks off then why don't you throw them in the bin .
Please .
Do you wanna stick that tape on Willie ?
No .
Kerry was saying last night she 's choosing tuition .
How many does she take ?
Is it one a week ?
Aha .
Or two a week ?
Ah ?
Normally a Tuesday night .
Just one a week .
Did you hear me boy ?
Could n't I put it on ?
Gee !
I told you not to !
Here , wait a minute !
Here son , here .
I 'll turn this off .
Er
Right for the girl .
All of this .
Now , anybody comes in can see it 's going .
Fuck 's that ?
It 's er it 's a like a it 's like a it 's like a you put sa
You know that 's puzzle master don't you ?
Oh yeah it 's meant to be in the end there .
It 's a puzzle master !
Well we 'll see !
Please stop now !
Alright !
Now don't let 's go o overboard here at this time of the night .
Come on Patch !
Come on up .
Up !
Come on .
Come on Patch .
from you .
Alright Willie .
Put your tape machine back in the thing .
What ?
The tape thing .
I 'll put it back tomorrow .
Put it back on the television .
You won't Johnny ?
It always says error and two , four , seven , why 's that ?
No it doesn't .
Mm .
It only does error for something wrong with the machine .
The game 's over .
When you pull this out and it goes the next time start it turn it over , rewind it to the front .
Just turn the machine right o tape right over and use the other side .
See what happens .
And you 'll need that machine there back a bit from the television as I 've already told you .
Aye , it 's moving this .
Now all you got ta do is to move , that 's right !
I 'll just move this .
No !
Now don't look funny now Willie !
And stretching it
I'm not being funny !
and stretching it like that .
What ?
You 're very unpleasant when you 're like that boy !
They know how .
No they don't .
That 's the terrible thing Jean !
They think they do .
That 's what I meant .
There now , stop it !
Just stop your tape first and er turn it over to the other side first .
Turn it round .
Now wind it back .
I wouldn't do that .
I wanna see what 's on the other side .
Right now .
Very clever !
No Willie !
Stop it !
That 's right .
Does this play in Neil 's house ?
I don't know .
No , he has n't got a machine that cuts out .
Try and stop it .
See what I mean ?
That 's going on .
Excuse me .
See what I mean , the other side was alright .
Johhny look ! soccer outdoor loading .
Oh yeah .
Has it done the mountaineering one ?
Yeah .
I 'll
That one .
Patch !
Where 's the paper ? with Arthur Ash with AIDS .
I 'd be really frightened .
With all the
Well how are they gonna know ?
What is it doctor said ?
Tell him to come back to him or
Well you can take yourself to hospital .
But did the doctor say he 'd come down and see him
No .
in a couple of days anyway ?
Right .
I wish they would
Oh Jesus Christ !
We 've ourselves in hospital .
and peace and things and the poor people who died as well .
Raymond , I know all about it son .
Right .
I think I 'll after tomorrow afternoon .
Have you eaten them sweets ?
No .
Ha !
And he can't get up you see .
He don't .
Well , he need n't , I mean I would have stayed in bed .
Really ?
Looking at his chest , looking at his chest it upset me there .
And he was only gonna say nothing .
If I were you I would woke up today and all .
He told me , like , I turned round and says have you left them on ?
I know .
He 's left them on fourteen odd hours and they 'll be running out .
I can do that tomorrow night .
Jesus Christ Almighty Johnny !
Can you not
What 's all that for ?
tell her what you have !
I told her !
That 's your bus fare down the road to buy nothing !
Johnny , you 'll not get
That 's what you 'll get .
a job son sitting on your arse !
Or in the club playing snooker .
He says that he 'll be able to have that one it work and I 'll work for him tomorrow .
Och !
Now don't be silly
It 's true !
Raymond please !
But I , don't know why he says that .
Good job he 's not insured for it .
What 'll you do now daddy ?
How does it work ?
Aye .
Turn the machine off quick !
Will you just let it go , it 's still loading .
William !
Turn the machine off !
.
It 's still loading daddy .
Turn the machine son .
William , put it back to yo you had it back there , the far side , put it back .
Right now .
Now , wind it back .
Now you try and break that again son and I 'll put a foot in the back of your head !
It 's as simple as that .
You get irritable at this time of night when you get tired and you get ill mannered , and I don't like it !
So go to your bed if you can't behave normal .
He ha !
It 's not even rewinding that up .
Well then it 's rewound isn't it ?
Aye .
Then press them two buttons whatever you do .
I just
There 's an error .
That comes up as waiting because it 's not the right side .
Whoever 's on the phone ?
Oh God , Jean !
Will you give it a rest love !
Please .
All for a game .
Did you hear daddy up at half five this morning ?
No .
Talking to your dog .
You 're a bad dog !
Yes !
I never would have messed about .
Right , up !
Sit in the chair .
Touch nothing !
I should fucking try again .
Turn it on a sec .
Just see if I
Where did you get the tape ?
His mate Neil give it him .
He found it amongst his own but he doesn't have a V A C
No .
See it 's a soccer one .
Alright , just a minute .
Just a minute .
Hold on now .
And now it goes up again because there 's a V A C Onyx standard , that 's an Onyx standard machine .
And there 's a V A T , V A C twenty expanded which has more gadgets on it .
That may be a expanded game .
Which we haven't got that , the equipment for .
If we but which programme have we got ?
But that .
I might be able to put an ad in the paper for them games .
You wanna see the games they 've got for sale in London at Christmas and I haven't .
Right .
This looks quite good .
Do you know what they 're doing up at er
Mm .
see for ninety , you can borrow a sixteen bit Sega and get three games with it .
Up at for five pound a night .
Right .
Oh I know that .
And for , over a weekend it 's a tenner .
Shit !
Th and it has the best graphics .
Yeah , but
Play the games .
Right .
Wait a wee second .
Wait a minute .
We 'll see .
Does he always come round in the morning then ?
No .
Well some gave me five and .
Just to the
It 's down the bottom
Aye .
They say it 's only available for
Well maybe he can't drink Jean .
Well you don't know , to some people fifteen vodkas is nothing .
It 's gonna show error again .
Well that 's not very good , ours .
Well no .
But then you seem to have graphics on , graphics on it don't you ?
Yeah well I bet the Sega 's the best graphics .
Graphic is like
The Sega do you get there , is that the one ?
That one over there .
Again , error comes behind it .
Did error come up and all and that ?
Yes .
Oh , when the tape 's showing , stopped ?
When the tape 's stopped , that 's right .
It wasn't .
It 's tur , no , I think I know what it is !
don't stop machine , machine at all turn the tape over and just press play .
No , you can't do that love .
Sure , but with Neil 's you can .
Can some of the can some of the games let 's say there 's a , one side isn't playing , and try the other ?
Well , we haven't got the case , so try it now .
Well who said
And some of the games are very slow .
I must say Jean , you didn't do a bad job for woman !
I only wanted the job .
You said that was the one you polished again for me .
Shut the right door Willie .
Easy !
Oh it 's easy .
Mm .
Please , we 're gonna sit here all day .
No .
I didn't see Willie impressing the new girl .
No , just to to tonight because I came .
Cos we knew it was Claire .
I remember my first computer .
It got lost .
sad .
And you 'll have to keep them , I mean can't spend out money for it 's the truth though .
Do we get our Easter eggs on Monday ?
I'm sure you won't .
Have you got me one ?
Yes .
I got us one each .
?
Just an ordinary Easter egg .
Er , you 'll have to see what happened .
There it is , the machine 's stuck .
Turn the tape over .
Aye , just keep
Well not till I , we 'll wait and see what happens now .
The tape is loading
It 's not gonna show anything until , until
It 's alright William !
you 've scanned it .
Okay William .
It 's only a game .
A clue .
Oh we never had to do what you 're saying in any other games so why the hell should I have to do it now ?
Cos some games are different .
Och !
You 're balls !
Aye .
Alright .
That 's lovely !
Gerry getting married
You all insist that I know nothing but nobody else can do this .
It 's okay now son .
It 's okay .
won't you get me any on Monday ?
don't know whether I'm gonna get you any this week .
Yeah .
And you didn't do last week .
So you didn't do it anyway .
Where are you getting the money Johnny for these jacuzzi ?
Must do Monday night .
Mhm .
Is Willie going back down there too ?
No !
Where 's Johnny 's ?
No ?
So he has to get four fifty every Monday ?
Aye .
So how come you had nine pound last week ?
Because we had the from that Johnny .
He means , normal are you getting your twenty ?
That 's right .
Well why don't you use your head and go and do them yourself ?
The good thing so we 'll overlap .
He does .
You never do windows on your own .
I thought I 'd get a
Oh I know you
would Johnny .
So you never do them .
Daddy .
What about you and Micky or do you go ?
No I don't .
Do you not , do you not want to every week ?
No .
Jeez !
don't you be telling us Sunday night , or Monday night during the week haven't done or not .
No , they 're
See you tomorrow boys .
Mm .
I 'll go down the road .
See before yous go out .
Go through your drawers and anything you don't need bring them down and throw them in the bin .
I 'll give mine to Steven .
Far too big for Steven at the moment son .
And he 's got plenty .
Throw them out .
And , you see that wardrobe
William !
Aye teacher !
William and Johnny !
Yes , alright .
You see the wardrobe in your room ?
Aye .
Anything there too old , coats , anything that 's left on the floor , old boots , shoes that you too small for you throw them in the bin .
Now , when I look in the bin tomorrow I wanna see something to tell .
It 's mine .
Now , what 'll we do with you now ?
Swapping ?
I'm gonna get those what do you call , er
Turned , te , turned over .
And then there 's
Right
everything else .
Er , what ?
Just do it like erm
Straight up .
Say , okay I 'll do that .
How do you know it doesn't start up again ?
Go onto there .
Be ever so careful .
Well you , and hit it with your .
You 've .
Oh that 's alright then , you 're wanted upstairs .
Nothing .
Yeah .
Just nothing happens to it .
I 'll be
Get it on there mother .
That Ten happens to be on Friday night .
I'm going out .
Not this Friday night , next Friday night .
Suddenly it 's
You 're not gonna be able to enjoy it , but I 'll tell you that every week .
But so it is .
I 'll be here .
Johnny this 'll be
Sure !
Let 's have a look .
Can I have a new chair ?
Yeah , like it 's staying out here .
Sh , got it on ?
Sure !
I can , I can get more money next week like that didn't it ?
Oh yeah ?
Do you know what yous two fucking remind me of Kerry and Steven .
Just see Kerry and Steven the way them two go .
They talk .
I was hoping I could have a
It 's far too long now .
I can't help it .
Does that mean I 'll never play that ?
No .
I wish I hadn't started .
It 's replaced all the it should be .
Oh no .
It 's right to the end .
Okay .
The things are still going .
Raymond , that 's this machine son .
You 're watching the machine .
Right .
We 'll try this again .
Now look , it does play .
Press play er right !
Whoop !
Error .
Turn the tape .
Play .
Play .
I hope the won't be long tonight .
Play .
Ah !
First of all the coming down .
What ?
It 's okay .
What don't ?
I remember you saying .
I don't know anything about it son .
Something a about a precinct or something .
Our Price .
but I didn't say anything about precinct .
Precinct thirteen .
Mhm .
Well then in thirty five years open the precinct thirteen now .
That 's all .
Any good ?
Yeah it 's alright .
What are you doing William ?
Ha ?
I'm just warming up .
Are you okay ?
You didn't bring your bag did you ?
And take it out .
Sorry ?
Can you go and do your bag and some
What ?
Right .
Now that doesn't happen .
Okay ?
So we 'll leave this bit .
Can I have a go ?
Right .
Come on !
Well pick them up !
Give me two minutes Johnny , and we 'll put it on for you at last !
I 've got ta rush upstairs !
Stay here and see if this works Johnny .
Oh right .
There you are .
That was quick .
Sure hope so .
Is it there ?
It wasn't Johnny .
Whoops !
Where 's the error , there ?
Well let 's ease her down .
There you are love .
Mm mm mm .
I think I'm just gonna be a Jack Russell !
It 's not going very good .
It 's not ?
No .
Well then it 's veering right and then going just sitting .
Right man .
Should n't .
So what 's the use of that handle ?
Rum da dum dum dum
Well that 's why I did it in the morning Jean .
Oh right .
Okay .
Goodnight son .
Away and get me a couple of
Rum da dum da da .
Get them out there though Jean .
Da er er
No I think I might in the box .
Just joking !
Shut up your mouth Willie now !
John !
You know he bites back .
Yeah .
There 's one of those
Set it up there .
Brandy !
Move out the hall .
Come on .
It 's got the thing
It was up to eighty odd .
That 's eighty minutes .
And check out one of them
That goes up to eighty odd .
Right , that 'll do it love otherwise you 'll be there all night darling .
You know like , put it compare it with your money .
Not a lot left .
Listen son , now just , just open that door there !
Wait .
And jus just do it son .
Go easy .
And go and do that and get away from what 's going on .
Why do you have to stand two foot away from it ?
Dunno .
Here William !
Come here !
Sit , and hold them .
Settle down !
I can't do it !
Son , settle down. ?
No .
Go to bed !
Go on !
Get out !
Ah soon you 'll be to your money .
Go into bed and watch television up there .
Right son ?
Right .
I don't like to go off Jean .
I wasn't doing nothing though .
Get up to bed !
Go up in our bedroom .
I 'll tell your daddy again .
I bet
Go right along .
Go off to bed now !
Cheeky bastard !
I don't like putting coal in here .
Then at night just firm it please Jean .
I 'll be out all day .
No messing !
No messing !
Cos you know , I think we need our chimney cleaned up .
I do that .
It smells really clean .
Cos every time you open that door there 's bound to be that 's stinking then !
Get someone while I'm not here .
Well and he wants popping round when there 's nobody here and then I 've left some for half an hour .
What did you say ?
No .
That 's the end of the tape .
There 's nothing happening Raymond .
The tape 's still stopping and it keeps loading .
This one does .
Well , it 's twenty five to twelve !
It is indeed .
Take a spoon up and get her to take her medicine .
On your way , even get through that cup and plate in son ?
Where ?
Up , over near the sink .
Right .
I will try that tape in that morning .
Night then .
Night son , night .
And see how you are .
Feeling better tonight ?
Then you 'll have to come ho home again
It 's up to himself .
Just keep that on until that 's all .
I 'd have said there 's enough there wouldn't you ?
Mm .
Yeah .
Oh Jesus !
Oh fuck !
Why is it sitting there love ?
Oh that tape 's going , so that 's alright .
And to do say one , two , three 's done .
Right ?
One , two , three is done .
That 's one two three and then , including number four , aye .
Four have to use that one , okay ?
Do that in the morning .
Where are they ?
That is ano another one to be done .
It 's the er
That 's Shaun , you can hear her talk .
Oh that 's right .
Watch the dog behind you .
Jean , did I ask you if you were going to John 's tomorrow ?
I said no .
That 's good !
Friday , I'm going .
That 's good !
Are you going to an early on Friday ?
Patch stay there .
William
What ?
is your friend coming for you this morning ?
I 've to call for him at half ten .
What ?
I 've to call for him at half ten .
Half ten , right well I'm going soon .
Okay then .
It 's twenty past , I 've to get the bus .
Jean Jean I have to go now it 's half ten now .
Mm right .
I was up the park this morning with the dog .
Were you ?
Mhm .
I 'll have to go now , honestly .
I slept on the settee down there , I fell asleep .
What ?
Is away to work ?
Yes he 's away to work , yeah .
Could you give me my bus fare Jean , please ?
And Willy 's to call for his friend , look at that rip that up Willy .
I was up the park this morning Willy at half five .
Yeah ?
It was , tell a lie , sorry half six .
Lovely it was .
Where you going Willy ?
What ?
Where you going ?
Dunno .
Ask the wee fella does he know anybody that 's got one of those er VAC twenty
computers .
That must be an expanded one although , although the case would have told you that He seems a pleasant wee fella that .
He is .
You in the bathroom Jean ?
It 's alright I haven't even got breakfast yet .
You know the trip to the park this morning ?
I , I had the rest of that Yorkie Bar , the last of it , couple of squares .
won't go far on that .
Okay son , behave yourself .
I will .
up the park Willy ?
?
Aye .
Patch stop that scratching You 've had your food .
Jean do you want a bit of buttered soda ?
What ?
Do you want a bit of soda buttered ?
I don't know wh Is that about a job ?
Comic Relief .
Oh for fuck , tear it up .
Comic Relief .
Come in here a minute Jean .
What love ?
Oh Jesus .
When that goes cold , okay ?
Where are you Jean ?
Here .
Come on give us a hand here .
What ?
You what ?
It 's difficult to tell sit there .
I 'll go and get a couple of mats .
What 's she sitting there for ?
Patiently waiting the day .
nothing , she 's had her food .
Oh
give her a wee drop later Jean cos she 'd a good walk this morning you know and er now those Bramleys up there , okay ?
Right .
So I have to
She knows
No no , I know that .
you know ?
Aha .
Anyway , right the park was lovely this morning .
Was it nice ?
It was .
Was there many in it ?
Out of the roa out of the road Patch , move over .
There wouldn't have been many at that time in the morning .
Well the point about it is , the greyhound men
Aha .
well their dog 's off you see and they 've got ta be careful
Yes .
that and you know dog okay ?
Yes .
and er if they come off the leads you see
Yes .
I let Brownie out went up the back and there was Brownie in the Malone River then he saw me so no lead with me
And did he g
Mhm
did he go along with you ?
Mhm .
That was good then .
The two dogs had great fun .
What 's she eating ?
What ?
Patch stop that .
Put that down .
There was ice on the seats in the park .
cigarette please , was there ?
Mm .
Ah Raymond must 've took some .
More than likely has .
How does he feel this morning ?
Well I asked him was he alright and he said aye , and then I fell asleep , I 've been sleeping from after eight twenty past eight .
The er I took the binoculars up this morning .
Did you ?
Aha .
See anything ?
No , I looked for rabbits and squirrels , I could see nothing .
Was there a mist or anything ?
No ?
No it was nice now but I had to sit like that with my arms up my sleeves .
Bit bitter cold .
cigarette
I would say it wouldn't matter what time you went up the park there 'd be somebody there .
But it was lovely .
It 's the best time of the day to go up when there 's nobody .
I 'd imagine there 'd be people maybe down and outs maybe tramps sleep in that park with newspaper round them or something .
There you are .
You should 've heard the different birds .
Lovely .
But I c er I only see a blackbird , that 's all , two blackbirds three .
But I could hear the rest of them .
Mhm .
That dog had the microphone in his mouth .
God save us all .
Mhm .
To me she looks very thin even though what we 're feeding her .
Well it may be that type of a dog Jean .
I mean look at , look at Brownie and look at , and John 's is a fully bred thorough or er a pedigree labrador .
She 's more fat than a chip and he 's feeding her tons of stuff .
Right would you give me my bus money please and whatever you 're giving .
Well that 'll do .
I hate this babysitting job Jean .
I know John .
Och I hate it .
What can I do ?
Well I said I would do it and I 'll do it , I won't let them down , I 'll never let them down but
Ah bring us number seven out of the seven good God bring me number seven excuse me
John are your brushes down here ?
What time is it love ?
Oh fuck should n't be here .
and apparently the clothes are very cheap in it , and the shoes .
Now if we could get down there I could ma what did I tell you ?
I could maybe get you a cheaper pair of trainers right , but good ones right ?
Och well I don't know about what na good ones anyway , and maybe get you a rugby jumper .
That would be a surprise for your da , wouldn't it ?
Mm .
Well would you like that ?
Mm .
And even carry on and get her a wee jumper .
What do you
No
What ?
Second hand or what ?
Bloody new .
Second hand !
?
Yeah .
Well it all depends on where it 's going .
There 's some goes to Armagh , Craigavon , Seymour Hill , Conway Estate , Portadown and the Faulkner base .
runs that way , runs that way and they grabbed her .
Eh ?
Cos the poor old dog 's never out , that 's why .
Kelly
and then she 'll start running away Stephen .
She will .
She will , she 's gonna be big Kelly , and she goes , she goes half way up and run down , back then
I know that .
I know that , and it 's not right .
Ah !
They could take you out .
Saturday morning .
Mhm
Mhm .
Mhm .
I tell you what we 'll do , what about this what about this if the messages are a bit late today , right , and we 've got ta go to er the court to pay the money and the shop to get your shoes why not , if when the minute the messages come , go straight up to Taughmonagh right ?
I 'll be down early in the morning , right , and me and you and Kelly Ann 'll head out early in the morning and pay the court and get the new shoes and we 'll have all morning to do it , eh ?
And then we can just saunter back here , how about that ?
Well what about that ?
What ?
If Stewarts are late in coming with the messages
Yeah
we 'll go straight up to Taughmonagh go down the town early in the morning and I 'll take you to the shop where they maybe get you a rugby jumper
Mhm .
Whatever yous want , it 's up to yous , if yous want your shoes today I 'll get them but I was thinking if we'd 've went down the town today
this has to be in .
Oh sure we 'll , alright , well we 'll do it .
What time is it to be in at ?
Er what day ?
Thursday
Today ?
by Thursday the sixteenth .
Oh that 's today , right .
Right .
Right .
Right .
See you must have all these
That 's alright , well we 'll do it this morning , are your socks clean now if you 're gonna take off your shoes to get them , try them on ?
Do yous know what size of shoes yous take ?
Yes .
You 're losing weight Kelly Ann .
You 're looking well .
See Stephen .
Mhm .
He says this morning I was putting it on .
No you 're losing weight .
You 're growing you see .
That 's why you 've lost weight , no no no hold your stomach in you 'll hurt yourself .
I bet you when I grow up I 'll be tall
You probably will .
don't be all day up there .
Good dogs now away and lie down over there , go and lie down lie down .
Jesus Christ
Can I go through the front door like that ?
Aye .
Oh
Look at that there 's a woman goes to help her dead husband right ?
And now she 's lying dead herself .
look at him kicking her dirty bastards aren't they ?
Where are they ?
Oh away in a foreign er Yugoslavia or Serbia or somewhere .
Frank Bruno
Aye .
Mm He 'll kill Bruno next week .
Eh ?
He 'll kill Bruno .
See the fight last night ?
If Frank Bruno wins
Good dog Sara , aye you 're a good dog , yes , you 'll go out in a minute , yes .
Yes you 'll go out in a minute , to to Stephen , go to Stephen .
Lie down .
What ?
Well ?
Well well well .
How many wells make a river ?
Your big head would make it bigger .
I wish Stuart was here .
Can you not write from around from ten , nine o'clock ?
You could write on it any time but then you 're just sitting in all day .
I
No er nine , it 's ten no it 's eleven to twelve and twelve to two and two to four isn't it , and then four to seven thirty isn't that what it is ?
No it goes on
No it doesn't go on and on .
Yes
Is the table top er cleared in there ?
Not yet .
come on , come on , come on Kelly Ann , here .
Shut the door .
What ?
Are we putting them away ?
Yeah oh we 'll have to put them away .
We 'll all
we 'll all er do our bit .
Right now ,
Cos we , we we know where to put them now .
Right .
Frozen stuff first .
Frozen stuff goes in the freezer .
Right .
It would hardly go in the bathroom .
Right , come on just lift them out , what 's this ?
Burgers
Burgers
yes they 're nice .
Right .
Chicken fillets , oh lovely , ooh right .
Bacon
Veg veg veg
Veg
What ?
Oh yes
Veg .
Ah and I tell you daddy you never keep , and your mum that you never keep
What ?
Oh that 's lovely , you can keep that in the fridge .
Good .
strawberry , right .
What 's this ?
Biscuit tin , Right milk
Milk
milk
What have you got ?
Streaky bacon .
Do you like streaky bacon ?
Right
Erm hold on a sec , what does it say now ?
That 's okay , there 's a sauce
Uncle Raymond
What ?
Look .
Aha .
Right , who 's gonna get a ?
I 'll have to bank the fire up .
What 's this here , rubbish ? another bag .
Butter in the fridge , excuse me is there another bag out there , box out there ?
No er
That 's the lot , right .
Now them they have to go down sauce up here you 've got no tinned stuff , no ?
No .
Right , oh for God 's sake .
We did !
Jesus ,
dog food goes there in the fridge
You don't need to bank the fire up , I 've Oh here 's the dog food .
Right put the dog food there .
Right
That 's our rubbish bin .
There 's your rubbish then .
What the hell do you want a rubbish bin for when you 've got a bi a lovely big wheelie bin out there ?
And it 'll save that corner , it 'll make it look nice .
There .
too lazy to take it out .
You come on .
the wheelie bin .
dog doing up here ?
They 're just sitting there .
Look , here , there you go , right ?
Everything 's in , all the plugs off right , you get , you get the plates
Well come on , we 're wasting time if you want your shoes .
Come on .
Alright , that 's off , it 's alright , no it 's .
Here right .
Right now Stephen hang your cups up and put the knives and forks away while I sort this out .
There 's nothing wrong with it for God 's sake .
And see if daddy wants what ?
I don't know how you
Well , well that 's okay then .
You know yous wanna get what we used to have in our house ?
What ?
You get wee hooks and you hang them up and they stick there right , and just put your cups on it in a row and it gives you more room on the table .
Have you got them ?
We used to have , years ago .
Right now , lock the back door .
Oh I need to go to the toilet , hold on .
they 're nice .
No they 're a bit you know long for her but they 're the same size as she was wearing Jean and the other ones were too narrow for her feet .
got one pair .
Oh I thought you said
One
How does it work Stephen ?
I think you put , right pull this back
Well it 's
All the best .
And where do you put it ?
Put the see where the , that wee mark is ?
Aye .
Put that in there
Aye .
and
Oh Willy 's away to swimming with
Who is it ?
That wee lad , and then the one from called about two o'clock he says I says he 's not in so and I says he 's away to swim or something what time did he go at ?
I says he 's only away about ten minutes .
Where 'd he get the money ?
He says that wee boy , I don't know .
I 'll when I see him .
I Did you put in the there ?
Ah
Oh you cock it first .
No
It goes into there ?
Yes .
I'm just
Is she feeding her ? she 's not giving her veg to the dog .
Are you feeding the dog ?
No .
over to the right or left ?
There 's my last one
They 're all
No .
Johnny sat there and cut the cake there , what did she do ?
Lift the cake with her teeth
and then
I got the bus down to Shore Road
Did you ?
and then we walked from there round to the court from the Shore Road and then well I stood
Not open ?
Mhm .
It 's a big store Jean but I mean er they had lovely prints in it that big , you know
Aye
that 's the only shop we went to .
We were in Castle Court first , it 's a nice place if you wanna see a big military prints
sixty nine sheets , Jesus .
Patch !
Patch !
Is John coming up here then ?
Mhm .
What are you doing Patch ?
Eh ?
What are you doing ?
Are you not supposed to cut it first ?
No you do whatever you want
Oh can you ? ?
Ah Patch
Patch leave it .
I'm gonna tell John his was six pound and Kelly 's was seven .
That 's thirteen and the five for me for and then the bus fare Where 's Raymond away to ?
I just took his overalls in , he 's doing some painting he says he 's finishing the .
And he says , he says , I says don't
No .
otherwise he 'll get the sack , and I says John I says it 's all .
I said he knows he 's in the wrong and he 's being nice to the other two because they 're not present .
I says it 's only for to keep your name right .
And if he 's working with you see , I says keep that short
Hope he 's not going for any drinking .
I says and stay at home , don't go for a drink .
I says if you want a drink you can get one and have tonight , but don't go over there looking for a drink .
Where 's Johnny ?
Johnny and Len 's away playing golf .
Johnny and who , ?
Mhm .
Yes !
And he said he would bring the mince in to do the , like give them the money for a pound of mince and a packet of
Is there any bananas left ?
And he 's
What can I have to eat love ?
Look Jean , look at that one .
Well few rounds of bread .
Is there any in the fridge or are they all away ?
I don't know .
Good .
What are you doing Kelly Ann ?
I had the back one up in
I had the back one that one .
Oh .
I had the back one first , the back one
What are you doing Patch ?
There 's a big crowd in the town .
Is there ?
didn't we see the , the , the man collecting the stuff out of the bin ,
God help him .
God help you want to have seen the size of him and how young he was .
Was he a tramp ?
Does it work well your game ?
supposed to have
Let me see .
.
I can't get .
You 're not meant to have it filled , it 's a water game
Well maybe they do .
You don't have to have it all filled right up
Er you take out alright just that and lea keep that in I 've just got
Pull that yellow thing at the top back towards you .
Now it 'll work .
Ooh .
Eh ?
I never .
don't want a cigarette love ?
Think you 're supposed to fill it up to that mark Stephen says .
Our Johnny said he 'd be back at quarter past three .
Ah you 've them too far
I haven't .
Alright you haven't .
Is that now better ?
It is so I'm just putting it in half now .
Kelly Ann would never admit she 's wrong you know .
No , she
Did you go to Stuart 's this morning ?
Yeah .
Indeed .
What are you doing Patch ?
You 're a bad dog .
What are you doing ?
I 'll
Play with Kelly .
Let 's go and see if
What er I 'll make a cup of tea now eh ?
they 're not working .
Are they not ?
Why are they not working ?
Kelly .
What ?
I'm rolling up these things in case the wee dog gets them .
Jesus !
Yes there was a good crowd in the town .
Was there ?
There was .
A good crowd ?
Good crowd .
Want your dinner Brownie ?
Eh ?
Well he needs
Pardon ?
a good brush .
Away
put your things away .
Come on Watch the wee dog doesn't get it .
so it was
Certainly , come on in .
And what about you Declan ?
Now put her down and let her run about .
Is that your out there Declan ?
Yeah .
Patch
Is Declan there
It 's alright he 's only playing with dog look .
Oh , oh .
it 's in the bag .
Patch no you 're not going down to
Ah
put her down Kelly and let her walk about .
Well then close the door and keep her in the kitchen .
the door .
Excuse me .
Look at this .
Oh my God
Ha ha .
Patch !
Alright away from the door anyway .
No Patch .
over Easter ?
Stephen going Easter Tuesday
Easter Wednesday
Johnny 's working Wednesday .
Oh , Easter Monday .
Patch stop it !
Can I have a look Stephen ?
He sounds like a he sounds like a Trouble is you ooh unlucky .
Has Stephen ? but it 's only for erm
A check up .
a check up .
brush my teeth .
Well if you need your teeth seeing to Kelly you 'll have to go .
Ooh .
Well I don't want , I don't want my teeth out .
You see if you eat an awful lot of sweet stuff that decays your teeth
so it does , that rots your teeth a lot of chocolate and sweets .
You 're better eating erm
I 've got a big jar of jam
There 's three pound of sugar to every two pound of fruit to make jam .
There 's not , that 's a wee and that 's
Johnny
Aye
Where 's Willy ?
Eh ?
Willy
W would you go and get me a large pack of
No time .
No time .
Ah
Aye , well .
Give us one over give us one over one of your things .
See that
Mm .
like this Who got this for you ?
Mm ?
Who bought this ?
Is it some sort of or something ?
You 'll have to go and get a pack of chili sauce to get it on .
Who ?
First one come in Declan ?
Johnny ?
Not are we ?
I thought they were staying the night .
No .
A pack of chili sauce , somebody go and get to get it on , it takes about an hour .
and it ,
Got that money for me ?
Please .
I haven't got it , well you Easter 's coming , I know
You said you were gonna give me it and then you didn't .
but Easter 's coming .
So don't I get my money ?
Oh no it doesn't shoot , let me shoot one , come on .
I 've only got one
Oh your wee man from Lisburn called for you .
Did he ?
Aye , three o'clock and I says you were away at
Did you ask the wee boy where he got the computer game ?
Aye he says he 's there 's a , tape it over for me
Oh .
Do you know whether er did the wee boy say he 'd call back ?
Just says och it 's alright , I said
Are you gonna go up there and get this sauce it takes hour .
Come on Willy , up the shop please
Aye .
Yeah
A packet of chili con carne sauce and a small onion .
Any dosh ?
No I have no dosh .
What is it ?
That there , look .
and a small , small onion , not a big onion .
Come here , come here .
Do you wanna go up with him Stephen and get the chili sauce ?
And spaghetti and ginger Do you ?
Stephen 'll go in and get the spaghetti
Here .
Chi erm a packet of spaghetti
and a ginger .
You never brought me a loaf either Johnny .
You never asked for one .
I did .
Stephen come here a minute .
How much is the spaghetti John ?
Here , Stephen
and bring me my change .
A pound loaf and a packet of er spaghetti
What ?
he 's gonna go in the one next door .
Hurry up .
.
isn't it ?
love .
Where 's Stephen ?
Turn it up .
So you had eight of them mm ?
Right , turn it down .
haven't taught you
haven't taught you anything .
Johnny what 's been happening ?
Ah ?
The hell with Home and Away .
She 's pregnant .
She 's not .
No female cops .
She 's what ?
I should think so .
If we got our tea early we could be at the park tonight .
Do you go to school or have you left school ?
No I'm , I'm in W I'm in Willy 's class
Are you ?
well not in his class but
Stephen said he might be going to the Murray .
Do you have a blazer for school ?
Ah aye but
No , forty quid like it 's
That 's too much .
er I , I wouldn't , I told everyone not to get one .
He goes with a big girl called Cathy .
Streaky bacon .
Streaky bacon .
He is ?
Aha .
Go away and tell her .
What age is she John ?
Who ?
Marlene ?
Aye
I don't know .
Marlene .
Wish she was .
Did you see George Foreman ?
Who ?
George Foreman , the boxer .
No I 've never seen
Where 's the wee white book Jean I was writing down in ?
Alright er Stephen do you want to sit on a stool son T V ?
Johnny ?
Aye .
It 's a rotten con .
. He 's on a pound an hour .
Pound an hour ?
Aha .
so he is .
Would you , would you do a pound an hour ?
I would aye .
in the morning , half one to four o'clock , I was getting three pound an hour
What are you wearing ?
Where 'd you get that ?
Where 'd you get it ?
What ?
Well er have you got your plates in ?
Turn that T V down a bit Stephen would you ?
Well here turn it down a bit .
Did you enjoy yourself today ?
Yeah .
Eh ?
Yeah .
What do you think of your shoes ?
Good .
Aha .
Look at that there Stephen , look at how thin that man is , my Jesus .
No I hate that , look at that and your da wants you to , you want your da to b buy you them wrestling stickers every day .
Just think a bit the money your daddy spent on wrestling stickers alone for a week on you and Kelly Ann could keep three children alive for weeks .
wouldn't that be lovely to be able say well I saved the life of one child in the Sudan ?
Just one .
Look at the skull .
What ?
Oh Jesus so it is .
Well we 'll have to wait Kelly Ann , will we do ?
Yeah .
Aye .
We could n't have walked home today Stephen sure we could n't .
What do you mean ?
Well I was thinking of walking home from the centre of the town but then I thought to hell with it .
What ?
Very good .
Patch come on here just in case you 're sick in here .
What ?
What time will your daddy be here at Stephen ?
Ah shite !
Do you like your new trainers now ?
Are you sure ?
That 's good Kelly Ann , glad to hear it .
Aye she was sitting , she was sitting listening eh ?
Nosy parker .
Did you eat your dinner Patch ?
Did you eat your dinner Patch eh ?
Good dog .
Good dog you 're a good dog .
Is it still raining ?
Mhm .
You alright Jean ?
Yeah .
Right get the cigarettes out then and we 'll have a snout .
It 's warm but Jean , you 're saving coal .
Where 's your glass now ?
All the dishes
It 's alright Jean I 'll fix it .
Can we hear this Jean ?
Get down you 're not allowed up on the cushions hairs .
No cursing please .
I never got a bite in their da 's today .
He never even offered me tea or nothing .
When he left a note I heard him saying to Stephen and Kelly don't give your Uncle Raymond any biscuits .
don't open them and then he won't be cos her da says I 've noticed when we don't take the wrappings off them that your Uncle Raymond won't eat them , but when they 're laying loose
It 's a shame we haven't got
he 's like a vulture in the Kalahari .
Well you don't deserve the biscuit in this house .
what ?
Think I 'll do them windows inside .
Not now Jean , not now .
What 's he got ?
He 's chewing the bar .
What bar ?
The radiator .
My God !
You have it upside down do you not ?
I know but
I think you cheat in that game .
I don't .
I don't cheat , I
Well three hundred
three hundred and three hundred and fifty .
See when you do that Kelly so many that fall in .
See that Kelly Ann you wouldn't mind would you please , turning it off , thank you love .
Thanks love .
I just done that and I got two hundred .
Mm .
I 've got
Yes but you 're , you 're supposed to use the plungers Jean .
Yes !
A hundred .
It 's to warm up for the weekend it said .
I 've two hundred and
I 'll show you
Give me and I 'll do that one .
That 's better , well at least you can see the numbers now Is that the co colleges , no ?
It 's something about Derry somewhere .
Kelly you 're h you 're holding it wrong , you hold it like that love .
A hundred
I 've a hundred already .
See
A hundred and fifty .
a hundred and fifty .
A hundred and
I 've just a hundred now you 're winning so far by fifty points .
What one 's that ?
Aunt Jean , I have two hundred and fifty
Two hundred and fifty
I 've lost all my points , just have fifty now .
Yes !
I 've a hundred and fifty now .
I 've three hundred
Ah ah ah ah
Three hundred .
I 've got two hundred and fifty
Three hundred .
Stephen she 's going to and Brownie 's going to snap her .
That is
That is .
It is indeed .
Oh dear God
Four hundred .
Five hundred .
Six hundred and twenty .
Four hundred and
Four hundred and twenty .
I 've got five hundred .
How many did you get ?
Five hundred .
Very good .
Play on , play on .
Let 's see if I can
Are the dishes put away Jean ?
Mhm .
Thank God .
I'd 've put you out if they hadn't 've been .
I did the dishes
Five hundred and fifty Aunt Jean .
Mm ?
Five hundred and fifty
Oh two , four , five hundred four hundred and fifty .
Mhm .
It 's a hundred and fifty two hundred , four hundred four hundred and fifty
in the kitchen .
One two three four six hundred seven hundred and fifty Stephen .
seven hundred and fifty
six hundred seven hundred and fifty I 've got
one two three four five I 've seven men and a and one there 's four up there , that 's a hundred
Ah the Wonderman 's a hundred .
That 's your hundred and fifty so these are hundred and fifty one two three four five five hundred and one man oh no that 's fifty and a hundred so that 's five hundred you 've six hundred and one man loose .
Well then you 've beaten me Steve that 's only a hundred , no that 's fifty and one two three four , that 's two hundred three hundred , three hundred and fifty I hold .
That 's only fifty you see , I thought that was a hundred and fifty .
And that 's fifty , and that 's the hundred and that 's two hundred
Who 's winning ?
Stephen .
two hundred I 've a hundred , two hundred and two hundred
new shoes .
No take it ou take them away .
Leave shoes !
Go walk , bad girl , leave shoes .
Will you leave shoes come on now , come on leave shoes , leave shoes , leave shoes now
Give us them Kelly give us them over .
Yes
That 's a hundred hundred and fifty , two hundred
Who 's winning ?
two hundred and fifty
Me I think
Aye well I mean you can get twenty five pounds
er
I may want me to go and do it now ?
Aye .
Yes go on ,
Now Raymond , Raymond take Stephen down down to the shops .
Aye go on with him Stephen
Go on Stephen .
or Kelly Ann .
Give us my purse .
Get my purse Stephen , go on down with your Uncle Raymond .
Just
Go on Stephen
I 'll be about two mi I 'll be two seconds
And what time ?
Get Patch go up .
Watch er watch she doesn't get that in there , quick she 's cheating .
Are you done Jean ?
Patch , Patch Patch
Did you give her another feed tonight ?
Mhm .
Kelly .
Yes bleeding dog .
I 'll make a wee cup of tea
Did you tell your , aye thank God , did you tell your daddy the er the big fella was looking into the bin today ?
sit there and he done , done
and then , then he got that burger in the bin and he put it in his pocket .
I saw him put it in his pocket , don't know where he got it fucking act the eejit fucking walk about places in the town where he , nobody would stop them , they 'd stop me
Ha I told you
Fuck you 're lucky you 're
Told you it 's only a pup .
pup !
Not bollocks you 're teaching it
Oh aye
Fuck me
Sit , sit Patch sit down
I 've done nowt to it .
Here here
The thing 's fucking starved .
Out my way
Bloody sure it 's not .
Patch get get away , get over there , get away
Where 's the paper ?
Where 's the paper ?
Where 's the paper ?
Stay there
Lie down He 's sat down now .
Now Kelly why don't you eat that
Sit there sit sit
Kelly Ann , put that in there .
Come on Patch , come on
He 's in the army
He 's in the army and he gets you know , polish and these shoes
Oh aye .
Turn that down a bit Kelly Ann
Mm ?
Turn that down a bit
One minute he doesn't want it and then the next minute he 's
How 's your driving coming on ?
It 's alright .
Good .
It 's alright .
Good .
Er erm the instructor took Sandra out
Mhm
Well then you 'll be alright
That wee dog was up at the park this morning
Come on , good dog .
Well they have four cars they have this wee car for , to tow the caravan to the caravan sites on holiday and then he has his new car and the father has a Jaguar and then they 've some other wee car just to get them about you know .
Oh it 's a company car , he 's got a job and there 's a company car with that .
I know but it 's a company car and he 's got it all
Yes .
And er he 's two years in the army and thinks he 'll stay because there 's no life here for anybody , so he 's gonna stay on .
Well he says to Raymond but it 's not as if .
I swear to God
Aye Then he said to me
he says I don't understand the politics over here .
That boy round the corner .
What did he say ?
What time
I run now when I see him coming .
I go up the stairs .
and then Raymond comes to bed .
He says what are you doing ?
He says buckets of water and polish , no spit and polish now , it 's buckets of water and polish .
Right I don't spit on your shoes your saliva
And then they 're saying to keep him going what would you be doing now if you were in camp ?
There 's only one thing he
Well I 'd be er
Oh I walk out of the room now .
They do it for to keep him going and then they 'll say he says you know I'm used to getting up at half four and going so many miles every morning for a big jog .
He 's harmless like , you know but
but he 's harmless , that 's what I mean .
He just , he , I think he just tries to impress people you know .
Mm .
It 's all army like , constant .
Well how long 's he been in the army ?
Two years .
And it 's a life like , you know ,
He 's going back to do skiing he 's a holiday , and then he 's gonna buy , he 's got this wee car but the next thing when he goes back he 's getting
He 's got a Montego like a big Montego .
Well I mean he tells us
So it 's not here , somewhere in England .
And he , when he goes over
No well he and I
He thought I was out .
don't know why
I don't understand it at all .
And like you know
I gave mum thirty five pound because after all you know , I think she needs it he says with the price of food and all and
the money he 's on like and he comes
And he sends her money home every week , when he 's in the army and he 's not here for to help her get the place sorted out and with the price of everything so dear .
Stephen
But er he , he can't wait to get back , well he says he 's now ten days to ten days he told me .
a year Jean .
I'm alright like cos I hardly see him but yous have him all day .
young Johnny , both you and Johnny needs
I tell you I 'd be in the bed all day .
I'm not listening to him
doesn't he go out on Saturday night ?
have the money .
Well yes ,
he says , you know , he says
Kelly leave the dog alone
had no money cos erm , you know , do have the money and all , he doesn't understand I , I don't even get paid until the end of the month
Just tell him
so I'm thinking of staying there for a while
Sure I d I mean the day he took us , took us all out for dinner
Is it a good place to work do you like it ?
Aye .
Your daddy told you to knock it off now , if that goes over it 's in the fire .
I think I 'll stay
Kelly leave the dog alone
I thought the part that , you know , she forgot it er well I know she didn't forget it , she just did it on purpose , but three days after my birthday it 's her wee brother 's first birthday and she had , she had the nerve to ring me up and invite me to her brother 's first birthday party accept and go up there with a present and a card and all and she could n't even have rang me up to say happy birthday So I haven't
You 're teasing that dog .
He does , honest to God .
It is him .
No .
Something you want Johnny ?
Do you want something ?
Saturday night and stayed with his friends like and I , I and I didn't like it , I could I was lying in bed I thought I heard noises and all and I had all the windows
Well were you in the house on your own all night ?
Aha .
He stayed with his friend .
I didn't know until eleven o'clock that night he rang up and said I'm not coming home .
the girl said .
I must admit I but they rang every day and every night .
Johnny 's here
Stephen ?
I 've just had a few drinks .
That 's what Johnny says to me and then Alison rang me up this afternoon .
How long will you be in ?
I think it 's just the one day operation
in the morning , then you 're out in the afternoon .
To think this time next year left school .
I dunno , he 's talking about and he 's talking about engineering , I don't know what he 's gonna do .
Well he says he 's gonna he says round about erm December , January he 'll see if and he 's gonna ask him if there 'd be a chance of him getting in .
Who ?
William .
next year .
That 's what I'm saying , I says about December , January
Oh yes .
you 'll see your man and see if there 's any jobs for when he leaves to get in .
Mhm .
This is when
There 's good money
There 's no work for girls .
But for fellas there 's no work .
You have , really have
Do you ever watch that ?
That Harry Enfield ?
No .
Aye it 's good .
It 's very good isn't it ?
Yes .
I haven't got them .
Tired Stevie ?
The bloody dog is look , lying in your lap .
it 's all about Stevie , eh ?
You bloody chump , I said you 're going to see the and you said yes you 're gonna ask your daddy .
I said
And then Jean said she 's gonna ask your daddy to get a banger , and you 're coming with us as I know this , I am not going with you .
So there
close your eyes at
Were you making arrangements to see him later ?
No he turned round so he says
What ?
but he showed me a thing of his .
he was laughing at .
Excuse me .
Do you like Eastenders Stephen ?
Do you ?
Yeah .
What ?
can't cut it any more , it 's cut to fuck .
Well do you think , would you , would that trim your hair ?
No
Oh Jesus John of course it would !
Oh shit !
Oh fuck you John .
No , you know
Aye
things
in your wee book .
Yes .
They would do it
Ah but , no the oth no they 'll only , they only cut , my other one is that , you need a you need a need a pair secateurs , you know secateurs what secateurs are ?
I don't , er er er tell , draw them .
Secateurs have handles so they can pull apart to make the same size
What do you call them ,
only
no it 's
No what I meant Raymond only
for roses .
only they 're you know like the
the cutting edge of er er are sort of like that
Like a ?
Yes , kind of like blades and you snap them together and
With a ?
Eh ?
With ?
Just about to say
secateurs well er I need them to trim the , the a wee bush
and the rose bushes at the
Would they not trim your rose bush ?
What about the girl that 's in New Orleans ?
The car stopped , down on the ground , shot her dead , shot at him and missed , twenty seven
For nothing ?
For nothing .
And apparently it 's becoming very , you know , like a major major
Yes , they 're even giving tourists a leaflet now about the
Thank you squire , that was very good of you to notice that .
Right well Raymond
it 's , I 've a wee thing in
Can I listen to it ?
Aha .
They 're talking stereo
It 's not on
What does it say ?
it do ?
What does it do ?
it 's just a
Why did he we well why was he wearing it ?
Is that right ?
Why what about your heart ?
doctor says I 'll have a few words with him .
He said he 's in intensive care today .
surely he 'd go to hospital .
No they wouldn't let him .
hundred and thirty pound a day was it ?
Aye .
What about John ?
He 's still a bit down like .
Is he ? depressed .
But Jesus I fucking don't know
He 's down because of er what it cost him .
Do we have eggs ?
We have one Willy , one and
take that and two sugars please .
Six pound
Five
What for ?
Six pound ten Is that what it cost you to buy Willy ?
Six pound five ?
No , I swear to God Jean he had three , he had two pints and a glass , and I had three vodkas and it , Jean , don't be silly the only reason that wee bugger 's
Aye
and the last one and that 's the last .
Jean you know me better than that .
Oh aye .
Where did you get this Raymond ?
The girl comes round here doing a survey , she came round one day and we were civil to her , and just answered questions , you know the way they stop you in the street .
So she told us the last time she was round she was going on a course for that sort of thing and she said now would you like to try it said fair enough .
Do you get money for it ?
You get twenty five pound worth of vouchers
Do you ?
Marks and Spencers , right .
We were to do it from Friday to Friday but I turned on the tapes on , when was it
Last Thursday or
no Thursday
Friday
Friday and Friday tapes went into the works you know just unravelled
Aye
so I went in to pull them out , then I rang her rang her wee fella , she came round on Friday night and collected them sorry she collected them and she could n't get them back to , till the Tuesday , Tuesday .
So we Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday Friday .
?
Oh them , no they 're , they 're just leave them in son .
They 're only for very small things .
And she says you 'll still get your twenty five pound voucher .
Very good .
Which is very good of her .
tapes the first one , then she could n't get another one until
Aye
that 's all it is , just talking
Oh aye .
No no that 's the whole point .
It 's all about it 's all about regional dia you know , dialects .
Conversation and
Nobody 's gonna hear i nobody knows who it is , you don't even know them .
That 's all isn't it ?
I mean we just talk normal .
And just put down here that 's all no second names just
Why was that on when I was in ?
No .
No it wasn't on
Jean I was telling you all my problems .
No but , no for God 's sake
No you just yak , that 's it , just yak normal .
No you see if you hadn't have told me , and I was doing alright .
Dawn there 's nobody here gonna hear it
No we taped er or forty five what did he say ?
Eighty minutes and there 's twenty tapes .
I 've only got er I think that 's number six .
eight or nine and I had
Aha
but there 's , it 's not gonna , nobody 's gonna know exactly
Oh right .
people are gonna listen to it
you know ?
That 's all .
But the whole point about it is
the whole point about it is not to put on the act .
Jean make us a cup of tea love .
Yeah
The woman rang this morning from the holiday place , she said it 's overdue
It 's overdue , the payment for the holiday .
Did you not pay it ?
No , and I
and I said to her well will a cheque do from the Halifax tomorrow .
The fucking Halifax is closed tomorrow and Monday .
Oh fuck .
Oh
I was thinking , I was thinking the other day Jean never has a fucking
So I said that er twenty five quid , couple of jumpers fuck it .
Well it can't be easy like , you know what I mean , but er
Sure I know what it 's like .
the money .
And she rang me this morning for , well er it was so comical cos Gemma had said to me yesterday you know what about the holiday and I said sure that doesn't have to be paid till the end of the month and erm you sure before we go into this ?
And rang me this morning .
Well I could 've cried .
And then Gemma had that big job up for next week rang today to say
Ah , oh sick sick .
Well talk about you think you 're but that 's what Gemma said , Gemma said why don't we go out and have a spending spree
Ah
back on your feet again .
Oh ah yes .
Well if you hold on to your money you get loads and loads of work .
Yeah .
You know what I mean like
Jean the whole point about it is I gave him I , I gave him a thousand pound worth of work and one fella , a young fella ah Raymond look at that , and he gives him twenty off the drink for a year and after the year
Was he
cos , yes he was getting you know what I mean ?
Yeah .
drank
That 's right
the work that I was giving him
that 's right .
until all of a sudden it dried up .
Well I , I said don't come promising me work
Aha
trouble is I 'll ring you every night say there 's a , there 's a day 's work
Aye
spend it while you 've got it
Is he going out with ?
Aha .
He wore , he , he wears all those baggy clothes .
Ah he 's lovely him .
and his mummy 's lovely too .
And he 's the only one , he 's no brothers or sisters .
He
He 's always
Who , Peter ?
No , och well he is too Should have seen him yesterday er Jim was shouting at our and he looked at , I says it 's alright only shout
What did he say then ?
He laughed .
He 's a lovely wee fella
No don't do that .
Now come on sit down Dawn for Christ sake .
Oh yes , soon .
You alright Raymond ?
Aye .
How are you now ?
Here Raymond .
Ah thanks very much Dawn .
Willy
I don't smoke ,
Willy , Willy don't fucking con a conner , you smoke and don't be funny .
Why , why don't you smoke as long as , wait a minute , wait a minute son , as long , as long
as long as I don't catch you .
Your da knows you smoke , but he just doesn't want to see you smoking already .
I don't want to have to fucking bury you .
Jean , dead tomorrow .
I only smoke I only smoke one cigarette a day .
Did you see that tonight though on the T V about the , the ma er the English couple in er New Orleans ?
Aye , she
Fucking car pulls up ,
and they missed him .
Did you see last night ?
No .
Sleepwalking ?
Oh was it ?
Mm .
God oh I wanted to watch that .
You see a woman see a woman and your man didn't know where he was , and then she walked out one night and put her hand through the window and she ripped it from there to there and she said the doctors told her the only thing that stopped her the arm from coming off was the bone .
Well did she not know she was doing this ?
put her dick out , bone in it .
and he looked all round the room and that and then
It 's funny now , she said it as if she was you know under pressure , and she had to get up , I remember one night as if somebody was very quietly you know putting a blanket over me , that 's honest .
Oh fuck so you struggled , you could n't speak , you know
Aye
honest , for weeks and weeks I took , I don't mean every night
Ah
tablets .
Oh see before I got married , I dreamt , you know the way when you get married goes through your brain ?
Mm .
Well before I got married I had this I had this fucking dream that we could n't get our hairs done , all the girls could n't their hairs done because nowhere was open .
So we went away into this place called Short Strand
I know it well .
right
Yeah .
this is what you call this place but I
Oh
and this girl says if you go to the very top you 'll get it done
Right .
it 's an old , old house but she says at the top of the house
Ah .
but when we got up to the top of the house I needed to go to the toilet .
She says to me if you sit in between them two old men and do it .
And I said I'm not sitting between two men
Right .
she said they 'll not know you 're doing it , I swear
Doing what ?
Going to the toilet .
Oh !
I wanted to go to the toilet
Right .
you know before I got my hair done .
And I says oh God no I could n't sit between , she says I swear they 'll not know you 're doing it .
So I sit in between these two men and I
Did what you had to do eh ?
But I felt it coming out and all that
Right
I 'd done it .
And the next thing I went in and this girl was doing my hair I don't know what she was doing but I can't remember the , the dream was he says to me Dawn do you want these curling tongs left on I said what curling tongs
Cheerio
Cheerio Kerry
Cheerio
Cheerio
I said erm what curling tongs ?
Cheerio
I says what curling tongs , says you left curling tongs on , I 'd actually burnt my finger I must 've sleepwalked and I , I felt the bed when I remembered all this and it was dry so I must have sleepwalked it all and went to the toilet and done my hair cos there was a big burn all down my finger .
Honestly , and the tongs were still on , and that was at eight o'clock in the morning .
Did you dream that dream just the once then ?
Aha .
Do you ?
So it was fascinating then , the other night ?
The dream ?
All them sleepwalking
and then , and then all of a sudden
Did a man near kill himself ?
Aye
Oh that was the woman was it ?
The woman , put her hand through the window
Oh .
then all of a sudden er you 're , you 're they went to a psychiatrist or a whatever , therapist
Aha
and he said well my mummy doesn't love me
you must love your mummy .
that wee boy sleepwalks , doesn't he ?
He doesn't sleepwalk far enough .
Cheerio
thanks very much .
Can I watch this ?
No
Probably
No
Oh aye .
The spitting ?
Oh no don't do it with spit , saliva that you 're spitting to the boots you have to have water buckets of water and polish to do it I and they were up the stairs doing the boots on the grey carpet in the back bedroom and they had newspaper down
well whatever ways they must have
lumps , speckles all in the carpet .
Now it was and I turned round and I said , tried hot water and soap powder and , forget , something else ,
And erm I got down on my hands and knees I must 've done it for an hour
That 's what I said
what are you playing Will ?
Flute
Oh are you ?
Who 's doing the cymbals now ?
Whoever wants to
Would you let me do them ?
Aye go ahead .
With a wee skirt on .
Aye .
No skirt at all .
No skirt at all , just your knickers hot ones .
Aha where ?
In Lisburn ?
Willy you look tired , do you want to go to bed
What ?
Raymond
What ?
Away to your bed son .
I'm not going yet , I'm having , I'm sleeping here tonight .
You 're not sleeping there tonight , are you all fucking mad in this house ?
Yes .
like mad da .
Your what ?
Stomach .
Take a glass of milk son and go to bed .
Take your medicine .
Oh we saw Eleanor tonight .
Who 's Eleanor ?
Raymond 's Eleanor , big Eleanor , yes .
She looks better too .
Does she ?
No .
She looks beautiful .
She 's really nice so she is .
Is that the one you used to go about with ?
Oh t aye
Oh .
She 's to give him a hand lead him across the road .
Go on to bed .
Why can't I stay up ?
Well is it the front of your jeans or you , you showing off ?
Mm ?
It 's a flipping bell tent .
showing off .
Are you letting your hair grow Willy ?
Yeah
It 's nice that length isn't it ?
like that , only I would like him to get this
short .
Oh aye ?
Think Jackie used to do it .
first , honest , he admitted it he put a hosepipe down the trousers .
Our our teacher 's no
Er when remember , remember
who ?
our teacher .
He doesn't .
Cos he 's
he 's married and has to get sperm to get children .
Who 's this ?
A teacher in our school .
he has an artificial one .
Has he ?
Dick ?
Mhm .
Cos he was , he takes for a pee anyway
Did he tell you ?
Is , is it 's artificial ?
Well what was it like ?
Aye what colour was it Willy ?
It 's
Was there hairs on it ?
Was it ?
He 's a fucking pervert , report him .
He must get it , he must get it
Report the bastard .
It 's not that big .
Report the bastard .
massive ?
Raymond away to bed son , you 're not well .
Go on I promise you if you miss anything I 'll tell you tomorrow .
Oh I'm er , it 's nothing to do with
it 's no use going up to look at four walls , it makes it worse , again .
Well go to fucking sleep .
If you 've got ta count the sheep count that , count that Eleanor jumping over the fucking be wardrobe .
Poor Eleanor , her ears must be red .
Do you never see her Raymond
Raymond please .
Raymond I think you 'll end up with her
No .
Would you not ?
Well she 's got somebody else , she lisps .
That 's what they say .
Is he a big lad ?
I don't know I 've never seen him , but
He does !
Does she still live round here ?
Over there .
And works up ?
Oh Carole came in er Saturday night I says you 've no skirt on looking for John , I said
Belt
a couple of nights later up the stairs , it was wild .
Who ?
Johnny .
Johnny
Och Johnny 's Carole ?
Sorry no Johnny , no no John , aye .
do you suppose they got that name because she was always
Oh my Jesus , oh Willy , that is filthy !
Oh for fuck 's sake .
slippers mummy .
He 's fucking
What ?
Any slippers ?
No I have no slippers .
Willy a Willy Willy away to bed , Raymond away to bed son , go on you get yourself sorted out for the morning , go on son .
before my da hits the roof .
I'm not gonna hit the roof but you 're not well , it 's not right .
I don't know you 're not well your father 's getting
Give us that Willy
Just saying on Saturday .
Oh it 's just too bad Willy .
Goodnight
Goodnight then .
Night .
Are you alright son ?
Monday ?
Sixty five P .
Thirty five then .
Aye thirty five for a youngster .
Give us a light please Jean .
Ah so are they ?
They 're all going up on Monday .
And like they try and tell you to use public transport because there 's too many cars on the road .
Mm .
I sixty five on Monday .
Where are you going Dawn ?
Going to your mam ?
Aye .
Is that a hundred and thirty return then ?
Aye .
Mhm .
Think I 'll get myself , if I in er invested about forty quid in a new pair of er trainers I 'd fucking walk down Road in no time .
Why don't you get a bike ?
It 's two pound return from er our place to Belfast
Is it ?
on the train .
Dad why don't you get a bike ?
It 's not bad like .
Not if you consider , I mean it 's , how far away it is from here .
That 's right .
Daddy
Si what son ?
Why don't you get a bike ?
Mm ?
Ah keep you healthy and fit .
What 's in there ?
Boots , the wrong size or
Oh that 's Johnny
Johnny
Johnny 's are like big motorbike boots
Mm
Well all you hear talking about army , army , army
How long is he home for ?
He 's lonely .
Ah
Yeah when he comes home he 's lonely .
And I 've a feeling he 's lonely over there and all
Well not , not really now he 's , he 's a harmless wee fella like he is harmless .
Has he got any bigger like cos he was small like ?
No well he 's not , no I would say he has a bit , yeah .
A wee bit , not much .
Well built like , or still skinny ?
Oh he 's not skinny , no I don't think he 's skinny , no no .
Would you not join the army Willy ?
I'm going to .
Oh are you ?
Fuck he could n't get in the
The Queen 's Guards with the big furry you know .
You could n't get in the Band of Hope .
Ah
for Christ sake .
You just have to look respectful
What band 's Billy in ?
two drummers and four fluters .
Was he ?
No but we were supposed to have been playing in er where was it ?
Derry with two drummers and four fluters and a bass drummer and no it 's the truth supposed to have er cut down the size of the and for triangles they 're supposed to be er cut right to two spoons .
Who told you that ?
Someone
Does in Lisburn ?
Aye .
?
No .
Who won ?
Queen 's Guards from Ballymena
What about Liverpool the other night , they were lucky were n't they in the
There was no glory in their win
I know
sure there wasn't .
I felt sorry for
Yeah .
Portsmouth like
Mhm .
There was no glory in the
No well I mean in
in er Liverpool 's win
all fairness
Well I said cos I said that 's Liverpool won this
Yeah
and they 're more experienced like .
Yes they are .
And your man Jimmy Hill said that afterwards , like that wasn't fair , it should n't be done on that .
Not at all .
But there was no
but Portsmouth took , took them two matches , supposed to do it extra time like .
Yes .
There was no glory in it at all
No .
None whatsoever .
In fact they should be ashamed of themselves
That 's right .
letting Portsmouth , Portsmouth you know take them so far .
Mhm .
So I just hope Sunderland whip them now .
Sunderland will beat them .
They will , er they say a second division team will win it this year .
It 's not the first time .
Well what 's saying ?
Och don't be silly Jean he was
said that at the beginning of the year , I don't know what way they predict this or whatever way they it goes you know
Yeah and I had my bottle of wine and all drunk before the end
I was jumping round the house .
I said
Wait till you hear what fucking happened to us on Sunday ,
bottle of wine and I drunk it you see , watching the match , and Jim done the dinner I said fuck it I'm having my dinner in here cos , didn't it go into extra time ?
Yes it did
Aye
and I said
The match never went into extra time
Yeah .
It did .
didn't !
Sure they won one nil in fourteen minutes they were up one nil and France could n't score
Aye in extra time was it not ?
You 're probably thinking of the goals that were scored Saturday .
Cos put , scored the goal
That 's right .
at fourteen minutes .
You 're thinking of
Sorry you 're right no what it was we was watching
goal of the week .
No , the , the , the extension of them going up for the cup and all , that 's what it was .
Oh aye .
So that 's when I was eating my dinner , when they were going up for the cup and she fell asleep , well you know with the wine in you , here was my eyes all out for the count .
Our William was standing in the rain from half five trying to get into our house
Oh Jesus .
I opened my eyes at fucking five to six and I could see him at the window Ken ran then across the road and he says Dawn your brother 's been trying to get in for ages .
and he was soaked , he actually had tried first then he went round the back , the back door was closed so he tried to take shelter under the oil tank
Yes .
God help him .
he sat there
Jesus .
I tried the back again , he bladdered it and he bladdered the f front , but says he was just about to go when I opened one eye .
So I says round the back or something .
And I opened the door and let him in and he was telling me I 've been here half an hour trying to get in .
His dinner was l sitting under the grill , I lift it out , set it on the fucking table , and I says I'm away in here to waken
Aye
you know
Yeah
just to waken myself I woke up at ten past seven .
Oh dear
William William
shouting up , he was left .
God .
He 'd fucking had his dinner at six o'clock , I don't even know what I rang the club later , I tell you like , twenty past he 'd arrived at the club and he was early , where 'd you go ?
I left about ten to seven to go and get the seven o'clock bus
Jesus
Yous looked that comfortable I didn't wanna waken yous , oh Christ !
And er when he went to get the seven o'clock bus it drove past him .
Oh God !
half seven bus , and there was me waking at ten past seven picked him up fucking dinner and here 's me I'm away in here to waken up .
See the heat and all it would just knock you out
Yes .
I think it was the wine that made me real tired .
See when I go down to John 's now I'm out like a light there .
I know .
you 're waking up , yes , yes y alright , , out again .
Then they tell their da .
Do they ?
That you 're asleep .
And then you know the way your he head goes over and you
Oh !
Maybe reading the Daily Express , you get up and the fucking paper 's all over the floor and you
I know .
you 've kicked it when you oh God .
Raymond goes
But I don't sleep
Ah
here well I did tonight like cos I was up at half five
Aha
but normally I can't sleep here I al I always admired anybody that could sleep with a for yea it 's only this last couple of years I can do it , no I mean I 'll doze .
Aye .
Oh I
But now I slept this morning on the settee .
Er see well I 've just got ta lie down in the afternoon for ten minutes and I'm alright .
I used to do that when I was working and I had to leave at half four , used to do our kids , see when that clock gets to nine waken me I'm fucking cold out our Ashley said mummy it 's after nine
Ah
and I used to say aye five minutes , five minutes
I know , isn't it awful
and then there 's me , tell me when it gets to eleven and like I had to go and get a shower and put the dinner all out and all before I left at half four .
Then I used to go round the fucking I 'd say why didn't you waken me be
Oh I used to say a half an hour and then when they ran to waken me I 'd say give me five more minutes and then another five minutes
and I actually ended up with forty five minutes
That 's right .
and then you got up and then you were all
That 's right .
getting ready cos , you know
Mhm .
But you see now come in for dinner after my dinner
Aye
but it knocks me all off then , I don't feel , I feel tired but I'm not tired when I go
Yes .
to bed .
One night , there was one night here about er half nine I was really tired but , with them being out I wasn't , you know , I like to go to bed when they come in and I was so tired when they come in when I got up
I was overtired and I could n't go off to sleep .
And I remember saying one time to our doctor
about being tired and the same thing happened , waiting on them coming in and then going to bed and I could n't get over
Aye
and she says well , it was Doctor but Jean she says you 've been so tired you should 've went of bed when you felt tired because with sitting
Mhm
you 've been overtired and you haven't been able to get to sleep very well .
I says well I never knew you could be overtired she says oh yes you can .
Oh yes if something 's on your mind you can't sleep at all .
That 's right .
Well I fucking done th see last Thursday I done our front garden and our back garden , I don't know what fucking else I didn't do , and then I was storming out and the fucking dishes Willy
I said I 've fucking done the ga and like I normally , soon as our dinner 's finished I don't even take a cigarette , I wash all the dishes and dry them , wash the cooker
the table and then put a cup of coffee on
Aye
and a cup of coffee and a cigarette , and I always do that but this day I was so tired after the doing the garden , both gardens like and fucking weeding them all and doing everything else and brushing out the back and doing I said to him for fuck 's sake do them dishes for me for a change William would you I said , so I got er got myself in the bath said I'm away to bingo , so William 's gone out what happened ? eight , I had eight he had one you may get yourself I said ah fuck no wonder I have no fucking luck , so on the settee and said I'm not going anywhere , I sat for ten minutes then I said ah fuck you why should I sit here so I lifted the car keys and walked out again then , fucking zooming out of and there was John coming up like that
Oh
what 's happening ? fucking dishes aren't even they were actually sitting on the table
Yeah
the way I 'd left them .
Nothing was touched in the kitchen .
I mean the deep fat fryer , the lid was off and the pots are sitting
Yeah
on the thing and I said well he 'll have to be fucking stretched if they come to that door and none of them dishes and the best of it was the front door wouldn't open
Oh
and I says then we 'll have to come in the back and all them dishes standing there and , and that 's one thing John hates , if any of his ones come up
Och aye yeah
Well fuck when I come back up he near had the fucking front door broke trying to get it open so that they 'd come in the front and I see the kitchen door 's closed and I just walked in and I said well John the dishes or nothing 's done if you wanna go and have a look because he wouldn't do them .
I just fucking told them straight , I said we had an argument and I never done it
Well you didn't go to bingo then ?
No
When you saw them , you come back yeah
Well I er I came back because I thought to myself
You had to come back .
well like you know ?
Well that 's true .
So now I just don't give a shit , I do the dishes and
Well now you see the week that William 's down the John 's , in John 's and they 'll tell you all erm once the tea 's over the dishes , I do the dishes right away
Sure I do though .
and have the kitchen done
Aha
but when Raymond 's here , Raymond 'll fill
?
aha
?
No thanks love .
Raymond 'll fill the sink
Cup of coffee your mum 's gonna make for Dawn .
and for and
Jim does that .
Jim
No don't , no , not normally Jean I don't .
and in the head I says they could be washed , and dried and put away .
But then Raymond 's gotten now
No I don't normally do that .
that he 'll wash the dishes
And then leave them on the rack .
I 've seen them sitting down to their dinner no no
and leave them on the rack and
I see them down to their dinner and I have the pots done before I take a bite
Aye
Oh aye .
But Raymond 's way of doing the dishes
I hate dishes sitting done , oh fuck I
And I hate dishes sitting Raymond I really do
Because your kitchen 's dirty when
Forget it , forget it
Well I have , I don't know how many , Jim does not like doing dishes , I don't like doing dishes
Oh I don't mind , I don't mind .
but Jim doesn't and there 's many the night I have fought with him and I haven't done the dinner dishes I haven't done the supper dishes
I'm leaving them now for you , I'm not doing them and I 'll leave every fucking plate in this house till you do them because I'm sick of it .
But do you , you know the best way to do it ?
Now say for instance er I do the pots
Aye
because there 's no room in the wee
Rack , aye
rack for fucking plates , so I put them away and the best way to do it is if sit at the table , you wash and I 'll dry or I 'll dr you er dry and I 'll wash , well what
Jim wouldn't .
Jim sticks them all in that rack
Half , half the time
Raymond
Aha
Yeah
well I don't , I wash and put them on the rack
But all
then get the dryer , dry them , do the tops and then it 's all done .
Yes , yes but if you do that you 're , you 're , you 're tea towel 's soaking and at the end of the night
nothing 's getting dried .
You can dry no gla a gla what does a glass look like if it 's had a di dry with a damp cloth ?
I do all my glasses first
Fuck all
Raymond .
Oh well it , right enough , yeah .
I just do all my glasses first , and leave them on the draining board
Do a cup of coffee now Jean for God 's
because by the time you 've got all the dishes done , the glasses have all drained off and then
Aha
I dry them first and put them away
I do that
and then put
Aha
the plates and cups
That 's right that 's right .
But then I fucking
I hate dishes .
And I hate anything sitting on the table top .
Aye .
If I had , if I had room I 'd have nothing , toaster and that I hate it all
That 's right .
But yet I happened to say to Carole one night , she says no I love to see what I bloody own well I suppose it 's you 've got microwave and a wee oven or whatever
Well my fucking , my deep fat fryer 's sitting out we got an electric one we used to have the one that was on the cooker
Aha .
Electric one 's far safer isn't it ?
Oh aye
that one that was on the cooker .
Mhm .
And see when we got the hob
I wouldn't have one about now .
remember when we switched
Yes
the hob ?
Jim says we 'll get an electric one because you don't want a new thing sitting in there and erm it sits in the corner cos I have no room in my units for it .
Oh we 've plenty of room there for that you know .
But then the
I 've got
minute it 's cold I put it in
Aye see I 've no room .
put the lid on it and put it in .
But they 're far safer Dawn .
Aye .
But sure here 's me and all , right we 'll get a new set of pots for this hob and we 'll not destroy them
Aye .
I fucking let milk boil over the other night and I can't get it off .
Well
we got the hob clean
Oh right
right , it 's no good , let me tell you , it 's fucking useless .
Jim says that some man he was doing a job for
Use Jif .
No apparently it takes the whole top of it
Och I use Jif .
I 'll tell you what I do you know like it goes black ?
Aye
.
You see a paint scraper ?
Mm .
I scrape it .
Do you really ?
Oh aye .
Scrape it , then I get the Jif on my finger , you know round the cloth round the finger
Mhm .
do that .
Tea ?
Please .
Do you want
But er I 'll tell you the most dangerous thing a tin of peas , if you put it into your pot there 's sugar in it , if you look at that , the ingredients
Aha
on a tin of Batchelor , there 's sugar in them
Mm
right ?
Now one day , you can't leave it on the hob , one day we were sitting here and I don't normally , if I put anything on I sit in there rea you 've seen me go in on a Sunday
Aye
reading the paper and all while I'm watching whatever 's on
Aye
but we let it run over and the sugar the hob and it , there 's , there 's a chunk out of it
You 're joking .
it 's actually bubbled the glass , there 's a big groove in it , you can see it in the back ring , I'm telling you .
And if we 'd
So even a bit of custard would
if we , if we'd 've left it long enough
Aha
it would right through the element .
But I use a paint scraper .
Now , I mean if you run your finger over it , right ?
Aha
And you can feel where , where the rough edge is
Aha
and you just very easy with Jif that
some man tell him is it a spray or a lotion or something ?
Some type , some type of liquid .
I would say well use Mr Muscle on it oven cleaner , but you have to
Dawn how much sugar in your coffee ?
Two .
Two please .
wh where you put it .
I 've used a paint scraper .
See the milk pot , I made the , Jim likes milky coffee
Right .
he said to me do me milky coffee
Yeah .
made with all milk you see , and I put this on the other day , it was Monday , and I put it on for a cup of coffee , well Jim was out the front with Tom cos Tom fixed the front door
Right
and I went out to tell him and he started talking to me for something and when I came back in the fucking milk !
Oh we
And there with the heat on still it all just burnt to hell
That 's right that 's right .
But it 's still , Raymond I can't get it off .
Well I , I 've , but er , no but er the only reason you haven't got it off , if you use Jif , I 've used Jif
And I put that hob cleaner and all on it like .
Well I don't know what it does , but the only reason you can't get it off is you 're not working it , it 's hard work to get it off Dawn .
Oh .
Well I 'll show you the , the what do you call it , the back , what the sugar did , and I'm putting it down to sugar .
Aye and don't forget to show her what the fat done , up the thing beside the thing .
Daddy come here .
What son ?
What is it ?
I'm sorry love , I 'll do it you know that
Two thousand
I 'll do it before you 're up in the morning
lean over
What ?
is that speed two thousand three hundred and twenty two ?
Let me see son .
performance , maximum speed
Get me a light Jim .
two thousand metres an hour
he talks every night ?
I done the di
She kno everybody knows you do it love .
done the dishes and all and had the house kept and all clean for you
Here you are Raymond , your drink .
Raymond .
Oh thanks Dawn .
before I'm coming down this morning .
get my matches .
I don't need , I said to Jim get us my matches , I said give us yours , mine 's upstairs says you don't need a light sure Jean , I 'll have a light
daddy ?
and come back again .
Yeah
Alright ?
Alright .
Say come back again and she should n't be long .
Alright then .
now .
Alright then .
Right .
Swear to God start from er the middle of that alleyway to the shops
Mhm .
he 'd still
they 're well trained
Who are ?
in the army .
That 's why you should join , why he 's getting the girls like cos you 're going
Ah fuck don't say that .
gorgeous like .
But all the women you 'd get .
You do , do .
?
Mhm .
I think you 'd be lovely in the army , cos you 've the build and all for it .
Go ahead love .
He 's lovely , about ten years older .
Aye well
Grow your wee moustache .
I'm going to .
Well you would suit one .
The last time , Dawn if I grew a beard the ginger comes through it , I grew a moustache , it was ginger
Jim 's is ginger .
Yes .
Jim 's is ginger .
brown hair .
It 's the grey hairs or
Oh Jesus fucking in the name of , Willy get a shovel
shovel Willy
over here .
Go on , get out
Here son .
Here Willy er t turn your head Dawn , sorry
Oh fuck .
Yeah .
Here , here , here never mind him , he 's alright , he 's himself .
I'm gonna be sick .
Come here Willy .
Urgh urgh urgh urgh ooh ooh fuck me that was a
Come here here Willy
Oh fuck
here Willy no Willy quick I don't want my spaghetti here .
Is that what he had , spaghetti ?
Oh fucking , suffering , fucking Jesus Christ the dirty , Jean get the mop
urgh urgh
Here Dawn take this up to the children .
Ooh
Fuck I Jean get the hot water , oh fuck !
Willy .
come on .
Get the mop and bucket
Urgh
Oh fuck .
And yet a stranger being sick I could clean up .
Oh I could n't .
Oh I , no , I could , it wouldn't annoy me , but you see a dog
fucking spaghetti .
here , go on , here .
You 're gonna walk in it .
Watch behind the door Raymond , you 're gonna walk on it , get the mop and bucket .
Jean away and get the basin love .
We 've done our bit .
Oh for fuck !
Oh I'm getting fucking out of here , oh my God
It 's spaghetti
I know .
No it 's not Raymond , it 's fucking ringworm
Oh shit don't go fucking and saying ooh
Is it all lifted ?
Raymond it 's not all lifted .
Well
Why fucking sick Raymond .
I used to have a good strong stomach but see now
Sick
Well I told him , I told him not to feed but they 're fucking
Did you not hear out in the street ?
Now I told yous not to feed but no yous a fucking big shit , yous know it all .
Come on and lift it .
Lift that , there 's no point in me mopping that till that 's lifted .
Aye
Willy that 'll do .
Willy alright .
and go to bed .
Go and get the er er the shovel
Where was Willy ?
In the fucking sink .
Oh fuck .
in the bin .
Dawn 's not coming back just yet
Any fucking wonder
I know
that air freshener
Ooh fuck .
Where 's Willy ma ?
I'm drinking
Down the sink .
That was mine
How about drinking that coffee son ?
Would you believe that ?
I mean
see I fed the dog Dawn , I get a and er I fell , well , he got fed about five o'clock tonight you know .
But you 're overfeeding him I told mum that
Raymond I don't overfeed the dog son
I would have him like a fucking Biafran .
Was he sick in the hall ?
Oh aye just down the corner , it 's just there .
There .
Yeah .
You 're giving him anything that we eat , you can't do that with dogs
Oh Christ .
Did you hear that ?
Oh !
I 've fucking
Well don't be
and he thought there was somebody in , masks on them , and guns in their hands .
He 'd have been fucking if there had 've been .
Look at your man in East Belfast
Aye and everybody was cheering him .
bastard bastard beat everybody up .
I do .
Or else somebody , somebody 's is feeding him outside .
No Jean .
Generally if you 're at home for the bins and all and I fucking
Ah but there 's no bins now I mean with the wheelie bins they 're the g best thing ever , stops rats , dog everything .
That 's right .
Now that was pure spaghetti Jean .
Come on now , come on there 's ladies present , come on .
I never even looked at it .
I had to shovel it up .
I 'll never look at spaghetti as long as I live .
Oh Jean !
Did you hear him spew Dawn , did you hear him ?
Oh fuck ooh did you hear out in the street as well as ?
Mhm .
Ah no , ah no , aye probably did .
Have a look Willy , do you see it ?
Aye .
Is there a ?
No just a wee tiny bit
You must have got them all spread
No I don't know where the first one is .
Willy ?
Aha
, oh fuck .
Mm ?
Check the side of your car .
Mhm .
Come on Willy .
I washed them trainers our Johnny given me and I cleaned them for him to try and save and then them black shoes for school to save his boots for the
Mhm .
cos Dawn
at school are you ?
Just running about , what are you doing all day ?
I am gonna join the army .
Are you ?
Paras .
What age are you now Willy ?
Fourteen
Side of your mouth is all white there Willy .
No it 's just white .
You can see it from here ,
on your chin .
Hope you were n't glue sniffing .
Aye I was .
It was a spot that kept on
He did .
He 's not like you Jean is he ?
Who ?
Willy .
Well my Aunt Jenny was saying
What ?
He 's like Jean .
Do you think so ?
Ah .
God help you Willy
He 's dead swarthy too , so are you .
I'm not swarthy , swarthy .
Och you are , Jean , isn't you ?
Aha .
Like a tawny skin .
Well everybody says that Jonathan 's a picture of my ma
Oh fuck he 's drinking out of that cup look look he 's a devil , he 's a
Oh no , oh oh fuck this house I'm not coming back
Willy in the , in the thing there .
the cup was in the
Fucking shame an Easter egg .
For fuck 's sake .
Give us my cup over .
Give me my cup over .
Yeah he actually had a
I remember the fella I used to go with , his grandma Cissy she , she used to fucking get the dog a cup , it was his cup like , to drink his tea .
She used to make him a cup of tea and used to drink it herself .
Oh no I don't like that .
Well she had this cup for him , there was no handle on it and she knew it was the dog 's so
and one night we were all
whole lot of us , about eight of us
somebody says get cups down , they were filled , no full of drink like and I get this fella this cup with no handles oh no that 's the dog 's cup
Fuck .
Oh fuck , I sat there
The , the interviewer the other day said that she was somebody stopped her in Sandy Row , at the bottom of Sandy Row ,
Mhm
and or she went to the door
with tins all over the sitting room .
different sizes .
she says the hum , and then she was telling us when she brought the tape back the other day one of her interviews was telling her she was interviewing this man s er out of , out of the blue take off all your clothes please .
Oh she says I could n't possibly , my husband would be annoyed , he said no , take them off
Oh fuck !
the woman
That was like that was like your man big Albert when they were out and this fucking fella says to him do us a favour mate and he says aye , no problem I 'll do it if I can he says well would you go out sta put your take your trousers down , show us your arse
Oh
so Albert said well too fucking cold for that out there and anyway we 're too busy he had me
How much , how much would you get a week in the paratroopers ?
Willy I have no idea son .
Well it takes you , I would , you have to have be in the army
I have no idea .
and then go for a paratroopers '
You , you apply for , yes
That 's what I mean .
course thing , it was on the T V , did you not see it ?
Oh it was
Fucking hard work
Know what I hated about the fella failed the test
Och
the man shouting across the square at him .
You know they made a of him
Aye I know
least he fucking tried
I know
shot the fucking bastards .
It 's fucking hard course
Oh fuck it is .
Course there 's no room for mistakes like , I mean they
That 's what Jim says , they 're hard , they 're hard bastards like .
Yeah .
They really are .
and I 'd like to go as an army chef or an army mechanic
Would you now ?
or
just join the Royal Engineers .
or the the helicopters
Well Willy you 'll not get it without er working hard at school , that 's where it all starts .
It starts in school .
That 's right it does .
See years ago you used to
Yous do your week 's training , why don't you go to the army cadet for a week ?
Well he was in it but he won't go back .
Years ago you used to have the boys ' service you see ?
Aye .
Because , now Lyndsey joined it and he , he said like when he was eighteen he knew it all , and he says you were watching men of twenty who 'd just joined at training
Ah
and he says they looked he says but I never forgot what I looked like , or what I when he started , but you can't join the boys ' service now .
He had to come out with diabetes and all , he 's a pension .
That fella I used to go with , he w joined the Royal Engineers
Ah
had to write down have you ever been in borstal or
Aye .
well he was in and he never wrote anything down and he got a fucking queen 's thingie after a year put him out
Oh aye ?
after they found out all about him
Aha
and that he had told lies , what is it , you break er
You commit perjury or something do you ?
Oh fuck
Anyway you haven't played fair with them .
Aye .
Sure Micky his er , I think it 's his uncle
Aha
or his father , was inside and he got and he got his MP on the job
Aye .
Good .
Mhm and he was held up because of it and they got Martin on the job and he wrote to hi er to the War Secretary , whatever you call it , you know Secretary of State
Mm cos your man was put , he was he was put er for a year
You see they find out
at the queen 's pleasure or something
Now I listen to there , I don't listen as often now unless there 's something big on , and you hear them , you know , check on , whatever it is , your vehicle check and I have seen them as little as five seconds coming back and saying who owns that car
Ah .
it 's a blue Toyota registered to Mr Jim
Aha .
at blah blah blah whatever it is , that 's how quick they are .
That 's right .
So if they can do that , they can look up anything .
Aha .
Cos do you wanna know why I 'd like to go for a mechanic , do you know why ?
No son .
Cos see , see your man Gary down there ,
Aye
Gary , see when he wants something done to his car , he came to me , that 's where I was tonight
Well that 's good .
Well you could go as a mechanic like , you can go as different things , whatever
Cos he 'd got an exhaust and want me to put do you know where
How much did you get for it ?
he he says he might give me
Fuck Willy
Oh Willy er Willy you 'll get nowhere like that .
Cos he would maybe , you see you 've got ta say now , would that fella take anything from me for er you know helping me if he 's decent and he won't then you help him .
But don't let them make a pig of you .
Cos like that and then there was the , like a like a barrel thing
Mhm
in the middle ?
He wanted me to put that bit on , you know there are the two bolts
Mhm
that come behind the
and the mud flaps ?
The way you put that in the middle and the carburettor 's up the top
the back end of the exhaust ?
Aye .
He wanted me to fix it and put the glue stuff on because it was
Oh he was sniffing sniffing
Oh aye .
Is that Gary ?
put it on .
No he lives
Aye but you won't be able to smoke if you 're in the army , Willy .
You 'll not jump over too many er high walls Willy with smoking
No that 's right .
I'm telling you .
We do assaults course at school .
Ah
about from here past Sandra 's house
Mm .
and it 's all big climbing things , you have to them .
Willy let the dog out to do what it wants to do .
Let him out in the garden Willy .
Give us that book over on your way past .
I know
He 's lovely isn't he ?
Who ?
Willy .
He really is beautiful
Do you think so ?
Aye he 's lovely .
That 's why I would love him to really wake up and get a good job or
You can't t er
I says to him
Dawn you can't talk to him , I'm telling you , I 've tried .
I says to him cos you 're gorgeous .
Och he is lovely his hair and all and his face and
Mhm
He can't .
Like you take , you take your sons why wasn't I born first
I know .
Johnny did you see ?
Ah .
And where is he ?
Och Willy er Johnny don't be so ill mannered .
Jo come in in five minutes
Ah ?
They 're nice .
Aye they are .
Willy is this our book ?
Aye .
Oh fuck .
Sure do you see what 's
Twenty four pound ninety five .
Do you see what it says on the sides ?
Read the bottom .
Not to be taken away .
Oh for , did you steal it Willy ?
That has to be taken back .
No they don't know there 's about seven thousand million books in our library .
remember I says they were in a sale in school
Aye .
I know son
I know that .
Oh He 's as bad , he 's pulling the fucking sticker off .
No
the headmaster tomorrow he comes down here and has a good look round
There is about eleven thousand books in our library .
At the rate you 're going , by the time you leave , they 'll be lucky if there 's
I got John to join the library and I take and I 've got his er I 've got his ticket .
Why don't you bring me down some day and somebody steal it
You know what I hate about it ?
There 's some of the books are filthy that people leave back , you 've no idea .
What ?
Did they ? twenty five to twelve I make it twelve .
Maybe Jim 'll have the dishes done .
The what ?
Maybe Jim 'll have the dishes done when you 're back .
They 're showing the Grand Prix the final
Oh they 're showing Naked Gun on the television .
Ah on Easter Monday night
I haven't seen that .
I have .
The er Grand Prix 's on , that 's right .
Is it ?
Aye
Grand Prix only started at quarter past eleven .
I went to take Wendy 's laundry round Tuesday night I forget why I was , I don't know , well I didn't call but I just drove on and got myself a says Jim you 're early tonight , quarter past ten .
Thought you were
I wouldn't have seen you for another hour .
Well on , was it Friday night
Och he knows you 're in safe hands like when you come round here .
Ah
was it Friday night
after the fucking dog 's puking round me and the fucking
Oh fuck
dog 's licking out of the cups .
Oh Jesus .
this library
in your face
That 's going back .
it was stolen
I said it 's going back , I didn't say it was stolen .
It is .
and me and your ma 's sitting here , well ooh
My stomach 's turning yet .
Dawn 's missing the football because of the final of the Grand Prix .
Did you watch the football on Sunday ?
She says
I don't know about
And left her poor st her brother standing in the hall .
Och man don't talk nonsense !
Aye .
They didn't deserve to win .
Nonsense .
Our William was left standing out in the street for half an hour soaking .
When ?
I drunk a bottle of wine and fell asleep after the match .
Where was ?
He was sleeping .
Oh .
And here 's me with one eye and here 's I could fucking see our William , here 's me round the back then me I'm away in here to waken up , fuck ten past seven
We came up from York Street today , you know we walked
Aha
Court ?
And er whatever way I brought them we ended up in Street and you know the King George the Sixth Hall ?
Yes .
The big hall there ?
Well our company decided to send us for a fucking first aid course and this , it 's er most embarrassing on this particular night we 'd stopped in er in the Chapel Hill in Lisburn
Aha .
I was drinking Monk and Monk was a heavy beer so fuck I gets out of the car and fucking oh fuck , but anyway said to me look I 'll go up , say my name , and I 'll bring you home , I was living with my sister at the time and I sat on a wee low wall , I'm just the wall , fu fuck I , in the middle of the day , nobody , they were just drinking er Dawn this is way were , it 's fucking maybe twenty five years ago , twenty six and er fuck he sat me on the wall he had to s I could n't see he says to me er fucking I heard a voice , Raymond like this is the exam tonight you 'll have to sit there .
I says alright Dawn er Graham , I could n't lift my fucking head .
So I'm sitting and getting worse if I opened my eyes it went like that , the whole fucking sky was going round .
So I'm sitting all I can hear , I 'll never forget it ah God help him fucking somebody from ah Go God help him next thing will we get an ambulance ?
Say no I'm alright and I must 've lifted my head , all I could hear was this old scraggy voice like a witch , ah serve the fucking bastard right , the fucking honest to fuck , so I must 've sat for another half an hour and I knew I had to go that way to get home .
I ended up on the front fucking wheels of a pushbike
I swear to God , in Willington Place I 'll , pitch black , never forget it .
And all I remember was saying oh !
There between my legs , the front wheels , and I ended up holding the handlebars and staring into this wee boy 's face a look of sheer fucking terror on his face ,
fucking , oh j I don't know how I got home .
All I can hear to this , to this day remember is flashing lights and doo doo doo doo doo doo doo doo go home you bastard !
Doo I must 've crossed every fucking road
Well Peter I sa la one night last week oh it was the week before I was going up past and this fella was walking and he was fucking staggering and he was going on the road and Peter 's came back and fucking him .
Oh aye ?
Ah
Sure her her sister was coming er down , er t Carole was coming down Donegal Avenue one night and said to John fuck some woman 's gonna have a rough time she says
?
ah she said she saw this fella hitting the wall and hitting the football halfway out in the road , it was fucking me .
oh Christ !
Ah but everybod er sorry , they did things for me
Oh aye
bastard .
Do you not see her much Jean ?
if you ev if she ever says to you she has n't seen you since whatever it was , you say Carole it works both ways , I haven't seen you either .
Like I mean if I like five minutes we 're all down to
Aha that 's right .
but then her excuse would be but I mean he can't be on shift
He 's not on shift work every week .
every week if you
No .
know what I mean .
No that 's right .
Like she wasn't too busy when she brought the youngsters
And
home last Saturday , or whatever it was , to come round .
She wasn't even with him , it was him brought them round himself .
Who ?
John .
See she 'll always
John 's kids and Sandra 's ?
No they 're John 's
No , no no no once every .
She buys them and takes them to and all
but the point is she uses us to get to John , so it 's like would you ask John .
And I feel like saying
Instead of going fucking asking herself .
Yes exactly .
Exactly .
Mhm .
You know th the statement
a mother keeps a family together , which I think 's true , and then when the mother goes the family are still keep in contact
Well no , a mother , a mother might keep a family together in the sense that they all meet there on a Saturday
Mhm
but a mother can't make the family like each other any better
That 's right .
you know ?
They can't .
See your mum was te terrorized of Carole
She wasn't ?
Aye she was afraid of Carole sure
Yes .
on a Saturday when she used to come .
And that 's wrong but if you , if you told Carole that she wouldn't believe you .
But I know she was .
And I 'll tell you better than that
aye sure she oh Jesus Christ our Carole 's coming .
I 'll tell you better than that and I didn't know until her John told me .
He says do you know that they get cooked ham sandwiches and you get toast ?
I says you 're joking .
Well who gets cooked ham sandwiches ?
When Carole and John went down , they were sat down , cooked ham sandwiches .
When Jean and I went down the toaster was put on .
We got toast .
I didn't know it
used to get the ham for Carole , that 's right ,
Yes , mhm .
Aha .
And made them a f and they look for their fry every Saturday and I stopped doing it .
Like when your mother got to that age , as John told me , you bring her in the food
That 's right .
Ah
she doesn't bring it in for you .
That 's right .
Now I thought it was wrong , I even stopped them getting a fry .
Well see when I used to get
Fucking pan was rotten anyway .
but used to say I hate them , I hate them coming you know ?
Mm .
And I , but I used to get them a and pork chop , you know ?
Cos she was on her own
Ah
you know , enough to do her and a pork chop for couple of days .
And then when I went up home , I 'd have took them out and put them in the fridge and she says what are you doing and I says well that 's a couple of day 's meat for you and she says no no take that off home , take that off home , I 've and I says no that 'll do you .
You should n't have done that , I says shut up , I says do you a couple of days .
Ah .
And she used to get them ham , that 's right .
Yeah .
Mhm .
their lemonade
It was fucking
You wouldn't ha you wouldn't have done it to a dog though .
Yeah that was Debbie .
Oh Debbie
Debbie
Fuck Jean remember the day we found her on the floor ?
After I was talking about
I fucking wet myself laughing , oh it was nerves but Raymond I never st did I stop laughing ?
She could n't stop .
And God forgive me Jean don't panic
Ah
and I here 's me , what the fuck are you do don't panic to help me up , just don't panic just get me on the settee
I said Jean don't lift her there 's something wrong with her leg .
and then when I see her leg was swollen
Aye
Oh fuck !
And then when they were taking her in the ambulance , the nerves , I was sitting fucking laughing
And then she rolled
ah ah ah ah and I'm fucking laughing , she 's going ah ah ah ah oh fuck I says I
And then they 're gas and air , they put the gas and air er er the ambulance and all .
See all the time she was in pain I laughed even but it was for nerves like .
And then Dawn , she rung work to say she wouldn't be in because the wee woman she
That 's right .
and then she was girning on the phone because
getting taken into hospital , oh it was terrible that day .
And then I had to run down to Mrs 's when Dawn stayed with mummy while the ambulance come to tell Mrs and Mrs says don't worry Jean , I 'll sign you in the day just go ahead and put your mum in the ambulance .
Oh God
Oh fuck .
But I can and said pull that fucking door closed and the knob came off in her fucking hand , she spun round
What about the day she collapsed in the the hairdressers and only we 're going for a drink .
and she come in and she sat down and and the the hairdresser 's and here she was , I 'll be alright , I 'll be alright .
And I says let us see , and she 's and I says now keep back and I rung Don and explained and the doctor said Jean just ring for an ambulance .
And I rung for an ambulance and it came and we took her up and sat with her , and they kept her in for four days .
that woman .
And there was the apple tart laying on the fucking floor
And her cup of tea , God help her , sitting never even got
How did she fall ?
She c went , closing the door and she had her hand , her apple tart in one hand , she held the door with her other hand , she fuck her handle had come off and she swung round and round she said I kept spinning round and round Oh God !
And then she had to have the operation to get her hip fixed
That 's right .
Dear God , fuck that was ah I was fucking laughing .
Aye just , if the two of yous get me up on the settee I 'll be alright , me and her ah ah ah ah !
Then I just started to laugh the woman next door and I fucking wet myself laughing
Ooh and she was he and I said are you alright now ?
And then when I went to talk to the sister , me , you know I fuck when I rang she was she had to have an operation on her knee , the whole kneecap was broke .
Fuck I wet myself , she slid off the grass onto the pavement .
Oh God , so funny .
Oh it 's when you think back like .
Oh my ma was petrified every Saturday .
Cos our John used to come in and she goes you know said you 'll have to excuse me , once they go away I can relax .
And then as soon as they went away she got her out and sat and had a .
That 's right .
Ah that was a ridiculous thing , when your family comes you should n't be like that .
I know .
No .
Like if your family makes you like that I think it 's time not to bother .
And they should come down cleaning and helping you like and making you something to eat like .
Well he looked forward to his fry .
Well
Who did ?
Johnny
I heard him saying there one day er where 's , what no fry today mother ?
Cos he only got sandwiches .
used to go on a Sunday say come on we 'll go and I used to my dinner , oh fucking hell my dinner this is desperate , them wee were gorgeous too .
way she done her steak and all , an and her chops they was beautiful .
And then I 'd go home and have my dinner too , no wonder I got fat .
And God help her
and walked along the and the beach and all
well God help her she could n't er , at the end , she could n't eat at all and we were forcing her to eat and she wasn't eating at all .
And then the , the last days
You 're skipping three Johnny
What ?
the last sixteen days she just lived on her drip .
That 's right .
Oh she took a notion that Sunday night
Mm ?
on the Sunday night when I wasn't there , and I was down making them 's tea for er a drop of ice cream and Raymond fed her the ice cream .
How was the going ?
She died on the Monday .
sit here and watch it .
By the time you get home it 'll be over .
I know .
What , when 's the last time ?
Twenty five years ago ?
that 's the league cup innit ?
It 's the league cup .
won the league cup four years running .
the league cup .
is the league cup .
It 's not !
Sure this is what they 're playing for , the league cup .
It 's the league cup .
Liverpool away Liverpool away
You don't know what you 're fucking
No , the league cup .
Giggs , he 's crap .
Giggs is crap as well .
Giggs is brilliant .
Och John Barnes walked round him .
Young player of the year Ian player of the year , er Gary I mean .
And Mark Hughes ' getting a me er a rew a rew a reward
Sure sure don't you remember the time Liverpool were playing United ?
Crap .
Er John Barnes walked round four of your players .
See when I see that used to come round Sandy Row , he was the and he used to sit and the way he used to talk .
And he says to me do you wanna breast feed
Who said this ?
Oh , I used to fucking wait on him .
He was one time .
It 's a relapse .
Well it 's something else as well
Something or something but he was back in intensive care today .
Did you watch it ?
Aye I did , it was crap .
It 's your man Shearer .
He 's a good player too Shearer isn't he ?
Who 's that playing Dawn ?
United .
the goalkeeper .
Oh he 's hurt , the goalkeeper .
Oh he hit him .
Look at that sponge , what is that , what er goes on that ?
Water .
Cold water ?
Water .
Cold water .
There 's no D in it Johnny , it 's water .
I'm only telling you .
Get me a glass of water while you 're in the kitchen .
Let the water run .
If you go in the army you 'll be coming home
What ?
You what ?
Alright mate
Alright matey
Mm .
Willy is going in the army aren't you Willy ?
You didn't watch the match ?
, who was it they were playing ?
Ah and your man fucking with Giggs ?
That 's right
I think that was terrible .
Giggs was too
Well he was he was , I'm glad he was sent off because that was terrible .
He had it in for Giggs , I knew he had .
He 's a fucking
I think he 's a good player ,
Hughes is crap again .
He 's very bad at corners , him .
Raymond
What ?
Good .
Who wins this match ?
United .
How many ?
About nine nil .
he 's , he 's one of these people ta give it out but he can't take it .
A bit like you Johnny .
Aha .
It 's just that he , he likes all these people .
Oh I like that one , oh that was a cracker .
So need to win ?
None .
They won , that 's all we need to know .
points
Rush .
Oh I hate that skinny devil
Dean Saunders ' a better striker
I like er no I
Jones ?
I like your man the , the goalkeeper
what do you call him ?
, oh he 's lovely .
He 's a good player .
Griggs is a good player .
Look he 's crap , he can't
Willy away and and bring back the matches please .
Who ?
again Raymond ,
Aye .
and next week too
Aye .
same thing .
Aye well he 's gone
What ?
Oh Jesus I hate
go Wednesday Thursday and Friday
Why don't yous take the train to Bangor ?
When ?
You and Raymond , couple of nights out in Bangor
For fuck 's sake Dawn you 'd come back to a fucking siege .
Fucking windows broke .
go away ?
We went to the christening and my heart was in my mouth it was on edge the whole time .
I'm sure everybody 'd be
Come on Willy .
train trip down to Bangor
When ?
Easter Tuesday .
Sure Bangor 'd be crowded Easter Tuesday , you 'd not get in the
can't even get into a pub .
with all the , the and
Ah that 's the last thing you wanna go on ,
You 're right .
Ah well don't yous two
in front of witnesses , don't you
Go ahead Giggs , go go go go .
corner , go ahead .
I used to get taxis down from to Bangor or Carrickfergus .
That 's right .
Is he a driver ?
Aye .
Aye , now Jean I don't know what 's happened to him , but he was away to Australia like , and er he came back and Janine 's boy was in , her new one Acky 's never met him you see , Gareth
not going to get married .
Well he 's or something , I don't know well he 's got
Oh .
and he 's saying he 'll marry her and then of course Acky he and he says you know , er A Acky you know , and I used to be a male nurse you know , and John says aye , John
Mm
he says come on you out in the hall with me
Oh
we 'll take your trousers down and John , everybody was wetting themselves .
the we the wee fella went out into the hallway and
Oh Jesus .
and he fucking asked him to take his trousers down .
And the fucking door and the next thing the wee fella come in and says yous are fucking bastards .
Sure are .
Honestly .
Big Dessie , he come into work one day , he was and he come into I 'll see you in a minute Raymond , flew into the kitchen , and he runs past with a bo bottle of water and I goes out and he 's scrubbing the front passage you see .
Said what 's wrong , he says Raymond I'm taking him down the Grosvenor Road and there 's fucking old Paddy , we used to work with him , standing outside the f you know opposite The Royal ?
I said och give him a lift , this is halfway to Road .
I said Paddy what were you doing up there , he was at The Royal , are you bad then Paddy ?
Ah not too bad he says the doctor says I 've got a festered back passage Dessie says and there he is scrubbing the fuck imagine
telling everybody like you 'd got a festered back
I know
passage .
Who 's eating an orange ?
Willy .
No he used to , I know who , Dawn , he used to take me sometimes and a couple of times he took me up to the and he used to say to me and what would you take for starters so I always said well I always like erm prawn cocktail
Oh aye
for starters .
Oh he says I make my own prawn cocktail he says at home and lettuce and
Aye .
Aye ,
oh I laughed .
You know like , you would know he 's a bit fruity like the way he talks
He was in the police you know , and he was a male nurse .
Was he ?
Used to go and have a fucking , wee boys and all
Sure Ji he came in looking for Jim one morning and Jim wasn't there , says he 's in bed so listen I said do you wanna go up and waken him like fuck Jim says when Acky woke me I said what you mean he give you a kiss and he woke you up .
fucking done
Tom was round giving me er all er
Who the fuck 's Tom ?
and he was saying to me er , he says Jean I says I live and learn and er he says , you know when he says , he talks through his nose , he says you know if they had 've left Sandy Row the way it was and just put bathrooms in and he says and the way it is
Mhm .
That 's what Mrs said they 're not coming from the Falls Road Sandy Row .
Fucking right too .
Sandy Row 's isn't it ?
Times change Jean .
There 's parts of Sandy Row with the gardens and all you the houses , and there 's other parts that 's really
Willy take them cups in
Aha .
But then Hector was to blame too because Hector went they were coming round and we had to get out first , he promised us as the first houses would go up we would get back again
And you never ?
We never .
Not at all .
We did not .
The time I was looking for a house , he says it wasn't enough to get into Sandy Row .
You said get into it , do you not mean get back into it ?
He did say , the man told us .
Sure they were pleading for protestants to go up there
Mhm .
I says you 're the man told u give us the key for Black 's Row and told us that
Mhm
er when the houses were rebuilt we could go back again
What did he say ?
and he says oh I know but it 's nothing to do with me now , it 's all housing
Go ahead Hughes !
Well we , come on come on now , bladder it in .
Oh lovely .
Oh
But he made sure that what he wanted
Oh aye .
Park .
I never liked him .
I never liked his wife or the daughters , they always thought they were something .
What ?
The school for fighting and violence .
isn't it like ?
worry if you had his money .
money .
number one
What 's number one ?
Right Said Fred .
and they had I'm Too Sexy for My Hat .
And was he number one ?
Aha .
Dippety-doo-dah ?
Doo , is that what he 's saying ?
Did you see This is Your Life last night ?
No , who was it ?
Your man , The Lady in Red .
Chris De Burgh ?
Ah .
Was it good ?
Did you see Coronation Street ?
When ?
Last night ?
Oh no don't tell me I never seen it .
I would 've seen it last week though .
I hate him Jean .
We were sitting in Sandy Row yesterday night was sitting in the car , do you know who he was the spit of ?
Who ?
The man out of Better Days .
Oh aye , Reg .
Oh fuck I wet myself laughing .
And he 's bigger .
I know .
I hate Derek but I like your man out of Better Days .
Oh I , I laugh at Derek the way
Ah he knows he it all .
that squeaky voice he 's
Aha
oh
They 're well matched .
What about Neighbours ?
Mm .
Good this week isn't it ?
What about Home and Away
But that er what do you call it ?
Eastenders now is all doom and gloom .
Aye .
Now you need er
I used to love Eastenders but now
Dot Cotton
and Nick .
Ah sure they bring them all back again .
Oh fuck , that was a cracker .
I thought it was class A one for Liverpool .
Who 's that playing ?
Man United .
What did you say Johnny ?
What did you say about
Definitely one nil Johnny was it ?
don't know
Did they win ?
Aye they was two .
Aye !
Sure there 's more Liverpool fans than there is United .
Sure Liverpool 's still have , still have more than look how many was killed in the two , two tragedies .
In the European Cup and then with er
Hillsborough .
Hillsborough .
tragedies .
They are a tragedy .
Hillsborough
I 'd love to see a whole stand c cave in .
God forgive you Willy , that 's terrible .
Oh it 's a terrible thing to say Willy .
Terrible .
No way .
played away
This premier league 's gonna do harm to the other
I know .
lesser , the smaller divisions
That 's right .
Sure they 're Chelsea 's on the news last week , they
Ah that 's right .
It 's terrible .
You 're right ref .
Yes , I agree .
I 'd love to see a match where he sent the whole fucking lot off .
Who ?
I 'd love to watch a match where he sent the whole lot off .
was fighting
something
fighting but you know last week , no it wasn't , who was it ?
Was it Arsenal ?
No
Who was it ?
Q P R , well who was fighting Dawn ?
Fuck your big man with
Macdonald ?
MacDonald .
I don't know , was it a tackle or something ?
Oh God
The whole team fighting ?
Ah
Cos that is quick Dawn .
Yeah .
Well Roger Owens is quicker than him .
Mm
That he is .
Roger Owens is one of the is the quickest in the first division so
Not as fast as
Well he 's not bad Alan Sharp , Alan Sharp probably the best .
he 's one of the fastest first division .
We 've always to be better like , that 's why they 're sitting fourth or fifth in the league .
Sure they 're no worse than this year .
Oh yeah there 's always next year .
But if I come one day and Liverpool are from the league , I
Here goes Smith .
Ooh !
Oh I hate that !
Fuck it somebody done that in Liverpool
was it stuck up his nose or something ?
Ooh
Do you know what they see years ago what their fellas used to on the footpath bending over and doing that
Ah !
Urgh .
You don't see that now .
No .
still does it .
Sure look at the night , Saturday night he came round to our door , big black stain said you 're alright man , I was , you 're alright man I had a half bottle of cider er er
I wouldn't let him through the fucking door .
Oh fuck .
all the time
He used to stand , I swear to God
Aye .
I used to that , I used to see the old fellas doing
Jean , Jean Jean oh fuck I says Jean don't go
And then when we went for a drink he used to say are you not buying me a drink ?
I says no
He 's a fucking old he was .
I 'll never forget them cupboards wardrobe .
There was four different colours of doors on them .
He pu
What 'd he do , paint them ?
No I , I wanted built them wardrobes and I said now Monty whatever you fucking need I 'll get
I had to one night the fucking er babysitter was half gassed it 's honest , we opened the fucking , she 's
he 'd punctured the fucking upstairs gas pipe
but , and then a fucking second time , the er the gasman laughed at me , says mister I don't know what 's happening but this is the second time .
I got a bill fifteen pound a time .
So he says to me , see we had three wardrobes in our bedroom
Aha
you could n't get through them
Mm .
it was like a maze , and he said to me Raymond you leave it to me , I 'll build these cheap as possible , but he made a good , the principle was
Yes .
but he used , instead of him buying the wood or getting me to give him the money for the wood , he cannibalized the fucking wardrobes and used the sides and the
Oh fuck
see there was three different colours of wood .
You could actually inside them .
You could , er they were , they were a great job
Aye .
you know ?
And then he come in to us then and he says to me I'm bleeding and I had to get a plaster for him and he
Aye he 'd no money .
Oh
And Mary , he says cos he says every time I come in here
Sure Gazzie said that about her , went up to her house , I heard her .
Slippers on and a fucking old nightdress no housecoat .
Oh aye , yes yes yes .
Sure she had our Raymond fucking
Aye he did .
she had our er Raymond doing her hair for her .
what does she think she is ?
Oh .
Yeah I left him one day , we went round to the pub I said don't open that door there 's a match on fucking Ivy gets a phone call all the windows were put fucking in
Oh .
They were gonna stab one fella and he fucking and then broke our windows .
Course I mean the m fella would have been stabbed to fucking death if he hadn't .
Was it our kid ?
Aye down our way .
He wasn't there .
only a wee boy .
You should n't of opened the door Johnny , what did you do .
He wasn't there , you
Raymond
he wasn't there .
It was Raymond and he was only a wee boy .
It was Mary says er open the door and let him in because they 'll kill him and then down from the bedroom
Dawn here 's this couple of wee , not much I'm afraid .
Thanks very much ,
I 'll send the photographs
That 's nice will you ?
Aye .
See you later Dawn .
Aye right , cheerio .
Cheerio Dawn .
Willy put the sauce in and here , here Willy here 's a cup on the hearth , two cups .
It 's just to keep it tidy for me and your mummy coming down in the morning son .
the dog sleeping , he 's like .
I know .
Really need to er get a shovel there 's some of that er stuff out there .
Is there ?
Is there much ?
A wee pile of it .
Should n't have give him that tin , that 's why dogs are that 's why you 're instructed to feed a dog once a day or whatever it is .
Yeah .
don't put people off .
What 's he eating ?
What are you eating ?
Johnny think she wants him to do some
Well I done the dishes , I'm not doing them .
I 'll do them love sure you know that .
Johnny do you want the T V off ?
Looked so fed up tonight love .
Who ?
Is something wrong in the house ?
Dawn .
She and er she was telling me about David 's mama , she said David 's mama
says , you know , told her to come over at night you know
Ah
to keep her company in the house and she went over the other night she said because when the kids are in bed , she 's on her own
Yeah .
and when she went over she says er school being off , she heard er David saying something about well nobody 's keeping me from my ironing .
She heard David saying ?
No she heard her saying that and she says to me I was so mad
Aye hurt .
Hurt .
And she says now you know and Raymond knows that I bring David
Yeah .
and
Here
give us one of these .
No away you go .
Starving .
Take a Kit-Kat .
Nobody thought to ask , offer us any supper tonight like .
Hey come here , come here !
Come here !
Come here son .
What do you mean supper ?
Hey Johnny come here !
Johnny !
I took , wait till I tell you come here , I I was gonna make Kelly and me sandwiches but I hadn't enough for Dee and his girl and er I wasn't gonna make tea for , for
Now Johnny we won't make any difference you know that now and
Ah it 's a wee bit like saying that about us .
Fuck he 's trembling .
wouldn't you after throwing up though love ?
And what ?
And erm
She takes him everywhere , yeah .
she says like er she says you know Jean she says well I just sat there and she says I'm away and I went over she says because it was her
Ah she
thought like she says so I just , you know , ignored her and she says then the next day she was out doing her windows and she shouted over to Dawn ah hello Dawn and Da Dawn just says hiya .
Where are they mummy ?
You know where the cauliflower is ?
Pull that tray out .
What ?
Pull that tray out
big ones ?
And she says ah David 's er she says later on in the day she says to him are you playing ?
And David says te shouts er tell her er about er when Dawn was doing her and she says I opened the window she says I says what was that you were gonna say to er Ashley ?
Your mummy what ?
And er she says er the next thing was that if er , she says she heard him saying if you let me play in your back garden , this that he 's playing with , we 'll give you a sweet .
And she says er oh , she says , she and she says and she says Ashley come on you don't need sweet their sweets and you 're not gonna be blackmailed .
There 's sweets here , there 's plenty of sweets for you , come over here and play .
And she sent the er kids over to her house with an Easter egg each , you know ?
Mhm .
And there were a tap at the door and the hand come out
?
just took the Easter eggs and slammed the door in her face .
And she says Jean you know well you can see er she says you know the day before Ros was in Lisburn and she says you know the way when you 're standing and from the back you can feel somebody that their eyes are penetrating through you and she said she happened to turn round and there she 's sitting in , in this girl 's car and just er looked at her like that .
And she says I just turned away too .
Nothing .
And er she says Jean I swear to God she says if she comes over near my door , I 've told Jim she says , I , I'm ready for her I 'll beat her round that square and she said I'm not like that but she says that 's just the way she says , and she hurt my kids when I sent them Easter eggs over , doing that she says , that really galled me , she says cos they were hurting my kids rather than me .
Oh aye .
And er she says like when I think of me keeping her child overnight and all before it 's in hospital and running down to hospital three or four times when he was in the hospital , and taking him sweets and all , and she says she 's treating me like shit .
dad .
Right .
Right .
And er she says not only that she says er David is er saying to er Michelle come on and play with me and er come on in and play with me and , when Michelle will go in , he pushes Ashley out of the road and says well you 're not getting into my house .
Did Johnny give you a kick there ?
N I don't
Last night .
No he said or she .
Dee 's calling for me at ten .
Bring him in and give me a shout .
We 'll not be here
Who won't ?
Your daddy and me
Time yous going at ?
Nine .
And she says
Well give me a shout before yous go .
Right .
I'm bloody well she says .
But she says I 've had but she says and she says she was the one wanted me over to sit
Aye .
er and keep her company cos he was at work and the kids were in bed , and she says I went over and sat with her and had a cup of coffee and a smoke and I sat with her , you know , till she was ready for bed .
Ah .
But er she said no that 's me finished .
She says
Aha .
Mhm
She said honest to God Jean she said I said I know how you feel .
life 's strange .
That 's what I said , well I says life can be a bitch I says .
Aye .
And , ah , oh aye , and she says they 're out playing and the s and she says you know what kids are like Jean , and she says like I wouldn't try even to say to my kids not to go near them because you wouldn't tell them because they 're only kids and she says they 're like playing in the square and she says like I would David and down here you know when I was coming down
That 's right .
she says but she come out and got her wee one in the car and not David and the wee , the other wee boy into the car and left Michelle or Ashley standing there and drove off .
And then er when they came back he says she says you know and I just says er and when she got out of the car , Dawn was out in the gar in the garden walking , and she said she just got out of the car and she looked over at Dawn like that took the kids in and she said I just says here you are , she said , come on Ashley over here , you stay and play in your back and your side of the er street from now on .
But it 's no way to settle an argument by ignoring it you know it or letting your er letting your
She says
mind run riot .
You , I mean , if she if she likes the girl , which she obviously does , why not just rap her door or wait till she sees her and say you know
whatever you call it , did I do something on you , and why are you treating me like that but th
well she says she can't understand
this silent business or silent treatment er it only leads to worse trouble .
She says she can't understand why she 's getting the treatment she 's getting from her .
And the bus fares is going up Monday ?
Ah yeah , another five P , sixty five P .
Fucking extortionate bastards .
There 's no justification for it .
No .
They 're too expensive as it is .
Well it just means people , if there 's gonna be three people
They blame it on the bombers .
Sixty five P .
The bus has been burned and the bus has been blew up and hijacked
That 's one ninety five for three people , plus for the extra couple of coppers you 're gonna get for door to door delivery
Yeah .
and they 'll not er , they 'll not , people 'll not be using the buses as often like .
double decker when that stopped then they would
Mhm .
Aye
it would stop the er the bus fares would go down .
Christ they 've done that for , the double decker Used to cos they was waiting in the come round to get
Mm .
and I said to John I 'll make yous tea ,
Now Raymond come on to bed son .
What 's wrong Jean ?
Right we 'll go to bed .
Good dog Patch , good dog .
Raymond Raymond
What ?
Come on and get your breakfast .
Hurry up .
Oh no !
Patch get out of there .
Patch stop eating that .
Lovely .
Who 's up ?
Good it 's er twenty past eight .
I 've got diarrhoea again .
Oh .
Come on Patch .
Patch .
Do you want an egg ?
No .
Right , Patch Get him down here Jean .
Alright love .
Ye gods .
Are you getting ready Jean ?
Are you getting ready ?
Jean get Raymond up .
Jean , your egg 's ready your toast .
Jean do you want tea and toast ?
Right Raymond it 's up to you , come on .
Are you up Raymond ?
What have you got Patch ?
What have you got ?
Here 's your breakfast Raymond .
What ?
use the last
Whose is this cigarette ?
Oh Spilled my cup of tea over the tablecloth .
That 's only clean on yesterday too .
Well wasn't it better than around my knees though ?
Eh ?
?
out of it or your place .
chewed to ribbons .
What ?
I dunno , wee round one .
Mm .
And the curtain was away way back , that one at the T V .
She 's gonna have to go again
Patch come here !
Come here .
Lie down .
That 's it .
Lie down !
Good dog .
There 's another
Tarzan picture .
What ?
Ah well as long as he , Pa Patch !
Come here .
Take him over here Raymond , oh no he 's sitting beside you , you 're alright .
Brownie 's not as bad this morning Jean .
He 's not as All the programmes are changed this morning , the youngsters being off school and so instead of the news it 's all these youngster 's programmes .
That means Steven and Kelly will sit in there all day .
Poor Johnny never got much sleep last night .
Aye he was sick twice Raymond .
Him had a dose of the screaming heebies .
wouldn't bung us an ashtray on your way past , is it up there ?
Or is it on the hearth ?
Big brown one .
Well what 's happening this morning Jean , where we going ?
Are you gonna get your hair done or are you gonna stay here ?
Well can you not go down in the morning when you 're a bit better ?
Or come down later on today .
Eh ?
I'm not trying to stop you going down Jean do you know that now , don't you ?
Ah but you 're not the You know I'm not going down by bloody choice no not by choice .
It 's just that
Yes well you can tell me what they 're getting and I 'll take them down .
Those pictures are awful on T V Jean what have you found Jean ?
Jean , what ?
Come away from your mouth , take it away from your mouth , you feel what ?
Sick
Sick , Jesus
You know that fella that Maurice er that plays Tarzan Johnny Weismuller , whatever you call him , I met his what do I say , a girl who , who was a cousin to him , aha , she was a yank of course
Will you remember about the letter ?
Give us a fag
I have none
no , no , no , leave us a couple just on the table and yourself
Who were gonna buy you a packet ?
There 's four , you get a packet in there
er if you see er
this morning , say I 've got
listen son , you see Thomas about those er
alarm
alarm , I hope they 're not running about in the barn all day going bad , we 'll all get fucking poisoned , did you leave us a couple ?
Great , you got your bus money ?
You okay now son ?
Yeah
See you later
Alright
watch yourself
Yeah
Cheerio now
Mum what
your mum 'll be here she says
Oh
Jean , we 'll go down to where 's the fifty P shop or something and buy some of those do , er cornflakes ' plates or something , say they 're gonna fill those other ones up that the man give us a mere seven , eight ones , only leaves us four ordinary , you see I know for a fact that Sally say he was caught
Pardon ?
you watching it ?
Ah , I don't trust him
How do you feel love ?
Awful
Well I 'll go and get ready then , I'm not going yet right , I 'll get on my shirt and I 'll take the bed down and tidy up , right , and rake that fire out , do you hear the dogs snoring ?
All I heard our Johnny saying was , why , why has n't Jean and me have a
That 's a point
Oh God
John said he 's going to get you one of those T-shirts , I get one anyway if you wanna try sit there all morning after yesterday , you think our Jeanie went to the court ?
No
Cos I was , I said to the youngsters yesterday , I says I 'll tell you what we 'll do , we 'll just take your trainers tomorrow , or we 'll go down the town and put your competition paintings in and then we 'll come round and get the bus up home , and then I thought ah the hell with it we 'll go on down to York Street
Now we are down this far
now we are down that far , so I did everything so I 've nothing to do for them this morning , just sit there
Is that Wayne ?
I don't think so love there 's the first of the money lender so only a big one , once
only a hundred , if I had dough , that much money Jean
right , over here
was she also surprised ?
Got my
oh
I told you I saw Charlene
What ?
saw Charlene , did , wait until I get a shirt on and my socks Jean , oh
watch the wee dog doesn't get out Jean , watch yourself
Where 's the dog ?
It 's alright I get it come in
You 're early
Ah come in
You ready for this ?
Yes
Well up , well I 've only got about er , we 're only on ninth one just
That 's great , that 's great , sure , sure you only got it
and now there all full up
on Wednesday
Aha , I put it er
that 's marvellous
I put it everywhere , see Jean didn't I ?
I take it now and give you your

I can't think who who she is but er I'm sure that was the prize .
About five pounds and a silver tray .
Now it 's thousands they get .
Well yeah but I suppose that five pounds in those days was a lot
four noughts on the end of it isn't it ?
Yeah I presume we 're talking about Wimbledon prize money ?
Well these er big sports people
Oh blimey yes .
blimey they get
Yeah well people like
But this girl was talking this is a few years back now .
So I think when they started getting all this
can't think of , can't think of who you mean actually .
Oh , just an ordinary name she had .
it was Mary somebody .
But she was rather a big girl .
I know the one you mean .
I dunno about Mary .
I know the one you mean .
Quite tall about five foot eight or something like that .
Nice sort of roundish face and erm
You 're talking about an English lady now are you ?
Yeah .
A British girl ?
Yes yes .
She 's married and she 's got children and she , she 's tall and she got married now , yes .
She was talking some years back now about
the prize that she got when she
Yeah .
Wimbledon championship .
I think it was about five pounds and a silver tray .
Yes cos in those days you see if you remember they were all erm amateurs that played .
It wasn't
All amateurs
Yes .
It wasn't until erm oh I don't know what year it was when it was open compete and everybody including professionals
erm yes .
Cos now they 're nearly all professionals aren't they ?
Oh yes indeed .
Mm .
Nearly all of them .
But it 's ridiculous the money that they earn .
You don't want er clubs getting into debt .
Oh do you really think any footballer 's worth all that ?
Yeah evidently it looks as though Gazza 's thing 's off now .
Yeah he 's gone .
No .
No it 's all , it 's all fallen through it seems .
Again ?
Yeah they 've got somebody else .
Erm Gazza 's fallen off .
First of all of course it was all off when he did that .
Well according to the er Express I just had a look at , they reckon it 's on but for about half the original sum .
Oh .
No it
Subject to
All Gascoigne 's multi million pound move to Lazio now looks dead and buried .
The Italian club have bid for Darco Pansere the red star striker whose penalty won his side the European Cup in Bari on Wednesday .
And he will cost Lazio just four million .
They have moved for him because they can no longer wait for Gascoigne who will not play again this year .
Lazio want a big new name for next season .
And although Nat Solomon , Tottenham 's financial expert mm wait a minute was here in Rome yesterday attempting to save the Gazza deal I understand it is off .
The news will throw Tottenham 's future to fresh confusion and leave the club hoping desperately that manager Terry Venables can put together a deal to save them from collapse .
Gascoigne was to have gone to Lazio at the end of July for the club to monitor his rehabilitation after the knee ligament operation that threatened his career .
That now will not happen .
And Tottenham 's clever campaign to save the club is now down to one man Venables and his business expertise .
In Rome yesterday it was evident that the Gazza deal was doomed because Juventus who were to provide half the four million that was to have been Lazio 's down payment had gone cold on the deal .
Well once you 've done that it 's like twisting your ankle .
It 's always weaker .
Yeah .
There 's always that that erm fear .
He looks a very strong sort of person but he walks
By the way Sid would you know how to put a new lamp , light bulb thing in a fridge ?
What the light in the fridge ?
Yeah .
I can't see in that bloody fridge for love nor money .
For one thing the lamp , the light 's gone and Tony got me a new one but it wasn't
You mean you can't see it to put round the corner here like this ?
Yes .
Yeah they do go off .
can't see how to put it in .
Oh .
Er well offhand I don't actually know but I 'll , I 'll get me glasses I 'll have to
Have you got your glasses ?
I haven't no , I never bring them with me of course .
Let 's have a look come on .
I don't know erm .
It 's probably just a case of a couple of screws to take the cover off .
Oh is that what you have to do ?
Probably .
I don't know .
I do not know .
Can you see the bulb ?
Well no I can't actually ours is this side isn't it ?
Mm .
I should imagine it would be in here somewhere .
It 's got to be .
Oh look here it is it 's here .
There 's the bulb here .
Yeah .
bayonet fitting or a screw fitting .
There 's a screw here Sid , just one screw .
Is there ?
Yeah one screw .
Well I 'll call , I 'll call down tomorrow mum .
Do you need a screwdriver ?
I 've got two little screwdrivers yes small screwdrivers .
What 's happened to that bloody light ?
They 're funny little sausagey ones aren't they ?
Yes .
Here it is .
Is that it ?
Have you got replacement bulb there dear ?
Mm , looks a bit small dunnit ?
Oh no .
Can I have a look at that ?
Have you got a screwdriver , small screwdriver ?
Oh it is a screw fitting .
I think it 's only a question of taking it out turning it round and screwing it back in again .
It 's a screw yeah .
Let 's have a look ?
It isn't difficult Sid it 's just that you seem to , you want a torch that comes this way to see how you
Yes .
you want , you want a , you want a erm a little mirror .
It 's like get in like that and er the thing goes in this way .
Well you know you can go like that but then once you 've got it out you 've got to fiddle a bit .
It only needs turning .
No you push them in don't you to
No no no it 's a screw fitting .
Is it coming out ?
Is it coming out ?
Yeah but it 's got a cover or something over it .
Yeah that 's right a mirror and then that 's a screwdriver in .
There you are Sid .
Sid ?
What 's that ?
There 's a mirror .
I should have thought it would have been easier than that to put a new one in .
Could have done it from the front .
There 's a bulb .
I 've got a bulb loose but there 's a little
There 's a screw there I think there 's that screw 's got to come out obviously , has n't it ?
don't think so .
Have you got a light in this ?
Er , here yeah .
Oh thanks .
Turn it a bit more upright , there see .
Is there one the other side Sid ?
No .
No .
Just one .
You sure it doesn't just push in and does it come ?
I would have thought myself that all it needed was going boomph in and turn it and get the other one in .
Push it in Sid .
No it , it 's definitely a screw fitting .
You see .
You screw it in and out there 's no bayonet fitting on it .
It 's this cover over it .
This little wire grill .
Wait a minute , hold it .
can't take this erm can't take that front off can we ?
No you wouldn't get that from there .
When it first went off some time ago it wouldn't go but one day I took I took a jelly out in a glass dish and it bonked this thing and the light came on again .
And then soon after it went off and it 's never come on since .
Where d'you put the light on ?
Does it just erm
Well it 'd come on automatically has n't it ?
Oh automatically .
Oh yes the light comes on as you open the door doesn't it ?
You haven't erm
That 's the switch , that 's the on and off switch .
That 's , this one shuts it off .
You haven't pushed that in have you dear ?
Yeah .
Yes .
Yes he has .
Oh you 've shut off this freezer then .
don't do , this is a freezer Sid , don't How does it come out ?
It comes out normally on it 's own .
Oh .
Oh you 've pushed that in for good now Sid , now the freezer 's off .
It 'll , it 'll come off .
It 'll come out on it 's own probably .
That 's when it works .
But I 've done it sometimes with a pair of tweezers .
I can't see that
I only defrosted this oh it was yesterday or the day before .
That 's very awkward like that..
Oh if you can't manage it Sid don't sort of bear with it .
I can't see I need my glasses to see .
There 's a screw here mum .
Oh .
At the back which
That has to come out .
which probably has
round the back ?
Yeah .
It 's ridiculous place to put it isn't it ?
No I think it its doesn't go after all that .
Mm .
How can anybody really pay
It looks to me there 's that one screw holding it on cos two sides of that , two prongs of that case there are loose and the other one seems to be yes it must be
I dunno what this thing 's for I'm sure .
That 's your on off switch , the door catches that , that is for the light .
Oh I see .
The door shuts it .
Is that it ?
Oh I see .
Yeah .
This is a this is a switch .
The door comes on to that and erm
Oh .
Well this this of course erm shuts off the freezer that thing .
erm
See when I went and defrost it I shut that off and er opened this
Yeah .
and put a bowl of hot water in there and that defrosts it quickly .
Yeah .
Yes .
So how do you come back on again ?
And get it out in there you see .
And how do you switch it back on again ?
And it comes on again .
Well how do you switch it back on again if that switches it off ?
Well it automatically comes on you see it it 's all frozen at the moment it will probably shoot out itself I did try it once to try and pull it out but , I think
But this must , is this an on an , an on on switch ?
I don't know .
That looks as if it 's the thermostat setting .
All you can do , that that is to shut it off .
Then it automatically will shoot out again .
Oh .
Anyway it will probably come on itself anyway , so
Are you sure that button will come out on its own ?
Are you sure that button will come out on its own ?
Yes it does Sheila mm .
Mm .
Put that bulb back wherever you got it from .
Well I 'll put that with it then .
Put that with it eh and then he 'll
I need my glasses .
By the looks of it it is that as I say a screw 's keeping that thing on .
can't you see to undo the screw ?
No .
Well what about me doing it ?
don't worry about the screw .
It is a bit difficult it 's like it 's almost you want you want to get inside it at the back of it don't you ?
Now put that on there so that it 's with the rest of it .
How 's you , alright ?
Knackered .
Oh .
Bad as that is it ?
Why are you working hard ?
Look Ralph erm if , if you don't mind me saying can you remember if you do this could you just give me a ring and say it 's done , if not Sid come down in the morning .
Alright ?
I mean you got to get yourself in there round the back tuck yourself in all your body .
Cos we got to erm , you got a magazine
He can see in the fridge but I can't , I can't .
You know but I mean when it comes to a screw and your , I mean we 're talking about coming like this to undo the screw .
Yeah round the back .
You , you need somebody really to hold the erm
The mirror .
a mirror in the way , but you can't have your arms in it .
Perhaps you could prop up this little hand mirror that I 've got in there .
Oh I 'll do it don't
Well make sure your little knob pops out won't you ?
No there 's a little , there 's a little guard over the bulb you see .
And it looks as if there 's a screw you have to undo to get it off .
Otherwise the , the little bulb is just a screw in affair .
Yeah but did you try and undo the screw to get the bu , the whatsit off ?
No no I can't see to undo the screw can I ?
I mean if I put my best , give you my best glasses you 'll widen them won't you ?
Yeah , never mind .
Bit of a laugh last night .
Phones gone and it 's erm Mr .
So er security people are in the area trying to stop all these burglaries .
I said well don't worry about it I said I locked all off from under my windows I says .
And I'm about six foot four and I 'll handle anyone that breaks in here .
Oh that 's alright then he says .
What , where you are , round there ?
No here .
Oh here .
Really ?
yeah .
Oh .
burglary in the area .
I mean when they they decorated all the outside , they put these locks on the windows , this one here .
Oh .
That one in the hall and the one in the kitchen .
Mm .
And er I just said we 've all got security locks as they call them .
locks .
What about erm what about anything outside the french windows ?
Can they do anything there ?
No but that 's faulty at the bottom and the key
They can smash them , that 's all .
Mm .
Always bash through the window and walk in could n't they ?
Well
They just don't like breaking glass do they ?
They 're not
Well actually on the television I don't know whether you 've noticed when they start talking about burglaries and things like that the picture that comes on is Newlands Park you know .
At the moment this is a dreadful area .
I mean there 's been one or two incidents just lately
Mm .
that are mind boggling really .
Yes .
About a boy going in and asking
But then
if he could borrow a screwdriver on the end of our little shops there .
Yes .
And then he goes , then the bloke , the , give him , he said I 'll , I 'll you know I 'll bring it back .
And it 's a family that 's well known as a bit you know Geordies and that and a couple of rottweilers .
He goes a little bit further down the road .
There 's a nurse is in bed and the next thing the nurse wakes up to find him at the bottom of the bed .
Mm .
He 's got in trying to do a little bit of burglary you see .
Yes .
You know just creeping in to pick what he can handbags and things up like that .
Never go to work these kids though .
No , no .
Oh they 're up to all bloody tricks
I wish I had a truncheon I 'd love to bash one round the head .
I mean you can see that bloke stopping cos he saw this poor girl lying in the road .
Looked as though she was bleeding .
He
Tomato ketchup .
he 'd gone out to help her .
The next minute three blokes come from nowhere and bash him up take his money and drive off in his car and take the girl .
She gets up off the ground .
She 's helping out .
Little bit of tomato ketchup I suppose .
Dear oh dear oh dear what what think of .
Yeah but you see you , you , you really do not think that somebody is going to do that .
I mean if you saw a girl laying , alright so you 'd have to pick her up , put her in your car and take her to
think she 's been injured don't you and get out and help .
If somebody bonks you on the
And it 's gonna get worse if this situation of er you know erm jobs and that is gonna go on for another two years .
I mean it 's gonna get worse .
And then er er had another call .
Er .
We got a geezer come to the door you know yeah , and he took a few particulars you know .
Then he went on about erm some hoover , vacuum cleaner or something I dunno .
Anyway .
And he says keep this card by your telephone he said .
We 'll ring you .
So we got this phone call he said hello Mr I said yes .
Have I won a thousand pounds ?
She said oh no she says your name gone in and you 've er won a weekend in Wales I think , oh what a load of old bollocks they 're coming out with here .
And what was it he said cos I heard him say yes , yes .
No he said it 's my mother 's .
And then he said I'm always here and I don't know whether he 's supposed to come down or what it is but as I said to him it 's a load of codswallop .
You might just as well have put the phone down .
Well you see
It 's like when I had a letter
Yeah well you see this is how they find out who 's in the places .
Yes .
This is all
Yeah , a load of codswallop .
Yeah but you don't know whether it 's not er people phoning up to find out who 's there and whether he 's there and all to do with burglaries and things .
You don't know they 're all
Yes , yes .
I had a letter .
I don't , I can't remember now who it was from but I 'd been er picked out and given a valuable prize .
And Shirley happened to come the next day and I about it .
She said it , tear it up mum she says it 's a load of bull that 's all that is .
I 've had one she said and three or four of the girls at the office
have had one .
She said they 've all come to work oh I 've won a prize I 've got a car or I 've won this that and the other .
She said it it 's a sprat to catch a mackerel .
They get you to go in for something and then it costs you money .
Of course it does they 're not doing that for nothing .
If I 've had one I 've had a dozen .
basement doors .
.
Well , well our postman said he said really .
He said he puts more , more he calls in and says it 's awful really cos this rubbish and he said whereas I should be able to do say the whatever ten o'clock post in whatsit .
I 've got to go back and it takes me sometimes twice , sometimes three times when you get all this rubbish that he has to take round .
See I mean it 's all paper that
What 's .
get sacks and put them all in get them all recycled .
He he he must have asked for Mr .
Well my name in the directory is just E .
They don't know whether
No ,
it 's male or female you see .
And anyway he 's got to pretend that he 's the man of the house so in case they think you 're on your own .
Well he is the man of the house , let 's face it .
Sort of , sort of is .
Cock of the walk .
have a chat to him about what you could do I said don't worry I said .
All , all my windows have got locks on and I said I'm about six foot four and anyone gets in here I 'll kill them .
But you see you don't know who they are do you that 's saying all this ?
Course you don't .
These people come
You must n't give anything away .
all sorts .
The times a poor old lady 's been raped and robbed in , they 've got to inspect all the gas pipes or they 've got to inspect something or the other .
And the old lady thinks it 's all genuine .
And what happens
Well round near us they terrorized an eighty three year old lady er near us and er it was a , I met the man next door and his wife and they were the ones that got the police because he said they 'd got her furniture out on the pavement to to with a doodah up there .
Yes .
They 'd got her absolutely terrified I mean she , she could have dropped dead with sheer terror .
Knock at her door you see and in they go .
Television , you name it .
Yeah .
almost had her car pinched now .
Who ?
Paula .
Yeah Paula mm .
and she had er hand put through the back and er all the glass shattered .
Erm and they pinched her bag at the back with all her titbits and that in .
And er Paula ran after him , all down an alleyway .
I mean she said it 's an instant thing when someone 's got a handbag you realise afterwards .
I mean she 'd have been knocked over , I mean I know she 's pretty swift .
But er she said I suppose when I think about it it was an instant reaction you see .
Gerry had seen his face and they got to go and look at the mug shots and all that and er longlegs had been informed across the road because they 'd got er a camera that works and er they got in touch with the , they told the police about it and so they 're going over there to see if it 's been recorded you see .
You know like him actually doing it .
All the , I think most building societies and that , banks , have an automatic camera going somewhere .
They photograph everybody that comes in and out .
I mean if you 're genuine it just doesn't matter does it ?
Well like there 's a lady coming round tonight
Now does that mean she 's , she 's instead of Thelma ?
Yes , Thelma 's on holiday .
Oh .
She seemed nice
that 's she 's , that 's a different one to one that came yesterday .
I suppose they 've got two .
They been coming round every day just to see you 're okey dokey
Yes .
Oh .
Thelma didn't always bother every day because she knows that Ralph is here you see .
Yeah .
but er the new one she wouldn't know .
It 's jolly good isn't it really ?
She just got a , just got a list of erm those
I think it 's cos of them , well I mean
She said , about next door , cos I just said to her it 's private it 's been bought .
And it 's only a young couple in there .
Which really isn't right cos they were n't meant for young couples .
But of course she told me that when they came there they were there to look after the place so that it wasn't taken over , you know by anybody else , but she had a washing machine , the washing machine come in just after .
And I should , well it struck me that they were there for good and all .
I suppose if it 's theirs perhaps they can't do anything about it .
What erm , I don't know whether it 's theirs but Bab 's son David bought it .
Yeah .
You see David bought it and put these people in there .
Funny isn't it really ?
But they 're .
Yeah , rent it .
I suppose
It might be for a certain amount of time while they do so and so and then , what can he do ?
He can , he can sell it to the council
Well he can sell it to
erm back to the council .
They used to at one , when it was first brought out , you had to sell it back within a number of years .
You had to sell it back to the council .
Because it was always meant for pensioners you see .
Yes .
Well he could do that .
I mean that would be easy for him .
Yes .
He really probably should n't have anybody in there .
Sort of .
Mind you , I don't think they 're married either of them because she comes under the name Miss and well her name 's Estelle and he 's Paul , but she 's known as because I 've had two or three people ask me about her because she , she deals in insurance .
And they 're away quite a lot .
The other day when we had a very hot day , it was quite a hot day and over mid day I went out to do something in the garden there and her milk was still on the step and it was in the sun .
And it was absolutely hot .
So I moved it to the other side of the step .
And later when I saw Paul , I said Paul if you go away for the weekend , if you tell me , I can put your milk in my fridge .
And at night time if you 're not back I 'll , I 'll leave it in your cupboard , you 'll know where it is .
Oh he said that 's very kind of you , that 's very nice .
Only I said it 's an open invitation when it 's left on the doorstep you see .
Absolutely .
And it 's all going off isn't it , there 's nothing worse than a
And the silly part of it is the milkman always puts it that side where you open the door , instead of this side .
You can come in and out and kick the damn lot over could n't you ?
Oh well .
Absolutely , well they haven't got any brains have they ?
I noticed it yesterday on that side .
I thought to myself well why the devil doesn't he put it over the other side .
But she always puts her empty bottles that side so I suppose that 's why .
And they 're , they 're very nice young couple although I very very seldom see them .
Very seldom see them .
I did say to him once that er I said if you don't want that ivy I said you chuck it out , chop it down and throw it over my side cos it 's my responsibility
You are responsible
And he said well he don't mind but it 's growing , it 's grown right along the wall , right under their step .
Like that .
Over the fence .
the lawn .
I can remember when you cut that .
It 's grown all over the garden .
Cos they 've only got paving , crazy paving .
It 's gone up the wall over the top
It all comes through don't it ?
I never knew anything could grow that quick .
What d'you do ?
Just cut a bit off and get it whiskers and it 's off ?
Slipping up here .
When I first had it Sheila
I'm leaving a bit in Christ .
Supposing I wanted a bit , do you put it in a thing and get some whiskers and then just plant it later ?
Yes , just , that 's all .
All it wants .
Only it was very pretty when I first bought it .
It was a little variegated ivy and I had it indoors , in the hall .
And it began to look very sick and sorry for itself .
Was it when you were round the corner ?
Yeah when I was round forty three .
And I took it out in the spring and put it in the garden and then it revived and came on nice .
But Bob said to me where I bought it from , he said I don't think it would survive the winter because it comes from the Scilly Isles which is warmer .
So I dug it up and brought it indoors again .
It was alright for a few weeks and then it began to look very anaemic and sorry for itself .
So later on I put it out in the garden again .
And it grew and started to thrive .
I though oh bugger it I'm not bringing it any more it 's getting too big .
It 's got two chances either it lives or it dies , and it started to grow like mad .
Before long I had a bloody
You 'll having going down the bottom of the road here in a minute .
It 'll go down the road later on .
And er I brought one or two pieces with me and stuck in there .
I mean it was only a narrow bit of earth like that .
I put erm two or three pieces of aubretia in there .
And I stuck this bit of ivy in hoping it would grow over the fence .
You , you have a look Sheila over next door .
Is it still bolted .
Down the bottom .
Push the door back hard .
Let 's have a look .
Oh .
Push the door back dear .
I 've got it back .
I can't do it .
I'm not gonna , I'm not gonna leave my finger in it .
Yeah a little bit of oil there you need .
made her quite funny .
the door is , is .
It comes back easy enough .
Here let 's have a go .
No it won't move .
Put a hammer on it .
If I lean on the door , push me weight on the door .
pushed it as far as it will go .
Touch of the old oil bit of vaseline or something .
No you don't want too much oil in it .
Well if Ralph and Sid can't do it
Yeah well .
You 'll have to forego your look at the ivy .
You had erm .
You had a job to open last night didn't you Ralph ?
Or close it ?
Yeah .
don't try it yet mother .
Leave it mother , leave it .
If you caught your skin in there
Mother .
You 'll break your back .
Ralph and I can't do it so you bloody can't .
That 's it now put your foot right through the window .
Look I just did that .
You be careful .
Leave it .
Come on .
Well I , I 've always managed to
Well your not gonna manage it today .
Yeah well we 've all , we 've all managed it .
It 's just gone a bit sticky like .
You 've probably got a bit of damp in there .
How we gonna feed the birds ?
Poor little sods .
Through the window , like they normally have it .
Have you got a tiny , one drop of oil ?
One drop , go on Sid 'll put one drop on .
No ?
No don't worry I 'll , I 'll fix it
Tiny bit of vaseline
oilcan .
All it wants is just a slight tap with a hammer .
That 'll get it back .
Yeah .
That , that 's it isn't it .
It always seems you have to bolt the door first before you can turn the key .
If you turn the key first it 's always a bit difficult to bolt it .
Oh .
Well that 's how I always did it but Ralph usually does it now .
But I noticed last night you had a bit of a job to to er
poxy carpet
Oh I know why .
It 's got the carpet in it .
Yeah , it 's all the poxy carpet 's in it .
There y'are. look .
Oh .
Oh , there y'are !
That 's why .
And it 's no good us having
So it 's Ralph 's fault then after all .
We 'll see to it later on .
poxy carpet all the draught is through the keyhole
And the point is .
and under the door .
And it 's no good actually , it 's not good pulling it like that and pulling it away because it 'll still be there .
So some how or other you 've got put little bit of oil or something on it .
Even a bit of fairy liquid might help .
Yes .
Yes I suppose it might .
No you 're probably just need a little whatsname .
The only other oil I 've got is cooking oil .
little hammer .
Careful Sheila .
That comes out quickly .
I'm not even gonna squeeze it .
Leave it Sheila , I 'll do it in a minute .
She might have it up there but I 've got it up there .
Here y'are .
Only , that takes a touch of the old .
Really , remember your age .
Mm .
Just a minute .
Let 's get the old doofers there .
Draughts we 've got running through the doors , through the keyholes
I don't like getting rid of that that thin carpet right underneath .
That belonged to , my mother made that .
Yes .
Get big one underneath .
Yes .
Oh dear .
There 's no wearing those old , homemade ones out is there ?
They last a lifetime .
Oh you 're telling me .
She made that before the war .
Well , we 've got a couple that we made in the fifties .
That pinky , one with a bit of pink and the beige and the , whatever , good lord that 's the first thing we made .
Did you ?
Did you , Sheila .
Did you fancy a piece of that ivy then ?
Oh yes I 'll have a bit of the ivy .
I 'll have it to ,
Mm ?
What do I do with it first of all ?
Put it in get whiskers ?
erm .
I just stuck it in the ground I think .
Oh .
Oh .
Oh yeah .
during the day .
I want a nice shiny bit .
You know what I mean ?
Yes .
he said what 's happened , I said oh well , well I 've been .
He started moaning load of old balls .
Load of balls yeah .
Anyway
And that 's a security firm you say is it , eh ?
Yeah this is a security firm .
Yeah .
I said don't worry about it .
All my windows have got locks on I said .
I'm about six foot four .
And I can handle any bastard gets in here .
. Oh alright then he says .
Did you remember to pay the butcher for those sausages you had last week ?
Oh yeah , yeah .
I paid him in the end , yeah .
What about this ?
This little dark bit here look , like this .
That 's a nice fresh bit look .
four cans .
Why d'you want four , why can't you have like two today two tomorrow .
No .
Yeah .
rooting powder .
some indoors .
No , no I 've
No we 've got some in the shed .
I think I might have .
And keep it moist , keep it watered .
Before you know where you are look .
I 've been here nine years in August and I 've cut no end of it down .
Well I suppose these roots will start .
What do I do , shall I take those bits off there ?
Take the bottom roots off I should say .
Take the few bottom roots off right , bottom leaves .
down by the erm , down by the shed .
pot it in once I 've got me boots .
Well when you 've got a fence or a shed or a garage to cover up .
Mm .
You put it straight in , don't you ?
You don't wait to grow roots .
No it 's got to get whiskers .
Oh we 've got to get whiskers first .
got to get the whiskers first .
No , I just put it straight in the ground .
Oh .
And keep it wet .
Put it , dip it in the
Bit of rooting powder .
rooting powder .
And keep it moist .
Well if that 's all I do , I shall be handing it out this time next year .
Well yes .
No only they look so nice and shiny and
Yes it is shiny .
Yes .
But when I first bought it , they were all tiny leaves and all variegated .
But as they get older they get bigger and shinier .
They were all like that you know .
I 'll have to try and think of something that I can erm to get it to go up .
You know I mean I 'll have to find something like a
It 's , it 's not .
It 's not an ivy that clings to the wall .
Oh .
You know some ivies grow right in the bricks don't they but they don't .
That one doesn't .
It 's all er .
Well I 'll just see how it goes then .
It crept through the partitions in the fence .
It 's over the fence .
It 's crept through the posts and the fence .
It 's remarkable where it does go to really .
But to cover up anywhere a bit ugly , bare looking it 's very handy .
Mm .
Right , well .
O K then .
I 'll call in tomorrow then mum anyway .
O K love .
Alright .
Yeah .
Bye bye then .
Ta ta Sheila .
Yeah see you .
Thank you .
I really want little tacky things don't I ?
Little , don't know what I do want really but
What for ?
Well up the fence there by the side .
It can't , it can't erm
Well I should put a small stake or something in .
I just wondered if they got any
You know a small stake , stick or of some sort .
No I meant when it goes up you need little things now and again .
I don't know what they 're called you know .
into the fence .
I tell you what I think sometimes you probably pick up your ashtray the doors open it was warm .
I think you get hold of your ashtray probably , you might have a cigarette in the other hand or
No I don't .
What I usu , what I usually do is turn the always when I get up like when Nick and I saw the , we saw the film
He 'd gone up hadn't he ?
He 'd just gone up and I just I usually get up and turn the fire off and then the television .
But I must have er forgot to turn that bloody television off .
Yeah but it was all on you see .
I went up to the get the paper this morning .
The er bloke in there said did I know who owned the I noticed there was this little long haired sort of black and white or grey dog that was er tethered to a oh a lamp post or something outside .
Outside where ?
Outside the er newsagents .
And apparently erm the bloke had gone up to get his paper , tethered the dog outside and then walked off and forgotten the poor little thing .
Oh dear .
What happened ?
So he said
Did he come back for it ?
Well I presume so because it wasn't there when I came out .
But he said he thought it was an Irish fellow you know and I said well where does he live ?
He said well I don't really know but I know he lives local somewhere .
How are we going ?
Eh ?
How are we going ?
Alright .
Yeah ?
Everything under control ?
Eh ?
Everything under con under control ?
You know me Sid .
I know .
Get her down .
Get her down .
You 're a bit light on the chicken aren't you ?
Cut us out didn't they ?
What do you mean , cut you out ?
we ordered it .
crossed off .
On a Friday !
Yep .
Ralph ?
Yes yes yes yes yes yes .
little girl
No she had it .
He gave it to her .
Well , he gave it to the dirty little bugger .
She had it .
I'm smiling .
put their own
No it 's funny she
mum ?
Yeah .
Are you er ?
Yes .
going home .
Well come on then it 's five to .
It 'll take me
Oh blimey .
I'm sorry .
Ten minutes .
but I looked at a pineapple and it 's from the Philippines .
Where did you expect it to come from , bloody
Do you think that erm
Yeah she is when she 's away .
I dunno .
Mind you he 's not as good looking as she is but
What is it that fish that you can have for breakfast .
Is it kippers ?
Well what 's so wrong with the Philippines , what 's , what
You never know what they are when
Oh don't be ridiculous .
You have to have that .
You have to have that with gammon steaks don't you ?
Yeah more or less .
I 'll throw the rest away .
We 'll have a little bit .
It 's only twenty four P .
I got erm two chops and a spam to take through .
Okay , give us it then .
What this spam ?
So hello .
oh poor child .
He 's wide awake .
I said the poor child .
Had little , has little ducky dropped out and it 's all bitted and lumpy .
Hour over her feed she is that little baby .
Really ?
She 's as good as gold .
What is this you 've got ?
What are you having tonight ?
Couple of
Bit of this and a bit of that .
What is it ?
Oh pineapple .
Yeah , and a bit of spam .
And a bit of spam chucked in , ugh .
What a choice !
Just gonna get my dog .
Aint you got a basket ?
Believe it or not , no .
. I 'll do the money and there 's one forty , twenty four , one sixty , that 'll be about two quid and over .
Erm
Really ?
Oh we did so much work yesterday Sid .
And we worked like Trojans this morning .
That 's two days now .
And he said look good isn't it I said yes .
Yeah .
He said it had just , .
And by the way , I'm coming in Monday because I come on a Thursday normally
Oh that 's not bad .
cos Sue have jet lag
Oh yes yes yes yes yes .
you see , so it might be worked just better that way he said , so let Sue have the Monday off .
They 're not expecting her in on Monday then ?
Well he didn't know whether she was gonna come in or not you see .
When she getting home ?
Er , Sunday morning at six o'clock .
Sunday morning !
Should be no problem .
She 'll have all day Sunday but then she could have Monday as well so I don't mind having Thursday off .
Yeah .
Okay .
Did he tell you then , Dave ?
Well I said to him I said tickets
Yeah , yeah .
Bloody financial .
Yes .
Silly isn't it ?
Think about it driving thirty hours .
Say well we 're not doing the trade you know and Liz was saying to me
I 've been doing fair bit more than a lot of them because they
Yeah .
But Liz was saying to me erm , I was there just before the , about now where 's the letter ?
What letter , she didn't know what letter Chip was referring to .
He said what letter ?
She said you 've got a letter .
He said I don't know She said come on Chip you 've got a letter she said .
I know all about it don't worry .
Oh she said well it 's no good me telling you then .
She said well you didn't tell me in any case did you ?
It , cos the erm cashiers in , desk cashiers .
Yeah .
And they totalled the produce , putting all the produce down .
Where others don't bother .
.old bloody tin thing car .
He 's the second hand bloke she bought .
Rag and bone merchant you know ?
. You alright there ?
Yeah .
looked up that word .
Which word ?
Delicious .
No , most delicious .
Oh yes .
Loveliest .
I don't believe it .
Oh it was an anagram of that
Yummiest .
Oh it would be wouldn't it ?
Yes .
Course , you know also
Yeah .
well we could n't the er
I don't know what the one was across .
It wasn't lumber or it was a funny name , backscratch or something , a dance .
A Brazilian dance .
Oh that 's in , that 's in the Mirror isn't it ?
Oh I don't know .
And it 's like we said .
Cos they got it wrong .
Because the word down the fish was the salmon .
Was it salmon ?
And the one across was monopoly there 's no way it can fit is there ?
So they 're wrong .
That 's all it is , ask , look .
No , the one with the fish was in the Mirror .
Oh what was the Sun one ?
Yeah , no , we did two wasn't there ?
The yummiest was in the , is in the Sun .
But the salmon and the monopoly was in the Mirror .
It was the samba was it ?
It was , samba ?
Salmon for the fish .
Oh so they 'd made a mistake .
Yes .
That 's what I 've just said .
So in other words their monopoly begins with an N .
Morning Dave .
Where is she ?
Out the back there mate .
Is she , oh right .
How are you ?
Okay .
today or this afternoon ?
No .
There 's erm there 's the question of erm they said highlights , football , now what that is I don't know .
No I don't think so .
I can take these through here if I get a as well ?
You can , you can yes .
Give me one of those darling .
Whisky 'll be free with those .
Oh well .
If that 's the case
Two packets please .
Can we borrow your pen please ?
Twenty pounds and four pennies please .
Are you sure ?
Beg your pardon ?
Oh .
I 've only got ten left .
Oh dear , and it 's early Saturday yet .
Yeah .
Oh , you 'll never get through the week then with ten pounds .
I would if I don't spend any .
yes .
Do you want all those together ?
No
And four you say ?
That will do lovely .
One penny , and one receipt .
Jolly good .
People came in this morning about nine o'clock wanting
Who did ?
People coming in asking me
What time was today ?
didn't come in till about elevenish .
Oh god , really ?
Bloody terrible .
You know you 've got .
I do Sid I say to .
It 's empty it was out there this morning .
I get embarrassed when I'm out there
Yeah .
It was empty in that respect yesterday .
Yeah .
I get embarrassed when I'm putting out there because so many people keep asking me how long and how many more times do you have to keep saying we 're waiting for the lorry to turn up .
I know it wasn't his fault with lamb yesterday cos he didn't get his quota on .
All he said was something about the chicken .
Chicken .
That 's right yeah .
I think the chicken was about the same I wouldn't run a business like it I tell you that much .
We talked about it this morning and he kept saying where 's kidney and I said we haven't got any waiting for it to come in .
I said but I wouldn't run a business like this , and he said no I should n't think you would .
I said to him about holding back not giving us our quota I said they can see we 're not doing now..
Yeah what do you think of her ?
show together .
Show ?
Yeah .
What , in the evening ?
I don't know when Sid , didn't ask .
going to a show .
.I didn't have my breakfast
And I said to Abby I'm not going through mortgage when they 'll be upstairs all afternoon doing nothing .
Every Saturday they sit upstairs and do nothing , don't even .
will not put it out unless he 's forced to .
Like yesterday cos when there 's two of them and one of me , says they put it out and look at
Yeah .
and I was getting ready to hear it .
And then he looked , when he put it out he looked over to me and said I could see your face Irene .
I said yes Dave .
I said if he says one word , I said I'm gonna jump on him .
That was Thursday I put it out all I told you didn't I ?
Yeah .
Oh he did didn't he ?
The second lot .
Oh yes he said , that 's right .
Dave 'll put it out , that 's how it goes Sid .
I said yeah , I said , who did all day yesterday ?
Oh yeah yeah yeah he goes , like that .
Yeah who did it all day yesterday ?
didn't lift a finger Dave to put it out .
Well I got a cut .
I said yes who 's got to bloody wrap and weigh it up then ?
Just because they got a cut they never have to put it out .
Yeah .
Sue gets cross about that .
She leaves her tray .
She won't put them out she leaves and walks out .
There 's a thing , he 's got , he 's got to do it .
Must put it out .
So cos I said to Lynn as I said what I 'll do , I 'll go slow then one of you 'll have to put it out cos there 'll be so much work to wrap up I should be taking it home with me to do it .
Why don't they like putting it out Sid ?
I don't know .
There 's nothing to it is there Sid ?
Not a lot , no .
It 's easy putting it out .
If I had to just put put it out and nothing else I wouldn't mind .
You know you used to put it out all the time..
It might be cos they ask where all the stuff is and we haven't got it .
Oh god I'm tired .
You woke me up this morning I tell you Sid .
What time did you get to bed after all ?
I went , I got up when you left , half past nine .
I did the washing up .
I settled a few things in the bathroom there and then I had a wash , I 've had a wash and did all the about quarter to eleven .
Aha .
So I 've been .
happened all this week and last week .
Soon as I get into bed I feel wide awake .
When you have a wash it wakes you up doesn't it ?
Yeah it does .
And er I'm just laying there thinking of
Good morning Gwen , alright .
how are you ?
Hm , hm , down the other end again .
.
Oh I see , all right .
.
Yeah , oh I 've got ta get , I want some , I want some tea bags .
Do what ?
Some tea bags .
Yeah , well don't .
.
How are you ?
Lovely..
.
Had a really good time out there
Did you ?
Went all over the Great Barrier Reef .
Yes , yes .
Was it nice ?
Yes it 's nice , like it 's winter out there .
It is now .
And it 's seventy degrees out there in the winter , well I was going round in a T-shirt , they all thought I was mad .
They think it 's cold , but me , it 's hot .
Yeah , that 's right , yeah .
Oh she 's not staying .
isn't she gonna live out there ?
No she 's not living out there , she 's got a visa , she 's been out there two years , I dunno how long she 's gonna stay there , cos if you want too live out .
Well it 's difficult to live out there , there strict on it , oh yeah .
.
But at the moment she likes working out there , she 's not permanent .
Is her job alright ?
Oh yeah , she , she .
got another job .
No , , and there really nice , and Andrew he owns the house and his mum and dad , Chris was , and they put extension , Michael and .
.
No , no , but .
wouldn't like .
Are they ehm , are they actually Australian fellows , that ?
Yeah there all Australian , I mean , everybody was the Australian men , but there not , I mean some of them are really nice , .
out there ?
Oh , well , it 's a well known , .
Well yeah .
Is it ?
, I don't know , is it ?
Oh yeah , bounties they call them , you know , .
I never knew that .
But , .
Say good morning or during the day .
Yeah .
Really polite .
Go in the water a lot ?
Yeah , I did , went , I went through the blue , then we flew too Melbourne see eh , one of her friends and stayed with her , like they 've got trams there , went too the Great Barrier Reef where the water plane .
Yeah , that 's right , did you ?
Did you really ?
You can go in one of those , you can go in any part , nerve racking really .
What is , what do you mean a water break ?
Well it lands sea plane , sea plane .
From the water .
A sea plane , oh I see , yes , yes , yeah , well what 's wrong with that ?
Well , bit nerve racking
.
It was .
Was it ?
Where , went walking on the coral .
Yeah .
Crushed , crushed a couple of them , what else did we do , went hm .
Did you see that big thing .
Where ?
Hello .
Hi , morning Dean , yeah .
.
It 's not as big as I thought it would be .
No .
It 's nice yeah , but , I thought it 'd be something really fantastic , but , not really .
Would you go again ?
Only if my sister 's over there .
I mean wouldn't go .
I wouldn't go by myself , for like , there 's someone else .
The only reason I went was because .
.
In ehm .
It 's
Sidney , do you know they 've got a hundred and ten golf courses .
I quite believe it .
In just Sidney alone .
Really ?
Yeah .
Where did your son stay in Sidney ?
It was outside Sidney .
Was he ?
Somewhere outside Sidney , yeah .
Yeah .
But Sidney was the nearest town .
Yeah .
Nice and clean .
Yeah ,
I had a really good time , went everywhere , went too the mountains .
Did you ?
Meet oh went every where .
I I thought like pictures of I 've got about like , got about three hundred and I 've still got five films too develop .
Ah it 's gonna cost you a fortune .
It 's all scenery .
Yeah of course , that 's the idea in it really , lovely .
Hm .
Did you do a lot of under water swimming ?
Not really , no , only in Barrier Reef .
That 's what I mean , that is the isn't it , where they .
They take you snorkelling ..
Yeah , I am in a way , yeah but , nice down there .
Everybody said how quick it 'd gone .
Oh yeah , hm .
It go quick too you ?
Not really .
And there 's me saying to Sid that .
Oh I had really good time at my sister 's
She had the whole .
Oh yeah , getting and out the plane , oh yeah like , a lot of them .
.
Oh now we went out like in the night time and .
.
A couple , your safe on the you 'd of liked it there , the hotel was really nice , I 've got pictures of it , yeah .
See some pictures .
Like air conditioning , switch by the telly , everything .
, that sounds nice isn't it ?
It is , the hotel just been done out , with the all winding stair and that .
Why aren't you brown ?
Irene you know me , I never go brown .
Yeah , I do know you .
I don't .
But , you walk out the sun and still don't go brown .
Yeah , my sister 's got a nice tan .
Has she ?
Ehm , I walked past her twice at the airport .
.
.
Cos she 's had her haired permed , she looks really nice .
Does it ?
Yeah .
Is it still long ?
Yeah .
Oh , she walked by you too , she did it .
I know , hm .
Show 's you what two years does to you .
Two years , I said two , Neill he said one , Like I didn't argue , I didn't argue , I said to Roy who 's it how long is , how 's Sue 's sister , I said two years , the said no , one year , I won't argue .
It 's two .
There are there 's a little hanging on for you from my Scottish holiday .
Who 's that .
Oh .
Well , I just , I 've got to take it in now put it on .
Oh that 's nice .
Yes .
Lovely .
Did you have a nice time Sid ?
Yes .
Yes , it was good , yes it was good .
It was different .
Were looking forward to our next one now .
Where you going next one .
don't know .
Go to Australia .
.
Go to Australia .
, well we shall , we shall do , but eh , in actual fact , cos my son , who we go out to be with of course is over in this Country at the moment .
Oh is he ?
I told you he was visiting us .
Oh .
Been over here for six months , his over here for three years in all , so .
Does he live out there , he doesn't no ?
Well his in the Australian airport .
Australian airport .
His had to a eh , give up his British passport and become an Australian .
Has he ?
Oh yeah .
Oh he has been .
He had to do that before he joined the air force .
Oh I didn't know that see .
Oh dear , oh dear , well any way your back too the grind stone now aren't you ?
Well yeah look 's like that .
Yeah your back too the grind stone .
And I can see on his face his glad too have you back .
Dead chuffed..
Here are I 'll show you getting it..
What 's the plane journey like there ? .
Going I was alright coming back , yesterday I felt tired , at three o'clock I went too bed .
Yeah .
Next thing I new my dad was asking me had I got everything ready for work , half eleven at night .
Oh .
Then I just went back too sleep again .
We said you had .
But I never had it going out there .
Did you sleep on the plane ?
Yeah , but not for long though , it 's so cramped you know .
Is it cramped ?
Yeah .
Is it really , you 'd thought that 'll be spacious on plane .
I mean it 's a big plane .
Given the .
Yeah , well there a long journey aren't they ?
No more than you get on the planes .
No unless you go first class , that cost thousands , and they 've got really big seats and leg room and everything .
Oh yeah .
Do they look after you on the plane Sue ?
Oh yeah , yeah , I don't think .
Where did you stop , Singapore ?
No Singapore on the way back , didn't get off the plane though , I mean they only re-fuel , your only allowed off for about half an hour .
wasn't one of them .
I like those .
Oh no his been .
Well you know what I mean .
Yeah , yeah .
Oh you were n't , not allowed out the airport .
Your not .
No .
Hi .
Hello Irene .
How 's you ?
Well your a bit listless today .
Yeah , they getting away for a weekend .
Ah now wonder you look a little bit lost .
I'm a little bit lost .
Oh poor little creatures lost her baby .
Ah leave the big one at home .
, yeah you have , it 's true , that is true , any way must let Sue get on with her work .
Yeah ,
Will he notice the difference between Cod and Haddock .
Difference ?
Yeah , is there a difference ?
Oh yeah , two difference sorts of fish but similar .
Yeah .
Yeah , that 's all .
He had a heart attack heart attack .
His had another one has he ?
Major one this time .
His walking around , .
Is he really ?
Yeah , he had three when he was thirty six .
What age is he know ?
His forty nine know .
He had a heart .
No age really is it ?
We don't , we don't know , we knew what caused the last ones , but don't know what cause this one at all .
I presumed he worked does he ?
Is that getting him down ?
He was made , he was made redundant two years ago , head of computers in a bank .
Oh .
Now his working for nine thousand , I think he thinks his working for pittance .
Yeah , well if be comparison to what it was , I suppose it 's got ta be .
.
Yeah .
.
What at ?
What 's he do know ?
His sitting there doing proofs .
His got no , whereas he had .
No , no .
I don't know , we just don't know , he said his not over weight , don't know what it was .
his metabolism possibly .
Yeah , and his colest colestrial 's alright , you think .
you know .
Did he have a high colestrial level then , I presumed they must of tested it .
Before , first time , but this time he has n't .
No .
But ehm , they just don't know what it was , it 's just one of those things that could of happened , they taken .
What have a look at them or .
Yeah his got to do another stress test and have more level .
Yes , yes , yeah .
And have another one of those , but they want to wait until after .
Yes , and eh , can do more harm than good so it 's better wait .
Yes , that 's what we 've done .
Yeah , well you don't expect him to be on top of the world do you ?
No , but all .
Or do you ?
No , but we 've all got to live with him still ai n't we ?
Oh yeah , yeah , yeah , just turn blind eye .
Oh his very calm , very calm , and I'm still going to work , I didn't go to work while , I went too work while he was in hospital , and when he first came out .
Yeah .
You know stayed at home , but I'm back at work know .
I only work three days a week .
Anyway eh .
says I wanna go away for the weekend , so I 've changed all the times , no he doesn't , oh , he said .
I see .
Oh I don't know..
He 'll grin and bear it .
Yeah , yeah , I think it was in hospital , again I think he sacred , probably scared now his coming .
Well it could be .
Or it not the hospital .
No , his , his in the right place I suppose in the event of any thing happening aren't you .
Hello .
wouldn't understand , it 's just hard work when you 've got the rest of the family to see to as well .
Yes , yes , especially the little one .
for thirteen years .
Is it thirteen years since .
We had the others .
Yeah , oh .
thirty six , thirty six .
Hm , oh .
His not violent .
His not what ?
violent , last time he use to be violent .
Was he ?
Difficult to imagine that , isn't it , any body had a heart attack been violent .
Oh no , the minute something doesn't go there right way .
Yeah .
.
Yeah .
I don't cower now , I use to cower .
, yeah .
.
Yeah , yeah .
You 've got ta live and let live I don't really care .
That 's true , that is true , well I 've got to get me shopping , see you then .
Get some shopping done .
Good day love .
Hello Sidney , how are you ?
Alright Elvia , and you , I see your working hard again , .
.
Oh , look who it is ?
Hello darling .
What are you , what you doing here ?
Doing my shopping Sidney , guess who I 've got to feed tonight ? .
Lasagne .
Mince or that .
No Lasagne .
You 've got ta actually make it ?
Oh my gould .
Yeap , I'm gonna actually make it .
You still on holiday ?
Yeah I go back tomorrow .
Ah , so you been doing a whole week of cooking .
No it 's the first time .
.
Every time I come in here she buys mince meat , why not ah .
Well it 's easy in it ?
Cos the window closed , that 's why it 's getting colder isn't it , cos you 've got your window closed .
I had it open yesterday .
I said to you Debbie 's got her window open up there , it 's her day off .
Yeah .
She was on holiday .
Oh .
She 's been on holiday .
What are you doing for a holiday then Deb 's .
We just went out for days and that really last week .
Hm .
Went out for the day yesterday , could n't afford it Irene .
Who 's on holiday with you then ?
Grant 's been off , but he 's gone back to work today .
.
Yeah .
I went ehm , when did I go ?
Thursday afternoon for about three ..
Was there really ?
They said that ehm , if you get it in less than six .
Oh that 's right yeah .
You get the fifty pound prize .
That 's it .
Shaney wasn't actually playing a game , but she was sitting next too a women that was .
Yeah .
Every time the woman was marking off the numbers Shaney was turning the card over , you know , she turned it over in six cards .
Yeah .
And the women went oh eh unlucky that was seven numbers , Shaney said to her it were n't that was six numbers , and they got and that and got the computer print out and all that , and then it was six numbers .
.
Was that Scottish women ?
And then , yeah , and then Sunday night , the first three games guaranteed at fifty pounds .
Yeah .
And like half way through it they said ehm , they 've giving somebody the wrong prize money or something , they 've giving somebody fifty pounds , they should off giving it to this other coloured women right , and apparently this women was giving it all wow man yeah man , and all this you , you know they give it to them in the end and then she won the twelve hundred pounds .
Ahh .
Yeah , yeah , the coloured women won the twelve hundred pounds .
Is that the most the machine .
Yeah , yeah , no , no , I never go on them , never , never .
.
Yes I 've noticed that .
On ours .
Yeah .
Yeah , so .
So and so a number on a yellow or a blue or a red , yeah I 've seen it .
Yeah , yeah .
Oh yeah , it 's too quick .
I don't like it , I never play it .
No , I don't play on the other machines either .
I don't like , I wish I could play it , I could n't possible make , I keep asking your mate to teach me , I .
.
Yeah but she won't .
She won't .
Lucky , your gonna take her luck .
I said I won't play it when your there , just show me how too , machine you know , you know when you get , oh you get silly we can't play these new machines .
I don't you know , you might do , I don't .
You know how to play those machines .
Well there too fast for me .
You know those that you push .
No , she mean the ones the eh , apples and pairs .
Oh yeah , yeah , yeah , yeah .
The one the one arm bandits .
Yeah .
Yeah .
and they say you know , I always do the wrong one you know .
Alice comes back you know , Alice comes back .
Yeah , she come back , I said show me how to play you know , she said no .
Ten pea doesn't she ?
And she emptied it all out doesn't she on this .
I know she only sent eighty five pound the other week , Monday afternoon , one afternoon , and she come out with three pounds , eighty three pounds .
All .
.
It 's your money you know that , he told me that .
Oh yes .
He said I 've seen them put fifty .
Yeah .
she comes away at , she 's fiddled on she doesn't , she doesn't , she takes about three thousand and comes back .
No , well if you can do that .
Well it 's desperate in it normally , sensible , any way so what you going to do , go and put .
Yeah .
Are we all up for dinner then tonight ?
No .
That 's it you tell her Deb .
Who did I tell that to ?
You lying old bag , you lying old bag
What sort of language is that for a young lady .
Can you hear what she 's saying about me Sidney ?
.
She 's saying horrible things about me Sidney .
The question , the question now , are they true or not ?
No , there not .
Just knickers ..
I don't no that we do..
Lady in the back of the car , just in case..
..
I told you I saw her in the mornings standing at the bus stop .
Oh gould..
There 's me going like that in front of .
Did not see her ? .
Shows you what things she 's got in her flat ai n't I ?
.
Hm .
.
Pardon , what are we talking about ? .
Shaney 's moving to Jersey at the end of August .
Who ?
Shaney .
She 's going is she ?
She 's got a flat over there..
No , no , to Jersey going out there to live .
How lovely .
Ehm , Bank Holiday August , well were going with them that weekend cos like .
Ah lovely .
Like taking the van over to ehm , put all there stuff in .
Oh that .
.Got a big van or a little one .
Well his got a little one that he uses for work , but his borrowed his boss big one to take his stuff over .
So ehm , so , what she going to work over there then .
Well get a job when she gets over there , yeah .
You have to get , go there , go over there next year .
We , we , we were supposed to be going there this year , we had it booked up and every thing , we lost our hundred pound deposit .
Why ?
Cos Clive has n't paid his tax for three years , and the tax man caught up with him .
.
An awful lot of money , so we had to cancel it .
Oh .
Yeah .
His a naughty boy .
They catch up with you in the end .
Oh yeah .
.Like David , David and his phone , he won't buy it , this year they give double loss on to .
Yeah..
He , he won't get away with it .
Eh ?
He won't get away with it..
Were going next year , we hope to with Maurice , don't he , he wants to go don't he ?
Have you been there before ?
Yeah , no they haven't been before , they 've got a wedding this year .
Who did ?
No I 'd love too , I 've always wanted too .
I have .
Have you been ?
.
Is it nice ?
.
Mind you , ehm , he , you must have a car .
Yeah .
Oh .
Well hire a car , cos it 's a lovely island and you , you never find these places unless you have a car to , sort of go around .
Round the place , island .
There buses I think are .
Well I think so , I'm not sure .
Yeah , I think there are .
car , just go where you want then .
Can go there , yeah .
Oh yes , yeah , yeah , yeah .
But Harry spoke a bit the last time we went , he said So what hire a car .
Oh yes .
Yeah .
It 's not so expensive actually , we like .
No , I believe it 's really reasonable .
I mean , I think it was about , it worked out about eight three pound for a week , so I mean if there 's four of you then it 's you know .
.
.
all over the place .
The air fares have gone up , , cos she 's got relatives there and she said where it used to be about .
Well , ours worked out , when we worked ours out , it worked out , what was it , three hundred and eighty six .
Four ?
No that was for two of us .
In a hotel as well ?
Well , it was a self catering flat ... .
It was .
It was four hundred pounds .
Yeah , that 's probably , that was probably eh .
Each , that each ?
Well I mean when Shaney 's living out there , I mean , she might be able to a
That was each for a week wasn't it ?
But you 've for accommodation .
Accommodate for everybody that comes over eh , charge them a small fee .
Pay what get , cost the earth , I mean look at us at ..
It 's what , three hundred and something each .
Where did you go to ?
Heathlands at Bournemouth last year in March .
Three hundred and something each .
Yeah .
No , that wasn't Heathlands that was Anglo Swiss .
Anglo Swiss , sorry .
Oh I'm trying to say is in this country pay so much ...
It 's worth it .
No it 's not .
It 's a lovely hotel .
It seems like it 's cheaper to go away .
Well no it 's not cos you don't know what your going into do you .
Yeah , I suppose so .
We know what were going into and it 's a beautiful hotel , lovely food , and you pay what you get .
Yeah .
Let 's be honest you do .
you can tell us all about it when you 've been over .
Well were going for a long weekend , like the Bank Holiday weekend .
Yeah .
Have have have they got a place at a ..
Yeah , over there .
Oh they have .
They 've got there mum and dad , got a flat over there .
Oh nice .
So .
Cos Dave 's been out the country like ehm , well it 's just under ten years , and if he stays out longer than ten years he loose , he loose his citizenship .
That 's it , yeah .
So he wants to go back .
Go back , course , yeah .
Eh .
Yeah , course he does .
Like Tony said she 's , you know she 's got no home , she 's doesn't particularly like her job so .
She don't like that any more ?
What did she do on that course ?
Sales Rep , no , no , no , she 's ehm works for a recruitment agency .
Does she ?
But it 's up by Heathrow Airport , it 's a long journey every day .
Oh god .
You know like twice a day , so she 's got nothing too loose really .
Well good luck to her mate , it 's the only way , do these things when your younger , might as well , just wish her all the luck .
.
Yeah , oh yeah .
these days .
can't be any worse than this .
His calling..
.
..
Watching all the cricket and stuff , oh yeah .
Yes , yes of course .
Is there cricket on today ?
No there 's test match starts on Thursday I think .
Ooh
All worked out .
Oh yes .
.
Hm ?
Were going up to the test match at the Oval , Clive likes that .
Yeah , I don't blame him .
all the time..
His told me I'm not allowed to talk..
I'm not going then .
Debbie .
Do sign language , ..
Oh .
No it 's not .
Oh , that 's , that 's not nice is it ?
Young chaps don't like cricket , it 's only the old boys .
Course they do .
They don't mind if they play , but a lot of them want 's it , watch it on , watch cricket .
You want to see the youngsters there at the .
Yeah .
There are a lot of youngsters there , yeah .
That 's what he said to me , cos I said oh it 's all old men you know what I mean , he said it 's not he said like , you go down the West Indian end , he said and it 's really a blinding day out .
Yeah .
Really good , well I said if someone tells me to shut up .
Make a drum and rope her in .
Yeah .
With cans of lager .
.
I know , I'm gonna get the eh .
Oh , what was it .
cos I 've got the shopping list .
Right .
See you later .
Well she 's as pale as a perivale ghost .
She said she thoroughly enjoyed it but she wished .
Oh no .
Well I don't know , I think it 's a bit , it 's like Sheila , I mean when David first went out there that 's all she kept on about was going out to live in Australia .
When she came back after she went out there too his wedding she never mentioned it once again .
Really .
I think it 's a bit desolate in places and a bit ram shackled , shanty fashion and , once you get outside the town .
Yeah , that 's right , yeah .
I think the heat can get a bit much for ya also if your not used to it .
Yeah , that 's what she said , she said that .
Well , she 's now I mean Sheila was out there in January that 's virtually the middle of summer .
Yeah .
But I didn't recognise her when she came off the plane .
She looked thin , gaunt .
Thin ? .
Well I don't think ehm , she and , daughter in law saw exactly eye to eye for a start .
Oh I see .
Knowing Sheila she probably wanted to rule the roost and Elaine wasn't going to have it .
Oh .
Oh I want ehm , can we get ehm .
What do you want your Whisky ?
No cigarettes .
Two hundred ehm
Bensons ?
No .
Silk Cut ?
Silk Cut ?
Oh my bloody trolley 's gone out and walked .
Well go and get it .
Go and get it .
Yeah Silk Cut .
Silk Cut .
Ehm Extra .
Extra .
Yeah Alright cheers mate , lost the bloody thing .
All I did was turn me back for a minute and it was .
They watching , they watch like a hawk , cos remember I did it last , I did I did it last time , this is yonks ago .
Yeah , I'm watching .
And when I came , when I went up stairs .
Yes .
She said to me ehm , didn't count those , didn't give a re refund on those cigarettes yet , I said no .
can't do it up here .
I said I added up Whisky , added up wine , nothing in , but they they watch you .
Yeah .
Have you got them by the way ?
she 's bring them up .
.
Here are take..
Cigarettes .
What you pay for your cigarettes ?
I dunno .
Right , well , all I can do is take one lot , one coupon .
Yeah , that 's fair .
But , she 's , now she 's gonna ask me , ridiculous isn't it eh ?
Sorry I know .
Yeah .
So what , what I 'll shall do it was fourteen pounds no what I 'll do is the whole amount and if she says any thing I say .
Thanks .
You know me darling .
Do you know , I was ehm , .
Not pulled ?
.
Still spend still spend your money Irene .
don't need any more ?
No .
You still spend the money .
Two ninety eight yes , right .
That 's yours , that 's yours , take ..
Oh , I'm alright I'm .
Thirty two and ninety eight , thirty three , thirty four , thirty five , and one pound .
Thanks very much dear .
That 's all right .
Been any body else I might 've eh .
I know , yeah .
.
What she doing ?
.
.
Yes I know love , yeah , don't want to get in any trouble , ta la Gwen .
Hi Gwen .
Ta la .
Ta la love .
By the way is Bob still with his local round down at Marlow Road ?
Yes .
I never see him these days , I don't know why .
Bob 's doing the rounds yeah .
Hm , okay .
His probably in and out doors so quick you can't see him .
.
You know what I mean .
Yeah I know what you mean .
, trolley came all the way down here , out through here and in the car park .
I know did it ? .
It was up over there .
It came here ?
Yeah , down here and up over there .
Oh I say .
I could n't believe it .
You said my trolley going there .
They do it all individual .
Well yes , what you talking about , all the cigarettes that 's what they have to do apparently .
Yeah .
Oh gould ten ninety , one ninety nine .
Hm , what do you think you can't .
Ten nines are ninety .
No , look .
Ten pound ninety , ten pound ninety nine , right ?
Is it ten pound ninety nine ?
No .
You add a nought on the end of that figure , now what have you got there ?
You add one pound ninety .
Look it says one ninety one , yes .
Yeah .
Put a nought on the end then what does it read ?
One ninety one .
No , add a nought on the end of it .
One , nine hundred and ten , you said a nought on it .
Yeah .
Oh , ninety O one .
Nineteen ten .
Oh .
Nineteen , one O .
Oh , I see , nineteen ten .
isn't it ?
Just nineteen ten , that cost that much , you got to be joking , it cost me fifteen fourteen when I use to get .
Well they 've gone up since then .
Christ , I don't believe it Sure it 's nineteen ?
Yes .
Are you having me on ?
There gonna pull that down obviously .
Yeah , yeah , we haven't got it , we could of had that as a nice car park .
It it 's a car park .
No , it wouldn't be big enough .
wouldn't it ?
No .
pay for that , they just a little annexe , you 'd only get half a dozen cars in it .
Move that I said .
Hm .
I 've already got to give you ninety pea back .
I was .
Had your twenty , I don't believe it .
It 's a bit late for renovation I expect .
I thought I 'd have to give you back a lot more money .
No , no , no .
There 's that black driver again nine years .
Road is there 's the country is there 's , so the road might as well be there 's .
gonna have some rain later on I think .
Did last night didn't it Sid ?
Well it did yesterday .
When you when out , was it in the car , it was wet ?
Yeah .
When I looked out .
There was ehm .
, you can't even reverse .
I remember Debbie bringing me home once from Bingo and he 's coming up as she 's coming up , she 's almost there too her house , and he wouldn't budge , he wouldn't back , he wouldn't reverse at all .
Well that was probably sheer bloody chasifness .
Well , she was wild Now you should have brought that thing when Sue was talking about the Australia Barrier Reef .
What darling ?
That thing , switched on the conversation .
I did .
Oh , lovely .
.
Oh , lovely Sid , not with Elvia about having a leg over or any thing .
She didn't mentioned it did she ?
She did .
Well you can listen to it later on .
Oh , oh , you can play it back can you ?
Yeah .
Oh that 'll be interesting .
.
Have you got much on it Sid ?
No , actually I .
That would of been interested at Sue 's .
See I'm , I 've buggered it up .
Should of told me , and I could of kept more .
I tried to get and Paula on the tape .
Oh yeah .
And .
don't know people do they ?
No , there 's , they say in the brief you 've read it , eh , ok , if they ask you tell them , or show them this form , say what it 's all about , but don't tell them till after .
Conversation .
Because otherwise it 's always stinted .
It 's all false in it ?
Yeah .
Have you got us two on there at all ?
Ehm , oh yeah .
Have you ?
Well you 'll be on this one won't you ?
Yeah , but , I mean indoors , yeah .
For a start .
Oh no , no , not indoors , no .
I meant too a , I buggered it up I .

Yeah , stick it up your jumper , Oompah oompah !
What do you think Mike ?
It 's very nice that !
oh it looks lovely !
It 's got a
got a lovely little brooch .
Oh very posh !
Do think that 's enough ?
Come and
Barmow !
Bar plane !
Triggooms
Now that 's enough enough of that rubbish right ?
Two Two big-uns
It 's got a recipe here .
Chicken soup .
Any carrots ?
Pardon ?
Any carrots ?
Erm three .
aren't they ?
Oh that 'll be plenty yeah .
Any spuds ?
Four or five .
Four or five large spuds , one large onion three carrots .
Can you get the pressure cooker out while you 're in there please ?
Er plain flour
There 's the pudding .
I think it might be fish stew again tomorrow .
No , pork probably .
in the morning .
Enough plain maybe he just tries it on and thinks if you don't say anything he 'll get away with it ?
What else do I need ?
Or do you think he 's oblivious to it anyway .
Oh , he knows what 's going on .
Anyway he wouldn't I know what he said about working Saturdays but like , you used your car as well and it wasn't just when you said that as well .
No , but when , when Reg car he said he might put his .
About , it 's all about money and he says well sort it out and he agreed that we 're gonna get hard and all the rest of it so I 'll just tell him !
I 'll just say that
No when he says when about working extra he said through the morning or something
Yeah .
didn't he ?
Fro on a Saturday morning not
I 'll just say oh well we 're working on Saturday
all bloody day !
bit like that .
That 's all I 'll say i in the morning and if he says yes , I 'll say oh fair enough then .
But I said oh alright then .
Work till dinner time or something then , then we 're going down , well I 'll go in my own bloody car the next time !
In front
I 'll tell him that he you won't be using your own car for work again !
No I'm not .
And , you wouldn't mind but it was last minute that he rung up !
What a cheek he 's got !
Call me then when you wanna do the meat .
Yeah okay .
Put the kettle on for a cuppa .
Yeah , I 've put erm put the meat to boil first .
Mm .
Ai n't got no batteries .
What am I getting , the spuds ?
Oh I didn't tell you did I ?
Before before you came home the white cat came back !
Was it ?
Was that cos the back door was open ?
Yeah , well I 'd been out to the bin and er , he was just sort of erm by the ground by the bin bags the wood round the corner and er then he was sort of coming and he was like dying to come and have a stroke but
Yeah .
he was like being shy but he 'd had all the side of his fur like shaved , and I thought urgh !
Maybe it 's a it 's been spade or something ?
Or had an operation but there was no scare though !
It might have been in a fight or something ?
Probably
Well it was it like a big square shaved right down to the skin but no unless , it could of healed and just not grown back yet
No .
I suppose .
Cos I don't know whether I don't know whether it 's a she or he ?
I call it a he but it could be a
So did you stroke it
a girl .
it in the end or what ?
Yeah .
He he had he came in I give him a saucer of milk .
Actually I was cos I I had the back door open and I thought I 'll just leave it and if he wants to come in he can and I poured him a a bit of a drink of milk and er , then I went in the kit , in the bathroom and the door was still open and then suddenly I thought God I wonder where he was ?
I looked through the window and there was no sign of him through the little back window , looked through this one , there was still sign so I thought God !
He can't have just disappeared like that , oh God what if he 's gone upstairs and in the middle of the night
With us , suddenly !
I did !
I thought he might crawl out from under the bed !
And then I thought you 'd shout at me .
Funny about
You did
that cat didn't come back and ?
Yeah .
He was a big one !
But he ee mm .
No but this one must of just gone really quick , whether the wind frightened him cos it there was a lot , the fence was banging .
This looks red !
It 's alright .
So don't be surprised if the cat does jump out !
It doesn't look very old though .
So I think that was the mother .
Remember when they had the sign in the window white kitten for sale ?
Aye .
I think that was the mother .
Yeah .
My mum says I 've got ta put this in didn't she ?
Yeah .
Put some salt in with it .
Les has gone out to Do-it-all B and Q or somewhere like that .
What for ?
Some tiles for the kitchen .
Mm !
Is he doing it himself ?
Presume so , aye !
Mm , it should n't be too hard to do should it ?
That 's right Ian 's got that tile cutter ai n't he ?
I had it , remember and I gave
Oh
it to Ian ?
yeah !
It was quite a good one wasn't it ?
Yeah .
Do you think they 'll be out tomorrow night ?
Probably , I should think so .
Three carrots isn't it ?
Yeah .
Or four ?
I think three will be enough .
Everyone will be avoiding us like the plague if we take this there with us !
Just don't tell them !
Yeah , I 've put that er rug in tomorrow .
Er we 'll buy them a couple of towels or something .
Or by itself it might be too it might be too big to have anything with it .
No !
I don't think , has it got bathroom ones in there ?
Yeah .
You can stick them in now anyway .
Yeah .
Do it when we 've done this .
Freshen it up .
Have you got the heater on in the bathroom ?
No .
Why ?
Oh it 's this I can hear I thought I could I thought I could hear something .
God there was like a ra , I was on the computer today and there was like weeee really ringing sort of noise erm , I thought it was just you know , when you 're ears ring ?
Yeah .
And I said can anybody hear that ?
Cos it was very high pitched and er Rob said aye I can hear it as well !
Must of been on one of the other computers and er it went on for ages and it was you know it 's was irritating more than anything !
It might have been that thing that er that bloke puts in them .
In our paper
A virus .
Aye !
I dunno .
Anyway it stopped , I thought I 'd gone deaf !
You what ?
I'm not doing these cutting this into big chunks I 'd rather have lots of bits in it .
Well , don't cut them too small !
No , I'm not doing them too small .
Well what do you call too small ?
I'm doing them like that .
That 's alright isn't it ?
Yeah .
Ah what was Jan saying last night ?
She said she had her This is Your Life on and the
Aye I watched that !
Who was the feller ?
Oh some singer man !
Some old er my nan knew it .
I turned it on while you were there then and I didn't know who the hell it was !
No , I didn't know him from bloody Adam !
But my nan knew him he was some top bloody singer years ago !
Oh !
And he 'd just made a film and , we were watching something
Oh aye it 's
and , was it David McCallum or something ?
He 's plays the detective that 's chasing him er , in it .
And who 's , what 's David McCallum been in ?
Man from Uncle .
Is David McCallum .
Oh right yeah !
The one that was on Jonathan Ross a few weeks ago .
Well er , she said they had this This is Your Life on and Neil was in the room in the lounge like and he 'd sort of been half watching it and then he said urgh mum !
He said he doesn't look a bit like he in real life what he does in that film does he ?
In the film .
She said , you silly little git , he said it 's an actor taking the part of him in the film !
He thought you know it in the film it was him !
The stupid slag !
She says , good God ! .
You didn't mind not going to that pub tonight did you ?
I didn't fancy going out .
No , I just thought it would of made Jan 's night like .
It wasn't a very nice night anyway .
Er , see if it had been a bit more local it wouldn't
Mm .
have been so bad , I mean , I know it 's not miles away but
Was it that little pub ?
it was round you know as you go in say towards Ellesmere Port , well you know if you turn left by the
Strawberry pub ?
no , by the Penguin
Ah !
and then keep going to that really big band of traffic lights and it 's Sutton Way .
Ha have you been to Jan 's ?
Yeah .
Oh aye !
You 're going
You turn
down towards the M fifty three lights ?
Yeah , on the old Chester Road
I know .
turn right at the lights and er , then take the first left and there 's a pub called The Bull
Not as far as that chimney place now , no ?
No , no !
No !
No !
And then it 's the , it was the next pub down , I 've been to The Bull with Jan before when we were on er you know , come home from Wigan or something when we were doing the counters .
It 's like well it 's all been done out but it was full of old croakers and you know an old man 's sort of like the legion .
You know , we walked in there and you know how like when we 're doing the counters I had jeans on and a big baggy jumper , we were the best dressed in there !
And the feller 's eyes were popping out of their heads !
It 's been the best bit of talent we 've , they 've seen for a long while !
If I 'd have Jan with Ben and we thought it was a new girlfriend .
I hope not .
Dear me !
I hate this job !
Well do you want all in bed I 'll go ?
No !
I don't want her beating it and then have to pick all fat off it !
Grill a meal that every morsel in it is full of meaty goodness !
.
Just like Winalot Prime !
Mm , tender bites mum !
Yes er !
I like that woman I think she 's got style !
Oh dear me !
Tell you what would be a good idea .
What will ?
Check to see if your steak 's burning !
Well something 's bloody burning !
But there again .
I'm gonna ring Nicola tomorrow have a Traggoon talk I think .
Meant to ring her today but I was
?
too busy .
Cos I was ringing her
She 's been at work today !
I know but I was gonna try and catch her on her dinner or something .
Why didn't she go back home for dinner ?
No , but like she might have a minute while she 's having her din , the they 're really busy you know in there !
Are they ?
You wouldn't think it !
Yeah !
And , oh I didn't tell you this either that she was going for a promotion !
I thought he was going for the interview for the job
Sorry an audition thing she had , she has n't got they were very impressed but she has n't got it .
But she thought well it 's been a good experience anyway and she tho felt that she 'd played her pieces well erm
What was the audition for ?
Was it an orchestra like ?
Oh , I don't know !
Er oh I'm jus I don't know .
But erm they did let her know that she hadn't got it instead of making her wait the four weeks or whatever it was
Yeah .
supposed to be which I thought was good of them really cos you know , it 's nice to know isn't it ?
Well
Well she wasn't too bothered it 's all experience isn't it ?
Mm .
But no , she 's gone for this promotion in work and er even though she doesn't think she 's much chance of getting it because there 's two permanent lads there that really you know would be next in line rather than her sort of thing but she 's you know , she feels she 's done her bit and that , you know , it 's worth going for and like I said to her you might as well !
Nothing to lose .
Oh no !
Er , you know , she might get it .
But she 's more organised than these lads you see , whatever the duties are you know , she 's got hers up and running and whereas they 're still a bit you know haven't got it going as well as she has .
So er I says well worth a go !
In for a penny in for a pound !
She were just telling me one of her friends that sh when she was in
How did you get on at that wedding ?
Erm well I haven't spoke to her have I ?
Well your mum has has n't she ?
Ai n't your mum said nothing to her ?
She said it was alright .
Well what was mum saying erm
Well your mum won't go in until Sunday will she ?
So we will be
No but she did say ah er the other day when we were up there she said ooh yes the very part of Kent she was at was where that
Ah , somebody was oh they were with the gyppos or something .
Oh that 's it , yeah !
That was a good saying the other day were n't it ?
Built like a gypsy 's dog !
Yeah .
All dick and bone !
What was that on ?
Oh , on Radio one listening with my mum the other day .
!
I thought , now there 's one !
Ah dear !
Well don't burn that !
Yeah .
Be a nice quick tea then this for tomorrow won't it ?
Yeah .
I 'll try and ru , try up Langley in the morning , I 'll get a do we need bread anyway ?
Could do with one I suppose .
next door 's , he said we can get some anytime , get you one when we get .
Yeah but I 'll get a a crusty cob of
Ooh !
french stick or something .
Be nice with it !
We haven't had it for ages have we ?
No .
Ah ha .
Is that hare or a rabbit ?
Can pull it off this end ?
There .
Alright !
How can you tell ?
Longer .
Like your tongue !
Int chicken greasy and Oh you 'll have to give Tosh and Liz a ring .
won't we ?
Yep !
See how they 're getting on .
Well that to eat all the meat today .
Was he ?
Aye !
It doesn't seem long since , looking like Chris , just after Christmas it was !
I was only thinking yesterday when I was getting the thingie licence erm it seems ages since we 've had a one !
Yeah , well they did because they all come in a quarter don't they ?
They all start coming again now .
I know but like you sort of forget don't you ?
Sometimes they seem like they 're just coming all the time don't they ?
Well they are !
What do you mean ?
Well it 's just like phone bill kind of thing .
Mm .
Oh I
Except for
Oh aye !
for the electrical bill .
Yeah .
And then it was the cu , we 'd payed that and then a couple of weeks after it was the phone and then it was the gas !
Yeah I see what you mean .
And then you have a quarter then it 'll start with the electric , then phone , then gas again !
Yep .
Yeah , I see what you mean .
But they always around about Christmas time .
My mam reckons that the
You can put this through to soak anyway , this plate .
The what ?
Are you chucking this out ?
We 've only just had it !
There 's nothing in it !
Mm .
Nothing in the way of kitchens going begging , no ?
While you 're going upstairs get us a bottle of beer please ?
can't .
Urgh , all the blood off that meat is making me feel sick !
You know on that murder squad
Aye .
when it said the bottles had stuck to the blood on the carpet ?
Well no wonder !
How many in there bottles now ?
Get some more of this .
I don't , none I don't think .
Why , isn't there any left in the cupboard ?
No , not the one .
You pest !
Let me just rinse my hands they 're horrible !
Oh that looks fine to me .
Here 's the onions .
Ah dear !
On a quarter ?
Well at least up up to the top of that rim thing whatever it is .
And then we put two pints in it after don't we ?
Where 's the tea towel ?
Do we ?
Yeah .
I keep topping it up , we 'll have a oh if you you don't want a cup of tea if you 're having a beer .
That 'll do .
Do you put salt in it ?
No .
Who told me not to do it , put salt into the water then ?
I don't know .
I'm being a good girl !
Well how much of this beer 's left ?
About forty eight bottles I suppose .
God !
Thought we might have Joanne and Paul round over the next couple of weeks or something before the wedding pre-wedding , it 's only about six weeks you know till their wedding !
I know !
Right , that 's cooking , we 've got those there I 've got and Oxo , I 've got the flour and that vill do !
Excuse me !
I vont , I vont , I vont a carrot !
If you 're having a beer I 'll some of my wine !
Said to Jan , she said er today , er today she hadn't slept much last night I said God I 'll bring you some of that wine back we got from France !
Yeah yeah .
Eleven percent proof , I said so get some of that down you I said you 'll sleep for a bloody week !
Mike 's been off today , it 's been good !
While the cat 's away the mice will play !
On annual leave the rest right this wants to go in for quarter of an hour doesn't it ?
Yep .
And how much does it say on there ?
Oh it says thirty minutes on there .
Let it have a good bubble !
Do you think I should put that rug in ?
Yep .
Ah , I think I 'll leave it till tomorrow .
Shove it in as soon I get in from work I think .
spill water where you gone .
Well not one for here !
Mine probably will be !
Pick my wine up .
Ah !
Ooh , do you know what Jan in work she 's she had a phone call she goes oh right yeah , yeah !
She come off the phone and she said , bloody hell she said that one of the rare times I go to the trouble of making myself butties for dinner , cos usually she gets a pasty or something , and I get invited out for dinner , you this Viv er , a friend of hers , you know the one that was having trouble with all that drainage underneath the
Mm .
house and could n't claim off the house insurance ?
Erm she was go , on her way to Churk or somewhere and said to Jan would you like to meet for lunch first ?
And where does she live ?
She lives somewhere by the Port , but she just sort of done a detour to come and have lunch with Jan .
It 's a Port .
She does that now and again .
You know she 's got a company car and that and sort of ri , scoots up and down .
Erm , so Jan had these butties , she said oh I made them lovingly last night , tuna , mayonnaise and onion and er she said trust Viv to ring today like when I 'd made these butties !
So she said , will you have them ?
I said ooh I said let me buy them off you ?
No , she said you damn well have them and enjoy them !
So I said , ooh I feel guilty and all this , really rubbing it in and everything !
So I kept her one and they were absolutely lovely !
But the onion was so strong , although it was only chopped finely and er , Stevie went past and said God what crisps are you eating ?
I said , I'm not eating crisps , he said God I can smell cheese and onion or something !
I said says it 's these bloody butties !
So when they 'd come back I said yes , I said you know when you made me butties for tomorrow again she said yeah ?
I said don't put so much onion on !
Bloody things are repeating on me !
She said , oh right !
I said don't put so much onion on me the bloody things are repeating on me !
She said , oh shut up she said !
I suppose I should leave that on full really should n't I ?
Unless it gets really riled !
Actually Jan was playing hockey for Buckley Ladies .
Oh I know the ones , they 're getting a or something ?
Yeah .
Sad thing !
They 've asked to play for them .
They play in kilts did you know !
Like , kilty type
What like pleated little skirt things ?
Yeah .
Oh bloody charming that !
Look like a tart !
Well , not in a tartan ?
Yeah they are .
They 're not proper tartan but they 're sort of like that .
.
Yeah .
They 're playing Mold Ladies , with a question mark by them cos I don't there 's a lady amongst them !
Right , those will do fine !
Just rinse that plate .
loads of talking .
Yeah , it 'll be alright .
That 's all .
I told Rob about that place er , I told the others you know about the the judge m'lord ?
aye .
It does rather I mean there 's howling !
It 's right though , it was in the paper !
He 'd asked which paper it was in .
You were gonna say fax it up normally you should just say fax it m'lord .
Aye , that 's what he might have said like before he could fax it up .
won't he ?
Fax it up m'lord Yes , it does rather doesn't it ?
No , fax it up sounds better .
What are you gonna now with that that football .
Yeah .
And then I'm gonna go for a shower .
Okay .
Will that be alright on four do you reckon ?
Turn it down
Turn it down
a bit cos it might boil dry .
Oh it has !
That will do .
I thought you had to put the lid on it for , if you did it for quarter of an hour ?
Well you can but I suppose it all the juices you know , have a better taste on than if you
Well it makes no odds really anyway !
That
Alright .
Ooh , I'm sick of it ! the election had already started could n't you ?
Well there must be something on .
Mm .
What time is it now ?
Half five .
Right , this is the choice , News and Weather followed by the
What 's this I'm watching here now ?
Channel four , what 's on ?
Train of Wars .
The Train of Wars .
Repo
It 's not started .
Report on one of the most lucrative businesses around trainers .
Oh why the hell they 've put Porridge on so late ?
Did you se , the advert with er Ronnie Barker talking to that other feller and he says oh aye he says we were going through a really bad patch me and the wife who went to marriage guidance and Ronnie Barker says oh did it do you any good ?
And he says oh it did her some good she ran off with him !
Have you seen it ?
No .
Oh and er Chris was saying erm that film Malcolm or whatever it was called
Aye !
it was an Australian film that
Yeah I know !
and
yeah , well I 'd sa , I'm sure I 've seen it before he 's he goes and robs a bank with a remote control car doesn't he ?
With a gun on it and that .
Right , Porridge is on twenty to ten L A Law on Granada which I hate !
Ooh I 'll carry on watching this and go for a bloody shower !
Red Dwarf .
Load of crap !
Oh I missed Countdown today !
Well I 'll tell you what er , Liz Taylor was on , you know the Oprah Winfrey show that you hate ?
Liz Taylor was on it and she has lost so much weight !
Honest to God she looked so much younger !
Have you seen a picture of her lately ?
You said , you watched it last week .
Yeah , honest to God she looked really nice !
And sort of , dead down to earth and everything and it showed you a clip out of National Velvet when she was twelve years old you know erm that with the horse in it and that ?
And er , oh it was amazing !
It 's a brilliant film that is !
With er , Mickey Rourke in it isn't it ?
I think ?
Mickey Rourke in what ?
isn't it Mickey Rourke ?
Oh not Mickey Rourke !
Not Mickey Rourke , what 's his name ?
Something O'Rourke ?
I don't know !
Not the young lad , wasn't a little feller !
Marti ?
Mickey Rooney !
Mickey Rooney have you heard of him ?
Yeah .
He 's a little feller isn't he ?
That 's who I mean , not Mickey Rourke !
Who 's Mickey Rourke ?
He 's that erm American actor .
What 's he been in ?
I dunno .
I know he 's got like stubbly
Dunno .
designer stubble type stuff .
He 's an arsehole !
Have a shave with a top still o still on a Bic razor , doesn't take the orange top off !
Gosh , isn't that funny Andy Mooney and I was just talking about Mickey Rooney !
Will they be in the Port tomorrow ?
Bloody black and white !
It 's not !
Oh yes it is !
Oh !
The trainer isn't .
Just to get the full effect .
Oh I was gonna turn this off
Mm ?
Shall I turn this off ?
I dunno !
It 's not going to tape any telly is it ?
Not really .
Is there something wrong ?
No I thought she had .
She said oh no I just rang up for a chat .
Where 's tonight ?
Yeah ?
Oh she 's gone in the market .
But were they doing it were they ?
Er , oh I don't know I didn't ask her !
No .
You don't try to
Well that I 've got that right , that 's the black .
Oh !
I , now the ones attached , not the ones they don't like , the older couple .
No , the attached ones that aren't
But but something about yeah .
What 's it about ?
I dunno , they 're a bit funny , they 're a bit don't wanna talk !
Yeah ta , yeah and Caroline doesn't like those next door
No .
anyway , the Yorkshire ones .
No .
Er I can imagine them being a bit like know all if they are
Yeah .
we 're having a church and
The older ones is it ?
Oh I don't know !
City
Yes , I know what you mean , that 's right !
What do you mean the one with the taxi ?
Well they 're an oldish couple as well .
No .
Yeah , and they 're copying them .
I don't feel er er either that way unless she thinks we 're very better than most .
I would really like a camper for that room .
Chairs are too .
That one 's almost boiled .
Would you like to stick the last one on ?
Oh yeah I will .
Other than out .
Only when I say .
.
not there .
Yeah .
They 're just the thing !
Oh , nothing too them then ?
Wrote a good letter ?
Oh aye !
.
And what 's he wrote ?
A nice
Yeah , yes and won't
Well
help us .
So you swore blind did you ?
Make a very good .
I upset such a
Er yeah
I suppose he wouldn't need to comment on the letter if he 's .
tonight .
Bet he 's told him his dad 's supposed to do that .
No way .
Oh that in a spell of plastic glasses at the .
Oh no !
Oh !
So what 's new ?
Mm .
Well then on Friday night they probably get
Oh !
a hundred bloody people in there you haven't got no glasses !
Russell at the bar , in fact , he didn't have plastic glasses , he had no glasses !
I wonder if the is still working ?
What glasses ?
With the beat off to
Ooh but there 's
He should pull his finger out and all !
It 's not , the beer hadn't gone off ?
But then I suppose well it 's one thirty five for Fosters isn't it ?
Mm .
They wouldn't , because it 's only gone up a penny like , there 's nothing to stop them putting it i , up two penny !
No .
But , it 'd be one thirty seven so what they 'll probably do is
It 'll probably go up now .
just leave it
down here
and it 'll go up to one forty the next day !
You know the , there 's ways to one thirty five is a nice round figure isn't
It 's
it ?
it 's been in a week er
Yeah , that 's true .
You might have to until he gets there .
Mould into the brewery sort of thing .
that 's how it works back , yeah
He 's overcharging course
quite .
he is , so he makes it up .
Oh yeah !
Yeah .
He just doesn't necessarily
Yeah .
Yeah .
But I think he 's got most of them he 's got ta
Oh yeah !
Uncle Charlie .
Back door .
Sherry , ah you 're a witness !
I like to change my glasses .
Oh !
, this is
Oh no !
not be done to cook because of the sausage and that splashing .
Well what do they taste like ?
Plasticy you should of done that plasticy thing ?
as that ?
Oh dear !
They were like .
Oh yeah yeah !
Jeremy bleeding !
Mine was lovely !
been to Harrods when we were on holiday .
Yeah .
A bit I suppose .
Really girly now int she mum ?
You 're telling me !
You 're the one who was there and that muscly
I think you must of
gone with him to .
That Indian rug I had , I took down there .
Right .
Mike 's .
But I can do it for you .
I'm sorry , I'm not keen on blue things actually .
Shut up !
Got to lay the er
!
Small room Martine 's just shows the er
Oh I thought she did ?
He does nothing for me
Oh no no I
at all .
The update with Rodney ai n't he got ?
Rodney seen anything of him ?
Well somebody told him something about Texas .
Have they been ?
That was first free visit there .
I don't know , have they ?
It 's all in your time , sort of thing .
Who told you ?
Are you gonna tell them about the naked .
Chocolate here must be .
What chocolate ?
Tell them about .
I remember too !
about that .
No , not about the drink .
don't she know ?
!
Cow !
No .
You 've had a good drink this week .
There 's builders in .
Well you must of been gone mother .
We 've been talking about somebody having affairs .
Who Martine ?
And I could see that this she were telling me .
Do you know
Oh !
Craig just said ooh you didn't add to whatever he said !
Have you been talking to Glen or is it what Rupert , Rupert told you about Ted , he didn't know !
He would swim
Ah aye !
you know and
Look at that chest !
No !
He 'll you had he 'll you have the working for him
doing the chapel .
Oh !
And then
All what ?
, I remember dancing and he could challenge him .
Yeah , I thi but he 's on the local council .
Yeah .
Oh aye !
That is when you admitted
No !
Erm I take it we 're we 're going to the shops and you all
And Carole 's coming down is she ?
Oh no !
She 's a horrible soul !
Do you still do do you
I don't want any er
Politics she told me , I don't want any politics around .
Can you turn it off ?
Barred , barred , I barred him !
Ah you 're barred , you 're barred !
He 'll be doing it himself .
isn't he silly ?
And
Go on tell him mother about the V sign !
Not particularly in the shop , I don't think he pu meant , he meant to get you know cos he 's
Why he was the one ?
He told me you knew Phillip was there .
What did she do with the ?
Oh she was the one .
Oh yeah !
I know he 's been doing to this man as he 's gone past so Harry sitting there the not saying you know .
That 's awful !
Harry said you don't suppose they know who
what they are , yeah !
What do you want to do ?
Might be worth waiting for this .
I think I 'll stop on a stool , I 'd sooner stop on a stool .
Are you sure ?
Yeah .
Aye !
Your back !
Oh I'm alright .
I never hear you say you have twinges in your back Mike .
Ah
Oh yeah it 's awful !
Ah !
Every bloody day of the week I hear !
yes ?
He does every day of the bloody week he does !
Oh I 've left my drink !
You little rat !
Yeah , so er Harry sitting there but not saying anything , I don't suppose he even knows what it means !
Ooh !
He does , he said !
and he said what else did he say derogatory about them ?
Stupid he said , meaning the whole lot of the 's so you can see like they 're all on the 's side !
Bit of shock mam , that 's stupid !
Rupert .
Where 's he living now ?
You know who Rupert is don't
Yeah .
you ?
Manchester house man with the bag fat family !
The make , the sheepdog not ours , but the other men .
decorated the church
I , I don't know him do I !
and he said you know , he said they haven't been turning up at that chapel for them , when they 've preaching but you didn't crack on they knew anything about that but he just sort of said said no you know remain non-committal .
And he said , you know they do alright at ten pound a time they have when they 're preach in those chapels , now I don't know , I 've no idea and good luck to them if they do !
Oh aye !
But erm whether they have petrol as well , Mr , cos he 's coming from really when you think , so I mean I don't think
Your mum 's as bad as Albert !
Everybody knows about that .
Not , Albert er God what was the other one from here that used to make the tea in ?
can't really remember .
It 's that er oh it 's you know ,
Oh you told them this the other day when we were there !
Ah , well you were still like that .
Let 's go for another time shall we ?
No !
No !
I told them
Thank God for that !
I nearly got it but she said she knew she was just being awkward !
Well it doesn't have any bearing on the story
No but
whether I got a
No .
vivid description of him or not does it ?
But we were saying like er you know , you 're silly devil !
Cos as we know him you can't believe it !
And so the very next day Helen told us of a night time that he was gonna stay and early in the morning he come back door with some papers and I said oh take well it never comes to more than six pound ninety or seven pound fifty but he calls it .
Bu But I mean if you get it , a big box from the village shop like no wrapping on
.
then she same I don't know how long , I mean she definitely called it 's .
It 's too that actually do some .
These she must take after them !
Oh dear , I said well give it some !
And if she and do you know what ?
She never told me !
I didn't know she had this cold and she 'd had it for ten
and she 's never even so I knew it must be a bad cold , oh dear I said !
Well this upset Anne it was the day before when it had happened cos I , I don't think his mum and dad would like to think that he was causing aggro with that lady .
And whether he started it and what he said , like he was
you don't know the full story , she might have had a bit of a
Course you don't she 's a little
before
you don't know , you just don't
As I know her I can't imagine it .
But , you never know !
What have they done to her ?
Ask Peggy .
They 've had to open a service for them , they 're all getting their stamps
Yes .
or whatever she might have just said something in
Yeah .
and he 's
Yeah but
and he 's gonna blow it up !
She 's but he 's stupid to should of waited or
Yeah .
You know he should n't stoop to that level !
But , you know you could just George .
No , that 's alright .
He said that 's alright .
That 's right he 's asked to Peggy and they really are !
Just imagine George like , as you know George getting a shock , like he 's !
hadn't got much .
And there we are !
Mm !
We 'll have to get off .
Watch this it 'll wind him up .
Pardon ?
Got somebody .
It 's er the inquest is at er
Oh dear !
into allsorts of trouble , they 've had a family meeting , he didn't
I I I just hear it when never freed any more hostages .
Oh that 's that 's a terrible thing isn't it ?
Although it 's only really because
Yeah .
when a new chapel on that bottom road , where they 're doing all the road works erm where that is the a the address is Glanberrys funny enough !
And even where
Is it ?
Mary lives , on the corner , Mary and Bob
Aye .
where they were , their proper address is erm or something and er , But like , she 's been ill , they 're thinking of sell and having a and er
She 'll not first though , there 's a load of them
Oh they have , yes !
and she fell over .
Of course they do , and I don't blame them because they really are .
They 'd had a , he had to give evidence he said , you know because , I mean he said a few days previously so they , financial problems as loaded as the family are nobody come to the rescue !
But I was mummy 's best
Bloody type your !
Well yeah !
And , but I didn't buy it !
She part of the family
he was the one who could , he was the one who could afford some !
And and people can't get over him !
Mm .
He 's still kept his but he 's got lived in , all the property he owns he can have the town square , there 's nothing !
It 's all right to the insurers you know !
Oh I suppose he 's invested it wrongly or whatever I don't know I I can understand why they didn't come to his rescue , you know , I mean , they 've got their livelihood to think about and he was a bachelor where as they 've got children , or and he 's brothers and they 're
Oh !
all farmers and all got their own families like er surely he had a fairly good shop when he .
I know but family 's like blood 's thicker than water .
Family is still
Ooh I know that !
family .
Mike , I agree , I'm the mother !
Mm .
That 's what I said first , I said ooh they 'd had a terrible job !
I could just see if she wanted to adopt
Yeah .
me could n't I ?
Ooh yeah , cos she is on her own .
You really are mother !
Oh , I'm feeling old !
No , too ruddy .
It 's just bloody don't think !
Ah !
I said it looks a bit too small , fifty metres .
doesn't it ?
Cos a lot will be meeting , even in the bar !
Mm .
All in that corner , all in .
do you ?
I 'll let somebody with a cup of coffee , especially if they 've got ta drive .
Well I'm not that sure really .
You one again ?
Yeah same
Yeah it 's that .
But really
Depends on how long you 've known each other I mean fifteen years and you 've only just !
Ooh !
So that .
now though , what did you think of the damn ?
They pay a perfectly .
Aye , listen here !
Where ?
And you 'd just had a plastic cold just the favourite because for our Martine and pull her along in it .
I mean , , she said we 'd have to give , I said oh I said , we used to , guess what I said ?
Of course we didn't know them like we used to wear them .
So she said that big girl ! oh I think I'm getting it so I said , but I know you used to talk about it , and I said here we go ! and her I didn't know the others , but Tom said one of the other things is a it 's this girl , but I said no she 's got a and then she said and I , and I thought that 's a big , I didn't know !
A little tiny three year old , oh I misunderstood didn't I ?
Yeah , you said , that 's Mrs 's boy , but she said I thought the two big ones wherever
she said no , she 'll have it she thought about me , bu but but er she said it was a funny !
wasn't it ?
I said what I didn't know !
She said it was .
Ooh yes , I said it 's very funny on a Friday night !
Cos we didn't know whether to clap
But nan says that er , the were , the wasn't
What ?
as good .
Nan said .
Did you go
The Friday night they went .
On the , on a Friday .
Said it wasn't as good as when we and .
Yeah , you 've just got ta laugh !
She said er that erm
She said to Susan will it be better than ?
Big fancy does are you ?
yeah !
Being diplomatic !
Yeah .
Erm , no what was I saying , she said ?
!
What are saying ?
So what was I saying , what was I gonna say ?
So ?
Breathe in !
Ooh that was it , yeah !
The rear engine ooh she said the the key 's in Ken 's house and we all sat we didn't know whether to clap or get up and walk out , whether she 'd finished or not !
Ooh , I said !
Well I said , what 's the finale ?
And I I said , he said ooh yes , the two girls come the alley on their own this is the their birthday cake ma , and I really jumped I said , cos we were right in the front , I thought what the hell 's he doing ! but what they were dressed in and she said , so I said , oh yeah well I didn't like it that I don't know what 's wrong cos all the time they did .
It was a show Starlight Express ?
Oh !
She said so I said , so they did do that ?
Ooh yeah , she said !
I said , I'm having a couple of days I said , oh they 're different a but she didn't know row of them .
She said , she said and then the thing ca came down and this get up and walk out I said go back and get them and get Joe to take them .
No , she said it was very poor of them !
I I and she 'd never said a word !
Oh I said , well she had to say something gave the three back , get her flowers and er chocolates or something and the same for his mum .
Oh no , nothing like that she said .
She said er well they came to us in the interval and Con was just like , I thought she 'll call me when Sally has gone , Sally had their address , she 'd just you know , she was gonna be in there and Con said , look , did you look at that dress she said , whoever makes them !
They don't put sea , they don't put hems on them !
I could see
Yeah .
her shoulder !
It is a .
I said to them , well if the woman is , she doesn't fit !
But she said , look at that I run up with ! , well remember that because she wants a dress made well it 's disgraceful !
And she used to do them all , I mean , machine hemmings and and finish them off as she calls them , you know , so Con , oh yes she could of .
Oh !
I said that will teach her to what for for saying that !
That film is not .
Well !
Oh , but she 's only a
Yeah .
.
Yeah , did
But
you ever
well they 'll only recent
There was a film on B B C two
it was on the Welsh
I wish , I know
Is it about the Mafia ?
black and white .
Terrible yeah !
And they had a little
You 're talking of one now .
Ridiculous that isn't it ?
Erm ma yes er
It 's been advertised
that is er
all the week what a good film it is .
Oh it 's a film
I went on , we 'll watch that we 'll erm
What was it ?
A film you know , six o'clock film .
I put it , put it on , B B C two and it was that Gordon on the , on the box .
It is annoying though !
But DEF two was the DEF , you know that
Typical !
You silly git !
What ?
Forget it !
Did what ?
You didn't bring !
DEF ?
It was D E F , DEF it was like , like the
Well I didn't know about the DEF !
I wouldn't i , oh you just told me you did !
Who says ?
Come on you blo , you 're boring me now !
What were you just gonna say now ?
Er on Friday Mike was talking to Rob Rob was at dad 's so Mike was standing talking to them , but my ears still flapped .
Oh !
and er , Mike said er , oh yeah , he tried to straight away at it , I'm interviewing this afternoon well that was it , my head was straight up !
We go two lads there with hardly any work on me and Jan are alright now we got a third person Graham has n't got much on and er Ri Richard 's scraping round for work , so of course my ears pricked up like so I thought , Mike sensed that I 'd looked up and he looked at me and er so I just looked back he said God , God had never invented a woman with small ears !
I said listen , I said if it 's private I said you should be in the office !
So Rob 's laughing and so so er I was going like that then you know a bit , you know , a bit er , exaggerated going
Yeah .
like that with these
Oh you got a , you 're not exaggerating a bloody !
So erm
Like the !
So anyway , I didn't even hear anymore what he said after that , after he said this like so I was messing about with Graham
Aye , aye aye oh !
don't bury them like !
Should n't bat an eyelid .
I was that shocked I could n't he myself !
I'm interviewing , the stupid swine !
They 've got no idea what so ever !
So , anyway , I must have been downstairs doing something and I don't ne sh sh I didn't know what time this interview feller was coming only , that I was downstairs and I heard Tracey say , oh what 's his name then Mike ?
Patrick , and I can't pronounce his surname !
So , I thought ah , so she was saying what 's he like ?
What 's he like and , he 's got ta go past me before he has , ee just messing about so he says I still didn't give it any more thought even though he had foreign surname and I thought , yeah didn't think of it .
So er da then the next thing I was back in the office so Mike come out would you mind making a drink ?
Er , I 'll have coffee and er so will Patrick , whatever he says I said , oh yeah so I said oh does he want sugar ?
yes , three sugar , I said but do you want milk , does he want milk ?
Yes , he wants milk .
So anyway , we started talking about him , they 're doing a survey and er and suddenly it must of been a quarter of an hour later remember the the drinks , I haven't done any drinks !
So er I said right , quick does anybody else want a drink ?
And I went down , and come back up with this tray of drinks and er Mike screaming , and I still hadn't seen this feller I give the other drinks out , well when I went to take his in well he was as black as two o'clock in the morning wasn't he ?
He was what ?
Black as two o'clock in the morning !
So I said to Rob
With a name like that !
I said to Rob it 's a good job he 's coming in daylight or we 'll !
What did he say to that ?
Yeah !
He 's on the nightshift .
So Rob said then er , something about it 's a good job you didn't say how do you want your coffee black or white !
Said yo you 'd have had to send .
But er so what the hell position he 's gonna be !
Oh , what did he , did he last ?
He really looked young though !
Yeah .
Oh !
About Mike 's age I would say .
Twenty six
Twenty three .
think he had as a bouncer or something .
Yeah .
I said he was quite young looking , about Mike 's age !
Oh , I thought you said not young !
No , I said he looked quite , about Mike 's age !
Oh !
But you know , he was built like
Yeah .
with this big bum .
More like a !
But you have to he looked real smart , you know ?
Yeah .
And er , I walked , I said oh hello er , cos Mike had just gone , he 'd gone and er , I said oh one coffee there for you , he said thanks very much it 's most generous of you .
Ah !
I take it
Did he have big lips ?
know what they 're playing at !
Mm .
Did he ?
Oh !
Well just sit !
But erm
I'm used to taking like his lips are sticking to the window !
That 's a good one !
Oh !
Erm
He er
yeah but , I don't think Mike 's that er , I mean I di , but he does Manpower forecasts every year .
Er and he comes up with x equals y z and all the rest of it !
And we 're still really .
The man 's a complete nerd !
Never mind .
So you got what you wanted didn't you ?
No .
Did you see that programme last night ?
Aye , what ?
B B C two about the stolen cars .
No .
Oh !
Bloody hell , the things they get up to !
You know if you buy a car that 's been , like it 's been pinched or something like that ?
But you buy it in innocence .
Yeah , buy it in innocence and if it 's been robbed the police confiscate off you you get a piece of paper saying that they 've got it , and that 's it you 've you 've got nothing !
Go on !
And the insurers
Well that 's what happened to
don't have anything to do with it !
Siobhan 's dad !
Yeah .
Yeah , was the rest they 'd have to pay or
It was , he 's still paying it off now for his car !
Oh !
Mm .
But er
they were on about that they ship them abroad and th , they were interviewing a lad in London he said oh , he used to get up in the morning and er go down to the phone box and phone this contact they know and he 'd tell you what cars you wanted pinching this day and they pinch them to order !
Oh yeah how many would you say you 'd pinched in year ?
He said , well , he said there was two of us he said working together and er , I 'd be look out for my mate or he 'd be look out for me , he says erm ooh , between five and six hundred a year , he said they pinch !
Ooh !
Ooh !
Oh !
I said and they .
Cos easily it was a co couple a day !
Yeah .
Yeah .
What
said , you know how , how did you get into them ?
He said , well let 's put it this way he said I can get into a Ford and start it without breaking any windows
He can do ?
yeah quicker than I can with a key !
He didn't say what he did
Oh no !
but he said , a Ford he said , I can break into a Ford without breaking any windows and start the ignition
And quicker than someone
quicker than anybody with a key !
Good God !
But he was a a reformed now he was helping other people ge get away from pinching cars like in a they have like
Rehabilitation .
you know , rehabilitation centres they .
He said , what we used to do he said
Did you see his face on that ?
Oh aye !
Oh yeah , he wasn't
payed for his crimes and he was
and they said er
How old did he look now ?
He wasn't old was he ?
No .
Twenty four , twenty five .
Sometimes , he said we used to take them motorway he said to junction whatever at Dover and they 'd be somebody waiting there with the money give us the car we 'd go back to London and they 'd just take it up the .
Well in the Kent , where the is .
Ah !
Where you have to have a
Yeah .
that little village where Nicola went to the wedding gypsies involved in that ring .
Up there ?
The gypsy camp they 've
Aye .
arrested six of them all they found all bits and bobs off hundreds and hundreds and thousands of pounds worth of cars , and four wheel drives they specialise in and off to the continent with it .
Yeah it 's all organised , it 's not like like the gypo 's will be doing like this
Oh yes !
Yeah .
this is all organised bloody down to !
Oh yes , all yeah !
They handled something something like a thousand pounds worth of cars that
They did .
place where they they were like getting er ones that had been smashed up , and doing and they said that the people that are doing it are top people !
You know , they could get a really good job .
They 'd have made a fortune !
Not without them garages !
Like , like panel beaters and
Doing it make a make a fortune doing it
Legally .
legally .
He said they 're doing this as well .
Oh !
like you got your your chassis number and engine number and everything like that
Yeah .
and you 've a number inside the car as well on the bottom of the car on the floor so er some of them no , they don't so some of them take the mickey of them and putting different plates on of a written off car from a scrap yard so you can have like a brand new Sierra smashed up in a scrap yard and you buy it for like a thousand pound and you this Sierra with a brand new Sierra , so you change all the plates over and do all this on the car and then you got a bloody Sierra worth about nine or ten thousand pound
Ah dear !
brand new !
Sure !
And you 've paid a thousand pound for it , so he 's making all this profit all the time !
Dear !
And the the police were just showing , you know
the ways that they do it sort of thing .
Some of them
Oh yes !
just get the plate and er like stick it over with a bit of er filler or something like that and stick it over the top !
And , people are none the wiser they , if they can see it
Oh !
they go aye , that 's alright , but the only way you can tell you 'd feel a jagged edge where they put this plate .
On the underneath or something .
Or some of them they cut the whole floor out and weld a new take the floor old car and weld it back in again .
Good
He said , and the police said
!
as quick as we find a way , to catch them they think of something else
Yeah !
they bloody do it all the time !
Oh they do !
Yeah !
And then it was saying about the ones where they take the front end of a car and joi , match it to the stolen
Joining it , yeah !
one , like the one that
Yeah .
Fell apart in Manchester .
There was one in Manchester wasn't there ?
The Renault five turbo going down the road and had a crash and it split in two didn't it ?
That 's it .
And they all bloody died !
Remember you telling us that .
And er said about it 's a regular and er they 're doing it proper , they 're putting them on jigs so they 're welding them and they 're out of line and all sorts !
Oh !
And they were interviewing this feller , he said , oh we went for a day out he said and I 'd just bought this car and I was really made up with it he said
He wasn't a crook this man ?
He paid
Oh no !
two and a half thousand for this Fiesta
He paid two and a thousand for this car , whatever it was !
I was real made up !
And he 's travelling along the road and the next thing there 's such a bang and it wouldn't go any further !
Bloody !
So he got out and he looked underneath and the drive shaft had fell off so he got it towed back to the garage wherever this garage was and they had a look at it and all the head were loose you could waggle them about !
And then he thought , this is queer so he picked the bonnet took the bonnet up like that and all the bloody front of the car had come loose and all all the welding
Oh !
had co come loose !
Bloody amazing it was !
So he said , you know you can't claim anything off the insurers or anything , so that 's all his money
No , .
straight up the bloody road !
And er the police , that was in Kent somewhere , the police were n't it ?
Cos only so many police forces have got a certain group of men on the you know , sorting all the cars out and you can take your car there
life
er
being like
you 've just bought a car or you 've got a car you can take it and the police look over it to see if it 's alright .
It 's a bit late when you 've bought it though !
If it 's been re-registered sort of thing , so there 's a big line in cars all .
And the police engineers go round with his mate and he 's looking at the engine numbers and the chassis numbers and all those bloody numbers inside the car and he 's looking like and er the interviewer said oh and this woman 's in for a shock !
She 's gonna find out that the car is stolen !
Oh !
So she comes back and she had an Orion erm she sa , she said er oh well erm I got some bad news for you , said er your Orion 's two cars been welded together !
Oh no , she said you 're kidding aren't you ?
No , no , it 's right I said erm the back end is such and such a registration Ford Orion but the front end 's off a Ford Escort !
Ooh hoo hoo
And you know she 'd but
They 're not even the same car ?
She 'd lose the bloody car then , she 'd lost everything !
Ooh gosh !
Bloody hot it were !
And what did it look like ?
Oh it , it was smart it was nice !
Yeah , what have they , those people who are waiting for the police to check it out , the is it ?
No they haven't , they 'd been bought a car that had been like , that it sort of been written off and rebuilt or something like that .
Yeah .
They knew that had been when
Yeah .
they bought the car ?
So they thought they 'd have it checked out ?
Yeah .
Oh I wouldn't buy a car like that , no
The D V L C , if you have a written off
would you ?
they 'll re-register it as long as you can prove the year of the car , they register it
Oh , I see !
as that year .
But , the registrations if they can't prove it properly
Yeah .
you get a Q plate on it questionable registration .
Oh !
So the D V L C don't look into it too deep they just send
No !
an engineer have a look round , oh it looks alright .
You wouldn't want one that had been in a smash anyway , it could
Yes !
be false .
But you some people who you see will take that gamble
And then there was an inspector from the
Not always , not always impressed but he was er
Yeah .
you know , I know you 're saying .
Oh , I play heck about them I
But
know !
erm I remember when I when we had the smash in Liverpool with the Zepher
The old Zepher now , yeah
and er I went there and they give me an estimate and erm when it went in the contacts she does was er no , it 's it 's more than we thought because the chassis 's twisted or
Mm .
something so , anyway I went there I can't remember all the details but
No .
I I went there for something and my car ooh I think it was and we had , you know
Fair play , yeah .
we went to town
If I 'd
Yeah .
if it , if if I 'd have taken it to er body repair
Well they could n't of done that cos they hadn't
Oh no !
got the
Yeah .
equipment and all that had they ?
and if he could find the he wouldn't of !
Kirby 's is the ?
So you 'd have been running ?
Aye .
Yeah .
It 's an old family firm
Oh aye !
they 're all out of it now .
Yeah .
What happened in this smash up he was talking about ?
I was pregnant with Nicola , ooh it wasn't a smash as such , you know , it wasn't serious thing .
I was pregnant with Nicola and it was that we wanted to change the car , what did we have , a Metropole at the
No , we 'd just bought it .
yes , I know that , but I'm just explaining how we come to be in Liverpool !
Yeah .
We 'd go we been to .
We 'd gone back for something for them to do something to it , it is the Metropolitan .
Oh yeah , it 's the Metropole , for this er Zephyr .
this white Zephyr , and we got it from Liverpool , Wayne 's Drive in Liverpool , a big garage .
And , we had it the one with the gear box .
Yeah .
There 's a big Ford dealer in Liverpool .
They would said what they would do well they did everything while we were there
Yes .
and said and they come back
And he said
from Liverpool
wait a bit , and they said so , they looked at it and said we 'd have to take it back in a few days time for them to do , they could n't do it there and then .
And , when we were driving back towards the tunnel , do you know Upper Parliament Street ?
We were
No .
you go right through the tunnel and this Queen 's Drive was ooh , about a mile or two out of Liverpool so to get back to the tunnel you come down Upper Parliament Street , I 'll never forget to my dying day , and it was down hill and these traffic lights down the bottom should of been should of been , but they were n't operating , they were digging th
they were digging the road
ooh , they were n't there alright , I thought they were just out of order cos it was road repairs and a policeman was supposed to be on duty because it was this great big wide Upper Parliament Street , and going across it , if I look at Liverpool
Was there , did you do Upper Parliament Street ?
Mm .
If you say it again I told you !
.
I don't know what the road that goes across it was , but another great big wide road running across it
Lower Parliament Street maybe ?
across it , Lower Parliament Street was the other side of the crossroads !
Was it ?
And , I was prattling on to your dad , saying when we claimed it back when we claimed it back we 'll bring it early but
What you want ?
Oh , he 's so ignorant !
I don't know want anything !
Well I 've heard this story !
I was there when it happened !
they wanted it early , I don't want anything !
Do you want crisps ?
Nothing !
Nothing ?
Ooh , okay !
I 'll have a wine thanks ?
And do you want
Medium white wine .
crisps ?
Could I have some cheese and onion please ?
Pint of Stella please ?
Yeah ?
Yeah ?
A pint of Stella ?
Yeah .
No crisps ?
you were going on about that
they said
you 're bringing back that car .
when we send it back in a few days fitting , this job I says we 'll want it early in the morning and you can have it in the afternoon , but we were going to spend the day in Liverpool , but you 're dad said , I'm not being round all those shops all day , so I said ooh no !
And it was me , and I was due to have Nicola the next month , at the beginning of May that the and I said no , I said !
But what we 'll do is take it there early in the morning , we 'll get he back the bus back to Liverpool , we 'll go to the pier head and we 'll go on the ferry to New Brighton and there was me prattling all on at him and the next thing er , you di , we didn't know that , we thought we were on the main right of way street and your dad started to go across and I looked , your dad was driving , I was sitting beside him and coming towards us along this other road , which had the right of way but we didn't know was a little black mini , I was a ergh , ergh oh Harry , Harry !
Bashed your dad 's side , the wing and we could see a policeman putting , it was pouring with rain and he was putting his er , big mac on and he should of been directing the traffic , he told us that , he come over to us and he was only young like and he said , oh I 'd just left , I was on duty here I 'd just left to go and put my mac on !
Well that was no consolation to us was it !
So we swapped addresses with er , can't remember , it was a man middle-aged sort of man and er he then said ooh , well he said I still think that we were in the right in as much as if that policeman was supposed to have been directing traffic blah blah blah blah blah !
So , because we were in the A A he said you could have a ba , and we had to go to court , we had a summons for court , for careless driving , your dad and your dad said oh so A A said you could have barrister , or our insurers said we could have a barrister our insurers , not the one with we 're with now Norman , he was to do all the , said we could have this barrister and it was at Liverpool Crown Court and , it wasn't till a , and I was alright we we just got a bit of a shock , you know , we could drive the home it was the wing and what not .
But , I can hear that bang now , you never forget a noise like that !
But , this was just a bang , sort of knocked
Ah .
it of the chap , he reckoned .
So , er Nicola was born and er the court either came up just before your dad had the after Nicola was born , when she was a month old .
Now he might remember I think the court come just before the after Nicola , and the car was going to because I know we had to go on the train to Liverpool and er , I 'd got ta give evidence as well , they made such a palaver !
And , when we were in the court sitting in the corridor waiting , ooh , some horrible types there even then !
This policeman was having to give evidence and he 'd come to talk , oh I see you 've had the baby , cos he was talking to me it had happened I said , oh what did you have blah blah blah , blah blah blah , but the little devil went in the witness box , he denied about not being there on duty about putting his mac on , ooh and he 'd never clapped eyes on barrister or a solicitor and they said he 'll meet you before the case , so we had to go extra early meet this barrister and he never came and so they took us in this little room in all his wig and his gown , we got , oh what happened ?
What happened ?
Yeah , and we explained and said that I was pregnant at the time and we said about the policeman , oh no trouble !
No trouble !
But , the lot , you 're dad still got fined !
I took , it was nine pound we thought , lot of money in those days for careless driving !
Yeah .
Yeah .
So we never forgot that .
Mm .
Yeah , I I
on the old .
So , needless to say I don't like them , but I 'll show you on the A to Z where Upper Parliament Street is .
Mum .
Not Upper Parliament
And we will see .
?
Yeah .
Yeah .
You 're being
Excuse me !
funny are now ?
Well don't worry .
actually , but I said I wasn't really interested , yeah .
I'm gonna look , I doubt that cos I want to know
I 've seen it on the map , I know !
where the other one is .
Er
It 's not
How did T V work go ?
Yeah .
Well , he 'll never know really will he ?
No ,
don't know really .
What is it ?
We didn't force it , said they 'll
How many time
probably let you know .
No .
Mm .
The only time I remember her , really was in .
Yeah .
Pushing him !
Playing about .
got stuck
A man got stuck
In this car
Oh !
in the .
Shall I make a move , or shall we
No hang about !
We 're gonna come back .
Yeah .
I always say it was that
because they say that
they blame
if can go away but then it can just strike you !
Mm .
And then it gets in with a vengeance , when Nicola was a month old didn't it ?
Yeah .
So how long were you layed in ?
And he was just
Were you in hospital for all
For a month .
that time ?
No .
I told you had to lie on a board
Like ?
Yeah .
You had to lie on a board , his doctor said , oh it 's lumbago which , all the signs are the same , where that pain goes all down your leg effecting the or mia , sciatica and have to lie on a board , and we were in the prefab then and you actually er not , like some people put the board are you interested ?
Yes .
, and you 're looking everywhere !
some people put the board under the mattress and dad had it on top !
Well your dad had it on top !
didn't used to really , ooh it must of been murder for him when you think !
I mean , yo , he even decided to grow a beard , for one thing he could n't be bothered shaving , did you remember ?
And you had that !
No , beard will have to go !
Yes .
I know he said he looked
really lovely with it !
It was very dark indeed
I
I must say .
I think we 've got a picture ?
No .
Did you ever know that ?
On the line , there 's them panel people on there ?
And that 's when I had the accident on the .
, I was gonna tell
they had to leave him there in hospital .
Have you li I was listening to the wireless this afternoon
Mhm .
and it was on about this erm place in France , isn't that where one of them lived ?
No , it was nearby there wasn't it ?
There was big football team from Saletiendi
So
Etien no wouldn't , doesn't
It was near to er where Gigi was I think .
Oh the one
No , the other one
wouldn't of thought
I thought , near
I thought it was
Anyes .
Yeah , could of been if there 'd been any Romans in Italy .
I know .
Should of got the extra ladder .
Even er , Lanyon isn't on is it ?
Yeah .
Well it 's not that much detail is it ?
No .
Where was that place they took you on er
We could do with a lot more
Ponsonshow
Brest , is Brest on ?
Gigi took you to Brest .
Yeah I know .
There you are .
Christ , so what , I can't think of it !
Primaletta
Oh dear !
Jan 's mum won er midi hi-fi system !
Oh , when ?
In a raffle thing the other night .
Alan , Jan 's friend was singing and so was her brother .
Oh , I didn't know they did other things !
Is he good at that ?
Yeah , I think he 's got a good voice yeah .
Yeah , do they sing together or not ?
No .
So where was it , a club or pub ?
The White Swan in Ellesmere Port , she 'd asked me
Oh yes .
to go .
You want , you know , so I definitely wanted to go , we were very
Yeah .
welcome and , I was tempted to go , I mean Mike wasn't all that bothered .
was he ?
Well you 've been to a singing one .
Yeah , Thursday nights and , it wasn't that local , it 's a horrible man anyway !
Who 's a horrible man ?
Yeah !
Cor !
Once I get in from work , I'm knackered !
Unless you see one local or
If it had been a summer night
That 's it , let 's stay .
could of been tempted .
Be different , you don't mind a little run do
Well .
you ?
That was
No , I know you 've got ta up
just a bad thing to do innit ?
early , like the next morning .
No , .
So er we didn't bother !
And er , she was saying !
Yeah !
They must have sold a lot of tickets .
Was it for a charity ?
Yes , I think so .
Was her brother to do it , Jan , he does a bit of really .
Yeah , he does a lot of charity work .
Oh , yes totally .
Yeah , good luck to them !
Anyway , they had a good time out .
Did they ?
And anyway , you 'd come hadn't you ?
Not that we knew you were coming but
Oh yeah !
it was Thursday night you 'd come .
That 's it , yeah .
But anyway erm erm Laura , isn't it , ?
No , he 's a bit rough !
Oh ho
Cos he !
no , and any case I just remembered Nicola 's was only hundred and sixty .
Mm .
So but it was , oh it was nice drive
Oh aye !
where can you get one , fifty or sixty surely not ?
Well , no you can , aye !
You ?
Yeah !
May not be a very good make but
No .
Oh , you can buy a cheap ones with a just a tape on without the
Can you ?
Record
and record player
don't have to have a C D on them
Anyway , she said
to be a midi thingey
Oh no !
Well Nicola 's
I don't know what it had on it .
has n't got the C D anyway .
Our Jan 's getting fought over at the moment .
Why , was that Birkenhead thing that she 'd had the nark with Mike was it spontaneous ?
I don't know .
Oh you never did ask her .
Ooh aye , what them bloody cars
Well what somebody there who 's fighting over her
they were in er
then , no ?
No .
Oh !
No , I don't know what that
Is it Southern Spain
connection is .
Oh !
the Spanish police and er
I thought she 'd and just wasn't telling me but anyway
insurance investigators in Britain .
Mm .
she didn't .
Serve you right , you should
pa
have asked her there and then !
is a like
Anyway , go on , what 's happened ?
on the main road
Oh she 'd got her
and anything with a foreign number plate they were
Yeah
pulling over
she had a bit of fling
especially the British ones
with this woman Sandra , she
and erm
Has Sandra got a child ?
They were just stopping
No .
them and just
Oh .
taking the details
chassis numbers and engine numbers and everything
Oh somebody with that parking on the drive
and er
she is the one like
insurance etcetera and i , investigator whatever he was !
Half that 's the food shop
Yeah .
And he 's calling the D V L C in Swansea
Oh very few .
they normally just
no , remember like that
and this woman was in her
as far it goes .
a little O Opel
No , she met on Thursday
whatever it was .
for long .
Mm .
Little maroon Opel , B registration
she 's older than Jan I think
So I took all the
Yeah .
the particulars , he 'd get on his mobile phone
I am actually .
But you 've never met her ?
and erm
No .
oh it was er
and erm and she used to lived in , she doesn't wanna come via it .
whatever it is , oh yes that 's er
Oh !
He goes back and he says I 've got some very bad news for you
and I can't remember what , the last time we were seeing each other it
Oh !
all ended in tears , and I can't remember why
well , this Opel isn't an Opel !
Well what is it ?
But erm she did the dirty on Jan !
It 's a Vauxhall Nova .
Was she ever re-married
You 're kidding ?
or you don't ?
No er
I don't know .
it 's a silver Vauxhall Nova .
But anyway I 've and ten o'clock Jan was .
they bloody changed it all about so that the , O , little Opel , was a Vauxhall Nova !
she has seen her , Sandra once in the club
Erm , so what happens now ?
I think .
Oh erm
Yes .
the police are typing
Where is it ?
a thing up they 'll have to confiscate the car !
so her results .
Been
Oh !
stolen !
Yeah .
And
For Mick , for Mick as well .
Yeah .
And they had that and a
And Sandra has gone live with Jackie .
Toyota Celica , black
Were they on holiday ?
No , she was living out there .
she had a
Oh I see !
House out there .
just bumped into each other
So it 's
by purpose
she had
Yeah
and went to with her pal
and er
he was gonna thump her .
it was just they had a big warehouse
just full of bloody cars that had been confiscated !
I think Jan wants to
There 's was thousands of cars , cars that were stuck in there .
and she was like fighting !
Some little cars there was Range Rovers
running round to the
Was
everything !
when Sandra 's mum got
When they 've got them
and so oh you really rocked the boat
What do they do with them ?
she said and , I didn't realise
They didn't say , they didn't go into it .
Well sell them .
Aye .
you know like , I love you
You know they don't sell do they ?
Oh !
So the
Erm , she just knew
Yeah .
she just bought it somewhere and er
They can't claim money for these .
That woman I said about that had the
and er
she was in an Orion but the front end of it was a Escort
she said I 've got my life sorted out , settled into my new home
the escort that it be
and er
it belonged to the i , the numbers
I wanna see you all this .
Can you meet me on Monday
So the chassis number engine number for this Escort
and they
Oh !
chased the feller and he phoned him up and he said ooh my
Oh well
car 's still parked on the drive outside !
I think Jan
So they were investigating him then !
Cos his car was still in the drive outside .
All this .
Well bloody
Oh !
But they do it the other way as well .
She 's gonna lease it int she ?
Oh yeah .
You 'll give it in
It
the car .
Oh , I said well I don't know .
He pinched a car in Italy this is a Ferrari
she said er
Testarossa
can we have wo , can I word
it was worth
Mr
hundred thousand pound in Britain
it was
so I knew it 'd be something like that
it had been shaped
she said
And they paid
up to them ?
No , so she told me that
it was on a car park at Heathrow Airport
So erm
Why , do you think she wanted to make a point of she might have at work for
and it had all the paperwork with it , it was gonna be shipped to Singapore .
these ?
Because she didn't want go she didn't know what hell
Well the same car in Singapore was worth two hundred thousand pound
Ah !
to do and this Sandra was gonna ring in the afternoon , well she wanted to
cos there 's such a long waiting list , tha that 's the value of it out there
get her out
it makes you laugh !
so they they pinched it and got a buyer out there !
And she 's got ta I 've said to her , listen my opinion may be biased .
and they caught him , you know , mid-way type of thing .
I don't
Yeah .
think I'm being
So th
much help , she says oh no , you are
you are !
Yeah .
I dunno .
And I 'd like to you to hear your side of
Ye ye yeah .
things so erm , I knew it was something , anyway so she said all this , I said right well I said I 'll tell you now I said you know I'm biased because
Yeah .
I said I can't I don't like so
No .
and erm she said , oh no I realise that .
I said , well the important thing is Jan if you are like this you obviously didn't like , there 's no way I'm going to meet her you 're obviously thinking it over I said so the first thing you 've got ta do is turn up on Monday and meet her cos erm , then well you 'll know .
And erm I said , you say to me things like you don't wanna be alone by yourself
Yeah .
and sometimes
Yeah !
Course , yeah !
and er I said you 've al also told me that Sue said there 's no way she 's going out with him on the at forty I said that 's only two years away .
Oh , she said that oh it doesn't matter !
I said I don't believe that !
No , I know but she said it er
but I mean to even think of it , you know , is not very nice !
Shows how wicked she
Erm
is .
I said you know what she 's been like with this young girl at college you thought
Yes !
there was something going on , whether or not there was , I don't know I said she could n't in a couple of years time , she said I dunno , she says she 's only twenty six
Oh is she ?
said it wouldn't make any difference to her you know whether
No .
it was a relationship with a feller !
She might wanna go off and do her own thing so erm I said you just think on , I said , this woman has got her own house and everything , she 's got
Yeah .
no hassle like
No .
er like Sue 's family .
Jan can't go round there
so
now
and she has to park down the road !
Ridiculous my watch !
I don't know what they 're showing !
Two hairs past a freckle we used to say in work er , school !
Can I have a swine please ?
Yeah .
Do you wanna lager bitter
No
lemon ?
nothing at all thank you Michael .
Put a drop of lemonade in er bitter please ?
Right .
What crisps do you want ?
Erm , I 'll have two bags of crisps and a bag of nuts please ?
No , thank you I 'll have my supper when I get home .
Five loads of bacon butties .
So , I said this I said erm I said oh Jan says something all I'm I 've known what Sandra can be like , you know erm you know well I was with her for three
I don't think she means that .
weeks .
Yes .
Well , because she did the dirty on her in Lancaster , I can't remember what it was .
Yeah , oh I see what she 's means , yeah .
No but er
Got plenty of stick .
Did you those girls
Oh !
sending their mail to erm Body Shop er , they 'd been grooming their nails because they 've heard that the Body shops , in the paper the other day erm are paying ten pounds per nail if your nail 's an inch long , you know , so you cut this talon off if it 's an inch long and they had loads and loads of them sent in envelopes or people just ringing up and asking can we send our nail , ten pound a nail and they said , where the rumour started from these people had heard that because they don't do erm experiments on animals any more they 're using nails to do experiments , the nail polish and that
well I was saying for experiments and that , don't you thing , just listen to what I'm telling you was in the paper !
And er , so they sa put an announcement in the paper to say don't keep sending these nails to us cos they go straight in the bin , we 've got no use for them !
They don't know where it 's come from , they have never have done and they never will .
Well we we , you know if you cut your nail you cut the top off , even if it 's
Yeah .
that long it 's like that .
it 's for this it 's not
Mm .
it doesn't have to be a
doesn't matter .
whole nail to do experiments !
You don't
It doesn't have to be a nice shape it 's just that so that if the nail polish doesn't
Course it doesn't ,
your nail or anything I suppose .
Oh !
Christ you are thick !
So anyway , she said oh yeah , so I know what Sandra can be like and I 've been with her
Yeah .
for three weeks !
Oh !
And I said yes , I said you know what Sue can be like , you 've been with her for twelve months and you 're daft enough
That 's bloody true !
to still be there !
Yeah .
Because she you know , she comes in with
Yeah !
all these sob sob stories and she 's still with her !
Oh !
So I said , you go and I said , don't be as biased as I am I said don't go there thinking oh there 's no way you know she 's I'm better off with Sue and all that because I said you don't know I said you
Course she doesn't !
give her the benefit of the doubt and give her a fair chance .
Mm .
So did she say she 's made her mind up ?
She said yes she said
you 're right .
And did she ring ?
Yeah , she 's meeting her up the Tavern .
Where 's the Tavern ?
In the dip at our by the
Oh !
traffic lights .
In the daytime for lunch ?
No , cos Sandra 's got a little puppy she said oh I 'd like you to come and see the cottage and er my puppy .
Do you wanna come and see some puppy !
Good , come and see my puppy little girl !
I said to her , you know what I'm with animals
Yeah .
and that , I said go to the Tavern I said doesn't matter whether you see the cottage take the little puppy for a walk .
Oh !
God !
Said it 'll have been in all day .
Oh gosh !
So er I mean I think she 'd be more suited to somebody
Sue .
like that
Well I 'd have thought she did .
erm than this damn
yeah .
What about er and is she gonna fit the cottage in as well when she meets her on
No , don't know about that .
Another time perhaps ?
I mean , he 's also from Ellesmere Port anyway .
What was that ?
But I said just go and give her a fair chance and I
Yeah .
said and er
Aye !
I said if yo if you think you know that you might be able to build a relationship I said then er you know , tell her so I said and don't try and run the both of them at the same time I said
No .
or it will end tears !
As we were clearing up he said oh good God whatever did I see in her !
Yes .
I said well only you 'll know .
Or whether you scared him after to death !
Well play it by ear that 's right .
That 's it .
I said then all you have to do is tell her how much she hurt you the last time
Yeah .
but that you have
goal
forgiven her but don't
Yeah .
bear any grudge against her , but you don't want her
He wouldn't care would he ?
He used to do the same everyone else !
her ringing you or , or doing anything and that 's it , and then you 've been straight with her , you 're not
stringing her along .
Well you wouldn't would you ?
I said , but if there is any doubt in the back of your
You can !
mind
Bugger them !
do you think that you
I would !
could have a relationship with her .
No , no , no , no !
I said then you 've got ta make that claim .
Yeah yeah , there 's obviously
Yeah .
and er
you 've got ta get rid of Sue , but I 'd miss Linda !
And you put twenty
Yeah , for a little while .
And she wouldn't play
Yeah .
And she wouldn't play in goal for us any more !
It depends on what , how you 'd done them cos how much would you get done ?
I said , listen !
Mm .
I said in five years
time when you 're forty five
Win a few .
Aye !
er in seven years
didn't get much look !
And they start saying they would do it to people now .
And seeing her
yeah .
she was ye er aye
when you 're forty five
Oh yeah !
she won't be any use to anyway !
And you are just completely
What , oh aye no .
miserable !
I mean it could of been a lot been worse than this !
because you haven't got any one !
Aye , there 's one in bloody
Yeah , but will it give you satisfaction to leave
Did er , if I go to this place
to leave instead of me ?
on the the
Well at least it kept the hockey going so can and see clearer now .
So what are they gonna think ?
I said , alright so they
Could n't see how they do it all , and that 's it .
cos what she said is if she
That doesn't bother me .
finishes this
No , no .
er game
Erm cos sh sh
she won't play hockey for them so all the hockey girls
what used to bother me at one point
will turn against
but
her .
That 's alright !
if I went into it Bob
No , I said , and do you think , how
a
long do you think they 'll
a week that 's all .
remember that ?
Said , alright , I said the first week said the first week I said , then it 'll
all blow over and in fact
Yeah .
none of even bothered at all .
I said , but if you 're willing to sacrifice to keep all them lot happy I said and you 'd call most
but from their point of view
of them black a lot of the time !
erm
Yeah .
They 're none of your
Yeah , but we I mean
Mm .
because
I said and finding this out when you 're by yourself
what they were go trying to tell me was
it 's not gonna give you any pleasure to say , oh well at least all the girls are alright .
Yeah but and , you know we 're talking
I said you 're gonna be by yourself I said , for God 's sake start thinking of yourself !
my height , I didn't even look at it that way er , he used to
Well they 're all
Yeah , they are aren't they ?
So
I said it 's about time you started looking after yourself and not bothering about !
Well problem is they can't win can they ?
Oh !
No , you could n't , she they 're all , they know it 's Jenny 's asthma .
She 's too nice you know , she 's tries
Yeah !
to be nice to everyone .
She does .
I was it was asthma wasn't it ?
Yeah .
Shirley ?
Not too bad .
She 's on one of these inhaler
Oh
things
they got to ?
These little kids on them aren't they ?
All the time !
You know there must
It was on telly about them were n't it ?
They reckon they 're gonna find a cure for that .
there must have always been asthma .
Oh aye I saw that !
Yes , well I hope they do anyway cos I think it
Must n't there ?
must be awful !
There must have always been asthma whether it 's
Oh yeah !
whether it 's got worse with amount of
No , but people have died through it through le ye years
Yeah .
we we
Oh yeah !
You know and they 'll through
ol old lady across the road er
From you ?
from Home and she she died and er , that wasn't spoke of .
Yeah .
Cos she 'd had a
Oh yeah !
What like , little kids !
But these , th it 's escalating with little children it 's either
Mm .
er
Dunno I 'd say a fair .
the merest bit of bad chest they have doctors are either saying it 's asthma or the mother is er , saying it 's asthma and saying to the doctor can they have one of these or whatever
Yeah like little James .
or it 's
Mm .
the pollution in the air or whatever
Mm .
he didn't have to have one of these .
Yeah .
No , but every whenever his chest goes he 's
Aye yeah .
straight to the doctors and that isn't he ?
Yeah .
I suppose you would be wouldn't you ?
Oh yes , I can
Mm .
understand that don't
erm
get me wrong I 'd be getting a bit
but I'm sure 's he 's gonna be like that .
Yeah !
I'm sure it 's because he 's prone to that .
Well our Susan when she was small she was the same .
Was she ?
She could n't have er she could n't have a feather pillow .
Good God !
She was allergic .
They , they thought of everything , oh have you got a cat , you got a dog , you got this you got that ?
Yeah .
And in the end it was a feather pillow .
Good God !
yes !
But now she 's alright , she had a feather of pillow for a couple of years it 's like
Yes .
a bloody now !
She had to
!
Yeah .
so , you know
She sleeps with ducks now !
Oh well you 've got to laugh !
Cos it is that sort of thing isn't it ?
Like hayfever and eczema and
Aye , well she had hayfever when she was small
Sometimes you 're good
you know a couple a years and she 's never had .
Honestly , when I really really understood .
Well Nicola didn't use to have hayfever when she was at .
No , she got it
Yeah but
she got it when she was doing her A levels didn't she ?
Yeah !
You know at
Yeah .
the a exams and that , that
Ooh you 've seen me grow out of it now , what you
Well go on !
talking about ?
Well this thing on her hand .
Mole .
Oh she did grow out of
she has , for her !
No , she has n't !
She was almost twelve months
Oh no she was !
twelve months ago ?
Yes , and twelve months
months .
ago she slid up
Oh good !
the way and she was in Manchester .
Erm
Was that thing on her hand er
That 's like
Yeah , that 's a
She said , she thinks there might be a little well did you see Mandy when I tomorrow I just wanted for you to go
didn't you ask ?
to the doctors , I forgot !
When I came off the phone .
I can't quite
understand the
I think she 's right saying that er er watch that off
Yeah , but if you took the watch off it should stop .
cos I know .
Ah , I
Yes
don't think it 's .
well I think it should , but on the other hand
What 's she on about , those little digital watches with the metal strip ?
I don't know which ones , you know .
Er
No , if it 's something like that , if you take the irritation away then it
Should show up .
it goes .
Yeah , I 'd agree with
Mm .
that .
I don't wanna
Yeah .
lose that .
Well no
Cos I used to think it 's this hand isn't it ?
Where it , I used to think it might touch on this
But it doesn't ?
but it doesn't because it 's
Oh no !
miles back .
You know yo
Always used to have it on her wrist .
Did she ?
Yeah .
Oh , you told me
That
that before !
Did she ?
Yeah .
And was that eczema ?
Ooh , God I can't remember
No .
And what did she
and
used have on ?
she used to , bu no , she us used to have one if she used that and she used to have to bandage them
Oh !
to go to bed at night .
Well , if you 're in your sleep you 're
Well that 's it , of course !
And she used to bandage them tight
Did she ?
and she can still
Aye .
in her sleep get her fingers down
They can , they say that !
Yeah ,
Yeah .
And I I was only bloody tiny then but I can still remember it .
She used to wake up in the morning they were red raw both of them !
Ooh !
Ooh , that 's so sick !
even with these bandages on , just like
Yeah .
I can remember the bandages being on .
Good God !
She 'd still get her bloody fingers in there though !
Does Nicola say hers itch her like that ?
Yes
Yeah , she
at night , in bed everybody goes , you go worse for itching
Mm .
in bed , yeah , it 's terrible !
But she never makes it red raw .
No .
She doesn't re , you know
Still sore .
she 'll remember scratching , it was like she said everything goes worse at night , itching .
Well , would you mind telling me
To do with her whatever nerves they cause them that cause itching .
Well it 's , you know I 've never had that and you 've never had that .
No .
And you 've not .
And I 've not .
Why should she ?
Oh no !
Well I think she could be right about it starting off as that , I don't know .
They start off somewhere in families these sort of things .
It 's not like the washing powder or something like that , they reckon you said it 's just you know
Well that 's what they said .
you 're cuff 's tighter than
Mm .
anywhere isn't it ?
Yeah that 's what
rubbing on
She ke , I said and when you 're washing up and that
Well surely it 's the both of us ?
or rubbing things through washing
Mm .
I don't think you 'll ever really know .
keep rubber gloves and she does , she says so she doesn't think it 's detergent .
Would you mind telling me what the connection is between eczema and asthma ?
And hayfever , there 's three of them .
What 's what is er something of the skin got to do with
All allergies , all allergies .
Yeah , but they 're not really the same
They say .
are they ?
They say they 're connected
They
but I can't when Jan was saying , oh Jennie 's got as er
Yeah .
ex
She 's got the lot .
eczema very bad er , her legs are like corned beef all behind her knees and her legs
Yeah .
and her elbows and erm all over her really she has this eczema , she 's always having to change creams cos they
Yeah .
get like er
Used to them .
Your body gets used
Mm .
to one sort , and they 'll never cure it Jan doesn't think .
No , they won't .
They can only contain it
Yeah .
control it .
It 's terrible it is !
And er
Well that corned beef , fetch us a quarter in on Monday mate !
Erm
Are you hiding ?
But like , so she 's got that now that isn't , that 's just like a somebody with a skin
corned beef .
but I can't understand how they can say that asthma is in , really in the same strain because that 's more like a breathing
Yeah , but it 's what causes the
Yeah .
be , breathing problem is the allergy either to the dust in the air or the mites
Oh .
or the as they say , and asthma 's sa , the same hayfever as well in the
Mm .
summer .
It 's true , well isn't it
That 's with hayfever in Southport were n't she , after feeding the horses hay ?
We went to see them horses remember ? bloody screaming !
This last time , even in this weather !
Yeah .
Yeah , well it wasn't hayfever , she was allergic to the horses wasn't she ?
Hay
No it was
you can only have hayfever in the summer can't
Well
you ?
I don't know , she said
But
it was hayfever , remember
we asked , yeah .
when we went to them horses ?
Well some people
Ah yeah !
call it that but it 's an allergy .
Oh , I never told mum and dad that I don't think .
Tosh arranged for us to go and see his .
His daughter
Oh !
does horses , she seemed to be
very good .
His boss
Ah !
Mark , the main man
Oh !
his daughter and
the last time when you
Yeah .
went ?
Yeah .
And he took us to their house
Is he ?
and you should see the house !
The ma main man ?
No , he 's not that sort of main man is he ?
No , it 's it 's it 's no , he is aye , he 's the director !
His big brothers run the firm .
Yeah but it 's not , it 's not his name it 's not his name
No , no , it 's
after , the the firm .
no it 's whatever , it 's Andrew and
Yeah .
Colin .
Oh aye that 's where the .
A , that 's A C , I don't know what the M is , I don't know .
And this man wasn't Andrew that you went to see ?
Andrew and Colin , not Andrew .
Oh , I see I thought you said Andrew ?
No , Andrew a one brother 's Andrew , the other one 's Colin and they 're the partners in the firm
Yeah .
so it 's yeah .
And you don't what , they 're surnames Mac something .
Well I don't know .
But anyway , this girl no , they 're surname isn't anything , even similar to that !
No .
Because they 're name is !
Yeah , .
Oh it might be Michael and Andrew Co , then .
There you are !
It 's something like that , it 's .
The ma , the name MAC , yeah !
Yeah ,
Michael is it 's it isn't !
Because when he told me their name was I thought of a girl I used to know called Louise , but it isn't her
No .
but apparently she was you know really goo , you know like the
Ah , they had the money to buy they had every they could afford
They were loaded !
anything !
Basically , like but she was must of been such and such champion , I mean I didn't appreciate probably how good she was , sort of thing because I'm not in their show circuit but probably she was the you know , one of the top
The highest one .
Yeah .
of her particular area .
But , I mean , even if erm she was saying about going down to Olympia and stuff , were n't she , or somewhere ?
Yeah .
The , that horse was British
So she must of been good .
champion , whatever this bloody horse was it was something
Yeah .
stylish !
British
She had
champion at , whatever it was at .
Where did they live , in Southport or
Yeah .
outside or
Yeah , it was erm you didn't have to go that far out but they ha they owned a bit of land and stuff
Yeah .
didn't they ?
It was like all houses see there 's a main road
Yeah .
Actually you went through er
King 's roundabout or
I don't know whether you went
No .
up towards er Banks you know we u er
I don't think I ever saw erm , yeah I didn't though .
all up there and past the village restaurant where
Yeah
where we went
Ah , yeah !
for
Mm .
Sunday Lunch , but it 's closed down .
Oh yes !
You went down there and through Banks and then turn
Yeah .
to the right , I don't quite know where .
Mm .
Not quite clear there .
But er , it was nice , the horses were lovely !
Oh , were they ?
Cos I didn't really know what to expect when he said oh
No .
she 's got horses
Mm .
I thought they were just gonna be a load of .
Ah , but where this house were along the road
Yes .
like yo yo your houses and the
Oh , I see what you said .
bloody gardens but all , the back of there , they owned everything !
All the land didn't they ?
You know there might ha , there might have been three hundred ya , three hundred yards of houses semis and detached and they had a bit of land , but all the back of that , that was theirs !
Yeah !
I see .
You know , it was all fenced they hadn't lived there long had they ?
No .
And it was all new fences and it had all been it had been .
A newly built house as well you mean ?
No it was old .
Oh I see , yeah !
It wasn't at first ,
That house , it was a typical horsy place , rammy kitchen and loads of dogs jumping up at you .
Oh I see .
Aye , but in that lounge , when I when I went that lounge it was , they were the sort of people that bloody don't open the curtains !
They 'll save the blo , I presume save the bloody sun you know , fading the carpet or the curtains .
Yeah .
Cos the carpet must have been worth a bloody fortune anyway !
All the furniture in there was all you know , really smart stuff !
Yeah .
Well was it antiques or something cos I didn't come in ?
Well I suppose it was antique , it was awful !
Well you know what a horses
bloody
person 's kitchen is like ?
hard wood , oh it was really smelly !
They 're always the same .
And it had a they had a stuffed fox .
Well I
No , .
Stuffed fox .
Oh Aye !
Tosh 's dad shot it .
Well I mean
And he 'd been out shooting , but Tosh had give it to this feller
Oh no !
and this feller taxidermist .
And I thought
Well I suppose maybe they 're not all the
Yeah .
same , but they 're the type , and you walk in and the the
seriously though , you ca you could n't see where it had been shot .
dogs fast asleep in the blanket that 's just
I had a look round it , oh it 's this
pricked with hair
he was there really !
and it 's just , I 've seen it so often
Yeah .
I just not gonna do with it !
Erm
Oh
but I dunno I was
like a little rigid bloody board thing !
so she 's finished riding
Yeah .
Oh this was really nice , it was only
and
a young fox .
the girl ?
Must have been about twenty one .
Oh it was really nice !
And they had another one
career or anything ?
that was er it had been done
I don't know .
all like oh like , twenty years ago
Thought perhaps she did some work whatever .
and the difference it was
Mm .
the new one , it was like
But er , you know like Tosh hadn't ,
it was there it was
he hadn't said that so , when they asked
looked nice , but the other one it was all snarled and everything !
and the mum was saying things and that
The person who 'd done the old one
she goes , oh yeah !
Oh I hate it , when you have to ask
in my eyes like , was more professional than the one that had done the new one !
Yeah !
Cos it was all all this
Oh it was a !
Yeah .
you know , and that sort of thing .
We well you should I said !
Oh I am sorry !
It was all smell and I don't know what it was !
It was worth going into .
To look at you could just imagine that , you know , going for something looking like that .
You know , I mean , we just called upon them , I suppose
Yeah !
she wanted to think that oh , this is this , this is that .
Yeah .
But inside it was just
Whether they were posh or not .
killing me in !
No , she 's a very down to earth .
But she was saying this that and the other but I just felt like saying oh , listen I know more than you anyway !
Yeah .
for a few months
Oh she was the big I am wasn't she ?
.
She was , the big I am aye .
No ?
don't use
What ?
the baby boy 's running there .
No erm
Is is this month or
she says twenty third
by her dates , but the hospital said twenty ninth or something .
Oh
There 's a bit
God well !
Time .
I had a dream didn't I ?
I told you , I had a dream about er
Yeah , what was it again ?
dreaming about the baby
Ah !
in the week
What did she have ?
It was a little
A little boy .
it was a little lad , I dreamt it was a little lad
And I think she is gonna have a boy .
She 'll have a boy , yeah she said
and er
she 'll have one .
we were going we were going the house
It 's usually the opposite .
No , I sa
No .
I said
Oh no !
that they 're gonna have a little lad .
no , i i if it 's her that dreamt it .
Yeah .
Yeah .
That 's definite .
Oh well you 're probably right .
and we were going their house , but it wasn't Judith 's , it was Rob 's mum and dad 's down Road and er we went in and you didn't know anything about it , and I walked in a Rob said she 's had it !
I said what is it ?
It 's a little lad and I I looked through a window , I could see Judith holding this baby but you had to walk round to get to her and I knew before you 'd got there and you were all over the moon about this little baby and everything
Ah !
and i it was all , you know
But it could talk didn't you say ?
It was only tiny but it bloody talk !
Oh !
God !
bloody talk !
Aye !
Aye , I 'll tell you what bloody wouldn't surprise me !
Oh !
wasn't sure that
I think they 'll have to tell her that sometime !
Er , Kelly don't go .
Kelly can .
Kelly isn't , her name isn't
Oh yeah !
Kelly .
What a what 's his name ?
Well
Hugh .
Hugh .
Garry and Shaun
Remember Shaun ?
forget about Garry
Oh aye !
with Shaun he 's gone now !
And I don't know what
Gone with the wind !
But er , no she will have a lad .
Well she said herself she 's expecting a lad though isn't she ?
Oh that 's right ,
No , she has n't been told by the hospital .
Oh no , she 's doesn't want to know
No , she has n't been told but she , she 's thinks it 's gonna be a lad .
They offered to tell
You mean
her or not .
You mean to say er i , they 'd only lived in Bournemouth don't you ?
Oh aye !
That was .
Urgh !
They always .
I don't feel at all like that !
Mm .
Glenn 's gonna take her baby round with her
Well maybe they don't want him round .
when she 's goes to do hair and that ?
I don't know !
I bet she will .
Unless it 's the likes of you , but in the day time
Mm .
she might take the baby if he 's good .
Well I suppose she 'd get away with it wouldn't she ?
Mm .
God , I 'd take her !
Well if he was sleeping you could leave him the car .
Better than shoving him in a creche innit ?
Course it is !
She wouldn't do that I'm sure !
I don't know whether she makes that much money
It 's , it 's too bloody much !
They sent her a lovely
Exactly !
di di
It 's that , yeah
I was a bit annoyed I forgot I hadn't put your name on .
the hairdressers .
Well she stopped us going up that lane in the car , by
I didn't know her surname .
Mr Tots
whether she 'd just had the baby , I don't know her surname .
I go , I had the lovely calligraphy pen and I put to Mr and Mrs , cos I always speak to Kevin , I know him
Yeah !
and I 've met him in the pub .
I haven't a clue what her name was !
to Mr and Mrs K so , I had to put a note
You do !
sorry I can't remember your surname and put to Glenys , on the si , I think it 's .
Yeah .
I think it 's something common , but I co
, yeah .
could n't remember if it was , , or ?
I didn't ever know it .
Here , I 'll tell you what else , just saying , David and
Angela 's brother ?
yeah , has moved to Chester
Yeah , you said , you said he came in .
but the other day I dreamt about Angela
Ah !
did you know the ?
Have you told her about it or not ?
No , I 've I I did think at one time whether to pass a note , bye !
Whether to the pass
Bye !
through him to her
Yeah .
but erm unless she had said something , he never came back and said oh Angela says hello , if she had of done
Oh , yeah !
I might have you know , like I
Yeah .
knew it was her birthday on Halloween cos it always stuck in my mind
Ha oh , was it ?
and I thought , shall I send a card , and I thought no , cos that many years have gone by
That 's it .
so I 've never done anything , but he 's moved and he 's been back and seen us .
Yeah .
He came in for a chat the other day and said , oh how you getting on ?
Anyway , my my dream was , I walked into the photocopying room in work and who should be there , and you 'll remember the other girl as well Angela getting paper out of the cupboard , and Elizabeth
Ooh , Lord !
from .
Yeah .
now I haven't seen either of them since school
Ee !
and er Elizabeth , I just can't imagine that she 's altered at all
No .
but , but she may have done .
Mm .
And er , I was just talking to her and that 's all I can remember .
But , you know
Amazing isn't it ?
when you think what you dream of , good God !
Bev 's got this book of dre , mystic book of dreams or something it 's called
Who ?
I have in work
Oh !
and it 's the biggest load of rubbish you 've ever seen but
Somebody must of spent hours thinking
Yeah .
of all them !
Oh , they have !
Yeah !
You know , and there 's every
Yeah .
it 's all in alphabetical order , all different objects
or whatever .
They say , yeah .
Well some people really need them !
So like , we have a hell of a good laugh like , we go in and like , my dreams don't usually dawn on me till around lunch , I always say quick , give us the book !
I dreamt about a black cat , a black cat left the room !
Oh !
And it says , oh you are gonna do such
Well have you really or have just made it up ?
You brought the book home !
I did dream about some kittens the other night , there was
Oh yeah ?
three white ones and a black one .
That was after that white cat adopting you , I told you that 's what it was !
He was there today wasn't he ?
Yeah .
No , he 's gone .
I can not
Do you feed it ?
With most of my
Ah .
dreams most of
What with ?
time well he had some fat of ham
Just bits and pieces .
that I didn't I brought the rest for Laddy .
Yeah .
Erm
Peanuts !
Ooh , he was funny though , he was coming like that , and he 's dying for a stroke
Well that dog in the Raven was eating peanuts off Barbara , the mother Marsha the other week !
Doing tricks !
He 's a bloody that idiot !
Yeah , and then
Erm yeah , it 's , it like it wants to be friendly
It 's really timid isn't it ?
but I don't think they pay attention to it across there
Ah !
it 's not used to people !
It 's friendly towards you because you 've fed it in the day
It doesn't look neglected
Yeah .
Oh no !
oh no !
until you took your time .
And then it was rolling over and doing all sorts were n't it ?
Oh , it was doing tricks and it was so
Ah !
funny !
Do you think it 's young ?
Yes .
I don't think it 's very old .
I think it might even be that kitten
I think it 's about two .
you know ?
No .
They were they had a a board in of white kitten , free to good home .
Oh !
Erm
When was that ?
I think it 's the mother of whatever that was .
Do you ?
It was in last year or something .
Oh yeah .
Erm , but Mike thinks it may be that kitten .
Oh it co could be I think it 's
But it 's only about eighteen months or two isn't it ?
Oh it 's
And it was sort of
comical honestly !
rolling over to be tickled but before you could tickle it , it was flipping right over and then jumping up wasn't it ?
And will it let you
tickle it
oh
or not ?
Yeah .
Yeah , you can stroke it but it 's , awful thing is
tickle when it 's lies over
Oh aye !
yeah , .
But you have to be really slow .
But it had all it 's side
Yeah , they don't like you touching , would it ever claw you if you
well it 's the other side has all been shaved off !
went at it
No .
sudden ?
No .
I don't think so .
It just run off .
All it 's side had been shaved as if it had been an o had an operation .
It has had an operation you know .
I know , you can see the
You can see the mark .
Oh !
So I don't know whether it 's a ca , a a she cat and it 's been spayed .
Yeah .
the mark off the leg , you know where
Like on it
they do
but on it 's top and that
On it 's back leg .
Yeah .
And I said to him there 's no scare but it 's
Looking at it , yeah you can see it .
but the fur has n't grown back ,
The fur 's starting to grow a little bit
it looks so ridiculous !
Mm , yeah .
which mark innit ?
Cos is the rest of it like floppy or
Yeah , we no well not floppy , it 's about that long
Mm .
isn't it ?
Oh , yeah .
But er , I was giving this er I 'd been giving it a stroke , and er it 's sort of dying to be fussed , but I don't think they give it any attention across there .
No , so it 's not quite sure .
so , no .
But er , I sa so I said ooh , give it some of this fat off the ham and er it was getting it and then instead of eating it
Run away .
he were running by the shed to eat it !
Aye !
Like , as if it was fri , you know , like I would think to myself , if I didn't know that , I don't think they would mistreat it .
No .
But you think it had had a good kicking or something , wouldn't you ?
Yeah !
The way it 's , but it 's probably just not used to them .
So then , I 'd have another piece and he 'd trot off and he 'd run again by the shed !
Ooh !
And the other morning
Ooh that 's funny !
oh , was it a morning ?
No , I was in .
Was it in the evening ?
It were a weekend !
I think is was before
He were on the shed roof ?
we come to mum 's .
Mm .
And er , it was on the shed roof , on the apex like that and it just had it 's front paws over like that so I quick , got the camera and through the back bedroom window erm , took a picture of it on the shed roof like that , it was just looking !
Oh , like Chas .
But tonight before , well on Saturday before we came up like he 'd been back and to this after , well this morning really and I , he 'd disappeared hadn't he ?
And I heard the bathroom window open and I went in there , I was just having a look , admiring my little shed roof there !
I nearly took a picture of him !
You were n't looking for the cat , you were looking
No I wasn't !
Anyway , , the old shed looks well there er , I dunno why I started to look out and the cat was on his back legs with his feet like that and he was looking up at me like that !
Ah !
So I thought I 'd , so I thought oh I better shut the bloody window , cos if he gets through it , you know , he be , get into it !
Oh yeah !
Sweet as a nut !
This is the , it 's only the I 've only fed it today er
He has been a couple of times .
But it 's been back loads o
Yeah .
It 's been a lot when you 've been to Nora 's
Yeah , but once you start !
you know .
To Nora 's ?
When , he 's gone to Nora 's , I 've seen it .
Oh !
But
if I 'd have fed it the first time I 'd have understood it , but I 've only fed it today !
Mm .
Yeah .
And it 's already been
Mm .
a lot of times .
He might
Yeah .
be a bit hungry anyway , mighten he ?
Yeah .
Or she .
Yeah .
today never noticed that before !
haven't you I
Oh , I see !
noticed that before .
We have .
Oh ,
I'm just going to pay a call anyway before I leave it to the very last .
If living is without you .
You never found that music , we 've got a lovely song out of Willy Wonka
Oh no , you know when you were playing tonight
And don't you laugh !
It 's that
what reminded you
it was a cro , I tell you what , we were playing something tonight , I think it was the last thing before you stopped , and I kept thinking any minute now it 's gonna be Somewhere Over the Rainbow
Yeah ,
No , a Simple Girl .
Is it ?
No
It would have been if I 'd have carried on .
Yeah , and I kept thinking ooh
What was that one
that 's nice !
And then I was this music 's gonna come down
Close to Me , when you played Close to Me .
Close to You .
Close to You .
See I was right .
And er , I heard you do er
Killing Me Softly With his Song , which I
Oh yeah .
love anyway !
But then it was this I thought any minute it 's gonna be Somewhere over the Rainbow .
Ee !
But it wasn't , and then you kept sort of going into something else .
But , this one , that 's close to me or whatever mum 's saying there remi , was reminding me of that Der der der
Oh yeah .
der der der
Oh yeah I love that .
der der der na na na na na
Mm .
na na na .
And you seeing what you 're playing tonight , I thought I can't , but I heard the first thing der der der , but then it goes der der der
I can't .
der der , der der da .
But it didn't a , God , my dad 's got the music to the one out of Willy Wonka !
Yeah .
It doesn't half sound like it you know !
Yeah , it does .
I nearly run downstairs and then it went into something else and mum said well , keep listening she said and erm it go
it goes a bit faster doesn't it , the next er er and a couple of bits after .
Mm de de de de de da da da da da da da da da da
Da dee dum de dum de dum de dum da da .
And then I keep , what does that sound like then ?
Da da da da da da da da on of those Donny Osmond 's or something ?
Ah , yes I know that , yeah it sounds like da da da da
No it sounds like stri
No it sounds like one you won't have heard of on that , the big old LP 's that me and Nicola , Nicola for a birthday , that erm , school love he used to be er , oh I dunno what was his name ?
Probably Leo Sayer .
School love school love , da da da da da da da da da .
But er , oh we should try and get that , I love it I do !
And I tell you what , what else was I wanting to say ?
And I didn't think you had the mu you had the music but not the words .
Think it was to all of Over the Rainbow .
Dad agrees that that der der der da da da da da .
Mm .
That does sound like that Willy Wonka
Yeah .
the start of it .
Did you think you had the music for it or something but
No .
you say , oh you never did ?
An and you don't the tune to play , no ?
Er no no !
Yeah !
Right
You 've had a go haven't you ?
It 's just that
Yeah , you have .
like I haven't got any more words I think .
No .
I thought you have tried to play
Never even had a go to play .
Willy Wonka ?
No .
No ?
I I it 's one of the tunes , you know it when it 's on , you know
Yeah .
Yeah
and it 's
to try and er
you do need to
go to the video shop or something and see who play , who does it .
Oh you have to ring up
ask for bloody Willy Wonka !
I will !
you ring up er
Oh yes that number !
that num , you can ring that
or whatever
library in Birmingham .
They 're forever , tell him about it .
What 's that ?
That library you can get
You ring them and tell them a tune to them .
She was going
Ah yeah !
promotion when she called .
Oh .
That was in er ?
This week has been about the library .
Oh God !
That Phillip he was in there .
can you just watch for that lovey cos you 're talking .
Yeah , I heard of the name .
Phillip ?
Yeah , !
What are you doing bringing cups in now ?
Probably wants er .
I know she wants .
I don't want you put those trousers away on the washing .
What these ?
The other day , they 're dirty , they hadn't been washed they 're dirty when you look at them in daylight .
See if she wants to take them to
Ooh I don't know .
You 'll have a lot , aye ?
Aye ?
I don't know !
You don't know what ?
Whether they want wa washing or
You 'll have no choice if I'm saying they 're dirty , I shall inspect them in daylight so
They don't look dirty now .
No they don't , and that 's why
What ?
These trousers .
No !
These are good for another twelve
Shut up Mike !
months !
don't make him worse than what he is !
No , I expect it 's that
it 's in the paper .
Oh yeah I noticed
Mm .
that !
The one with the .
Oh aye !
Who used to miserable when she got .
Used to live down the road
and I
Oh !
First time
Bye !
!
See you lad !
Bye !
Do you have to keep ?
Yes , it raining .
mm mm mm mm mm mm world of full imagination .
It 's got warmer with it .
What 's ?
the dreams .
Better than this ?
Yeah .
Oh yes !
Oh we 're going some , well
Oh yeah .
I know .
You know there 's something else .
when we get over , lads .
What made you say do you think it 's better than this ?
She was .
I 've opened it !
Good God , she was only fourteen she had a deeper voice than
.
delayed .
It 's gonna be one o'clock I expect when she gets in .
She 's going to work tomorrow .
Is she ?
Yeah .
Aye
Mm .
She 'll be shattered .
Aye .
Paul been ?
Yes he was here at soon after nine .
Good god .
What the hell 's wrong with him ?
Well he 'd got up and then .
He put a shower in yesterday , that Piers .
He has n't
When 's he going back ?
I don't know .
And he took the front piece out of that magazine .
He said can I take this ?
And said what is it ?
It was erm photo of some curtains , he said they exactly the same as Joanna got up for the lounge .
And there was a coupon in , he sent off for fifteen pound off .
It 'll be too bloody late now .
He didn't take much like , if you want any like
Oh .
it 's in there .
Look at that .
Oh god look at them
Oh bless them .
Have you seen them ?
Ah look !
Yeah .
look .
We 've got a cat comes to our house , a white one .
Pure white like that .
Comes
Yeah ?
from next door isn't he ?
Mm .
Lovely he is .
Is that one of them what ?
No
No it 's a different one .
he 's alright he you can stroke him but you have to go slow towards him .
He 's alright , he was rolling over on the floor yesterday with me wasn't he ?
Mm .
Oh .
Well I wasn't rolling on the floor , the cat was .
The cat , aye .
Well see a black one still that we 've coming
Mhm
to the door , he 'll not let you touch him .
Where was that ambulance going yesterday ?
He turned down here .
Aye , well er
We was we was outside our house and I seen it turning along there somewhere .
well w we were wait we were waiting to cross the road
and er it went up here .
So I thought where the hell 's it going .
So when we come up the lane it was on the top here and er Sally 's dad was with it and then er the engine was still going so this girl , well erm one of them wenches
Mm
she lives in Barnside , she was coming up behind me and her husband and kids and I
It 's not her bloody husband .
No .
isn't it ?
So I said to her er what 's happened here ?
Ooh she said it 's Mrs 's fell .
Who 's Mrs ?
She lives erm upstairs down there .
Oh aye .
She 's had two falls .
And she fell on the
Well it come with them bloody blue lights going
Mm
through
flashing like hell .
You could , you could hear him coming for miles .
for miles aye .
And all the traffic got on the side for it to go .
And er , anyroad somebody brought her daughter , whether Sally 's husband had rung her daughter to come .
Somebody in a blue car brought her and there were two ginger headed girls .
Ah
Well her daughter 's only got a son .
So I don't know what happened .
Mrs eh ?
Was she ?
No .
She never , she n never has And er well she fell down the road not long ago and she went into hospital .
And then er
Why have they taken her in now ?
They must have done .
And I er was talking to her down the lane when Mrs Monday and I asked her how she was and she said oh I 've had a few falls in the house and all .
Oh dear .
She 's eighty six I think .
She 'd be better in a bloody home wouldn't she ?
And old has n't come back home yet .
Has n't he ?
No .
And we 've never seen his kids .
But they were playing ball , that football on the road yesterday when we went out .
I said to Mrs perhaps it 's one of them .
He says
so
Mm .
don't
And he seemed as if had been here when I was down the road
Ooh that 's a shame that you missed her , bloody hell .
common interests book was shoved through the door .
It 's a damned good job we went because
Ooh you 'd have never got down the road .
No I wouldn't .
We went into er and we went into Carmella 's .
. Bought some apples .
Have you seen much of Beryl lately ?
Eh ?
Do you see
Aunty Beryl
Beryl lately ?
No I haven't .
When was the last time you seen her ?
Christmas was last .
Was it ?
Mm .
And I 've never
She must be
heard from Gladys and Fred
No ?
for months !
It 's er Christmas I seen Fred , I haven't se er well , I know I'm not gonna get on the phone to her , you know what it 's like with Gladys .
Mm , can't get off once you 're on can you ?
I know she might be bad , we don't know .
Fred
Lost her bloody voice again perhaps .
Aye .
I sometimes think I
It 's queer that
It 's queer like
Well if you rung you could always say oh I 'll have to go cos somebody at the door if she starts going on a bit long .
Aye .
Say ooh there 's somebody at the door , have to go .
That 's the best .
Well I can't at night .
Well of course you can .
Well she might think oh you don't go to the door at night .
Well say our Michael was in .
Well if you didn't ring tonight and rung tomorrow and rung early on-ish and you 'll have to say
Oh aye but
ooh our Michael , ooh , ooh there 's somebody at the door , I 'll have to go .
Aye about sixish .
After , soon after six cos it 's cheaper then innit ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
And you could have ten minutes on the phone and say ooh I 'll have to go , there 's somebody at the door .
Aye .
And then that 's it then innit ?
say ooh I just seen Michael passing , I 'll have to
The ball 's in her court then .
Tosh and Les have just been on the phone to us up there haven't they ?
Ah .
Have they ?
Yeah .
They 're coming at Easter .
Oh aye .
James has been er talking down the footie yeah , yeah talking a load of bloody rubbish but he 'll start speaking all of a sudden won't he ?
Yeah .
It must be rheumatic this in here ooh god it hurts .
Have to rub it cos
Mm .
Oh dear
Did you watch Beadle before ?
said they 'd been recording things for her wanting to see what she does see when she 's old .
Oh
Probably have all the bloody soaps taped and everything .
Neighbours and Coronation Street .
Oh I don't know about Neighbours , I know Coronation Street and oh I don't know I don't know what it were .
Oh she said we 've cleaned the house from top to bottom .
Everything 's lovely by she comes home .
And you know she said that er I was telling you about ?
Aye I said , so she said the landlord 's never put it down so we thought he 'd have had it down by she come home cos Alison seen it and where they work and th and there 's a room there or something and she 'd asked the boss could she have it for the bathroom .
Mm .
And he said yes , take it home .
But she 's round here er Friday night .
Mm .
She 's been round here a few times since her husband been away asking how I am .
They 've got a crow in that cage there look .
Have they ?
There were a lot of crows when we went for a walk before flying round .
Mm .
Ooh and the seagulls .
They must go to that sewerage isn't it ?
Aye .
Coming back tonight there was hundreds of them !
In droves they come in or a bunch and then another bunch comes and about er quarter to five and it 's every night .
They must go at the break of day , you know ?
Mm .
Mm .
Looking for turds .
Well there 's nothing else
No .
I went to the tip yesterday
Oh aye .
to the skips and in a fortnight they shut .
They 're shutting the skips down and then anything that you take then you have to take straight to the tip .
And they 're gonna charge you for going there even if you 've got like household stuff in the car , they 're gonna charge you for tipping .
I said to the bloke I 'll not bloody pay .
He said well I 've lost me job through it he said .
Cos he looks after the s the skips
Mm .
and then he can have what they have to put price in and then they , they have the scrap out of them see and all the rest of it .
So I 've lost me bloody job because of it he said .
And the nearest place to go to a skip then is in Queensferry .
Oh .
And if you just tip it outside the gates they 're gonna fine you two thousand pound .
Oh good god
Why are they gonna have somebody watching ?
Well he reckons they 're gonna have like security there and everything .
Oh well where do you , where is it you ?
Spencers. ,
They 'll find somewhere else
Nowt .
to dump it won't they ?
Yeah .
Oh .
Matthew 's supposed to have a job there now .
Where ?
Spencers .
Spencers ?
They don't know what , er you play , pay your bloody poll tax and you 've still got ta pay
Aye !
to dump your rubbish !
Mm .
Aye !
I said I 'll leave mine out for the bloody bin men before I take it down the tippy .
By hell
I 'd put bags of bloody bricks on the front .
Aye .
And I 'd leave the buggers there as well .
If he didn't take them they could stop there .
the cheeky buggers .
He said it 's bec all because the tipping 's been privatized or something .
Ha ! government .
Aye well if the Tory 's get in again , they 're going to privatize the post offices .
Well they reckon they 've , they 've split it all ready for privatizing .
Because there 's like post office parcels now isn't there ?
And
Mm .
the post office counters .
Like the post office down the road .
And the post office letters and all the bloody rest of it , it 's all been split up ready so they just privatize it .
Saying how there 's gonna be a lot of roads with a poll tax to pay .
Not poll tax , bloody tolls .
Well tolled , toll I mean .
Aye .
aye .
It 's coming to something , I hope them buggers don't get in .
Did you watch the football this afternoon or that
No I
kung fu .
Did you , didn't see kung fu no ?
no I didn't se I watched football and then I turned in the interval I t turned it on to and er
And the Antiques Roadshow .
Yeah .
See that teapot of a monkey ?
Aye .
Oh it was horrible !
Ugly bloody thing it was .
Oh were in er it was terrible , I 'd have chucked the bugger out before now .
wouldn't we ?
Mm .
wouldn't have that bugger in the house .
Oh god ! what do you think we 've burnt at home .
Makes you wonder what , were they very
Oh god
valuable value in them .
Packed away
God aye you 've probably chucked away a fortune .
It 's too damn late to think about it now though innit ?
Yep .
Aye that er You 've Been Framed that dog in the water with that man .
He c he got him off didn't he , and he sat in the thing .
I didn't see that .
In the seat .
No .
Oh .
Saw the one with the duck on his back .
Oh aye that was good and all .
Eh aye .
Ooh me shoe does it Michael ?
It won't go any tighter , you 'll have to put more paper in it if you wanna
Well just leave it like that and let it stretch so the leather stays like that .
What have you done , put a spud in it ?
Mm ?
Is that the one you put a spud in ?
Aye .
That 's where she had the bloody potato at the back of the bloody thing , there , pushing it in .
Oh Joanne
It has stretched it has n't it ?
Oh aye .
You 're frightened of doing stretched it altogether .
You 'll pull the bloody leather from under there if you tighten it any more .
Aye .
You see it won't tighten any more , that 's it .
What damn sort of contraption 's that ?
Joanne 's brought it ?
Well it just winds up and it pushes a wedge forward and splays them out .
I got it , it 's cos I think it was for a a thinner shoe mind
Well it 's for like a a narrower shoe , a woman 's shoe ,
And Michael had to put a lot of paper in to
pack it out .
But erm
Do you make a good door cos you don't make a very good window , sit back .
She 's coming again tomorrow to have a look at it and practice .
What the one from from the hairdressers ?
Aye .
She comes out to you now does she ?
Aye this is the third time .
but she said .
So she said she 'd come again tomorrow .
Have to get you ready for this wedding she said .
Mm .
Erm Madelade said that Peter got the nerves already .
About the wedding ?
Mm soon be here the wedding won't it ?
Aye soon come now won't it ?
Only be about seven weeks something like that .
Six or seven weeks .
finish the doors I think for the
Eh ?
He 's varnishing isn't he , the doors ?
I dunno .
Oh he 's staining them .
Aye .
He should have left the bloody things off because they 're gonna have to take them off if they have their carpets down and might have to have something planed off them or something might n't they ?
left them up , left them up or something I don't He said on the night he 'll have to come again and have a look at it .
Mm it looks well now .
But he was having today as well were n't he , his back door ?
Eh ?
He was having his back door put on today were n't he ?
Why hadn't he got ?
Well he had an old one on , he bought a new one on Friday .
Oh did he ?
An old stained one or something .
That 's like Barbara and Graham 's .
Big Victorian stained door type
Oh it 'll be all nice when he 's finished .
Oh it looks well there now .
Got a nice bit of ground don't they ?
Mm .
So er perhaps he 'll wait till he gets the carpets down .
Mm .
Cos he has n't erm had the switched on yet .
Well he 's had the fire plumbed in but the gas isn't on .
Oh I don't know
I d well that 's what he was gonna do , that 's what Les was gonna do , put the fire in .
It 's only a matter of connecting the bloody pipe up .
Aye .
He 's had an electric bill has n't he for god knows how much .
And he has n't bloody used any .
No .
Fifty pound I think .
Mm something like that , or eighty pound was it ?
Mm .
I said what you gonna do ?
I said you wanna send the bugger back , he said don't worry I have done .
Aye another
They try it on all ways don't they ?
Be having another now cos he read them the other day .
Well that 's the one , he 's had one .
Oh that 's the one .
Oh god well I expect we 'll have ours in the morning .
Aye ours will be , if you have yours in the morning ours will be here tomorrow or Tuesday
Mm .
I expect .
Should n't be that much .
You have yours estimated though don't you ?
Did you see that Stars in Their Eyes last night ?
That Lesley Crowther with them people singing .
Aye .
That young girl was good were n't she ?
Aye she was good .
Mm .
But didn't he make her different ?
Aye .
hair different
Mm .
Eh I
But she s Marty 's got a tape of the woman that actually sung that anyroad who she bloody sounds like her .
Mm .
She was good .
Oh aye she was good .
Got little pieces on them haven't they , them ?
Yes .
the dog .
Dopey little bugger that one eh ?
Ah no !
He 's lovely .
Horrible little bugger .
shed will be nice and dry now , there 'll be no water leaking in
Ah .
No .
Oh well that 's better .
I 'll have to get some wood preserver or creosote and
Mm .
I 'll do all the fences before
Aye .
Well it 's too bloody late now , all the rain will have stopped by I finish messing about I expect .
I but
It 's made the difference though putting that other stuff on it .
I did it with some stuff before
Oh did you ?
and er I was watching it when it was raining the other day , you could see the rain dripping off the wood rather than soaking into it so it 's done something .
Oh aye .
Well you can keep different things in it now than you could n't before .
Eh ?
Oh everything 's been in the bloody thing anyway .
Everything 's in there anyway .
It 's full innit ?
No .
He 'll be ha er having it in the summer
With chairs and table outside .
I'm gonna get all the back tidy for the summer .
I know it 's not very big but
No .
if I get it tidy , put a bit of do all , get all the garden level and everything .
Be able to , at least be able to sit out or something in the summer .
Oh aye .
And I 'll put so bit more soil in that , you know that border thing that we 've got there ?
Well there was all concrete and all sorts on the top of that were n't there ?
I know .
So I 've knocked it all up so I'm gonna dig it over and put , get some more soil this next week .
Well where 's thee gonna get thee soil from ?
Well I don't know .
I don't wanna pay for the bugger .
I 'll see Johnny , see if he 's got anything .
Mm .
but he might .
Well I 'll leave ca I don't wanna do them till the summer , it will be too bloody wet now .
It 's wet as down there .
Went down for a walk today didn't we ?
It was slippery as hell down the fields .
Oh aye .
Did your mum and dad go along ?
Mm .
What , for a walk ?
Mm .
Mm .
It was nice aye .
dog 's not so bad walk like .
Oh aye he 's alright .
He was
this morning .
We was we give him an aspirin he was alright .
Oh aye .
We took a couple of photos of him again today .
So if , he 's got a fortnight
Whereby is it ?
Right in the middle duck .
He 's got a fortnight before it 's got ta go in anyway
Aye .
so we 'll have this film developed
It 's in there .
On that page .
There .
We 'll get it developed and we 've
Oh aye
we 've got things on him as well so we find the best .
Well take it home with you Martine then .
Yeah he was comical wasn't he , tonight ?
He had his bloody he had his cushion and he had his bloody , you know that one how we got him with his head on his cushion like that ?
He was lying with his head on his cushion , eh
god almighty .
Twelve they want .
Do they ?
It 'll be alright to have a win it again ducks , go to London weekend again .
Mm .
Be nice wouldn't it ?
don't think there 's much chance of that .
Eh there 'll be hundreds sent in though won't there ?
Oh aye .
Bound to be .
Cos our now she brought his Spillers .
Growing erm parsley in a container .
I don't understand , it says Spillers is on the look out for Britain 's twelve most appealing dogs to appear on the Prime calendar nineteen ninety three .
Then a bit lower down it says eight semi finalists will be selected for a final judging in April .
Well I suppose they 'll , you send them all in then there 's eight semi finalists
Aye .
and then they 'll just pick one out of that to go on as part of the calendar .
Mm .
For one of the months , I would have thought .
The way , that 's the way I read it anyway .
Oh aye yes , a big calendar where you turn over
Mm
with a different dog on .
Oh , so th and then Prime themselves will get the others , it 's just they want one .
I would have thought so .
I think that 's what it 'll be myself .
Oh right .
I mean if you sent that one in with his head on his cushion er erm I don't suppose there 'll be anybody else is gonna send one in like that .
No .
People 's gonna be sending them in with with the dog
Dog standing .
standing there or doing
Aye .
whatever .
Mm .
But that one it , they might say oh you know , bloody hell that 's
That 's unusual .
good you know .
That 'd be nice to have on the calendar sort of thing .
Mm .
I know we , you haven't got a cat in bloody hell 's chance of us going but
No , there 's no harm in
Oh no .
sending it .
Good god it Our Susan will be thrilled to bits if you went again .
Aye .
Aye Alison said you want her to come home don't you ?
Well aye I said to her as long as she 'll come home safe and sound it 's all that matters innit ?
I said erm I said to Alison oh aye cos she rang up the other day and I asked her if she 'd found a fella .
Oh aye she said , .
Aye Alison said , she said she said no she 's not interested oh .
We 'll have to go
Yeah .
No I say she done modelling over there .
Ooh she said they they 're all foreign she said she wouldn't be able to understand talking .
Shall we make a move then ?
Yeah .
Ooh , go and watch Maigret .
Aye .
Ooh
Aye .
Knocking the place
It 's had some knocks that bugger , it 's never come down yet .
It did come down once .
Do you remember I had to have erm I rang Michelle and er what do you call it 's dad come out .
One of the .
Oh aye .
He could n't believe
Oh I don't remember .
come through the damn ceiling .
Right
Right
Come on .
Right .
Sure you 'll not , not miss the sheet tonight ?
Mm , take it if you want .
It 's in the
Oh take it tomorrow , won't be washing
No I know you 're washing today
Oh .
Got stuff to dry there now .
Aye .
Oh doesn't matter .
Right .
with the weather being so bad .
Yeah .
Take a few days to dry , but they dry eventually .
Aye well bring some tomorrow Michael .
Aye we 'll see how we get on .
Right .
Take care then .
Right bolt this door after us .
I will love .
Okey-dokey
Bye .
Ta ra Norah see you tomorrow .
See you .
Bye .
isn't it horrible ?
Mm .
I'm getting
innit ?
I bet she 'll bloody wait up for Susan to ring .
Oh I expect so , aye .
Susan won't ring .
She said to her in the week when she rung she won't ring until I thought it was like midnight last night she was getting in and she wasn't gonna ring till today but it 'll be tomorrow she 'll ring her .
Yeah .
She 'll wait up .
Sure as eggs is eggs .
As long as she doesn't bloody ring us to say oh Susan 's just rung .
I 'll clonk her if she does .
You know what she 's like .
Ooh it 's quiet innit ?
Surely is .
Must be cos it 's so horrible .
Did you say you were working with Roy tomorrow ?
Well I might be , I don't know .
Bloody ballbag 'll probably phone me in the morning or something .
I might be going to er Ellesmere Port , there 's coffin stones to get up , they 've got er hoist thing there so I don't know .
Yeah ?
I might be there or I might be with Roy , I don't know .
Will you be home any earlier than you have been ?
We might try and put all the on tomorrow and if they do they 'll just work till they get them on .
I don't know .
I think .
what I was thinking .
Eh ?
what I was thinking then .
Oh god I can't stop yawning .
Pop the lock on .
I can take these if you bring the grey bag .
Right .
Sally 's off tomorrow and Tuesday as well .
I think she
One of the jobs we are doing is to identify what schemes they 're planning that they won't need to build .
That 's not possible .
If you need a larger one that that
That 's what it says .
I 've got a
No but
template .
on a bridge bit
Why not ?
It 's , it 's that 's really linked to do we need to do the Caernarvon link if we 're doing the bypass ?
Do they need to do the they 've proposed that they to bypass erm if we 're doing the Caernarvon bypass .
Well can they detrunk that bit ?
Well it doesn't say that .
Well can they detrunk that bit ?
responsibility not
Yeah .
theirs if they put the bypass in .
So what came out of this , well it could be
So are they looking to build a bypass first ?
The gut reaction this morning is we could end up with a bypass scheme at the end of it and no Caernarvon link .
Oh that 's no good is it ?
Of course it is .
Cos we 're still continuing designing a Caernarvon link .
four percent fee .
Mind you it 's , it 's a smaller job .
What 's smaller ?
Well if they 're doing that then we s we 're looking to make this a dual carriageway on the Richard principle that if it 's a trunk road it 's worth building a dual , a dual carriageway .
If you can convince him on traffic grounds fair enough .
So they 're serious
Course the initial thing is we get some reaction back from this , this
so they 're seriously looking to the trunk road network coming down bypass and then going off round the Caernarvon bypass ?
Or is that just
That wasn't er Ray 's view .
That was this other guy 's view .
Based on this other scheme really he said oh yes .
But which , whi which other guy ?
This Ve Vernon whatever his name is .
The are proposing this .
They won't want that .
They wo they won't
But the the guy that 's looking after the schemes
Yeah .
guy .
He 's what ?
He 's looking after the schemes for the leisure office .
Oh !
Oh he wasn't from .
Sorry I thought he was
He was from the leisure office looking after the .
Right .
Got it .
That 's what it 's , he 's interest
Right .
Yes .
Very good .
Well
Right .
have a lovely meeting .
Seminar
I will yes .
Er you 're going on this thing at the end of the month ?
Meetings yes .
There 'd appear to be out of this office .
There seems to be an awful lot of us going , yeah .
I 'll o I 'll only be there Friday morning and Saturday .
I won't be there Friday afternoon since I'm taking my son to the dentist .
I do wonder if it 's really w er I mean
Okay .
See you tomorrow .
You won't .
I'm in Chester all day tomorrow .
Manchester all day Wednesday .
L E C visit Thursday , Friday .
Busy man .
I 'd better get me timesheet out of
It 's signed .
Oh it 's signed .
Oh that 's alright .
We don't want bothering us do we ?
Er where were we ?
Mm ?
Where were we ?
We were drawing up plans .
It looks as though we 're gonna be doing some extra survey work .
Mm .
Ah that 's what I was saying what
Yeah , now
detail on roundabouts .
right .
How much staff did we use ?
Can , can you The erm the Ormskirk
Oh , that 's a pity .
track of methodology but
push to get Steve today .
Well I left a message with his saying
Were any of these four arm rou it 's a five arm roundabout isn't it ?
Were any of these four arm roundabouts ?
Yes
We did that one didn't we ?
We need to do these
Yeah that was roundabout .
That was a six arm .
And we did that one .
Yeah that was a
That 's five arms isn't it ?
five .
What other ones did we do ?
That one there ?
Hello Charlie .
We did , yeah , we did the here .
That was a five arm .
Well these down here about fifteen or sixteen
Oh yeah well th yeah
the motorways were four arm .
How many staff do we need to do that then ?
The full turn in count .
Suppose , well supposing we count ins and outs and the
Yeah .
sample .
Right .
You need one t to where , where were , where we talking about now ?
St David .
See you 're gonna get some busier than others .
Yes .
If they were all as busy as each other you 've got ta have one doing ins and one doing outs .
But on quiet roads , one person can do ins and outs .
I 'll er I 'll
Yeah just get something done and I 'll be back
Okay .
And we 'll go through it .
On the Queensferry bypass , on the interchange there it was five hours .
It 's only really a four and a half hour roundabout isn't it ?
Yes but one is out and
Yeah .
Yeah .
So you can obviously that 's gonna just be one person .
One person could do a two way on a quiet arm but the others are gonna need one person to do ins , one person to do outs .
And one person at each arm doing a sample .
So you 've got nine plus four Did we do a sample all day ?
No , just in the peak hours they 're sampling .
didn't we do them off peak as well ?
We should have done them off peak as well should n't we ?
I don't know .
I mean Jan did those .
I think it was just peak hours .
Er It 's gonna take thirteen people isn't it ?
Yeah , I mean if it was peaks only I mean there 's nothing to stop me doing it .
Well I appreciate that .
Or you use it , you put everybody on in the peaks
Yeah .
and then you , you
You use the
cutback
In the off , in the off peak they rotate the staff and
I'm not The thing is what you 're assuming then is that the pattern in the peak hour is typical for the day as a whole .
That 's not right is it ?
Mm maybe not .
Well you 'll get a different pattern in the morning peak and the evening peak for a start won't you ?
Mhm .
Mind you maybe you won't .
Depends , what you 're really concerned about is how does the proportion of traffic split to left and right and straight ahead isn't it ?
If that pattern basically stays the same then you 've got , the volume , the flow will go up and down .
Mm right .
But if we did a full turning count how would we do that ?
You can't do it can you ?
It 's not realistic .
You have to do if you 're doing that you have to have all the ins and outs plus a circulation flow .
Yeah .
And I 've never done one like that .
We 've always you know , found a way round it .
What we did before , was we did counting in flows and circulating .
I think what we would do supposing we didn't , supposing we just had heavy vehicles and light vehicles ?
That 's gonna make things a lot easier isn't it ?
Yeah well we , for Queensferry we just had three classes .
Motorbikes , cars , light goods H G V including two three and four axle and buses for the , for the whole count , now for the samples Rob didn't even want it classified .
It was just a vehicle regardless of what it was .
Yeah .
I suppose we could do a classified count er on the A four eight seven sort of a bit away if we wanted a proper classified count could n't we ?
Yeah .
Separate , on another day .
Yeah .
Or we could just use whatever we get at the interview side .
Erm perhaps the thing to do is to look at how it varied in nineteen eighty six .
Did you get that report out ?
Yes you did .
How it varied between the two sides .
There 's three thousand one hundred there .
Mhm .
That 's two way .
On a twelve hour day .
So assu you 're talking about , well supposing that 's grown , it may be four thousand , so you 're talking about two thousand tr vehicles in the interview direction over twelve hours .
So you 're gonna want to interview forty percent right ?
How many do you think you 'll need ?
Do you think you 'll need if you have t a team of four on , is that a half team or a six team ?
A half .
A four .
We did have we worked a six team but it 's not as easy to work out .
I'm only thinking that you 've got somebody counting ?
Yeah .
There 's one person counting ?
Two .
Two people counting .
Yeah .
One 's on a break .
Two .
Sorry ?
Oh what are you on about now ?
When th there 's a half team ?
A half team .
Right yeah .
If there 's a half team one people , one person counting one on a break and two interviewing .
And they have a break every three hours .
Can one person count and cope with that sort of flow ?
No I 'd want two people .
Two people counting ?
Oh what are you on about now ?
On this this quieter roa oh right .
Er yeah one person would be alright .
That 's the same sort of flow as we had a Birkdale Cop .
Mm .
isn't it ?
We only had half a team there .
Right .
Yep that 's alright then .
Well my feeling on the roundabout is that we need to do , count ins and outs and do a sample .
Okay .
And erm I think that 's the thing to do .
Yeah .
See the , so say if we , like you just said , we need thirteen people
Mm .
but there 's only gonna be two days .
If we 've got two roundabouts there 's only gonna be two days when we need that thirteen people .
So when we 're
Two roundabouts ?
There 's that other roundabout isn't there ?
You know where the horses were in the field ?
That was a four armed roundabout .
Just down from
Yeah .
the station house place where we parked
You 'll find that erm the flows there are very low .
So you think we could get away with treating that as a crossroads and have people
I reckon
doing that ?
I reckon
Well we could have a person counting and not only are they counting what 's coming out of their junction , but they could do left , straight on or right .
Treat it as a crossroads perhaps .
I reckon si yes four or six people would cover that , no problem .
I think you 'll find the flow is a a low
it wasn't busy when we were there was it ?
No I mean it may be , you know you i it may be reasonably busy straight through but I would have thought even there you 're probably talking about four not a lot higher than that I wouldn't have thought .
No .
Okay I 'll take four people
And erm we 're going very round very slow .
And the visibility was good and everything .
So I 'd have thought that erm you could put four or six , four or six people on that .
And actually if we just counted this to through traffic wouldn't be too much
Hello right .
your pudding ?
What erm have you heard any of it ? you have .
What did it sound like ?
It 's good .
We both just said that it ne you 'd never think that you sound right on tape .
I always think I sound high pitched .
sounds all like bloody what she does say .
Yeah
Nearly didn't recognize you there Jimbo .
Me ?
No , sorry another Jim .
Oh .
Jim with a suit on .
Must be going to a funeral .
Or going for an interview .
I 've just seen yeah he must have an interview .
Ooh .
Oh god .
You 'll never guess who was in the pub yesterday .
You 're right .
No !
Mm .
I'm afraid .
Mm .
I just heard you , heard you twang twanging your ruler .
Doing .
Twanging ?
Twanging .
Did you , did anybody see that film about erm st the stolen cars ?
The other night , what ?
Friday night .
Mm no .
No .
What station was that on ?
Erm I dunno , it was one of these er documentary type things and it was just like all organized crime , they were just erm
saying of all , all the things that they get up to you know , cutting using a stolen car
Mhm .
or a write off car and joining them and welding them
Yeah .
down the middle .
Cos that 's what happened to Brian , you know when Brian had his Orion nicked ? got stopped in
the cars or something ?
Little Sutton cars .
And then , it 's taking him ages to get
Has he got it now though ?
Yeah .
But er the things that they were doing were just unbelievable .
Erm you know to get the chassis numbers and that .
buying old say a scrapped a written off Sierra you know , picking them up cheap for about a thousand quid from the scrappy
Yeah .
and then getting all the the chassis numbers and that and welding them on to these stolen cars and Because what , you know , er Siobhan 's dad had a , bought a Montego and I don't know how it came about but they discovered that erm it had a diff I mean it 's had a Maestro engine in it and it had this that and the other .
And er they had to repossess it and he was paying .
And I don't know how , what 's happened about it now but at the time he was still having to pay for it
Mhm .
even though they 'd taken the car .
there was a woman there that erm the police do this service thing where they 'll look a car over for you , if you bought a car that you know has been er in an accident and it 's been
Yeah .
they will have a look at it over and check it over .
And there was a woman on it , she had a really nice Orion , a J reg .
Anyway when they had a good look at it the front half was an Escort and the back half was an Orion , half a stolen car .
You know they hadn't even matched the same bloody type of car .
There 's not really a lot of difference though is there between
There is
Well there isn't and I I said to Mike what did it look like , you know ?
He said it was nice .
But when they 're doing these welding jobs they haven't got them on those things so as they 're doing it like it 's all moving and
Yeah .
Yeah they 're totally
it was just a complete bodge .
I if you 're driving along you can throw out the balance of the car .
Yeah .
Well it was that erm one in Manchester , that crash you know there was three people killed in the middle of Manchester wasn't there ?
Oh I seem to remember something like that .
Erm and the car just broke up in half and that was , that had been er welded but like the police are saying as well as soon as they sort of get wise to what they 're doing and they find a way to er you know , get on to them , they devised something else .
And the people doing it in these garages erm , you know like respraying and doing all the welding and everything , really he said some of the things they were doing if they did it legally they 'd make a good go of it
Mm .
they were that good at what they were doing .
Tell me was I dreaming or did I see a sketch on T V where there 's a car driving round , down the road being chased by the police and the driver said to the passenger er here take this and he says what 's that for and he says it 's to steer the car , presses a button and the car splits
It 's an advert for Malcolm .
the car s the car split in two .
yeah .
A yellow car .
It 's an advert for that film called Malcolm
Is that what it was ?
about the
Yeah .
retarded lad that invented all these strange and he did bank robberies with a remote control car .
It was an advert , it wasn't
But I did see it on the T V ?
Oh you did .
Oh that 's fine .
Straight after er the advert for Del-boy when he says and you know what you can do with that .
Even talking about trailers now .
Trainers ?
Talking about te television trailers .
Oh , oh yeah .
Not just the programmes .
There was a programme on about trailers the other night as well .
Have you seen the , the advert for these trainers with no laces , you just tighten the thing up .
Puma Discus system .
They 're out on the twenty of March or something .
Mm .
I wonder how much they 're gonna be a pair ?
Dunno .
La laces are a thing of the past .
Watch this space or something .
Yeah .
Something like that .
I thought it was a built in egg timer or something .
Obviously another time saving device .
Yeah .
To save you what say thirty seconds ?
Oh at least .
Ah there 's no point getting cynical is there ?
Not at this time of the day , no .
Not on a Monday .
Rest of the week .
Exactly .
Where did he go ?
I thought you were going out ?
I I'm finishing early but I'm not go going out .
Watch you don't er swallow that the wrong way .
I didn't even have anything in me mouth .
Sharp intake of breath .
Excuse me ?
For their telephone number I 've just put a question mark and I 've put a note here to say I was internally transferred .
S sounds like I 've had an operation doesn't it ?
I'm being internally transferred .
Oh .
Someone pressed the I C M button .
Yeah .
Oh I told you didn't I that er the fellow with the Portakabins that does work for the B B C , he had the Portakabin and then your tables are two pound each , and your chairs range from fifty pence to one pound fifty .
I think the ones that are fifty pence are those blue and white striped ones off the prom at Prestatyn
job lot .
And er he didn't say how much the toilet was but that 'll probably be separate .
You know , it 's a separate thing so there must be a separate price , it would cost a bloody fortune .
And the visibility didn't seem very good out of them .
But the smallest one , the twelve foot ones , there 's only one window .
The door 's in the back end .
Erm so I presume that was the opposite end to where the tow bar would be
Mm .
and then just one window in it .
Maybe just down the length of one side .
Or even just at the end .
Yeah .
No I think it was down the side I think he said .
But I I think that 'll be too expensive anyway .
Mhm .
And that 's why Mr said he he 'd er
He 'd do it , yeah .
And we know where we are then with the toilet .
You know , you know what you 're getting don't you ?
Yeah .
How much ?
Yeah it 'd be erm Jim said there would be no problem because his men have to empty their own chemical loos anyway .
But the bowl coupling could be a problem .
He said but we 'll sort it out , don't worry love .
They 're all very nice people .
They have got an accent this 's got one but he sounds more Lancashire than anything .
And he 's nowhere near .
Perhaps he 's just moved there .
Mm .
I 'll have to er give her a ring to and tell them to send me the advert .
Tell them to buy .
Mhm .
When does it go out ?
I don't know .
Today .
Is it going in The Post ?
No .
didn't we tell you that ?
To have it in er Daily Post , The Post is the morning one The Echo 's the evening to have it in for one day in The Post and The Echo , how much ?
Dunno , about eighty quid .
Three hundred and ninety six pound sixty four pence .
So you said we 'll have it in all week ?
How big was the advert ?
Er about a hundred words in a box .
Two columns wide and erm eight centimetres down .
We reckoned that was about quarter of a page .
It 's a lot of money isn't it ?
But see the reason I have to send this to Liverpool for them to put it in
Mhm .
cos it has to go through our advertising agents .
Cos we advertise in a special format don't we ?
We have the dash lines round the box
Mm .
and we have the logo on the bottom and that .
So they 've had to do it so I mean she quoted me
thirty six quid for this thirty six eighty four or something for the local paper .
But erm you know it might be more but that 's
Mhm .
nothing to do with me .
But I mean like I didn't think it was worth putting it in The Post to start off with anyway .
But if we don't get a good response to this I might stick it in for the day in The Post .
Mhm .
Is the secretary at dealing with it or is she gonna forward it all on to you ?
No I 've put our address .
I said that I didn't like that idea to start off with
No well it
because although it 's only a small concern she 's gonna have her own stuff to do .
It 's not just that it 's the delay in it getting to you anyway .
Yeah and plus the fact I said to Mike it 's all very well saying send stuff there , she can open it she 'd be no wiser whether they sound any good or not .
Mm .
So I said no I said , well I 've put the phone number as well and I said it might as well , stuff might as well come straight here .
Mhm .
So I 'll give her a ring later in the week or something and I 'll see if they 'll send me the send me the
Mhm .
Policing do you the drop the E , or do you leave the E in ?
In .
Policing .
Erm I 'd have thought you dropped it .
What shall I say cos it 's it 's not a very
Sergeant said he would be happy to help with the policing Oh
If you drop the E it looks like policing doesn't it ?
put it in .
yeah , I think maybe you keep it in .
It 's not a very nice word is it ?
Well I'm just coming to ask you that
Staffing .
Yeah .
Double F .
Have you got the twenty five hundred plans ?
I haven't got any just at the moment .
Er Sergeant will be
Beg your pardon ?
Sergeant
Oh yes ?
erm very pleased to help us .
As soon as we 've got the layouts he 'd like to meet us and go out to site .
He seems very keen to help us do this .
Right what about the er recruiting and the police cover ?
He 's
So do we need to write
He said on the blower
I 've started it .
Yeah it 's about two hundred and twenty four pages .
Is that all ?
Yeah
Well he is .
He says he will do it himself .
And I said they will require cover for their breaks he fell down on that one , he doesn't think those two days .
He said oh yes , yes they could have a sandwich .
He seems very
Good .
Excellent .
Right .
Mm that doesn't
They 're in the same
any records of , we had this discussion I have er any rec any , every telephone call I make .
Right
But that 's because
Well that 's right .
I mean it 's a case , and then you end up saying yes and you don't need to record every telephone call
They 're in the same drawer as the memos .
They 're in the bottom
Well I mean she could
Yeah and the alternative you know Mi Mike 's made calls in the past .
That 's always been very important and that should be the letter so that should be on on the , on the
must be a good microphone stand surely ?
Brilliant
The purpose of the meeting is only to record conversations .
Right .
Let 's see where we 're going .
Okay , just to put you in the picture where
No it 's alright .
Go on .
Yes .
I 've had several telephone calls well I 've made them as well .
The advert has gone in .
I 've done all enquiries about putting the advert in for the temps .
Yes .
It went to Liverpool on Friday and they were gonna do their best to get it done and
Do we know when it goes in the er
I think I told Liverpool that if it gets to erm Caernarvon to the Caernarvon office by today it will appear in this week 's issue .
Do we know when that comes out ?
No , I could n't get that off her .
Off who ?
Well I asked the girl and the she , we sort of sidetracked and when I come off the phone I realized that she hadn't said .
I think it 's
What I'm thinking of is that
Thursday or something like that .
Presumably after that we w or on that date we 'll start to get phone calls ?
This is true .
And we need to be prepared
Yep .
because obviously er I mean if you 're in
Yeah .
they can be rung through to you but p erm will need to be warned that we may get a flood of phone calls
Yeah .
and what they 're about .
And also I think it might be as well to have a pro forma .
Probably you 've got one .
Yeah , well no we haven't so we could probably do with doing
Oh
that and then , you know like if I get inundated I can let Jim do some .
Well that 's right .
I mean really it , it 's erm er we , we have a form don't we we , we use when people are interviewed for something or other ?
Well if we put their name and address and phone number on it , I mean it 's probably just as well to use a standard thing that you can xerox .
Yeah .
Maybe Jim and I could
And when they ring up
do that this avo
Yeah .
When they ring up we can just say oh yes , what 's your ?
Now look this is meant to record
this , this , this is meant to record
life as it is lived , English as she is spoken .
You 're not meant to bite your tongue like that .
Right .
Yeah if we
You can swear in the privacy of your own home .
It was your company that I didn't want to swear in front of
not the tape actually
yes alright
No if we er do something so as they have a checklist and we can all , you know like me and Jim say , have a copy to say oh right , can we take your name and address , telephone number
And if you 've got a pad of them or or , or some by you you can just fill it in and let it go through .
Yeah that 'd be a good idea
Write the name and address and phone number down and then
Yeah .
it 's there .
Okay I 'll buy that .
Cos you you 'll almost certainly need to ring them back .
Yeah .
Even if it 's to say erm
Oh sorry !
sorry we 've got enough .
Yeah okay .
Erm and that also makes sure , if you 've got it all in front of you , erm that ensures that you 're getting all the information that you need rather than thinking oh hang on , what else do I need sort of thing .
Right , so that 's the temporary staff .
Yep .
So what we haven't made any progress on beyond , on that side of things is erm if we do the coding over in Caernarvon , where that will be .
Yeah .
Erm like I think we all sort of ruled out er
I don't think it 's big enough is it ?
Because of the size , no .
Er just out of interest I did ring the other day
Yeah right .
Er the the room , the smallest room they have is for twenty five to thirty people
Mm .
which I mean even that may be too big for what we want .
Erm in any case that is in use every week on a Monday and a Wednesday .
So already you 're only talking
There was a thing about exams .
wasn't it didn't you ring them up and they said we have exams on or something ?
No .
That must be something
Something goes on in that room on a Monday and a Wednesday .
Which room is that ?
That 's the , I 've got it in the file , a small conference room or something like that , or the committee room or something it 's called .
Cos there is a room called the navigation room .
No that wasn't an that wasn't an option .
There was this one for twenty five to thirty people and then there was another one for say forty or fifty and then it zoomed up to like a hundred .
And even if we were to use this
Oh I know now , yes .
small room , you could n't leave anything on the walls so it would all be a come down at night , back up in the morning
What erm er did you look in the file and see what they hired last time ?
Erm no .
Cos it may
I mean I 've probably seen it
Yeah .
but I can't remember .
Cos probably it will say what room it was .
Yeah it was this small , I
It may well have been ano
think it was this I thought it was the small
Oh it was that one was it ?
Well you 're talking now
Anyway
Do you want me to get it ?
Er have you got it on your desk ?
Yes .
Oh right
How many days are we talking about anyway ? coding data .
Couple of weeks I suppose .
Right .
No wait a minute , three sites you 're talking about a week and a half or something aren't we ?
Yeah .
Fortnight at the most .
Yeah .
Cos you 've got to allow for like they might not have done it before .
Erm but you 're talking fifty eight pound a day
Mm .
for that small room which I think 's a bit steep personally .
Let me take a look .
It 's er
It 's possible that you did get on the the
It crossed my mind .
There 's The Oak 's room .
can't
The Oak 's room up to a hundred and twenty .
Four pound per hour .
Sixteen pound a day .
And what are you saying it is now ?
Fifty eight pound a day .
That 's an awful lot more isn't it ?
Yeah .
There 's I mean so many of them have caught on .
Jan for example , when we had the the town hall thing , that was five pound a day .
Yeah .
It 's twenty five pound a day now .
I think they 've just all jumped on the bandwagon .
They don't provide anything really do they ?
Well no , that 's it .
So as soon as she said that it was in use Monday Wednesday I sort of
If we went to
subconsciously ruled it out .
village hall , church hall
Yeah ?
which is a church hall , they don't have a charge , you have to make a contribution .
Where 's this sorry ?
Well you , you need to , it 's pretty grotty , it 's a grim place
Mm .
but it 's er it 's the church the parish hall in .
Whether they 've got tables and stuff like that I'm not sure .
Mm .
If you ring Roger
Yeah
and ask him .
He did investigate having a public enquiry there last year .
And erm so he will have a phone number of the vicar and so on .
Mm okay .
Okay .
I mean in a w well I can't , did we , I wonder if we recharge this to the Welsh Office or not ?
We probably do .
Probably doesn't matter does it ?
No I would have thought
The other thing might be to ring up Borough Council cos they 've got offices in Caernarvon .
Suppose that that place they might , there might be a er a parish hall there or something
That pub would be alright wouldn't it ?
Yeah .
Okay , or
That would be twenty five pound a day as well , or fifty pound a day as well .
Anyway it 's a thought .
I mean if we have to
er obviously what you 're saying with it 's already in use and we can't have it ?
Yeah .
It 's not erm it 's no good just saying oh we can have three days out of the week anyway .
No .
You know , it 's got ta be Monday to Friday or none at all has n't it ?
Mm .
Well if it was four days it would be alright but
Mm .
anyway
Okay so they 're a few options to try as regards the coding
Alright and if we can't find anyway where we 'll have to out and come back here .
Yeah .
problem as well .
I think we , we should find somewhere .
Yeah .
Really .
Erm so that 's a few options as regards the coding .
Now
Right
The interviewing and the briefing session I think we 'll probably get away with in Debbie 's
Yeah we 're not going to , I mean we 're only going to we 're , we 're
Well it 's not a sort of formal interview
we 'll only be briefing the interview staff
That 's right .
and accounts staff .
Yeah .
So we 're only talking about half a dozen
Well I think it 's slightly more .
Well eight or ten or something isn't it ?
Yeah .
Thanks .
Thanks .
Yeah you 're talking about a dozen people , something like that aren't you ?
I mean for that er
Well if necessary we can bring them into here .
Yeah .
Half a dozen and half a dozen
Yeah .
That 's , I can't see that being a problem , that should be okay .
Have you briefed before ?
Yeah .
Well Mike comes out .
Mike shows his face doesn't he ?
Well he did for the Wigan one .
I did it for the erm Ormskirk one
Yeah .
That was okay wasn't it ?
We did that in two shifts didn't we ?
Two days .
Yeah .
Two mornings .
We had a hell of a lot of staff though didn't we ?
That was a , we did that in the conference room downstairs .
Mm .
Erm right .
What w w
And anyway
we now , we 've , we 've also got to progress on site layout and things haven't we ?
Yes .
And get in er the cones and signs .
Yeah I 've had er
we , we , you 've got we 've got to wait till tomorrow haven't we ?
That 's right , yeah .
Yeah .
Now as regards signs I 've spoke to numerous , oh school holidays I 've got erm
when the schools are off .
Right .
I spoke to the Education Department on Friday .
Erm as regards a caravan I spoke to this bloke Frank
No he 's gone bust .
Well he has n't gone bust but they don't hire them any more
Oh right .
but I did try him .
Er no Gwyllam at Gwyneth County Council
Gwyllam oh no I'm thinking of Peter .
erm he didn't think they had any bilingual signs and they didn't have they were n't using their Portakabins so they scrapped them all last year sold them off .
Mm .
But he did give me somebody to ring about caravans
Mm .
but then later on in the day he rung back and said he had found some bilingual signs but all he 's got were about four foot square er with census point ahead .
He has n't got things like stop census .
Stop if required or slow census point which is the ones we use .
It might be worth asking erm Mel
Yeah .
about that .
You see for a start we need to decide to we need it .
Do we need them
Bilingual ?
bilingual ?
They can't have been bilingual last time because they were hired from Staffordshire County Council .
No .
And the other thing er if they they just haven't got anything like that .
Yeah .
They use sort of blank
wasn't there a big fuss though because there wasn't enough effort made on the bilingual side the last survey we did ?
I don't think so was there ?
There 's a letter in the file
Well that 's
about erm why we didn't use bilingual staff for one of the particular dates .
Erm it come from the county surveyor , apparently he 'd had complaints .
But I mean it was purely a re a recruiting problem .
Er you know erm the letter , the reply went back from Dave saying that every you know , possible thing was done to get bilingual staff but at the end of the day you know they could n't come up with the goods .
I mean the lengths they went to advertising , I hope we 're gonna have more luck now .
They had temping agencies , job centres , local papers the job centre only came up with about two people .
So I'm touching wood that we 're gonna be in a different situation .
I wonder if , I wonder if erm you know if you rang up erm the county council and said you know I mean er y just make use of a contact and say look , we wanna do this survey , you know , do you happen to know a any members of your family
Yeah .
You know ?
It maybe
Yeah .
You can very often er for instance at Cheshire very often I mean there were sort of some people 's wives would like to do it .
Yeah .
It may be , you know ?
Yeah .
See how the response goes with this and then
Who is it you 've spoken to at Gwyneth ?
Er Gwyllam .
And where is he ?
Who , how did you get hold of him ?
Erm
You rang up , did you ring up Owen ?
Er no .
I spoke I just rung up erm it was Highways and Transportation and
Mm .
I asked to speak to somebody in the Highways in the Transportation
Mm .
This was at Bangor and then I got another number and then I got told that they now have the direct organisation
Right .
so then I rung this person here and spoke to a Steven
Mm .
who was the head from the civi civil engineering division .
Yeah .
Steven put me through to this Gwyllam
Right .
who is in the , the depot place .
Right .
And that 's how I got on to him .
Okay .
So we 've not spoken to anybody on the sort of like the traffic erm counting side of things there ?
No .
No .
Okay .
So this fella was , he come up , he found these signs and said , you know , didn't know if they would be , be any good .
Erm but he 'd given me this number , Glen about Portakabins .
Er he 's at .
And I rung this Glen er wherever that is erm and he does have these Portakabin things .
Er several measurements
Is that , that 's a hire company is it ?
Yeah , they 're like they 've got a big fleet of them .
Erm
Right .
But they 're Portakabins ?
Yeah , rather than caravans .
Yeah .
Now I don't think they sound very to suit our needs .
Well you have to furnish them as well don't you ?
Well that 's it .
And there 's all separate , two pound a table from fifty pence to one pound fifty for a chair .
There 's no toilet in them
And you probably have to hire them by the week do you ?
Er minimum of four weeks .
Yeah .
And how do you move them around ?
Well they would move them round this fella himself , but it 's gonna be a hell of a lot of money to get them to do that .
Mm that 's what I would have thought .
Plus there 's no toilet .
Exactly .
But he has a separate toilet .
Well that 's all gonna be extra as well .
Mm .
And erm
So how much you talking about ?
For a twelve foot one
Well you 're talking
twenty two pounds ?
Yeah .
So you 're talking about eighty eight quid ?
Yeah .
It would be cheaper to get David .
Yeah well I 've spoke to David .
He 's quite willing to take the caravan out there .
Erm and then you 've got the toilet on there .
You know what you 're getting because we 've had it before .
So then I got back on to Gwyllam and said that if we provided our own caravan , would you someone there be willing to do the from site to site and he said that wouldn't be a problem .
Right .
But he doesn't know any details .
Okay .
Er you know I mean just like we don't .
We don't know dates or anything yet do we ?
No .
So I think we 've developed in that direction that I can go ahead as soon as I 've got some dates and book it properly with Mr .
I think that 's probably the best .
And just let these do the transporting because this this fella honest to god he was doing me head in .
Erm saying oh one left , we 've got a contract with the B B C you know , isn't it .
Oh and if he said it once well he said it half a dozen times trying to impress me .
So let 's stick to Mr .
We know where we are with him .
Oh right , yes well I'm quite happy with that .
Right .
Er so the only other thing are the automatic counters then isn't it ?
Mm .
Yeah .
And we , we 've got to wait for erm Mel to be in tomorrow .
haven't we ?
Yeah .
And we 're obviously going to ask him to
He , he
to go ahead with it .
looks after , I , I'm not sure exactly what he does , but he does sort of look after the Welsh Office 's own traffic counting programme .
Mm .
They have a sort of programme of their own on er doing counts on roads .
I mean a and most of it 's done through the county councils .
So we 'll have certain sites that are counted and they have the , the equipment .
Er when we last did the work there in nineteen eighty nine he 'd , he 'd provided Gwyneth with three machines which they moved round and put on different places for us .
And I think they 're ones that have a cartridge in .
And the information 's recorded on the cartridge .
And they take the cartridge out and they send it down to Cardiff which is where Mel is
Yeah .
and he chucks it into , bungs it into his machine and then gets the printout then which he then sends to wherever .
Ah .
So what we , we need to go to him I think in the first instance and say we want to do X Y and Z , and if he , if he says fine you know .
But if he says I'm sorry , I haven't got the equipment we then have to go outside
Yeah .
obviously but I think you need clearly in the first instance to use that
And you 're saying to also mention to me if he 's got
Well I , it 's just a thought .
I mean if we 're gonna be speaking to him we may as well ask whether
Yeah .
just to say that we , you know , that we 'll , we , we 're going , we 're proposing to do some origin destination surveys interviewing , and we 'll need the signing to go with it that Gwyneth don't appear to have them and , and in consequence we 're proposing to hire them elsewhere .
Erm and erm you know , we know that last time it was done er the , the signs were not bilingual , the ones census point and so on
Yeah .
and that erm is he w er would , did he think that would be a problem .
Yeah .
Cos I think last time we hired them from Staffordshire and I 'd have thought if they 're going to buy some they will be very happy to hire us them .
Cos presumably , when you look at the layout most of the signs are keep left signs .
Yeah .
Or you get the you get ones that are sort of road narrows
Yeah .
and you get the , the warning ones .
Yeah .
And the warning ones have a little census plate on .
Erm so presumably you perhaps need to do something about that .
But the keep left ones they 're gonna have in stock aren't they ?
Yeah .
So the only ones you really need and , and the , and the road narrows and the warning ones , they 're all gonna be in stock .
Yeah .
So the only ones that probably need to get made are census stop if required etcetera .
So there 's only three of those .
Yeah slow census and whatever .
So presumably if , if Staffordshire have them made and we get those three whizzed up to Caernarvon you know , the rest can sort of fit into place .
Cos if you put survey instead of census at the bottom , I mean I know that 's not strictly speaking how it should be , but they must have signs for us to survey because they have their own , presumably they have their own surveyors go out and
Yeah .
Yeah like
you know and
you see yellow ones don't you ?
On the motorway and stuff
Yeah .
they have survey on .
But they very often , that triangular one with an exclamation mark , there 'll be a little
Yeah
plate on the bottom that says survey .
yeah .
Well maybe it 's not really right , but , but perhaps that I 'd have thought it would be alright .
Yeah .
Census , it 's probably the same in Welsh as well you know , don't you know ?
Yeah , I see what you mean .
We might be able to get round it .
I 'll see what this fella says .
Well I mean I was saying to this bloke well can you think of anywhere where we might be able to , oh no no no can't think of anywhere .
Well you could try Clwyd or something but can't think everybody you know .
Clwyd might well do some .
I wonder
Oh it might be worth giving Nige a ring .
He 's at Cheshire .
Oh yeah .
Who do we know at Clwyd ?
Davydd .
Who ?
Davydd .
Never heard of him .
He 's Brian 's brother is he ?
no .
Okay so let 's just go
He used to work for Liverpool City I think , and he was called Dave there .
Er right , just going back to the actual er roadside interview , is that one on the the B road , or is it the A ?
That 's the one .
Er I was only going to propose to use four staff on that .
Have a look at the , I think that 's what we 've done last time .
Yeah .
Okay .
Have a look at the erm we must have a count but yes , have you got that report ?
Of the
Or have you given it back to me ?
Well no just the oh , yes it might be on that but I the early report
the reports on the erm surveys which were done
Did you give it back ?
Yes I did .
Right .
Okay .
Okay so then
Well they give us an idea of what the flow was then anyway won't it ?
Yes .
And I think you 're right .
And the other thing
Oh
oh we 've put in a making the interview forms , just having the Welsh translation on the top .
I was explaining to Jim how we could do that and it looked pretty straightforward so or , or not .
It 's
Have we got the interview forms ?
That we used last time ?
Mm .
Yeah but they 're like four interviews on a sheet and really sort of
Yeah .
But I mean who
what , how w , what are w , have we got our current ones , our standard ones ?
Yeah .
Cos presumably it would be best to use those wouldn't it ?
Yeah .
I think you could , you could accommodate it if you just reduced that sli the , what the normal one slightly , and there 's t there 's room to put the er translation on the top .
I 'll do you a mock up of that and see what you
Yes , good idea .
what you think .
I think either that or have it on a separate sheet .
But I would have thought it 's best to put it on there if we can .
How many are we gonna want ?
Three thousand ?
Perhaps it 's worth having a separate print run for that isn't it ?
Yeah , might be .
It 's not I think if they use this offset thing , the masters last about five hundred so you 're not it 's not , it 's not a silly amount .
Yeah .
Would it take , oh wait a minute !
Three thousand interviews
What
say , would you think three thousand interviews ?
I'm just trying to think what we were averaging .
But I mean that one of them 's not gonna you 're not gonna get as many on that B road .
Will we will we want those ?
Oh I can't remember you know what we used for Ormskirk
It doesn't matter if we if we get too many cos you can always use
Well that 's it .
can't you ?
Yeah .
Mm .
If you see what I mean .
Yeah .
Well so you think actually send something through to reprographics for them to do in Liverpool ?
Well you don't want to be doing it on the machine down here do you ?
No .
And if you got three thousand interviews , say a thousand at , well y you probably wouldn't , you 'd probably get
Probably two of those boxes would do wouldn't it ?
you could get nearly four thousand interviews could n't you , altogether ?
Yeah .
At two on a page is two thousand sheets plus however many you 'd only get one on .
So I 'd have thought three thousand wasn't out of the way really .
And like you say if there 's some left they won't go to waste anyway .
No .
Oh on the other hand I suppose we could say well we 'll use , we 'll get some and if we run out we 'll use English ones .
If you do it that way , you know , by the time they get there they should know what the questions are should n't they ?
Yeah .
Excuse me , by the time you run a
Cos we hold the original to that .
To the interview
Well we 'll need some anyway .
Yeah .
We 've probably , I mean we , we hold the original on an A three so it might be worthwhile doing a copy of it .
Doctoring it
Oh I see yeah .
to insert the Welsh because John will have to send the original off for
Oh right .
Yes .
We 'll have a look
And then we can have the base copy of each then could n't we ?
Good .
I 'll , I 'll dig it out after .
Yeah , right .
Right , is there anything else ?
So , yeah there is .
Erm things like whether I'm using my car and stuff I suppose I need to speak to Mike about ?
I haven't done anything about that .
Right .
Erm
erm statutory undertakers ?
Bus companies
Yes we 'll need to write to all those and we 'll need to write we need to write to the police
Yeah .
on in two guises don't we ?
Partly because we 're doing a survey but partly to warn partly because of the emergency services aspect .
Yeah .
So we need to write to the police to er I suppose the thing to do is we write in a general way to the , the Chief Constable , North Wales police
Yeah .
which is I think in Colwyn Bay
Yeah it is .
and but when it comes to actually organising the police control of the survey sites , we , we speak to the erm traffic inspector at wherever it is .
I'm not sure
Right so who did you say in Colwyn Bay ?
What what
Just write to the Chief Constable .
I think we need to write three letters .
One to the police , one to the ambulance , one to the fire brigade just saying we 're proposing to do them .
Obviously that 'll have to be when we 've fixed the sites
Yeah .
and the dates are on .
Yeah we 'll do this
But that 's normal .
general letter to the police saying that we 're intending to do these surveys , just putting them in the picture and put a note in that erm once , you know , dates and whatever , you know , we 'll give you further details as and when we know
Well I wouldn't , I don't think I 'd worry about writing to them until we 've got the dates .
Oh okay .
Oh I suppose we 've got ta , oh well what did we do last time ?
I remember the problem was last time sending those little plans out , the Ormskirk you know ?
Give them the drawing number so we sent a transmittal note , course we never got a transmittal note back .
It 's best to avoid that .
Yeah .
Erm right well I think the thing to do is , on beyond that is to make sure we work through the checklist .
Okay ?
Erm Now layouts , site layouts .
Yeah maps and things .
So are you leaving the ball in my court on that ?
On what ?
On the statutory undertakers .
Cos I can probably get some information out of here .
I think i if you want er I mean you 're quite happy to draft a letter ?
Yeah .
I mean that 's a
I mean again
standard thing that goes to all of them
we need to write them , warn yeah , and we ask them to let us know what they 've got planned don't we ?
Yeah .
So you could send them a letter with a little diagram that
Yeah .
I wonder how good that is , yes I think that 's alright isn't it ?
Then they wouldn't they 'd understand what we , that meant wouldn't they ?
Yeah but that 's got specific things on .
True .
Yeah well all we did for Ormskirk was , it was just an O S map and we just drew a bloody great circle round it
and said this is the study area .
That 's probably the best thing isn't it ?
Yeah .
And blow up
an O S and just well within our sites and everything
But don't give it a drawing number .
No .
It 's just attached to the letter .
Yes .
Now you get your , you 've got your list of who you want to write to ?
Yeah .
If you check with erm Dennis because they 're doing all , you know , doing the contract documents , he could confirm all the , the current addresses .
Okay .
That alright ?
Yeah .
You 're sounding a bit weary .
No that 's alright
There 's no rush about this , I mean er you know , you 've got well
Well there is up to a point because you know how bad they are at responding .
Yes there is .
I mean er what I mean is it needs to be done this week sort of thing .
Yes .
Oh that 's okay I 'll get all them off .
I 'll do a , I 'll do a draft letter this afternoon , you can have a look at it , erm we 'll knock a plan up and her get the addresses and then that 's it 's easy then innit ?
Yeah .
I wonder if we do want to put it in
Oh sshh
You 've finished your mi meeting already Mike ?
Right , well let 's , okay .
Er , yes .
Sorry about that .
No it 's alright we 're only trying to work somewhere , somewhere quiet .
I suddenly thought that on the advert that 's gone in
Yeah there 's a chair here .
On the advert that 's gone in I did wonder whether to put please respond by such and such a date ?
don't worry about it .
You don't think it 's necessary ?
If they don't respond by the date , you know do it quickly
Yeah .
they 're not interested .
Okay .
That 's all we did for the statutory undertakers .
Dead simple .
Just drew them a whacking great circle round it and
Yeah , good .
Okay ?
So something similar
Excellent .
Something like that yes .
Yes .
Erm
So I 'll speak to Dennis for er addresses .
Is there a phone number in the ad or just an address ?
A phone number as well yeah .
Oh right .
I think most people ring .
You know cos it
wastes so much time .
Your name ?
Yeah .
But we 'll just have a word with Anna-Lee and if , I think you know , she 'll say what 's it concerning and if I'm not there well she can put them through to you .
Okay .
Erm so you say , are we saying that we 're gonna leave the police till we 've got some dates ?
And the
Well we know when we 're gonna do it don't we ?
Do we ?
Well we know it 's the last week in April or something
Yeah .
don't we ?
Well we wanna know whether we were gonna try and do them all in that week ?
Twenty seventh of April .
Monday Tuesday Thursday .
I think the plan that goes to to the police thank you needs to show the i interview sites on it .
You remember we had , on the Ormskirk one we did one that had a study area on it ?
Yeah .
But we also had one that showed the individual locations .
Yeah .
And I think that was the one that went to the police .
Right .
Er and the fire brigade and , and so on .
Yeah cos they 'll want to know .
Well that 's it .
Yeah .
And all you 're doing is warning them that they will , the things will be there and we 'll make sure that if a emergency vehicle comes along erm
But they will know your precise dates won't they ?
Well they 'll want to know precise dates .
I can't remember that we did actually .
No I don't know whether we do give them , even the precise dates .
It isn't really much use then is it , just giving them a rough ?
Well it 's only a warning .
Well we 'll have a look back in , I 'll have a look back in the file and see what we did last time .
Erm Do you wanna do that , have a look at what we 'd said in Ormskirk
Yeah .
on that side of things ?
Yeah .
I think I wrote to them if I remember rightly .
Well I didn't .
Erm now we need to do something about layout plans .
So we need to get some if we 're going to work on ordnance survey ones we 'll need to sort something on that .
Have to have a chat with Anyway you 're not in an immediate rush to do that are you ?
No .
The , the yeah .
What have you told only you haven't told Gwyllam anything have you ?
Cos you , what you 've told him is did you talk about chapter eight ?
No .
No .
I , I just said to him , when he said we 've got these census point ahead I said well we 've got certain restrictions , you know , we 've certain rules and regulations we 've got ta comply with I mean I didn't reel off any of this blah .
But I said oh , are you familiar with setting up roadside interviews and for this type of thing ?
Oh yes , we 've got such and such a fella out there that does nothing but that out all day long .
And yet they didn't have any signs so I think he 's talking through his hat .
But what he probably means is that they set up signs for
Yeah .
you know , roadworks and stuff .
Yeah .
Yeah .
So I mean I would have thought they 've got ta comply with the same
Yeah .
the same sort of things .
I think the thing is , actually , just thinking about it , there will be a Welsh version of this if there is one if you see what I mean ?
Yeah .
If there isn't one then we , we er er it er oh mind you I suppose there 's no hassle to them to put a Welsh thingy , anyway I 'll look at that .
Right , now the other thing is that what Jim 's doing which is that programme , how is that coming along ?
Yeah .
What I did was I got I went down to the print room and I got a piece of A one paper and I mean if you want to use Chris
Chris over in Chester office , see if , that one would , oh mind you there isn't a chair there is there ?
Mind you is Jonathan away ?
There 's this chair here .
Jonathan 's not here .
Is Jonathan away ?
Yes , two day a day and a half or something , two days ?
Right .
So , you know , there 's desks around anyway
Mm
that you could use
Okay .
and erm er that 's what I used if you want to borrow that you can .
Thanks .
And do it in pencil and just , and then we can rub it out
yes .
and change things and so on , yeah .
Well it 's easy to change isn't it ?
Because presumably Peter will need to incorporate that in an overall programme .
When we look at the highway side .
So it 's just the traffic side which I'm dealing with here ?
Yes .
Cos that 's all I'm dealing with .
Okay and perhaps erm perhaps you 'd also like to l would you like to look at this side of things as well ?
Incorporate that into it ?
No , the , the layout plans , do , do some layout plans .
Oh yeah sure .
Marty 's done them before you see haven't you ?
Yep .
So I'm , I'm just trying to look at the ones for and then we 'll go from there .
Okay , is that alright ?
Yeah .
Now , have I given either of you task schedules for this
No .
stuff ?
So I need to do that don't I ?
Er in fact I never gave telephone call it 's no good telling me to do something
Task schedules , ooh I 'll have to get the form .
Okay , so you want a task schedule for doing doing the traffic report ?
Mhm .
Mm yeah ?
Yeah .
And also for doing the programme .
Yeah ?
And you want a task schedule for organizing this , it 's a bit unspecific isn't it ?
Yeah .
Okay .
Erm how is that then ?
Er you happy to leave things as they are for the minute ?
Carry on on that basis ?
Yeah , the only other thing like when you were saying about site layouts , if there 's any maps that we need , and that 's including maps for coding , wall maps , you know , large scale .
Well obviously we 've got to progress into that .
We need to prepare some zone plans and gazetteers maybe .
Yeah .
Erm oh well I 'll er the other thing I was thinking of is that er we could be looking er towards beginning , you know even now , to doing a trips network and things like that .
There 's no real reason why you , say , should n't start to build up the data on that .
Yeah .
Erm y y you know you , you could do a diagram and presumably the person to speak to would be Billy or maybe Peter cos I think Peter did the bulk of the work .
Okay .
Beverley did a lot of the actual sort of dogsbody work , you know , the actual doing of it .
Erm so you need to build up a picture of what you 've got erm but there 's no real reason why we should n't be working on that now it seems to me .
Er in principle .
Yes beginning , you know , we , we know what we 're trying to do obviously we don't necessarily know every , every node in the network erm Cos obviously once you start doing that , or when we start doing tr the , the journey run things erm we 're going to need to know what we 're wanting .
So there 'll be two sides of it c er
Well there , there won't be any will there ?
Erm
Mm .
But anyway I mean it 's all part of the picture .
What I'm getting at is there 's no reason why we need , we should wait until after the surveys to start looking at trips .
Which is what happened on Ormskirk .
Mind you it was partly because we didn't get a programme .
But there 's no reason , and on as well .
Alright ?
Right , so me and Jim had a chat the other day just looking at the the roadside entries and the counts and I was sort of saying if we work on the basis that we want between ten and twelve people , twelve people maximum
Mm .
erm I think we 're be able to do all the counts with that number of people including the St David 's roundabout and
Mm .
but we do need to clarify exactly what you want on that .
Whether you want samples doing cos that 's gonna take more people , or whether you 're just doing ins and outs and stuff like that .
Well
And on the other roundabout for that matter .
Are you off ?
Yeah I 've got a seminar in Manchester .
Oh right .
How did it go ?
Fine .
Probably find that traffic percent
we 're just talking now this , this is , this is one we 're discussing .
Oh well just south of Caernarvon on the first section erm between Caernarvon and ?
Yes .
Yeah .
Gwyneth haven't really started on doing any of that work yet .
work .
And they need to do traffic .
And also they need to confirm the traffic erm turning 099 junction at er I can never pronounce it , beginning with an L .
Yeah .
And er maybe count , maybe do their traffic counts out of that as well .
So the guy that was in charge of those schemes with Gwyneth
Yeah .
was at the meeting or came into the meeting to explain about the schemes .
What 's his name ?
Erm
Peter will know .
Peter 's got his name down .
Cos that was one of the things we talked about
Vernon somebody or other I think his name was .
Vernon
need to contact them .
Yes , need to do that this week .
But they , this , these , well he 's got a copy now of the report and he 's gonna c comment back on what
Do Welsh Office want any more
bits
copies of that ?
So that 's fine , good .
erm and they should comment this week about what extra bits they think they could perhaps cover .
So maybe a few more turning counts the census
Mm .
Right .
And that wasn't where I well I haven't been
particularly looking for work from that particular
to know is they raised er the question about the er counts we 're doing for the Caernarvon link
Yes .
which is part of this study .
Yes .
They want us to divorce the staff time
Yeah .
and charge it against the Caernarvon job .
Right .
The Caernarvon link job ?
Yeah which is to our benefit cos we get
Mm .
What about the work for Gwyneth ?
If that 's extra
What do we charge that to ?
That is bypass .
They don't want us to charge it to extra to works ?
We could have a two point six seven multiplier
No .
Er er er as far as they 're concerned any extra work is just an enhancement of the rate to the bypass erm rate , point six two percent .
That was what pointed out .
He pointed out ?
Any
said we need approval for extra work
Yeah .
he said well it 's just , it 's time costs , it 's just an extension of the
Right .
Except for the Caernarvon bit .
Right .
Are they wanting a budget figure from us ?
We 're gonna have to put
What was Paul saying about the wedding then ?
Only said who he invited .
I said , I said have you invited Aunty Joan and them ?
He said oh I 've invited Aunty Joan but nobody else cos I didn't fancy any of the others .
And has he invited Joan to the day do and that ?
Yeah .
But he has n't invited any to the night .
I think I might have his conscience by saying that I don't mind .
Well for what they see I can understand him asking Joan and Graham erm maybe they 've got ta watch how much they 're
I know but an extra four people 's not gonna cost that much more is it ?
Shut up .
You little sod .
The cat ?
Yeah .
Oh I'm shattered .
Why I asked him is because he had a wedding invitation for Rob and Jen
Yeah .
Well to be honest I can understand why he 's not asking them .
You know they 'll make up with friends you know , what family they 're not asking won't they ?
Oh aye .
No it 's not as if you 're all close is it ?
No .
And I mean we haven't seen them since ours hardly have we ?
No
Watch this fool .
Ram him off the road .
Oh I had a really good day today .
I didn't go till about half ten ah no cos I had a few letters and stuff to write first and I thought right I 'll just take me time and , cos I wanted to I didn't wanna go faster than you know than I should , I should have done sort of thing cos I wanted to time it properly .
Erm it took me an hour and a quarter .
And it 's exactly sixty miles into the middle of Caernarvon .
So I
And that 's where the survey 's gonna be , right in the middle is it ?
Well no but that 's where I had to go .
See you can allow a few extra miles for getting
Oh .
to the others .
So you wanna allow yourself a an hour and half really don't you ?
Do you think , or not ?
Well I don't think so because that , I mean there won't be any traffic hardly
No .
when I'm going so I 'll just allow the same .
And then I should do it in an hour .
You know I 'll be leaving at about half five .
No , not b about quarter past five I 'll be leaving , five to quarter past .
That 's allowing a a good hour and a quarter .
But it 's not gonna take me longer at that time of the morning than it has done today at eleven o'clock or so is it ?
Coming home it took me a bit longer cos it was all that delay at the hill .
Oh aye that 's right I heard it on the radio .
Yeah oh it 's pathetic .
Oh no the rest of it , it 's not too bad , it 's not a bad journey , it 's quite pleasant really .
So I went straight to the county offices and saw the rooms you know where we 're going to
Yeah .
be doing the coding .
Dead smart .
I was really into that .
Can you put the stuff on the walls ?
Erm I'm not gonna put them on the walls .
They 've got you know like these big boards , free standing boards
Yeah .
they have .
Like a pin board thing ?
Yeah .
gonna have some of them there 's three I think and they 're really long ones .
Er so I'm gonna have them but she showed me the small room , what they call the small room , well that was huge well it will be perfect for what we want .
Really plush , you know all the carpets
Mm .
and everything ?
Erm and then she said oh and this is the other one and it was like all er it was bigger again obviously , and all the tables in a square
Like a conference type
Yeah but each seat ooh excuse me each seat had a microphone built into the desk .
Oh aye ?
But I thought that 'd be more of a hindrance than a help
Yeah .
for what we were doing so when I got back to the office I rung and I tempor well provisionally booked this , the smallest of the two which I think will be brill .
So
So what did she say about the money when you tried her for less money ?
Or didn't you actually say ?
Well that one you have to ring the head office in Bangor , I had to ring her when I got back .
They only er showed me the rooms , they do the bookings and I just said
And it 's actually in the like the council offices ?
Yeah .
They have all like them chambers there as well you know ?
But I just said that it was for the Welsh Office cos I thought if er they knew it was for a Authority you know ?
Yeah .
I said do you , do you think there 'd be any discount er with it being a block booking ?
And she didn't say no full stop , she said oh she said I'm not sure she said , I 'd have to enquire about that .
So I just thought she 's gonna yeah if it was out of the question she could have said oh no that 's it , there 's a flat rate so I
Yeah .
think she 's gonna ask
thing is with them Welshies they probably haven't tried to bloody they haven't got the sense .
No .
If somebody else was trying to book it , one of those Welshy types , they haven't got the sense to ask
No , I said well I said that I 'd appreciate it cos it 's worth a go and she said oh yes I agree with you there .
Which field 's Min in ?
Not any of these .
So that was good .
Ooh I can't stop yawning .
So then I thought oh I 'll go and find er the offices again , Church Street .
And we 'd gone a roundabout way the last time we were there and I thought oh I 'll give it a go , anyway I walked straight down this road , have a look oh yes , turn up here anyway I , I sort of got me bearings and I thought oh yes it 's just down here he 's in the field just down there .
Is he ?
Do you wanna go or not or go straight to your nan 's ?
Go straight to nan 's , call on the way back .
If it isn't too late .
Could n't see him .
Erm so I went straight to this place and there was a fella downstairs , his secretary was erm out on her lunch .
Anyway I said oh I said you 're not expecting me , said who I was and where I was from .
I said I called in to see either Michael or the secretary , Mirelda her name is .
Mm .
And er so he said alright .
I said I'm also gonna be che cheeky and see if I can use your toi he said oh yes he said , go and help yourself he said there 's a kettle down there , make yourself a drink , make yourself at home .
So anyway I thought I won't have a drink cos if this secretary wasn't there I didn't know how long she 'd be so er but I di I went upstairs to where we had the meeting with Mike the other week .
And erm Joe his partner was there so I had a really good chat to him .
What do you mean his partner like ?
Is it just like a little firm ?
And this Michael 's one of the partners in the firm ?
No there 's just them in the office .
Oh aye .
They 've merged with us now .
Erm so I had a chat to him .
He drew me a little plan of how to get to W H Smiths and that .
What the hell do you wanna go to Smiths for ?
Maps .
So I had a walk up the town and called in Tesco 's and got a bit of shopping .
Got some teabags .
Did you ?
Yeah .
Is it much of a place , Caernarvon ?
Not really .
They have a market there don't there ?
On a Saturday yeah .
So I went to Smiths , got this map
What and do a photocopy ?
But I don't think I 'll need it .
It 's just a one to twenty five thousand , a Pathfinder .
Cos I picked up the Chester to Wrexham one instead of the Snowdonia one .
Caernarvon 's on the Snowdonia map .
Ah .
An O S one to fifty thousand and that 's what I thought I 'd picked up this morning to take with me but when I looked it was Chester and Wrexham so it didn't do me much good .
So I thought oh well I 'll buy this other one and
Claim it back off the firm ?
Yes .
Three pound ninety something chicken butties and bag of crisps and that , it was nice .
Cos I 'd parked on the top of this multi-storey car park at the offices , is it called ?
Erm I parked on the top .
So it wasn't all dark and that
Mm .
cos I wanted to be looking at me plans .
And I ate me butty there on top .
In the pouring bloody rain and howling wind I expect .
It was , yeah it was horrible .
So then I just had a drive round all the sites .
Did you find them all alright ?
Yeah .
I know where I'm going now with er all of them .
You know and getting to them , I know how to get from one to the other without going , you know ?
All round the houses .
I 've got a good idea of where everywhere is .
So I was quite pleased .
Mm .
When I got back ooh you know I told you about that job ?
We 've put a bid in for Arrow Park .
Mm .
Rob thinks we 've got it .
Oh god .
Winning some bloody jobs aren't you .
What have they done , dropped their prices ?
Well Rob 's doing them isn't he ?
Oh they have had to drop their prices .
They 've had to go for the we did them a few sort of quotes on the survey side of this Arrow Park and er we 've got ta , you know , really stick to this tight budget because it 's the only way you can get them no matter what people are telling you erm about the recession being over , people still want things for nothing .
So this survey might have to be done at the beginning of April .
But it 's not a big one so
Well when 's these in Caernarvon , the end of April ?
Starting the twenty seventh of April .
It 's the weekend after 's wedding ?
Yeah .
So I shall be enjoying myself at the wedding
Mm .
ready for my hard slog .
Eh ?
You 'll be knackered .
I know .
Er yeah so we 'll have this thing at Arrow Park to do .
He 's hoping to do that .
We 'll looking into doing we need to know how many cars gone in , how many cars go out
Into the ?
of the hospital grounds .
But there 's residential sections as well .
And then see how long each vehicle stayed there .
There 's two entra entrances
You 'll have to er take the registration of every bloody car !
That 's what we are doing .
Jesus god !
It 's probably because they 're taking over the er accident and emergency department from Clatterbrick it 's shutting down and it 's all going to Arrow Park .
Well that 's not why we 're doing it .
Well it is .
That 's what 's happening , it was on the radio the other day .
This is just well I mean it maybe connected with that but we 're doing it because they want to increase the car parks .
So we 're looking to do it with tape recorders on the busiest entrance and you know and just say car D five one four R G M blah blah blah .
Get them all down and then the person on the quieter entrance can just write them down .
But you don't necessarily have to say the whole number .
You know you can just say D five one four .
Well that 's what you wanna , so much quicker wouldn't it , just say the Escort D five one four .
Yeah , you don't even have to say the the make .
And then erm they all get punched into the , Rob 's got a special computer programme thing , you punch them all in er and then it does a ma a matching thing .
And it come , at the end of the day it comes out with all the ones it 's matched , the duration it 's been there and er makes it a damned sight easier basically .
Should be quite good .
Then we 've got in June we 're supposed to be doing journey time surveys and traffic counts on the M sixty three .
I won't get off at this one , no ?
No .
I 'll get off at the
Erm now they 're talking of doing roadside interviews in both directions on the motorway on the slip roads .
Be a big job that will .
Yeah .
So I hope it comes off .
Loads of money , you 'll be minted .
Yeah .
It 's about time we got something , don't , you know for months we scratched round looking like we 're busy , now we 're meeting ourselves backwards , coming backwards .
Better that way though innit ?
Days go
Yep .
But I mean I'm already starting stopping later , unintentionally you know , just cos I wanna finish something .
Here I turn now do I ?
Yeah .
Well that this is the bloody supermarket .
Well where was the turning ?
I 've never
Course you do .
I don't .
Yes you do .
Er yeah I 've already got over thirty hours credit .
And you 're not supposed to have more than thirty even though Mike 's got about a hundred and three .
Mm .
How the hell he 's wangled it , honest to god !
Well he must be fiddling it cos he , he 's never bloody worked it .
No .
So erm and I , I can't just take a flexi-day because I'm already , I 've already got leave to use .
So I'm gonna see how I get on an if I keep doing it I'm just gonna get it as overtime .
What are you having ?
Fish and chips ?
Are you coming in ?
No , I don't wanna see Jean .
Oh she 's there .
There she is .
She 's doing the n
Are we late ?
Yep .
the chips .
Yeah .
Cooeee
Cooeee
She 's probably asleep .
Probably .
Sorry !
Could n't hear you .
Ooh
How are you ?
I could n't hear you shout .
I know , I could n't long time getting
Well I was allowing you time with your leg but we thought you 've got the telly on loud .
Oh aye I have really , yes
Have you ?
We 've been in chinky we 've brought our tea .
we 've brought our tea .
We 've been to the chippy , we haven't had any tea yet .
haven't you ?
So can we eat them here please ?
Yeah .
Right you take them in there the table .
Yeah we can do , saves stinking out in here .
You 'd better put something on it .
Yeah .
Oh there 's nothing to
I 'll not ask you in there with the table because there wasn't enough room .
The what ?
There 's a little table there , a little folding table there .
Yeah ?
Shall we take that ?
Put it here ?
Yeah .
?
Oh aye .
No I'm alright there .
Go on go and sit on
No I'm grand .
No you wanna rest your leg .
Ooh don't matter about resting me r about resting me leg .
I r used to .
That 's right .
We 've just been to see Jean there at the chippy .
Oh have you been ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
Is that alright there ?
Yeah .
Now then .
Where 's mine ?
Let 's get you organized .
Looks like a teddy bears ' picnic
Want plates ?
No we 'll have them out of the paper , we 'll save on washing up , thank you .
Go cut you some bread ?
I'm alright , I d I want a butty thank you .
Michael how , how many rounds do you want ?
Oh just one ta .
It 's er who erm wholemeal .
Aye , just one thanks .
Only one ?
Yep ...
So they 'd better be nice seeing as we 've been all the way
Just get me the marge out of there
to .
Yeah , there it is , Vitalite .
Vitalite .
Oh aye .
Super .
So how 's your leg ?
Ooh
Any easier ?
Ooh it comes and goes Martine , it 's nearly driving me daft to be honest .
Oh is it ?
Is it gone a bit easier ?
Has it gone a bit easier for you ?
What ?
What do you want ?
What do you want ?
Er just do you want one or two ?
One .
Please .
Two .
Just just one .
One .
Yeah .
I don't want one thank you .
You know where the salt and vinegar is don't you ?
Oh aye .
It 's already on them thanks .
There 's plenty on them , they 're alright .
Oh there in er in the cupboard there .
Is your nan okay ?
Do you want a few chips on a plate nan ?
No thanks I 've only
Are you sure ?
I 've only just got just had a big dinner love .
Have you ?
What have you had ?
I had a la lamb chop cabbage
Ooh .
roast potatoes rhubarb , stewed rhubarb , Ron 's stewed rhubarb .
Lovely .
And cream .
Nothing like looking after yourself .
Oh it was very nice and it 's his first rhubarb .
Mm .
Me mum
give your mum a cou just a couple of sticks .
Yeah she was only saying ours has started to come through
Yeah .
up at .
Oh they are nice
Mm .
Teddy bears ' picnic this nan .
What love ?
Teddy bears ' picnic .
Ooh .
don't bother with a plate for that .
Nan .
Just a minute love .
What did you say ?
I , he could have had that straight on the paper .
Alright ?
Thank you .
What did you say ?
I said there was no need to have got him a plate .
Spoiling him , he doesn't have a plate at home for his bread and butter .
Well y your dad likes a lot of a out of the paper , I dunno .
It ta tastes nicer out of a paper .
Oh they do .
If I , if I'm out yes , I li I like them in a pa in a , in a paper , you know , but er I 've got no cake to offer you , I can't some biscuits .
No , I 'll be alright after this .
No ta .
alright with this thanks .
No ?
We haven't had chips for ages have we ?
haven't you ?
No .
No .
Oh well if you haven't had chi or haven't done for a long time you enjoy them .
I er you do .
Nan you 'll love why don't you go back and watch your programme and have a sit down and we won't be two ticks eating these .
Your mum had a what did she have ?
Oh she 'd been up to Pearks
Mm ?
She bought a steak and kidney pie now then , no she didn't have chips steak and kidney pie and some er couple of iced buns , she bought me a , an ordinary pie .
Oh yeah ?
So I had that at dinner time .
Mm .
Oh me mum 's been here today ?
And she called she did ask the girl for er two er cream doughnuts
Yeah ?
and she , she 's a new girl , your mum said
Hmm
and she gave her iced buns .
Oh !
There was all sort of icing on and cream as well .
But I must admit they were very nice .
They were nice .
Little devils .
Oh .
Me mum 's been here today has she ?
Yeah , she come about half past twelve ?
Oh she said yesterday she might call .
Half past twelve .
Mm .
And she went from here about er well she said she was going at quarter past two .
I said it is quarter past two if you I'm not pushing you off but you 've got to be somewhere on time .
Yeah .
have a we had a bit of a chat
Good .
and er she went sort of thing .
Mhm .
So I always take my dinner in there .
Well aye , might as well have a bit of comfort .
And and then I come back in here , I always get my sweet and take that back again .
I watch Blockbusters
Oh yes , we had ab er well while you were in the shower .
and then I always stop and watch the news .
So I come er come in here after and er washed up
Mhm .
and I 'd just peeled an orange to be honest
I just fancied an orange , I thought oh
Here you are
And I 'd just that very minute sat down .
Why don't you go and sit down again and we 'll come in as soon as we 've finished these .
Oh aye .
So you can rest your leg .
Are you sure you don't want any biscuits only I haven't any ?
No we 're alright thanks .
thanks .
I'm fine .
I 'll be too full up
Not I am without cake but Irene brought me some small ones yesterday
Mhm .
and I 've only just finished our , our Christmas er bun loaf sort of thing , you know
Have you ?
Anyhow
No this is fine .
Right , I 'll go and finish my orange .
Okay , we won't be a minute .
Ooh you 're gonna have a cup of tea aren't you ?
Well are you having one ?
Are you having one anyway nan ?
Yes , there 's the water in the kettle and everything in .
Well o I 'll , if you put it to boil
Okay .
They 're nicer than our chips .
Do you want tea bags or loose tea ?
Anything .
Whatever 's easiest .
Do you want tea Martine or lemonade or ?
Erm I 'll have tea please , yeah .
We usually have a cuppa after don't we ?
Mhm .
Just saying nan
Pardon ?
I'm just saying these chips are nicer than the Bottley chips .
Are they ?
Oh aye , we 'll be coming here again .
Your dad always likes them from here .
Yeah .
Oh they 're your mum and dad now aren't they ?
Yeah .
Got nowhere local for chips .
Oh lovely , thank you .
Smashing .
You get a good One thirty , that 's not bad is it that ?
Now then I'm going to leave you to it .
Okay , we 'll be through in a minute .
I 'll just go and finish my orange .
You don't mind ?
No .
We 'll be through in a bit .
I think we pay more than that ?
Probably .
I think fish is over a pound , yeah .
Fish is normally about one twenty odd , oh aye .
So with the chips as well this is about one sixty .
The chips are fifty .
Mm .
Oh , think he 's charged .
Or does three sixty sound more like it ?
Erm three sixty that would be one eighty .
Mm .
Yeah maybe it was three sixty .
get pots of tea ?
Is your nan having any ?
She must be having one , put them straight in the cups .
They 're one cup things .
She must have made one .
How ?
didn't she ?
Yep .
Ooh come on .
Struggling a bit now .
Do you want any more chips ?
Aye .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
Seriously ?
Mm .
Do you want more ?
No .
Mm .
Oh I really enjoyed them
It was a good idea of mine I thought .
Have to take the door off the hinges to get your head out if it gets any bigger .
You 'll have to check them teas , one 's got a little bit less sugar than the other .
Well which one ?
I don't know .
Well you made them .
all mixed up now .
What are you like ?
Oh pardon me .
Let 's get past you with this chair .
It 's lovely not having any washing up .
I 'll wash me fork .
Nice cutlery that isn't it ?
Mm .
It 's old .
Right .
That wasn't , there 's nothing wrong with that .
God you 've gone mad with the sugar in yours .
Do you want it topped up ?
No .
Er ooh bit sweet innit ? square spoon .
You can't drink it with what ?
With a square spoon .
Of er sugars
Oh .
How do I do this without trapping me fingers ?
Ooh , god there 's some weight in there .
Put it all back as we found it eh ?
Best had .
Could you take my coat through please .
Yes .
It 's on the chair .
Go on .
Oh ?
Oh erm who is he ?
He was in that erm what was it called ?
Alan Bleasdale , you know that fella that did Boys from the Black Stuff
Oh aye ?
Erm he was in one of his plays .
Brookside .
Oh is it him ?
I thought it was the fella that had the nervous twitch .
Is it ?
Oh aye of course it is yeah .
What was it called ?
Erm ooh I can't remember what it 's called .
I don't know any
He 's been in a few things .
Oh is this the new
Robert Lindsey his name isn't it ?
Robert Lindsey .
Robert Lindsey Mike says his name is .
Mm .
Is this the new top me dad put on ?
Yes .
Eh it 's posh isn't it ?
Ooh I'm pleased with it , yeah .
This is the one is it that had like er wicker work ?
Aye well it was all
All fraying .
it was all I was ashamed of getting it out
Well it 's lovely that cos it 's like you can put your drinks on it as well and your cup of tea and that .
Well Mary , she 's got one
Yeah .
but it 's not such a nice stool as this , it has n't got the knobs on like that .
No .
And it 's a little bit higher .
And her brother-in-law had put a piece of wood on the top
Yeah .
for her and I knew it was only hardboard , well knowing your dad I knew he wouldn't put
Yeah .
hardboard on .
No .
So I did just ask him er just come to me right out of the blue when he was here one night .
And I thought well it 's going to be awkward to get a piece of wood for that I mean knowing your dad with wood I know Anyhow I said er it 's just the right height for me
Yeah .
for my for my leg .
So I said to er your mum one night oh I said can I have the stool back ?
I said I know it 's awkward getting a piece of wood so she said yeah , that 's about three weeks ago .
Anyhow er and when she was on the phone the other day I said to Irene oh er Muriel says I 'll bring it next time I come I 'll bring it .
Yeah .
So er anyhow when er she was on the phone Sunday night I said oh I said er ask Muriel would she bring that stool back when she comes .
So er I never expected to have it like that .
No .
I said tell her I can always put the the s bit of a square over it
Yeah .
to cover the holes in the bit like raffia it was wasn't it ?
Yeah .
Well he 's varnished it as well .
So it 's er what is it ? chipboa mi chi
What er plywood ?
Chip wood er no
Chipboard is it ?
Plywood that .
Plywood .
Is it plywood ?
Aye .
That 's it then .
So your mum got it from er Spectrum .
So your dad said well haven't I been soft ?
I 've never thought about it before .
Yeah .
it 's grand .
It 's given a new lease of life has n't it ?
So ooh I said I'm thrilled to bits with that .
It 's give it a new lease of life .
I bet you 've had it years haven't you ?
Pardon ?
You 've , have you had it years , the stool ?
Donkey 's years I bet .
Oh years .
It was a sister-in-law of mine that bought it .
Yeah .
Your granddad 's er sister .
Was it ?
And she was er always troubled with her nerves .
And she used to go back and to for treatment to
Yeah .
Denbigh .
And I used to look after her husband while he was , while she was away getting his dinner and things
Yeah ?
and er they used to ma er she made it there .
Did she ?
You know ?
They had these classes for er
Good god .
craft classes for them .
So she made it .
Ah !
And I mean like , to me it means a lot to me as well
Yeah .
sort of thing .
So and it has lasted all those years .
Mhm twenty , twenty five years old .
Good god .
A stool .
So it 's had a new lease of life with that has n't it ?
Yes !
So I said ooh I said I
Me and Nicola always used to love it .
she said oh look what 's the , what 's the matter with the stairs ?
Oh I said I'm thrilled to bits with that .
Mm right .
Aye .
Me and Nicola used to fight to get on that .
Pardon ?
Me and Nicola always used to love it when we
Yeah .
came her .
We used to fight to get on it .
Oh anyhow
Smashing .
That 's it .
And er telly 's been off .
The colour
Oh god !
I 've got it back two or three times and then I failed it in the end .
And aye your mum said today well I 'll , I 'll see if I can get it er can do anything with it
Yeah .
and she got it back straight away so that 's alright again now .
It 's only on I T V , the colour had gone .
Oh it 's annoying isn't it ?
Aye .
Ours keeps going
It 's annoying and yet it was better than a p
Well .
And I d I use I T V more than er
Yeah .
B B C one really .
So anyhow that 's it .
Ha !
You busy ?
Very busy in work .
I 've been out and about today , I 've been to Caernarfen today .
You have ?
Yeah , by myself .
Mm .
Cos we 've got , you know like we did in Ormskirk , these roadside interviews ?
We 've got some of those to do .
Erm and I'm all in charge of it .
So I 'll be expecting a big pay rise at the end of it .
Ooh lovely .
I 've got quite a bit of responsibility to do .
So that 's that .
Jan 's got er the sa Jan 's doing the same as me
Yeah ?
but she 's in L doing hers in Leek in Staffordshire .
So we 've both got it takes me an hour and a quarter to get to Caernarfen and it takes Jan about an hour and a half to get to Leek because they 're such bad roads .
Yeah , I was going to say bet it 's bad getting there .
It is , it 's not very nice at all .
But er so we 're very busy .
Which is better than ooh pardon me , than being bored .
Yeah .
So work 's alright .
Ooh very good .
Mike 's still in Ellesmere Port working .
doesn't know how long the work 's gonna stay there .
No ?
They seem to there doesn't seem to be much left to do but yet they 're still going there and everything .
But er that 's Steve 's ma you know it 's it 's Steve that sorts that out , his boss .
Oh very good .
Yes .
Aye .
Aah !
Mike put that light on , you can't read
I can see plenty that one thanks .
Oh .
I'm only flicking through it .
He 's only looking at the pictures , he can't read really Eh what did you think of the dancing concert ?
The what ?
That dancing concert what did you think ?
Well I should n't say this , I , I , I d I , I , I said it I haven't s really said it to Irene but I did say it to Con we went on the Friday didn't we ?
Now er it wasn't that night I said it , it was afterwards so I said what did you think about the concert then ?
Well you tell me what you thought .
Well I said I tell you what I thought I said it was a funny ending to begin with wasn't it ?
Yeah .
didn't like have a finale did it ?
Not really .
No not really , I mean it was sort of .
But we all sat there , we didn't know whether we ought to come out or not !
Anyhow I said well I should n't say this I know and I know times have altered , but I said it wasn't er I said I'm not saying it because Martine and Nicola were in it , but I said to me it wasn't the same as when they were in it .
Yeah .
I said I know it was all this modern dancing sort of thing and there were a lot of elderly people there on Friday night .
Yeah .
So well I didn't hear anyone say anything so I said well that 's what I thought about it and er I did tell no I haven't said anything to Susan .
I mean the dancing was alright and all the children , don't get me wrong
Yeah .
Just the things
And Mrs works very hard well
Yeah .
I'm bound to say that .
But er like I say it 's not like the old concerts .
No .
What did you think of it ?
Well I thought the sa I mean eve that last thing they did there the Starlight Express thing , I didn't have a clue what that was about .
I didn't
Erm and I didn't like the way erm she got a few of them 's , a few of the gir I know there 's only the two lads there , but how she was doing a lot of things with the girls dressed up as boys like that w er what was that song that me dad hates that they did ?
Erm What a Dame
Oh aye .
what a dame .
Me dad hates that song , well there was the two lads and two girls pretending to be sailors or whatever they were .
I don't like the way she keeps trying to do that .
No .
Erm oh I dunno , some of their things were a bit weird were n't they ?
Well we 're not all the same are we , but
I suppose she 's got a
well your mum said to me well I 'll tell you the same as I 've told Con but I said I'm not against the children or anything the children
No .
worked hard on their dancing , and they were lovely
Yeah .
and I like to see the little ones but er concert no .
Well she said I'm like you really she said
Yeah .
She said a and Irene said , Irene did say she wasn't very keen on this modern dancing .
Yeah .
And the other thing is of course that Mrs is d doing like she 's taking the , the modern musicals and things that have been , you know , down in London , like Cats and Starlight Express and things and she 's trying to imitate those , well there 's no way she could ever get it as good so she 's better off doing something completely different .
You know , something more traditional , you know like maybe doing a few things out of The Sound of Music .
Yeah .
Or , you know , that people ooh yes , that 's it , The Sound of Music .
I think that 'd go down bett or I mean even like when we did the pantomimes , you remember Cinderella we did ?
I mean it was brilliant really wasn't it ?
Yeah
For like such a amateur er company to do , but people loved it because they they understood everything that was going on .
There was dancing in it , there was singing in it .
Yeah .
Er I think she 's a bit too ambitious sometimes .
And we were right in the front row and that ruddy music she had !
Were you near the front ?
Ooh that but do you know she has the music too high
Too loud .
for th even when , when the children are singing
Yeah .
you can't , I know I don't hear very well , but it was too h too high for to hear them singing .
Yeah it drowning them out .
That 's what I thought when that little boy , I mean he was lovely singing that
Yeah .
on his own
That was her youngest , her lad .
That 's her youngest boy .
Ah he was lovely , bless him .
Yeah .
But er , like I said they 've they do work , she does work very hard with them and er but Mrs has n't got a way with her at all has she ?
Not really .
No .
No .
Never has , and she 'll never change now
No .
will she ?
No .
Oh we were having a laugh .
Remember when we did that space ship scene ?
Yeah .
And we had the guns
Yeah .
and we were saying about her mum , Mrs don't you knacker them B guns !
Do you remember her shouting at me and Nicola for
firing them ?
Yeah .
Cos we said them young kids that had the trumpets for that thing , I bet she had a go at them and all not to knacker them .
Ooh dear
Ooh dear me
But still I said to er Con well , oh well I said to Irene I did , I said it 's good for er .
Yeah .
They get a lot of money out of it don't they ?
They do .
They get all the door money .
Yeah .
And they get er the raffle
Yeah .
the money from the raffle as well .
Well I mean they don't have a great lot so a concert , did you see the dresses ?
They were , were n't hemmed or anything .
Well I said that 's understandable , she said well .
Well
And I said she never used to do the hem , the er hems when
No , no .
Nicola and Martine were in it .
But then again I said perhaps they 'll have to perhaps they 'll be thrown on one side some of them .
Yeah .
They 'll never be used again .
And to be honest I said it wasn't worth wasting a lot of time on them .
No .
Because it was only cheap er material
Well that 's it .
wasn't it ?
Yeah .
I must admit I did recognize a few outfits that me and Nicola used to wear .
Honestly .
Did you ?
Yeah .
These orange tops , we used to do a dance to Vandervalk .
You know that do do do doo do do doo do do doo doo doo do do .
I recogni I said mum that 's the ruddy Vandervalk costumes .
These orange ti we , we used to think they were lovely .
Yeah , yeah .
Erm recognized those and a couple of other things .
Erm and me mum was saying how Dyllis
Yeah .
remember with Helen and Susan ?
Erm when they were doing the dance thingies cos she was a dressmaker , Dyllis was , she used to say look at these !
She has n't even put seams on them .
And she used to do Helen and Susan 's , she used to sew all the edges up and everything .
Did she ?
Oh aye .
On every costume .
She wasn't letting her kids go out
Well the sleeves you can't notice well I said I noticed
Yeah , all fraying .
I said but , but I said I knew
Well that 's it .
that she didn't do any hems or anything .
When you 're making all that lot
No .
I don't suppose you 're bothered whether they 've got hems and neat edges on them .
And what was it said was it your mum said she 's not very well or something , Mrs 's mother .
And she 's had to have someone to help her to do , to
Yeah .
make the dresses this time .
Yeah she hadn't done them all this time .
I said you could pick out the ones Ma had done .
They were the ones with the tatty sleeves .
Ooh .
Ah dear me
We thoroughly enjoyed it , having said that .
Oh yes !
I was
Oh I enjoyed it , don't get me wrong .
Yeah .
It was
But er
a nice change as well .
but I suppose the likes of me , bit old fashioned aren't we ?
And there 'd be a lot more like me , those elderly people that were there .
Well that 's it .
You know they would rather see the old concerts .
Yeah .
Do you know what I mean ?
But I know
I , I do .
Mrs has got to work with the times has n't she ?
Well I suppose so .
Because that 's the thing like , although if she did something a bit more traditional , it 'd probably please the likes of us but when you think , the kids that are doing it , if she says oh we 're doing something out of Starlight Express it 'll be aah !
Oh !
You know , I mean that would appeal to them
Mm .
because they 'd think it was really important and
Yeah .
and they 'd probably rather wanna d rather do that that
Yeah .
than something , you know like a pantomime or something .
But er these
Yeah .
these met us Dad and Mike met us in the pub after .
Yeah ?
I , me and mum went in my car
Yeah ?
and then er dad and Mike come down in the Sierra and met us in the pub .
So we had a
Yeah .
The Red Lion did you go ?
Yeah .
So we had a we stopped in there , we were only gonna have one in there but it was alright in there , we had a nice table and that so we had a good natter
You were
Yeah .
So you didn't see anyone much that you knew ?
Erm Hayley 's mum come to see me .
Ooh
Oh
she said oh let me have your address !
Oh yeah
Our Hayley , our Hayley 's getting married .
your mum told me about her .
Yeah .
Our Hayley 's got a big lump has n't she !
Yes .
The size of her !
Yeah .
You know she used to be so petite , but god them damn legs on her !
Yeah .
Like er body builder .
Yeah .
Ooh I didn't like them when they were dressed as skeletons .
They what ?
When they were did that skeleton dance , Hayley and another one .
You know when they
Oh no .
they were dressed as skeletons , I didn't like that .
No .
Ooh they looked horrible .
I think , was it Con asking wh who were they ?
Think she was asking your mum who were they .
But er anyhow to me I enjoyed it when I knew some of the children .
Yeah .
I should n't say these things I s I know but
I thought Sally was good .
If you don't well you don't do you ?
Well that 's it .
Sally was very good .
Yeah I mean Sally was very good wasn't she ?
Yeah .
Mm .
And Robert wasn't too bad I don't think .
No , he was a bit bored really .
Yeah .
But er er Bren wanted to go to the pub
Well I don't , I , I expect Bren Eh ?
Bren was dying to go to the pub .
He I thought he might have sneaked out and come back again when I know he wouldn't leave Robert like , you know
No .
but er
When mum said that we were meeting Mike and er dad in the pub
he s it was only about eight o'clock or something and he said will they be there yet , will they be there if I go and have a pint with them ?
Me mum said no they 're not coming till ten o'clock .
And we won the bottle of wine , did mum tell you ?
What ?
We won the raffle .
Ooh yeah !
Aye .
Yes er Susan told me .
Susan
I was a bit annoyed , I wanted the cuddly toy but me mum wouldn't let me .
Ooh Oh well , was it .
I don't know .
Ooh .
Oh dear .
Well I didn't see a soul that I kn I mean I used to go and used to see people like
Yeah .
from Bradley and Annie and
Yeah .
Ooh I don't
Times change don't they ?
But we went for Sally really didn't we ?
Well that 's it .
didn't expect to see people like that though .
No .
There you are .
She 's very , she , she likes it so
Yeah , I think she was very good .
But er she doesn't go to do the tapping does she ?
Just d
No .
doesn't do this er doesn't like this person that does it instead of er Mrs .
Well no it 's Hayley that takes it
Yeah .
she doesn't like Hayley .
She 's nasty with them though isn't she ?
Yeah .
I can imagine her being a little bitch .
And Mrs didn't like Susan telling her
Oh .
that Sally wasn't going again cos she didn't like her .
Mm .
She just shrugged her shoulders .
Well Susan said I can't make her come if she doesn't want to come .
And y best to be honest , it 's no good saying you know making up something .
I mean she wasn't she wasn't making any l
No .
telling any lies and making excuses .
No .
She told her the plain truth .
But er she didn't like it .
No , I can imagine .
But it didn't , it has n't put Sally off er dancing sort of thing .
No .
You know .
Oh .
Well I can imagine this Hayley not being very good with the little ones .
Can you ?
Yeah .
I can imagine her being a bit er well not , not bossy like
I know when I used to come to your dancing classes isn't it ?
Yeah .
And I know that I mean they , they 've got to be corrected , I , I understand
Yeah .
all that
But it 's whether you 've got the right way isn't it ?
else , or else they 'd never do it properly would they ?
No .
Ah .
Anyhow that 's it , so
Well aye .
Yeah .
That 's it .
What was I gonna say ?
So you saw you 've seen Jackie 's photo in the
Oh that 's what I was gonna say then ah !
Yeah .
It was in that free paper
The Free Press ?
that I had , oh I should have kept that !
Anyhow I don't know what I did with it , but anyhow it was in the Friday 's Leader wasn't it ?
That 's it .
So I did say to your mum here you , you would see Jackie 's photo .
Yeah .
Yes she said , I did .
She 's doing very well isn't she ?
Oh and you 'd telling everybody up and down that Jackie 's had her theatre gr it 's this week she 's there isn't it ?
No , last week .
It was the last day last Friday .
Oh was it now ?
Yeah .
So she 'd be telling everybody I expect .
Do you see anything of her , Annie ?
No , we 're not , we 're not , I don't see anything of them do I ?
No .
So
But me mum noticed though erm cos I said eh have you seen the picture of Jackie in the paper ?
But we 've noticed the last few times it 's all Jacqueline now .
Oh !
Is it really ?
She do doesn't have Jackie any more , it 's Jacqueline , full name .
Must be Gwyneth 's influence on her that .
Ooh !
Aye .
Cos I had a
Perhaps she thinks it sounds n better .
Which it does really .
Well it does really , yeah .
Specially when it , her surname 's as common as .
Yeah .
Yeah .
But I know , fair play she 's doing very well isn't she ?
Yeah , yeah
I haven't seen Denise since new er before Christmas I saw Denise .
I had a Christmas card off her er but I haven't seen her .
I should make an effort but she 's
Well , well we don't , I haven't seen Annie since er Christmas just before Christmas .
Yeah .
And it was er beginning of December really .
It was a while before Christmas so
Yeah .
Anyhow , that 's it .
But there 's quite a few stopped going to the club with women not being well and their legs bad and
Ah
goodness knows what , so
It 's this damn winter .
Well the weather , the weather doe has n't helped .
Yeah .
Roll on summer .
And there were quite a few members had started coming from up the lane and some of the people .
Some of the what people ?
Some of what ?
Some people from up the lane which , you know there 's some and the women were alright , don't get me
Mm ?
wrong , but they didn't like to play cos all those from up the lane were coming to their club sort of thing .
What where 's she mean
The people
up the lane there ?
Wheatsheaf Lane .
Oh right .
But like what I saw of the women , they looked alright to me .
It never used to bother me
Why , are they some of them a bit
I mean they paid to go in and just the sa and the women looked alright .
Why , aren't they supposed to be very savoury ?
Pardon ?
aren't they supposed to be very nice , these women from up the lane ?
Well there 's sort of a lot of rough ones up the lane isn't there ?
Ooh .
Ooh it 's a terrible place up the lane .
Is it ?
Oh !
I used to hate it .
And we used to go visiting , my Auntie Irene lived there and And we used to go on a Saturday night , I used to ooh and I 've told her , I used to tell I wouldn't live that , live up that lane rent free .
I hated it .
Simply hated it .
And when we were going up to ooh .
No I never liked it .
But I still haven't taken to it .
But it 's got worse now , it 's terrible up there .
Has it ?
Lot of rough ones there now .
Mm .
You 're like Bradley snobs you lot down here .
Oh !
Well we are this end , but I mean they have a bit of trouble down down there by the club
Oh .
on a Saturday night after they 've been turned out , these young ones
Mm .
cause a bit of trouble down there but I must say we don't have it here now .
No , touch wood .
So anyhow
Touch wood .
That 's it .
Is er has what 's his name , the angry man been up to any antics lately ?
Has she been to see you ?
Yeah , she come yesterday er Monday .
Mhm .
Er no , he 's got a bad shoulder .
He 's , he 's a big baby he is .
And he 's been to the doctors , he goes to doctor
Yeah ?
not the other one .
Ah
the darkish
?
Doctor ?
No , not Not they goes to now .
It 's a darkish er funny name .
He doesn't go to , he doesn't go to that surgery now .
doesn't he ?
No .
haven't done for a long time .
I don't know .
I'm not very up to date .
You know he 's isn't he , has n't he got one of his own up in or something ?
?
Could have yeah .
I think he has .
Seem to think me mum 's said something like that .
That is not very nice .
No ?
So they have the darky which they like , the darky refused to come out to er Kevin 's children .
Did he ?
So Sandra changed straight away .
She said if he can't come out to the children And he has good as told her that he hadn't got much time for children , visiting children .
So she thought well it 's no use to going to him .
Well that 's not the attitude to have is it ?
So just up the lane she goes .
Think she goes to er there are four or five doctors at the clinic up the lane .
So she goes there .
Oh .
So what 's wrong with his shoulder ?
Oh he 's only pulled a ligament .
Oh .
Big babby .
So he 'd been to the doctors about few weeks ago and he 'd been repairing his shed , said there was water coming in and he went to he said oh you 've pulled a ligament or something he said , it 'll take weeks for it to clear up but anyhow he went back again about a fortnight ago .
Oh he said er I 'll send you to see a specialist .
So he 's waiting to go , so when I think that he 's had a an appointment , I might stand a chance of having one afterwards , I don't know .
Yeah .
But old he , he could n't care less .
Just er up the lane to the clinic
Aye
and I go about every eight weeks I think
but er
She could go as often as she wanted to the clinic , but they won't come out to her
No
and being that she 's not very good on her legs well , she has to have one to come out .
Well isn't there a clinic that she could go to ?
Well only by getting a lift to the clinic , yeah , that 's the only way she could get there
Yeah , well it 's a long way ?
No it 's only in Buckley
Oh
but with us in work all the time , time we get home from work the chiropodist 's gone
Yeah can't she get transport
Why which clinic is it the
can't she get transport besides like
well she can only get a taxi I suppose
Yeah
Well why can't sh
no buses or anything that goes
No there 's no buses run there
Well I wouldn't be able to get there only for Connie really
Mm
because it 's right up in
Well why can't Nora walk to it ?
Well you know what she 's like , she 's not very stylish on her legs is she ?
I know , but she walks as far as that
So it comes a bit expensive for her then doesn't it ?
Yeah
Mm oh dear
She has er , she 's got very wide feet as well Nora has
Has she ?
and er , she bought some well some new shoes ages ago , she has er about an F extra wide fitting really , er wide
Wide
er she bought these new leather shoes quite a while ago , but even they and they were the widest she could buy , but they needed stretching , so Joanne , Paul 's girlfriend , had got one of these shoe stretching things , you put it in and twist it and it goes up and up , well even that at it 's highest wouldn't , you know , at it 's furthest , well it was sticking out as far as it could go , even that wasn't filling it , so she stuck a spud down the end of it
She done a what ?
She wedged it in with a spud , with a potato
I know
and then did it and it 's worked so they 've , they 've stretched now
Oh that 's a good idea I er stuff mine with er newspaper
Yeah
but I know that doesn't do much good really
No well she had this special thing so it 's done the trick so she has n't worn it yet though , I think she 's doing it for the wedding ai n't she ?
Yeah
Oh she had new shoes
She 's gonna wear them
for the wedding ?
Yeah
Soon come round now won't it ?
Oh yeah
Yeah twenty fifth of April
Mm
Ah it 'll be your Paul 's birthday second , first of April
Mm
April fools ' day Paul 's birthday is
Yeah
ah , Paul 's birthday is on April fools ' day
so er we must remember to buy him a card and something
Mm , mm
get him a sweatshirt or something
Janice is a is it Friday or Saturday ?
Saturday , he 's forty on Saturday
Good god
She doesn't want a
no fuss and I said ooh , I said I forgot about her being forty , I bought the card a few weeks ago
Yeah
oh Irene said never
I bet it 's granddaughter that 's on it , I said yeah it is , so any
Well I , she might not want reminding that she 's forty
good god
No she doesn't want any fuss , Con 's made her a big cake I believe a very nice cake Eileen said
Mm , mm , is she busy with doing her cakes Con ?
Pardon ?
Is she busy doing cakes at the moment , Aunty Con ?
No she 's not doing many
No
I think she 's glad of the rest to be honest
Ah
she has got another one besides Janice 's , er , but I think it 's a birthday cake yeah it is a birthday cake
Yeah
er er Irene 's called this morning as they were going to
mm , mm
and she said Con had rung her up to say Kevin is going abroad , the other side of the world
I can't remember the name , there 's four of them going from Aerospace
Mm
and they 've had to have er , no end of injections , different injections
To do with work or ?
Yeah
Good god
I forget the country , I could n't remember Eileen was laughing , so she says I don't know how Kevin would be , I don't know whether it 's today , he 's gone she said , he 's had to have one up his bum
Good god , when does he go ?
I don't know when he goes , I haven't heard the story properly , cos I was upstairs and , er well Ron was half way upstairs and Eileen come on to the landing and I was in the bathroom , so I says I 'll come down , no she says you need n't bother cos we 're not staying we 've only just er come to see how you are
Gosh
so she just told me that so I 'll have all the news of Colin tomorrow they 've gone for a week
You don't know how long you think he 's going for ?
A week he 's going for
Oh , god it 's not long to , to have all those injections , it 's not long to go for
Well it 's very bad country of
ooh
of them having all these injections
Good god
They 're not just ordinary injections
No
so I don't know , I 'll have the news tomorrow
All will be revealed
Pardon ?
All will be revealed
I don't know how
I , I feel sorry for the children because they 'll miss Kevin won't they ?
Yeah
But er I think it 'll be a good break for Kevin but er I expect Sandra will miss him as well
Yeah
Oh any
Mind you a week won't be too bad it might do them good might n't it ?
Because he 's a kind of a foreman now you see so er
Oh
I suppose er he feels that he 's got to go I expect
Yeah
I don't feel he 's got to go , but , he 's lucky I suppose to be chosen to go
Well that 's it , it might lead to better things might n't it , I say it might do them good to be away from each other for a week any way , might n't it ?
Yeah , yeah , yeah
And the kids for that matter
Anyhow
very good how 's uncle Ron ?
er Irene was er , erm bath on a Tuesday and Ron usually goes , Ron doesn't stay in very long , Irene just goes for about half an hour so she said Ron isn't coming to the bath today , he 's got a bad throat , and I never thought to say , how is his throat this
Oh
morning , but it must 've been alright because er he was going off with David , I said you got tablets for him and she said yeah plenty of stuff for him , anyway , he seemed , he looked alright anyhow
Oh good
so
I think we 'll all be a lot better when the summer gets here
Yeah
I think this weather gets a lot of people down doesn't it ?
I know it has n't been bad can't complain can we ?
Oh I think we 've had a marvellous winter
But erm , even so I think that
we 've had the rain and the wind haven't we ?
That 's it yeah
But it 's been marvellous really , but they did have snow last weekend , did you have any in
last weekend ?
No
Well Brin was working somewhere on your dad 's lawn
Good god
just a shower , a snow shower
no
oh where he was working I don't know , it was Ron that was saying last Sunday when I was there
Yeah
so I don't know where it was , but er , he , he was working
Yeah
so , where are you working Mike ?
Ellesmere Port
Oh , is it
don't know how long for
got a lot of work there ?
Not much left there now , no
No
begging jester then
Oh and I didn't think it was so near your mum going , well I suppose I never
Yeah
think of looking at the date , I knew the dates twenty fourth to the twenty seventh , I never , I never thought to look , but er
No it 's
she said er just next week is it ?
what eighteenth to yeah eighteenth today
Yeah , next week
so it 's next Tuesday
Yeah , yeah , yeah
It 's gone quick ai n't it ?
We 're dog and house sitting
Yeah she said you were going , oh
Yeah , great
so she was telling me all about it and er , the times they were going , oh it 'll be nice for them
Yeah they don't go to
She 'll want to take some warm clothes
Ooh I 'll say
it might be colder there than it is here
Yeah , they don't go till six o'clock on the Tuesday night
Oh , ah
so we can take erm down to Mold wherever they 've
Yeah
wherever they go from
Yeah
erm and it , we 'll be staying up there
Is it Mold that er
I think so
I think they get , I think it 's Mold they go
er did she say whereabout ?
Evening Leader Office
Aye , by the Evening Leader Office
Oh
on , on the Wrexham road coming out of Mold , er pardon me , erm and then I 've got a couple of days holiday to use up still from work
Oh have you ?
so I might have a couple of days off and then I can be with Laddie and take him for walks and everything
Oh
save getting Teggy to do it
Yeah
and so
perhaps she 's
perhaps she 's
she doesn't know that , she said Teggy would be looking after er Laddie
Yeah , er
she said might and er Martine is coming to stay , well I thought you would do really , because er , I didn't think they 'd leave the house
No , we love going up there anyway , it 'll be like a holiday I say it 'll be like a holiday for us , we love going up there
Yeah
Great , get some nice fresh air in us lungs
Yeah , right
So it 'll soon be Easter as well won't it ?
Pardon ?
It 'll soon be Easter
Yeah it will
That 's er , April
Mm
and so we might
so she was thirteen , I , I have trodden on the mat that one of the round , the cruise of the Rhine
You 've done that , have you ?
Yeah
Ooh
and er I looked at the advert in the paper and they go to er , where they make those , wines and
Ooh , ooh that sounds alright
spirits on , spirit something , well I said where we went I said you 're doing something similar to what we did , we had brandy and it took us all through the cellars
You dammed alky
and gave us brandy , gave us brand oh oh that 's it
Mm , mm , yes is there anything you want on now or you want snooker and football on ?
There 's football on this side
Oh
Liverpool
Liverpool you want ?
Yeah
Oh
I put it on , er what was I gonna say then ?
What were we just talking about then ?
Oh I , when did you go to Germany then ?
Oh years ago
How many years ago ?
I think it was my first hol it was my first holiday abroad
Oh was it ?
I went with the W I
Good god
Yeah , we had a good holiday though
Er , who would be with you then Freda or something ?
The first time I 'd gone abroad
Who would of been with you then Freda or didn't you , were n't you ?
Er Freda , yeah
Yeah
Freda and Mrs who used to keep the fish shop and another person Joyce , she wasn't very big , we used to call her little Joyce
Oh we had , we had a good laugh really did , it was a good holiday
Yeah
but er
I wonder if you 'd seen much change in it if you went back now
Mm , well I 'd expect we would , but er
Mm
I didn't , we didn't think to take down all the different places we went to you know
No
and you can't remember them it 'd be our first er holiday abroad , but er
No
we really enjoyed it , it 's a laugh up the Rhine
Yeah , well it 'll be a nice change for mum and dad anyway won't it ?
Yeah it 'll be a nice change for them
Yeah , smashing
Oh
We went to Southport the other week did mum tell you we went ?
Oh yes your mum said
Er be fortnight ago
it 's coming true it 's coming
he 'll soon be two the little boy
August
God how time flies
You should see him , well , he 's so wiry , he 's into everything , how they cope with him , he 's not naughty as such but he 's such erm
You think he 's a bit highly strung ?
Erm yeah , do you Mike ?
What 's that ?
Think James is a bit highly strung
Yeah , well , he 's like any little kids I think
Mm
there 's no stopping them is there ?
Yeah he 's not he won't
Mind some are worse than others aren't they ?
Yeah
Mm
I think sometimes I can't help but think it 's how they made him in a way , you know , like I , you , sometimes your , I think you should sit down and play with something , but he won't sit quiet and amuse himself
No
he 's running up and down and thing , you know I I don't know maybe it is the way he is , but
Perhaps it is his nature you know
Yeah , but er , he 's a cracking little lad
Oh
er and they might be coming up to stop with us at some time over Easter
Oh
so er , cos me heart was in me mouth when they come up for Christmas , and that 's the last time they were up I thought me tree 's gonna go over , you know , I thought if he pulls at me tree or anything , but , he was , he was as good as gold for not , he wasn't trying to get me ornaments or anything , he was er , you know , just happy to play with his own toys , so he wasn't naughty .
Oh well , well they 've got to be taught haven't they ?
Well that 's it
Yeah
Yeah
No
I tell you what 's nice to see them again
Oh
she 's , she 's only just had her money through , remember when we met them in Tenerife
Yeah
she not long had that bad car accident
Ooh has she ?
at Claire 's , yeah , er , she 'd been a passenger and somebody had come into them and oh she was in a hell of a state , all , lucky to be alive really , she nearly lost erm , her arm and everything , lost , nearly lost the use of her arm , she 's had a lot of facial surgery stuff and that and all her teeth had been knocked out and oh she was in hospital for months and months
Good lord
and that 's why if you remember she was pregnant when we met her
Yeah
but she had a miscarriage when she went home
Yes she lost the baby
and they thought , they said then it was connected with the accident , erm because it , you know , she was in such a bad way , and , the other fellow was to blame , I think he 'd been drinking , I'm not sure , but they 're claiming off the insurance and they reckon she 's gonna be entitled to around a hundred thousand pounds compensation , because , not only has she had these physical injuries , but because she had a knock on the head it 's also affecting her mental state
Oh dear
erm sort of , at fir , you know , at first I thought sometimes you know oh , you know what 's the matter with you like but , she admits herself , her I Q , you know how they judge your intelligence has gone right down , she has to have tests every now and again , er she can't concentrate on things , or , you know some things she just can't do any more , so she 's at , supposed to be getting all this compensation and it 's been going on now , it was two years ago , three years ago that we met them and she 's only just had the first part of her money , she 's had five thousand pounds , that 's all she can get for the time being all the rest is , cos all solicitors and everything and doctors having to come and check things , so she knows , she knows she 'll get money eventually , but er , it 's just when , but isn't it an awful thing ?
Ah
Well Valerie was , she was the same were n't she ?
That 's right , yeah she 'll be going through all the same thing trying to get money
Ooh , oh no
Terrible is she out of hospital now and that ?
and , and Valerie and now they 've bought the daughter a car , she 's been a naughty girl really , they 've given her everything haven't they ?
Mm
Then she got engaged , but er Valerie thought that would settle her down
Yeah
which was wrong , Valerie was over the moon really that she got engaged to this fellow , but he was much older than er Michelle and I , and er he didn't want to settle down
No
so the engagement was broken off and then after that she sort of she went to live in a flat , she left home and went to live in a flat and she 's been up and down
Mm
in Rochet , now she 's up in Pentrybrogan , and that 's when the accident happened
Oh
she was taken out of work one morning and now they 've bought her another car and I don't where it 's happened but somebody 's gone into the back of her
Oh god
all the car 's bashed in
Michelle hadn't heard the story properly
No
but Valerie 's she 's , she 's going on alright but er , she can't move those fingers
No
she can move them but she 's got no use in them , so they said it 'll take a long time
Mm
and they might never come back again
Terrible isn't it ?
which will be a big blow to er Valerie , because she run Family Fashions
that 's right , yeah
you know all the books and things , and she did a lot of sewing didn't she ?
Mm
But er I did go with Con when I went for a perm she said oh would you like to , would you like to go and see Valerie
Yeah
I have
and er we just went for about ten minutes , but she 's alright in herself
Yeah , it 's a shame innit ?
Yeah , there we are
I don't know
and er they said well they , they 'll have no trouble with er compensation
No
but it was Shell that ran into her
Was it ?
It wasn't the man 's fault really of Shell , it was another car really that caused the
Mm
trouble sort of thing , but er I don't know whether they bought it thinking they 'll have all this money or what but er
No
I don't think they 're short of money to be honest cos Valerie has a good job
I know it 's nice to have the compensation , but when you think of what you 're missing
Oh the money isn't everything is it ?
That 's it it 's nothing at the end of the day
It will only buy so much , it won't buy everything money won't .
What if you lose the use of your hand it won't buy that back
Well that 's it
will it ?
and she 's had a plate put in there
Yeah
she did show me that and then she 's got it like straps on it where she can take it off but er oh she
It goes through you doesn't it ?
Mm , it does , it 's true
I don't know
and then the trouble soon be off , won't she ?
Yeah
Alice came and erm , in the night to Con and they go to er America
How is
They 're in camp for a holiday
Are they ?
Jane and her husband
Oh that 's nice
and er Jane 's er in-laws
Oh , big happy families
She 's a bit nervous
oh
She said Monday night I , er I don't know whether we 've done the right thing by booking this holiday she said , I'm thinking about the travelling in the air , it 'll be in travelling for eleven hours so she said I don't know how I 'll be , I said it 's no use looking at it like that Alice now
No
if you 've booked it , I said you ought to look forward to it but er , I suppose it 's just come over her
Yeah
so , that 's it
Oh I can imagine it being a bit strained off and on with er two lots of parents or do they know each other well and everything ?
She gets on alright with er Phil 's mother and father
Yeah
I don't know if they 've been on holiday with them
Well I was , there 's nothing to say they 've got to all stick together they can all do their own thing can't they ?
Oh they 'll stick together I should imagine , but er , there you are
Mm
so Ooh look at the people there
Yeah and the lad from work 's a scouser he 's said it , I'm going home now to watch the football , I think he 's going there actually , I think he could be there , Rob you know him
Mm
bloody rubbish it is
The what ?
yeah , so she said
Well she brought a pie and she brought some er punch round
Oh
and er , she said can I warm it ?
And she warmed that and she had er this er steak and
kidney pie and er , I said what 's Spike having ?
He 's having he was having punch
I 've got
what a nice mac she said
Yeah , she said the other , er yesterday , er I don't know what it 's like she has n't told me yet , oh er me mum 's bought one , oh aye , me mum 's is very nice I 've seen that , I know me dad 's had one as well .
Yes he 's had one as well
Yeah , er yeah me mum 's is nice like a mustardy colour
Yeah
long , very nice , very posh , erm I don't know what me dad 's is like , er me mum was laughing er yesterday erm with er doing all this work she 'd done a load of washing and pegged it all out and when she 'd got in from work dad had ironed it all
Oh
I 've , I 've never ever known him to iron anything ever since I 've been you know , little , I 've never seen him iron anything but me mum was in fits because he 'd even ironed the socks so she said she didn't have the heart to tell him that she doesn't usually bother with the ruddy socks , but er the thought was there wasn't it ?
Very nice , oh yes
Good god
Oh
ironing socks
good lord that is
he 'll
the latest innit ?
Well I tell you what like , I never bother ironing socks , but
I do iron me pants but I only just show them the iron
well I just , well that 's it
show them the iron and
flip them over , but there 's er Sally and Russell that live across the road from us , er when Russell her husband lived at home , his mum always used to iron his socks and his boxer shorts and everything , now he won't wear them unless she 's ironed them he won't
Oh
she 's tried just shoving them , and he won't , haven't , he won't wear them
Mm , no point in ironing socks
I said I 'd wrap them round his damn neck
no point in ironing socks
I might try and iron as little as they possible can
Oh
but like say I'm alright like cos Mike doesn't have a shirt for work or anything like some people , with , with , they 've got an office job , he 'd have to have five clean shirts for the week wouldn't he ?
Quite
And all ironed and , I'm glad I don't have to do that , he has his old jumper on and a T-shirt smashing
Yeah
saves me the job anyway
Yeah
Ooh I can't stop yawning I 've been going into work a bit earlier lately
You have ?
Yeah , I'm usually in for about quarter to eight , half seven , quarter to eight
Finish earlier ?
Erm yeah , can finish at four o'clock then
Oh very good
so er next week I'm going to start going swimming straight from work as part of my keep fit
Very good
Well I
Adrian looks forward to going er , she just does half an hour
Aye , she goes up to
Up in Summerhill
does she ?
Yeah
every Tuesday
Well I , I think it 's nice , supposed to be a very good way to relax and everything
Yeah
isn't it ?
Yeah , well she said she , she feels it does her , her legs good
Yeah
so
Oh I'm gonna start going , I haven't been swimming for that long and I 've been saying off and on oh I must go , I must go , but when it 's so cold outside you don't feel like coming out with all wet hair and all that
Oh but I
said once I said and I , when she 's been going and it 's been cold out there I said to her cos she always comes on a Tuesday dinner time
Yeah
when I'm just gonna have my
she only has a biscuit , sometimes she 'll bring scones or cake or , if she 'd been baking
Well , yeah
and er , I say oh , and they allow you to go in this cold weather
Mm
but she said it 's lovely and warm when they get there
Ooh I bet
she said , lovely and warm
Yeah
You had your Poll Tax forms ?
Renewals
No
No
No , ooh we 've had ours on the
What , how much is yours ?
I haven't had them back yet
Oh ours is , Mike knows somebody , one of the lads , their mum works in the Poll Tax Office in Buckley and erm , she reckons that , that ours will be going up about fifty pound is it ?
Yeah
How much ?
She reckons ours will go up about fifty quid
It 's awful really when you think there 's such a lot of people got away with it all
Well this is it we 've said like , there 's so much that everybody 's got to pay for non-payers isn't there ?
Yeah
Erm , I don't think we should pay it
I don't think so either
certainly don't , but the thing is that
I should say just pay your own and that 's enough
yeah , the thing is , the people that are paying it , we 're paying more than we 've ever paid before and we 're getting less back
Yes
like for a kick off , he went down to the skip last Saturday , the tip , we had , er he was clearing out the back yard , he took some rubble and boxes and things down there , and he was talking to the fellow there they said oh , he said er they were shutting this skip , er they 're moving it down the road and you 'll have to pay , you 'll have to pay to tip your rubbish
Ooh
and they 'll charge more for works vans , didn't he say ?
Yeah
If it 's a works van tipping rubbish , they 'll charge them more , but you 'll have to pay , I don't know whether they 'll do it by the load or by the bin bag or , what , you 'll have to pay to dump your rubbish .
Well that 's a bit of a devil
And we 're paying Poll Tax , I said all that 'll happen erm , and this poor fellow 's out of a job as well
Ooh
honest to god it makes your blood boil
and these and these rents have gone up I expect Nora 's flat has gone up
Yeah it has
Four , four , four pound forty seven that 's only just on the rent
Mm
and then it 'll be all the rates , I know I can get a bit of rebate , but er , I don't do bad really after having some rebate , but
No
Robert 's is gone up over five pounds , theirs is a different kind of a house you see a parlour type
Why what 's
it 's a parlour type
why what 's the difference ?
Well she 's got two rooms downstairs , which she 'd rather have one of these really , one big one
What of the same sort , sort of size as yours or are theirs bigger ?
Well theirs is , but it 's bigger because they 've got the two rooms , like one big room split in half you see
Yeah
whereas a lot of people just put an archway like Colin
Ah
but er , they take a lot of heating
Yeah
by doing that sort of thing
Yeah
so he 's going mad really , but , how much it 'll be in the end I don't know , so
Oh god , yeah I can hardly remember this before it was all done out
Fully re-modernized
Yeah I can't
You can't
Not really
you can't remember the kitchenette and the bathroom downstairs , little grate in the other place ?
No
Mm
er did the grate use to be like where the fridge is ?
Yeah
Oh , the
on that wall in there
Yeah and the little kitchen I remember
Yeah
it 's where your sink is now , but it was like smaller wasn't it ?
yeah
Shut off
Yeah , but er I had my bath put upstairs in the spare room
Oh that 's right
so that we made that little place what was the bathroom into a little cookery place , I put , we put the cooker in there , then we had our bath , had our bath put upstairs you see
Well what
and the washer used to have
what used to be the bathroom the little pantry , did that use to be the bathroom ?
Yeah , across from the pantry
Er ?
used to be along , another , another little room there
Oh I can't remember that you know
can't you ?
No
And then in the , where the bath used to be , in this little bathroom I had the cooker and the washer that 's it , I made it into a little kitchen so
Yeah
that we had that like a little sitting room , I just had a settee in there and a couple of chairs , it was lovely and cosy in there
Yeah
we never used to come in this room you know , nobody would come in this room
Was this always just a big room though ?
Pardon ?
This was always just one room
Oh this was always the same
You used to have the dining table over there
Yeah
at one time didn't you ?
and then I got rid of that , that dining table didn't I ?
So there
Ah me memory 's not bad
No , everybody used to clock for that little kitchen
Yeah
it was lovely and cosy in there
Mm
Yeah
How long ago would it be now that you had it all done ?
Pardon ?
Cos I remember erm what I do remember is when you were having it done , stopping in the caravan with you
good god
And you used to have your toast
Oh , all it was lovely , yeah
made by the gas fire
Oh it was lovely that was and remember that programme that used to be on , erm Within These Walls about the prison , the women in prison ?
That 's it , yeah
Oh and you used to let us stop up and watch him , it must of been on at about nine o'clock or something
Yeah , yeah
oh I used to love it
you used to sleep the night , didn't you ?
Yeah , we stopped a few times you know in the
Yeah , yeah
caravan because I remember it
Oh I was quite happy there
How long ago was that then , how old would I of been then , when you had all these alterations done ?
I would be about
Seven , seven , about seventeen or eighteen
sixteen
years ago
Yeah seventeen years ago , good god
Might be more than that Martine and Mrs she had the next caravan to , to me
Mm , I can see them now the outside , they were like made , made to look like wood were n't they the caravans ?
Mm
But it was like
er , it was good there , used to like that
Oh aye , it would be more than that because you 're the twenty second of February
Er twenty five
Twenty five
Oh no , am I twenty six ?
Twenty five
Twenty five until December
Fine so you were not very old when you used to come
no , maybe I was only about five , maybe it was twenty years ago
Yeah , tis a long time ago I know
Good god , no wonder I can't remember much about this then
No it is it
I remember coming for tea and er the table was where it is now I don't know whether it was
It was right , it was under the window
Yeah
it was a drop leaf table
Yeah , and you remember me and Nicola used to have our special bowls , I used to have erm , Little Bo Peep and she had Mary , Mary quite Contrary well
Yeah
I can remember , we used to have like mints in a bowl , lovely mints didn't we and erm potat , and we used to have the mints just in the bowl and I remember boiled potatoes , you remember erm , you know like , when we , when we were coming like and I can see everything now and I can see me little bowl and everything
but , that must of been , was that when the fire was still there then that was with the
Yeah oh the fire still be there
Cos , erm , you know , say we picked dad up from work and we used to come here straight from work didn't we for tea ?
You used to come once a week for dinner
Wednesdays
Mm
was it ?
Was it , did he ?
on a Wednesday
Yeah
Yeah
used to be lovely , I remember all that
ha and I used to mince the meat myself
Yeah you
and there was one week that Pat came , because I used to get the meat off of the van by the gate then , and I don't know what it was this week , but I bought the meat ready minced and when I come to give it to you , I knew there 'd be complaints , I don't know what we were having
but you always used to have this mince and you wouldn't eat the mince
because it was the bought mince meat
How could I tell ?
and it was a thing I never buy a , I never bought any afterwards
How could I tell
never did buy mince meat I never liked , I never fancy
but you wouldn't eat it anyhow .
What was the difference , did it look different ?
Oh , there 's always a lot of fat and stuff in it
Aye
but I used to put it through the mincer didn't I ?
Yeah , cut all the fat off first
I used to make rissoles that was it , for us and put onions with it
Yeah
and you and Nicola would not eat the onions
Ah
so I used to keep the mince what I 'd done , separate for you and Nicola
that 's it , I remember
before I made rissoles I did it
Yeah
or perhaps I make a rissole sometimes , but not put any onion
Yeah
in , mm , and sometimes I 'd give it to you just loose sort of thing
Oh it used to be lovely
Oh
Those were the days
Yeah , been back a while have you ?
God it is as well
Yeah , how is Judith ?
Alright , she 'll be expecting she reckons she 's due on the twenty third of March , but the hospital say it 's , it 's the twenty ninth , so it 'll be next week , I 'll have to give a ring , we went to see her the other week , to see how she was , erm we went round er one night , I rung her up to see if she 'd be in , I said right we 'll be round for an hour
Did she , did she get married again ?
Yeah
I thought she did
she 'll of been married
just
twelve months in June pardon me so er , we think she 's having a boy .
Mike had a dream the other night that she had a , a little boy , but er , the funny thing was it 'd only just been born but it could talk
It was what ?
It had only just been born but it could talk properly and everything
So I said well coming from Judith it wouldn't surprise me if it could bloody talk
Good lord
but er , I think she 'll have a boy as well
Think so
Yeah , I dunno why
why ?
I dunno , just think she will
Cos if you 're thinking the way they carry the baby it 's an old woman 's tale I think , I never used to think
I can never remember which way round is
and if you were having a boy they used to say you would carry the baby all round sort of thing
Yeah
if you were having a girl it was mostly in the front , but er that wasn't true really
No
but that was an old woman 's tale really , that 's going back a few years ago
Ah
no I ju , I dunno why I just think she 'll have a lad
What does she want boy or a girl ?
Not bothered , as long as it 's healthy she 's not bothered
Oh well , bless
It 's the best way to be innit ?
It is the best yeah
No good saying , trying to pick and choose cos you get what you 're given in the end
Do you
As long as it 's healthy that 's all that matters innit ?
Mm , so long as everything 's alright , that 's the main thing .
That 's it
Yeah
Well Amanda 'll be
especially as children are today , born today
Well that 's it
Terrible isn't it ?
Yeah
Never used to be like this , I don't know why it is now
No , but Amanda will be in her element won't she ?
She will , will she ?
Oh she 'll be like a little old woman , she 's , well she 's nine , I think she 's going on thirty nine , to listen to her
She 's old is she ?
She 's lovely , she 's grown out of that mardy
Has she ?
braty type
She 's growing up a bit ?
Yeah , er well if they 're not too careful she 'll of grown up before they realize it , oh she goes on at you oh , like an old woman , she knows everything , she knows more than Judith about what 's going on
Good lord
Oh she 's , but she 's gone nice , I must admit , cos I always did like her , even though like they use to say she was spoilt and that , well , you can't help it
No
I mean the way she 's been brought up and that with Kingsley and the mum , course she 's gonna be spoilt
Mm
but , I think this 'll do her good to have a little sister or a little brother
Yeah , oh she 'll enjoy it , I expect
Oh god , I think she 'll be a good help for Judith
Yeah , yeah , how many horses has she got now ?
Er , she 's only got the one of her own Judith has , erm but she 's quite busy there with other people 's
Is she ?
Yeah , got quite a few on , she was full actually when we went to see her
Mm , men alright ?
Er
Went to see them the other week
Yeah , went to give her a lesson
Ah
he was looking very well
Oh very good
so er yeah I'm glad they 're doing alright with him now
Yeah
cos the eldest daughter had gone off it a bit
Had she ?
Yeah , she 'd got a boyfriend and , with her school work as well , like she 's doing her A levels now and she just got a little bit , you know , because it is a big you know you 've got to be dedicated haven't you ?
It 's no good going one day and not bothering
How old is she ?
Seventeen
Oh
like , you know what I was like , all through school and me A levels I was still going down every day and everything
Yeah
erm , and I thought aye up , is she gonna go off completely , so her mum was worried about her and the mum said oh I don't
Pardon , oh
the mum said oh
put the light on Mike
I think she 's going off it a bit so I said oh well I 'll come and have a chat and I said listen , I said , I realize you you 've got a lot of school work and that and you 've got your boyfriend , I said , but there is now way that you 're gonna let him stand in the field , getting fat and getting old you 've got
He 's got to have exercise
yeah I said if you 've lost interest in him then all you have to do is tell me , I said there 'll be plenty of other people
Would like
you know plenty of other little girls that would want to look after him , and I said it 's no good relying on Vicky because she , the little sister , she 's nine , she was too young to do things by herself , you know , I said there 's no way you can let , leave it all to Vicky , so that if you don't want him any more you must tell me and I said there 'll be no hard feelings but that 's it , cos he comes first at the end of the day , so she said oh I , oh I have been naughty have you been ?
Yeah
He 's been to the toilet already
Good god lad , so erm , she said oh I know I 've been naughty and I have , not neglecting him in a naut , you know , they 've been making sure he 's been alright
Yeah I know
but just riding him , well that 's what he needs , so I said well you just see as you think on just keep exercising him , so erm , after that she 's been alright and the little sister 's getting really good with him
Ah
erm , because she 's , she 's quite big for her age , but like Louise she 's quite tall now , she 's nearly too tall for him even though there 's nothing of her she must only be about seven stone , erm , but this little Vicky she 's oh thinking she 's really good now and she 's improved so much and getting confident as well , and the dad takes in , he puts the bridle on him , he takes the dog in one hand and Min in the other he goes for walks for miles with the , with the horse and the dog Dave does
he loves it , goes for miles with them
Good lord
Or , like he , if the little girl 's riding him , he always goes with her then as well , but even if the girl 's not on him , he takes him for a walk like a big dog so I mean , they 're lovely people , you could n't wish to have him with nicer people , erm , you know they are , they really are nice
Oh well
so er , it 'll be nice for them in the summer , especially for the little sister , now she 's getting more confident in the summer like they can go to all the shows and that
Yeah
so er , they 're really pleased
Oh very good
so mm Win and Caroline are moving once again , has me mum told you that saga ?
Your mum did tell me a few weeks ago
Oh I lose patience with them
that er , that the house is still up for sale
Mm
Oh
I lose patience , on the market now
must be terrible to be
Yeah
because they must be up to their eyes in debt
Well , I don't know really whether they are or not , I mean he must earn damn good money , erm not so much off his that
Yes but he spends a lot doesn't he Martine ?
Well that 's it , erm , like she , I don't think she makes a fortune , she only makes enough probably for food and that , he doesn't make that much off his dad because his dad 's a stingy thing , but he does the taxing as well and he does foreigners , but erm , you know , like they 've got their bills to pay and everything , they don't economize on anything , they have massive gas bills and
And they 've just had a new car haven't they ?
Yeah , so they 're paying that off , er I think , I think they 're mad , I really do they only , they only pay a hundred and odd pound a month for this mortgage they 've got at the moment because they bought it , it was only sixteen thousand , well it was cheap it was before the boom
Where are they going ?
She 's seen somewhere in the
The other week I got a
Steven was doing the front lawn
said they went in just to see how she was
Yeah
and she 'd got a table in front of her and she was sitting on the settee and the table in front of her and this new jigsaw , over a hundred pieces in it and there she was lady
lady muck from turd hall
Breakfast pots were there
Oh
and er they , they had a bit of
and all the pots were there
Yeah
for Steven would come in and he 'd have to wash all up
Well more fool him if he does that
and , and her sitting down either doing this jigsaw or watching films would you
He 's doolally for putting up with it isn't he ?
Oh dear , dear
Right I'm gonna go to the toilet and rinse these for you
Yes , okay , well it 's been lovely seeing you innit ?
Aye it 's been nice coming up
Oh so you 'll be off for Easter Mike will you ?
Only , we work the Good Friday but we have the Tuesday off
Oh
so we 'll have the Bank Holiday Monday off and the Tuesday
Oh , well that 's not too bad then
It 's late this year though Easter isn't it ?
Yeah , mm , soon be here won't it ?
It will
It will oh
I think we 're all ready for bed , we 're all yawning
Pardon ?
We 're all yawning I think we 're all ready for bed
Does Nora go for a holiday ?
No
No she never bothered
No
Oh
She used to years ago but she doesn't bother any more
No
now
No , oh I don't think I could do the travelling now that I used to do , but er
No
you have to sit with your memories now , don't you ?
Oh aye
I don't mind , I don't mind so long as I just get out a bit on , into town and
Well this is it
do a bit of shopping so yeah , I haven't been doing that this last few weeks but , any
Well if the weather breaks a bit now , get a bit of sun , be able to get out a bit , with a bit of luck
anyhow me new tablets are
he had to go to hospital , he 's got arthritis in his legs from
Aye
all these drugs he 's been having , so they gave him some er tablets and er , he said on Sunday he was in such pain , so he said try these , he has given me some before , but er , you 're supposed to take two and I was only taking one
Aye
and they didn't do anything for me , so anyhow I 've started taking two , they have helped a bit
Oh good
anyhow , but I found out now that they 're on prescription so , he said this morning you can have some more tablet , no I said I can get them off the old quack
Oh aye
so anyhow , oh dear
Oh dear , right let 's make a move I tell
That blinking election is getting on your nerves
Oh I 've had enough of it and it has n't even
and we 've got
a month yet
started yet has it ?
Ooh
Getting on me nervous
like a lot of little children
Yeah load of rubbish , that 's what I think .
Listen why don't you let us pull the door to nan
Mhm
save getting up to see us out , oh I suppose you have to put the catch on do you ?
No , I don't put the catch on
We 'll have to get you one of those exercise bikes , that 'll get you going
Exercise bike
been lovely seeing you , anyway
Been lovely seeing you too .
Yeah
We won't leave it so long the next time
Anyhow I 'll see you on Sunday
Yeah
I'm supposed to be at your mum 's for the weekend
Do you want your stick now ?
Pardon ?
Do you want me to get you your stick ?
Yes please
It 'll be easier .
Yes you 're up on Sunday , yeah
Yeah
okay
Yeah
Is there anything you want fetching from upstairs or anything before we go ?
No , no love thank you very much
You only have to go to bed , when you go up there
Can you manage that door Mike , it 's awfully awkward
Yeah , I think I might
You know what I should be using
Oh nan
I haven't had any taken off , but er I mean it 'll go alright now
Well
Yeah
that 's it
but it 's been the old nut crackers
Yeah anyway
anyhow
love you lots
Yeah
you take care , I hope your leg
anyhow I 'll go by the window , I 'll go by the window
don't stand in the cold
save standing in the cold
I 'll give this to
ta ta then , see you at the weekend
Yeah
Okay , bye nan
ta ta
Bye
ta ta oh , at least it has n't come to rain again pull Oh my light has n't come on
You did something to the catch before didn't you ?
Oh
That 's it ?
Is it ?
Yeah
Oh twenty minutes ago when Max said he was gonna take ten minutes
it is up and running
insults on that
Can we have the
Okay , if you want to see a sample of
Morning Richard
Good morning Mart
I , I know as you can see I think it 's very useful each item
do what ?
to actually put a line in
ha ha
Okay
ya
so if you can get it to do that and er
Just a
we also have the coding based on the coding
on the one we 've already got and won't do anything about that it 's not
together you and Jan between you , you and Marty between you could do that
how powerful is that microphone ?
It can hear you
Really , from that distance , I see
The problem is fitting all this in with everything else
Well er
I don't think
well that is a problem we all have to suffer Jan , erm and this shipment , this really should n't have to be more than ten or fifteen minutes work with you and Marty
No perhaps not
but , but passing it on to , to Darren to do the er
perhaps not , but added to everything else , plus you want the archiving doing , the A three drawer doing , I don't know when on earth I'm going to have time to do that
You can't
I mean I was in eight and a half hours yesterday , eight hours a day before
Which archiving is that ?
You asked me to do the Wigan archiving
but it didn't get finished
No
Yes er
I can't
yes I figure that
I can't claim any overtime or anything for
erm , well , any overtime for
but I'm working all these
But you 've not asked about overtime
No , well I'm asking
I mean I was
Like anybody else you can claim overtime
Yeah
whether it was
or whatever job
Billy how many hours shall I put down for
yesterday , does three sound reasonable ?
What do I have to have someone to collect the hours before I can claim it ?
Mm
Does three hours sound reasonable ?
How do I fill the form out ?
Mm
If you want to claim overtime , you talk to me
You know I don't mind coming on a Sunday and doing all this erm archiving stuff
Is it a big job ?
Well , cos there 's a fair amount to do the A three drawer 's gonna take a long time
When you say the A three drawer
Yeah , the drawer in , the new cabinet we 've got with it it 's got Wigan reports plus drawings in it
Oh you mean that little cabinet we 've got there
Yeah
Yeah
That little cabinet that is crammed full of stuff
I think
sling everything out in here
Why are you gonna have a word with that overtime as well ?
If it 's necessary can I have
yeah
If it 's necessary
I'm , I 'll encourage you to do it
Mm , mm
you know , if it 's got to be done , it 's got to be done , I won't worry about it , please ev , all I 'll say is , is , is can we please try and arrange it in advance , I 'd rather
Oh yeah
you know
signing that you do it in advance rather than just
oh yeah
but don't worrying about that job you 're doing , because it doesn't matter whether it 's a fix fee job or
or whatever , overtime doesn't
do the job anyway
Oh
oh the hours you do get charged to the job ,
normal hours
Mm , mm
which you 're gonna have to do anyway
Yeah
er , so , so over overtime is an overhead really
Yeah
which we 're going to have to sustain , but we can sustain
that 's fair enough
At the moment we 're
fair comment
okay , so er
Well he was hopeless yesterday , even had a kick of the ball , when he did he
He was a waste of space
Who ?
It went just straight in
The Tottenham game was really good wasn't it ?
You let them down
Yeah
you , you were meant to come on and score two goals and
Yeah
You got the score
they had the chances they tried
oh he did
he did , he put one
two chances in the first twenty minutes
Had er , I was gonna say wasn't in the game , I just thought he was kind of harden
No , every time he got the ball he 'd kick it away
Let 's face it , let 's face it Liverpool are not an international class team , if they can't
if they can not
they are not an international playing team
Hey , switch that bloody thing off
Go on have your say Rob
I hope you 're not selling this the
I think you have , I think you have to bear in mind the er circumstances
What 's your address
they , they were going up
to score
Of course they were and they failed , and they failed to penetrate the defence
Yeah
until the second half , in the second half they got
they got a bit closer than Dewsbury though
I 've got to , I 've got to admit the second half they were lucky our goalie produced four brilliant saves in about three minutes
He was very lucky , as well , it just happened so many times he
but the point is
the point is Liverpool spent er ninety minutes over in Italy and forty five minutes in Anfield to penetrate their defence , it wasn't until the second half last night that they got anywhere near through , through , through the solid block of the defence
No , no I don't agree with that
Yeah , but if there hadn't , there hadn't of given that goal away and they were pushing forward
That 's right
and they hadn't given that goal away , they 'd of scored another in that half
Liverpool
mm
Yeah , but on a different day four of those could of gone in .
they , they should of done , but they didn't , the point is they should n't of left it the last minute , they should of done it in the first place
I tell you what they 're under pressure from a hard manager
I , I , I don't and I , I I 've never liked
I think
I think there 's a lot of hope and promise
Well I 've still got two accounts in er June
They had more shots at the target last night than anybody
the second and the fourth
He , he had about half a dozen shots and there wasn't one of them that
could of put by
You got , oh you 've got a couple of days
Yeah
Aye , but there wasn't one of them that went in by
either
Aye he should n't , he should n't of been shooting , I thought
I think there were cases when he should of put it forward to Saunders , even though Saunders was playing poorly
Every time , er every time the
broke down , the er
It 's academic now because they 've lost and they 're out of Europe
and I'm not convinced , I am not convinced that they , that they are anywhere near the standard they used to be when they were last in Europe a few seasons ago
Yeah , well Mike it comes down to experience if they had five years of
European experience
Yeah , yeah
Not quite as long as
Jan shall we get that
I thought we 'd finished them
No , not quite
Like one of those er dead squirrels on the end of the
Yeah really bushy
Have you played ?
One the match that you 've played
Yeah
and there was one at Southampton
I 'll have to get this on tape just to prove that
I beg your pardon
I see a friend of yours
Did you ?
know erm Trevor in the pub ?
yeah
He had his leg whooped off did you know about that ?
Pardon ?
He had his leg whooped off
Oh no
his leg , so erm , he 's been moved to Royal hospital , I went to see him yesterday and he didn't stop talking about you , bless him
Ah I didn't know that , what 's up with him ?
Well he supposed to give up smoking , it had caused clotting in one of his legs and then it just whipped over to the other one , he 's had to have it cut off
Oh god
but erm , he 's got a false one and it sounds dreadful doesn't it ?
Well er
He 's walking round and , well he 's not walking round , he 's on crutches but he seems to
quite nicely
So how do you know him then ?
Oh just from the pub , same as you
Oh right
so erm
Morning
Hi Mike , so he says that I 've got to say hello to you , alright
Ah , bless him , what 's his surname ?
How did you ?
I knew Steven , I knew Steven more than anything
Why who 's Steven ?
bloke
Which one 's that ?
The big tall one
The one that wears the trilby ?
Yeah
Yeah , oh right
So , er he put me onto it , oh he said you 've got to go down , he 's missing you all , he 's , and he 'd love a bit of
yeah , he was asking about you and
Ah , I only said to Chris the other day , I thought god I haven't seen Trevor for ages , I honestly did and I , I didn't think you know , anything wrong with him .
So he said to say hello to you
Ah , bless him , I should go and see him should n't I ?
Well he 's in for another two weeks
Okay , cheers Nicky
Pleasure
You put that on at the right time
didn't I , ah , did you hear that Jan ?
What ?
You know Trevor from the pub
Trevor ?
You know Trevor
Oh
Yeah , he 's lost , had his leg amputated he 's in the cottage hospital in Mold
You go and see him ?
I should do really got a clot in one of his legs as it means and went down the other one and got ta take it out , through smoking
what having me leg cut off
where 's that ?
Talking of which , have you
What 's up with you chuck ?
Nowt
Are you a busy boy ?
I want
I know what you can do , some of the written ones
Mm ?
You can do some of Richard 's that I'm supposed to
Pardon ?
I 've got , I 've got to go and have a word with Rob about something .
You never liked to do the jobs I say because they 're always pooey jobs
What , what is it ?
Calculating a percentage of heavy goods and
no , I might try and get that done
that 's a pooey job
Ah ?
Well the sheets are all there , as soon as I'm a bit , got me Caernarfon done and that
I could do that , I could do , give us a job
Not today , not really
well whatever it is supposed to be
no it isn't , you haven't got no intention of shaving it off
What , what I'm gonna do is erm
Oh you don't want to have a Robin Hood do you ?
just shave that bit there and
no , oh no ,
no , please don't
Or just shave me tache off
Oh
I hate beards like that , I dislike that
No not to a point
I know , but sort of none there and just all sort of down there , like sort of Brian
That 's no good
sticking out of his head
oh
what 's happening ?
When it 's , when the , when everything 's done and that , there 's a few things that
What 's happening ?
they 'll have all green , or blue and then you 'll find that , but it might just pass over
You know I just thought of something really stupid
What 've you got to do then to that thingy then sheet Jan ?
Er got to work through it , new
and get down to
mm when do you want to go through it then ?
If I could just erm get this done
Okay
but erm
What ?
There 's not a
Yeah I know what you wanna say , but
that yours are observation
Yeah
for you to take in , you know for you to look at , you 've put before we
for you to
Scrutinize
mm , more , for you to sort of
consider
That 's the one
That 's the one he has his uses doesn't he ?
He has his uses but he 's not very good at brewing up
Oh that 's very kind of you to
don't mind if I do , don't mind if I do , fancy a brew
For you to consider
We don't really need these now do we ?
Cos we 've done
Good god is that the time ?
Yeah
doesn't time fly when you 're having fun
At least I 've done the N T Ts , that 's about all I can say , oh no , it 's been quite productive has n't it ?
Oh yeah
don't you think ?
Aye ya , feel
none of it towards a survey like , productive towards a survey
Jan can I leave this with you ?
What is it ?
It 's what I started to do on that
Oh yeah don't , don't start it
I'm , some things are logged and stocked , so I 'll leave it , if you wanna sling anything out once you 've done yours , that 's all very well
Yeah , don't get rid of yet , eh please
it 'll have to go on the document location erm sheet B eight or something isn't it ?
Oh yes indeed I 've just taken all the dividers out
Okay I will contact Jim with regards to visits in the near future
Yeah
will that do ?
I don't have to put if you have any queries
No
or will I ?
It 's eleven thirty
Yeah
what time do they go and lunch ?
Any time
No they have fixed times
Oh do they ?
Oh yes course they have
Can I speak to Tony please ?
It 's Jan from Mold Hello who am I speaking to please ?
Ah , right , erm Tony 's organizing erm , or has organized , we 're hiring a mini bus and we 're using
company insurance , right , now before I ask you the company that we 're hiring the mini bus off , I 'd like a , er a copy of the
and stuff like that so I can send it off with
Well some form of recognition that we have got the correct insurance for this service that we want .
Next Thursday I 've got to take a cheque into a , well a deposit into a my
Yeah
erm
ninety two pound fifty with a
It 's what ?
ninety two pound fifty with a
Bloody hell , there you go
Cheers
It 's a dear day innit ?
yeah
I asked him , I said before we go any further , can you get these with the complete package and he said no , they 're all going back to the N H S typed thing because that 's the look , the look people want
Oh it 'll be a complete change for them
Yeah , I think it 'll make a nice change
Yeah , the others were similar , I know they were different , but
He said er , he 's getting me another metre all round less size round because it 'll be too heavy in that size
Yes , well
yeah well I don't want it too much more
Oh that 'll be lovely
Mm he never said , did , they put a nice
he never said what colour did they want
I mean you wouldn't put a brown one in that grey frame would you ?
Because it , I think it , I think these are grey , you can get green and brown
Mm
mm mm
Mm
ooh they 're nice , yes
can you hand me a sausage roll ?
they 're nice
yes
Has anyone rung up and told me I 've won a million pounds ?
No , pensions won the pools again this week
Mm , well I'm close
Mm
Thanks for that love
Mm Quiet ai n't it ?
Can I have a pair of scissors , I think I 'll cut
you what ?
I was being polite
Graham is boring himself in one of his car magazines
Yeah I know
it kills the time
Did you pi buy that Hillman Minx ?
You could 've been a real trendsetter , you could 've put Ghostbuster stripes on it
one of them Graham ?
Little furry dice and
Did you listen , erm , and oh you have er City on don't you in the week ?
Mm
I had Radio One on this morning and on the news it said that Porsche had developed a , a base to shoe horses .
Had developed a what ?
A , a horse shoe for horses that have trouble on firm ground and it 's got erm a piston , a piston type system to it
Yeah
the same technology that they used for their high performance car system a Lotus or something like that
Mm what a little mine of information you have
Oh er
What I was I gonna say now
just a
it 's so they don't damage their
Mm
it 's good , it needed doing , it just means that they 'll race
what was I gonna say something to do about the racing car
and then they take them
a Porsche sort of horse , a Porsche horse
Mm , I 'll have to use me
it used to go fastest
because
Yeah
he said what 's next for them go faster stripes
Is there a Zodiac or a Zep ?
Me dad used to have a Zepper
Why ?
Just professional , cruise up and down the street then home
All the Zodiacs and Zephyrs I knew were maroon with grey down the wing
Is that right ?
Tape is on , would of got you anyway
Did you hear me say Rob , you know the old geezer from the pub , Trevor ?
Yeah
He 's in hospital , he 's had his leg amputated
did he have cancer or something
Got a clot
have gangrene ?
or something
mm , oh I was gonna say something before , but I can't remember what it was
About the car or the horse ?
I don't know I said something to Graham about cars and then
What you said was your dad had a Zeppelin
Aye , he did buy one
My Lancia
you thought I was selling it
Yeah , I thought you 'd only bought it to keep it for a year or two
You like it don't you ?
Ah ?
You could sell
You like it don't you ?
I like it
Yeah
I love it
You could n't sell a Lan , a Lancia to anybody who
Well
don't you think so
sold it , she 's sold it to him wouldn't you ?
What you 're not like
it 's alright , it 's a bit tame for me
It 's only seventeen hundred ?
What 's the word X nineteen on the Lancia it 's like the family car get the tartan shopping trolley in the back of it
You won't wanna drive mine then
Mm
You did though , didn't you ?
Mm , get used to yours
Say is it a fuel injection or carburettor
I beg your pardon ?
Has it got an I after it ?
No , yeah they don't all have that though do they ?
Mm
You mean
I think it 's got a carburettor , what 's a carburettor ?
What 's the difference , how do you know ?
Well if it 's got erm fuel injection it 'll go faster
Yeah , yeah
God , I was nearly in an accident last night , that reminds me , coming , I 'd just turned off the Wrexham road , er going along the Paisword one
Mm
and there 's like an old pick-up-ey type thing and then there 's this young lad and a , in a work 's Escort van and then there was me and I thought oh bit of a blow being behind this lot , but there 's not many places to overtake down there so I was
No
just gonna have to you know be stopped there anyway this young lad after the first fast bend he went to overtake and I could see a car coming the other way and he was like er running along side this pick-up but it was like he could n't drop back and he could n't make it either
Mm
so he just kept going , so the pick-up jammed its anchors on , there was a Rover it was coming the other way , the Rover went up the verge
Oh my god
and the aargh , just squeezed in and this lad sort of shit himself completely and went zoom right up the road then , well I knew what was gonna happen so I dropped right back and er how he missed him I don't know , it must of been inches or itches
I bet the lad in the car just
adrenalin was brown at that particularly moment
That 's the way I tell them , do I tell these , that joke I told you before ?
Yeah
This is me brother 's joke and I , I lay no claims to this one
A guy comes home from work
Sorry
Have you got a copy of that
that you have ?
Er , yeah , well it needs photocopying
Well can I borrow it then , take a copy ?
Yeah , this guy comes home from work and his wife 's got the chair and she 's picking it up and taking it around like this
Can you speak up a bit please ?
and he said what are you doing ?
She says I'm trying to increase me bust , he says put it down he says all you need is a couple of pieces of toilet tissue and rub it between the gap
and there you go , she says well how do you work that out ?
He says well it 's worked on your arse has n't it ?
Rob you never remember those jokes off your brother
There 's some that I can't tell though
Rob , course you can
Tell us the other one then
No way , I think I 'd be even embarrassed telling you
You never even , you never told me about the one
I haven't told you
your mum told you
I'm not going to
It 's usually the parents not wanting to repeat a joke to the daughters
not the other way around
Ah , are you still stuffing yourself ?
Excuse me , I didn't come and goggle what you was eating
The difference is he doesn't need to do that to get it all in one go
Can I borrow that erm football thing there ?
It has n't got the answers on it ?
It 's the separate sheet the answers
Mm , well , mm , mm , mm
Mm
let 's have a scone
Let 's have another tasty apple
Fastest , fastest cake in the kitchen that you know
Scone
That man can mumble
He certainly can your off on Monday , are you ?
Monday and Tuesday
Going anywhere ?
Thought you were off tomorrow
I'm having a five day weekend
So you are off tomorrow aren't you ?
Can we , are we gonna let him ?
Mm
We gonna let him have the day off ?
Why er why ?
Well we were gonna go to the pub and celebrate my three year anniversary of suffering this department .
Ah what a bore
I can't even get back
What three years in the department or
pardon ?
Which one 's the bloke ?
No , I just was gonna go out and commiserate with you all for putting up with me for that long , well with you lot I don't know
Some longer than others , I never forget the first day in Liverpool , I was a
wasn't I ?
Mm
He didn't introduce us did he ?
Right that 's it get on with it
yeah , creepy little sod and have Dave , Dave show me three times how to do a five bar gate
How 's he gone ?
Well you go one , two , three , four , five , I 'll just show you that again to rei , reiterate the button , one , two
That 's what you can do on your day off
What practise five bars then
No develop one of those things on
yes
A what , a what
the football quiz
Oh yeah
you 've got to do it in four minutes
Ha , that 's called premature isn't it
four minutes
The four minute mile
what about our Fergie and our Andrew then ?
Well it was
on the radio , this , ah , the other day and the woman saying he 's such a nice guy I don't know what could of gone wrong , she doesn't know him
Can I speak to Roger
does she ?
Not really
members of the team or something when they got married , like you know
Well she will make a good team , she slept with ten other men apart from him that 's
okay
Are Di and Charles supposed to be
yeah
talking to the flowers
I know see that building over there , just go , yes terrible isn't it ?
mm , could just drink a nice cup of tea
Yeah that 'll be nice
at the
are we gonna sort out how many we 've got ?
And you 've got to have
don't know
He 's talking about promotions and a new edition of the project engineering and he says
I 'll have to check with
it 'll be nice
well we can count the panelling that we 've got left over there , how many do we use a day ?
To be honest I can't remember , I know my lot on the last thing Wigan was doing two hundred and thirty an hour , so twelve times twenty , two hundred and thirty
If we allow two hundred
Well thanks a lot Bill , bye
interviews
Mm , two and a half thousand then
an hour
that 's a box
that 's only a hundred interview forms an hour isn't it ?
Of course , yeah , because there 's two on a sheet
And that 's allowing for spares as well , cos my sites aren't gonna be busy enough to do that , that many anyway I wouldn't of thought , so what you doing twelve hundred a day ?
Mhm , it 's , isn't there two and a half in a box ?
Is it ?
I don't know
Have we got one over there ?
So that 's three thousand six hundred so if I add four thousand , three and a half to four thousand
Mm , mm
I 'd be well in the clear then
two , there 's two and a half
nine and a half boxes over here
And how many 's in a box ?
There 's no lid on it so I can't tell
Oh
erm
Is there no lids on them at all ?
No
so there 's two and a half thousand
so there 's five thousand interviews we could do five thousand interviews with that ?
Hang on there 's got ta be something wrong there , that means I'm only gonna need a box at the most , doesn't it , hang on , let 's write it out
Start at the very beginning , there 's two and a half thousand
That 's allowed , the maximum that we could do is two hundred interviews an hour
Yeah okay
would you agree with that ?
which is a hundred forms
Would you agree ?
Mm , mm
Two hundred interviews per hour , equals one hundred interview sheets there 's been some very good cases of sexual harassment lately and
Mm
they 're getting millions in compensation
Check the information with you
erm , so
I don't even know what they are
er I'm not sure if I didn't
You know when people talk about you and they don't actually ask you they just mention things and hated
Is anybody talking about me ?
so that 's
Sorry , right
two thousand for
Excuse me
Yes mate
did I ask you to bring
no only the red boxes , I thought they were already done
Only the red boxes , what , what were the red boxes ?
Well , erm
which I 've sorted this morning
right have you sorted them , right , so you 've done , what are these things ?
don't know with them
don't know what Scott 's already archived but why they were n't put in boxes away somewhere I 've no idea
These meant to be archived are they ?
Well or at least sorted , maybe they 're the ones that was supposed to be left out for future reference .
I thought they 'd already been done
I , produced a list of what 's already inside here , er , these calculate are the files registered , they 're not numbered so they wouldn't be registered , but they would surely
So Rob 's instruction was that he put them in those files and I didn't think it was a particularly good idea because everything 's easier to find if it 's in the envelopes that we 've put them in .
Now here , he 's put down the interview date that was here , yeah he was starting to transfer the interview days across and I
This is er
I stopped him , I said don't do that leave them in the envelopes and mark them as they are , so what
We , actually I think we stopped him doing that because we put information on the envelopes as well which he didn't see
Yeah we divided them all up , but if me or Jan needed to refer to anything we 'd recognize the information that we 've put on the envelopes quicker than we 'll recognize the stuff that he 's put in there
We realized too late anyway before we
Is he , did , he 's labelled this wrong anyway , he 's called this interviewed date for data fifty three , but it isn't interview data , it 's count data oh Wigan do you
If you put it with that pile of envelopes Mike
can you sort that out cos that is Wigan and
if you leave them in the pile fair enough and I think they can go to archive , but please can you re-title the contents page and the pages cos they 're not interview data it 's count data , er I would of thought by now Scott knew the difference between interview and account
Why he 's never done an interview
Well to be fair you 're right , but I would of thought someone
Well he told me he 'd gone for a count
sorry
He said he 'd gone for a count for a job
Oh it 's a good job we 've got one wit in the team , I wonder where he is ?
Posy , er right where are we ?
Two hundred interview per hour equals four hundred and three sheets
three thousand
Sixty three , seventy nine
That 's it
no
See again , he could of put some dates in
so , I , this needs proper registering
Yeah
been on file
well I 've got another file that needs proper registering
yeah , but again I should just get some of these checked , every content , you know that the heading
Mm
it , they look
it has n't done interviews unfortunately
Right
okay
No , no , no , we only need a hundred sheets an hour
Hello mm , mm
and there 's twelve hours so we 'll only need a thousand and two hundred
Mm , mm
Which one is it ?
so call it half a box
Mm , mm
Wilf telephone call , Wilf telephone
So I need one and a half boxes
Mm , mm
for , I'm gonna have them all in the boot of the car , at all times , so I'm gonna have two boxes please
Mm , mm
two boxes , er
that 's er ten whole boxes
six thousand so
right now you 'll have
so what did we just say for you ?
You need six thousands do you ?
Yeah
divided by
I'm not even sure , we don't even know his name
so let 's give you three
Well my understand of control is
is one at control that you can call back in or destroyed and be replaced by
so the control copy should always be
and I want two boxes
we 've already got four and a half boxes
It 's a very loose definition and one which
so let 's order two for us and that 'll give us five and a half , six and a half boxes
another half box spare
but I mean there 's spares in them anyway
yeah
but we never actually said anything to control , we only say what 's wrong with the job
and why , why people suddenly started saying we 've got to go around marking
what we should be doing is marking control , control
Or doing nothing
or doing nothing
and say nothing to control
Yeah we could possibly
there 's no guarantee
which there can't be can there , and say it gets lost in the post then you 're not gonna have it updated
No
no
and automatically assumed
that , if it 's important
even , even within our own little team
No I'm sure your mum and dad will not find that
and we should have systems whereby if you were
what 's more I'm convinced it
and you can guarantee that you
still a human error even though you know how to do it , and we can not guarantee that you 'll do it so it , so it is , the , it is very important that nobody takes anything off the shelf automatically assume
Mind you no point in
It does matter we really need to know whether to make necessary phone calls
Right
I 'll make a note of yours
I 've put yours on separate sheet , have you seen it ?
The return
return actually interview
if I do effect all the
Well you 're all gonna have some with your timesheets
You go and see Will then before we think about ordering it then
No , I said we 'll go round and tell , tell him what we 've just worked out there , get him to say yes
Yes
and then you can give
okay
yes
How many ?
Ask Tracey how , whether they order them by the box or whatever
Where , does Tracey
yeah
Oh I thought
if Tracey can get them it might be more reliable to get them from Tracey .
Could you do me a favour ?
About the interview forms , what you want
yeah
No
Could you
down there ?
Which one ?
No do a couple please if you don't mind , because you might need a couple spare
Hello can I speak to Bob please
Have you used these things now Richard ?
Yes thank you
no , why you volunteering ?
yeah
You , you tell Bill what
Well I don't , I don't really understand myself what it wants , so I'm not in a position to
Erm , is that three eight one five oh no , no sorry that 's the wrong extension , er have you any idea if anyone can get to
alright , thank you er , no I 'll come back shortly , what extension should I ask for first of all ?
Three eight double one , okay thank you very much , bye
goes away , everything according to plan
Why where is he ?
He 's at Halford today and then he goes on his holidays for a bit
Oh great
Well he 's off tomorrow anyway
don't we get a stand in ?
and now we 're short of paper
No , what the green
stuff ?
No , there 's nothing downstairs , well Steve said he had the lot , the last box
Oh good god , it 's about time they got their arses in gear and started doing something properly
Yeah
Yeah , there really is no excuse is there ?
I get
I ge to be honest though erm half the problem 's been I think that it 's been spoiling off so much crap , you know when I was doing those little things
no wonder we 're going through such a lot of paper
Yeah
if it 's doing that for everyone and there 's a mountain of scrap paper in there
It 's the way you speak to
pardon ?
It 's the way you speak to it
what the printer , oh don't you make me feel guilty , no I it 's just stupid isn't it ?
It is
how many pages you getting ?
I was having about four pages , three pages before , four pages in between each one , and another
at the end as well
At least I 've cracked it I think I can get it to actually page properly until Vicky comes on
Mm
Remember that report the
Oh you are kidding
So er , yeah , it comes out tonight
Alright then
Yeah she 's gonna fax me the advert up tomorrow , she 's gonna buy it today erm just rung Grant up to see , I was gonna ask Jo to go out and buy a paper
That 's how they come then .
Oh , I quite like those , dinky doo is that , is that all of them ?
Well , there 's fifty two in there , that should be enough should n't it ?
I would of thought so yeah , oh you 're doing alright then
There 's more in the cupboard if you want
yeah , great , thanks for these , er yeah so I just rung , I was gonna get Jo to go out and get a , buy a paper
Yeah
because we 've had no bloody calls have we , but it 's like our Chronicle around here , it comes out tonight
Oh yeah
but , it 'll be tomorrow when people are
You are in tomorrow aren't you ?
No I'm not actually
Nor am I , it 's
I 've put these
Oh I phoned Jan
yeah , they 're alright aren't they ?
Would you like to say two words Bab ?
I don't think er , they 'd be very practical really to wear them packy bags would they ?
Erm
Be a bit revealing wouldn't you think ?
shake your little
on the cat walk as it were
Right , did you ask Rob about the interviews on
oh right
What 's the new one called ?
Dee , dee , do , do , da , da , or something
no they 've got another one now
are getting
with it ?
No , Graham , Graham , you know all about the M sixty three surveys don't you ?
right tell us about the M sixty three 's surveys sweetheart , how many roadside interviews do you think we 're gonna have to do ?
How many roadside interview sheets do you think we 're going to need to order ?
How many other traffic cones ooh he 's a little gem , he 's gonna tell us all we need to know , but were too afraid to ask
No
Ah come on
We 've got only three data collection sites , haven't got more than that
So what 's that ?
What erm , what you calling a data collection site ?
Er a count or
That I think is just counts
Okay
cos at the time this report was put together erm
And very well I may say so
Yes yes , it 's , it 's not bad
Who did this , was it Martin ?
at all actually
Is , is that the one I did now you do surprise me .
Er moving swiftly along
Yeah
Oh yeah we didn't know we were doing interviews at this stage
This is quite true
but we do now
yes
Aye , Rob said there was about fifteen accounts out
Yeah , what are all
it might be I 've got eleven
My gosh , my life , sort of died and I thought there was more than that
The blue and the pink are general timetable are they ?
No hang on , no , no , no , no
No that 's just the erm
the blue is the cord on
the cord is
the cord on blue
don't let that monkey anywhere near it , it 'll rip it to pieces
the pink is the gem card
No that 's the pink
isn't it ?
Yeah that 's along the road some of the blue is along the railway line
Yeah
and we could take the journey time
or we could take the wheels of the tyres off
We could have one of those things like in Saint Trinian 's can't we ?
I 've got it , I 've got the laugh on record
I thought you 'd be
you 'd be rewinding that , if Mike had a listen to that oh dear
Pure bliss it 's got account on it
Why what else do you want to know ?
Three , nine , three Graham coughed at three , nine , three on the counter
I laughed
Yes sorry laughed
Right
You know the two way interviews , I don't know if they 're gonna be simultaneous
No you can't do that , they ought to be on two separate days because people not
Yeah
go home the same day
yeah that 's right , I mean the D B T say there 's gonna be extra difficulty because , but I don't think they realize that people are gonna say I'm not going that way because
Balls to that , yeah
you know you might you might catch the same person twice
they 've got to be on separate days
they 'll be well pissed off
Well , you will
well annoyed
if they 're using it to get to
Which
work and back
which junction are we thinking of interviewing that
I dunno , but the widening between six and nine
Six and nine
Stop sprawling yourself there , ah we 're recording
I'm enjoying myself
we 're recording for prosperity again are we ?
Oh , there 's a word we haven't
Prosperity
used before
it 's one I 've never heard of prosperity
Which is south number ?
You 're nosey aren't you ?
Yeah
Fifteen , O seven
Will before you disappear
Quick question , we 've just been doing
What does prosperity mean ?
No
a cross between a prostrate gland and
Peter telephone call , Peter telephone .
of economic wellbeing
Right
We 've done a quick calculation of interview sheets that we think we , we need , I need two boxes for Caernarfon , Jan needs three , we 've got four and a half boxes already , we were gonna order two just to be on the same safe , but we 're just looking into erm whether we need , how many we need on the R S I 's on the M sixty three cos we might as well order them all together , save
won't they have sixty
Can you go back and said what you said when the tape was switched on ?
Listen
Yes
so you definitely want my bilingual now
Yes , well we decided that if they were bilingual they could still be used in
there 's no need to because we 've got
There 's plenty left over
I know but if we print bilingual ones
Mm
and we don't use them all up , they can be used
can be used elsewhere
anywhere
Yeah elsewhere , okay
that 's right
I 'll go for that
it won't be , it won't be wasted
No , okay , well I 'll sort that out with Kath then , so if I order two boxes of
You 're gonna show me these things before you get Kath to print them aren't you ?
Oh god , yeah .
Mm
Okay
So we worked out the maximum we 're gonna do is probably two hundred interviews an hour , that 's really over estimating
Mm
yeah that 's the limit that , that 's the most we ever did in Wigan wasn't it ?
No it was two hundred and thirty
Oh was it ?
Yeah , but that was just on
well I think , I mean all
we only , I don't think we 've got to two hundred on any other .
So we 've said that , so that 's a hundred interview sheets twelve hours in a day usually , unless your name 's Billy , twelve hours in a , half a day , should of said , so that 's twelve hundred times two two thousand four hundred so that 's half a box , call it two and a half thousand
Five thousand in a box , no , oh I see let 's half a box , yeah that 's right
so
you want two boxes ?
Yeah
Yeah , well that 's fi , that 's gonna be plenty isn't it ?
And we 've got four and a half already
Yeah
so I just want two boxes of bilinguals
So so we 've got three now , so we got , sorry we 've got four and a half
We 've got four and a half yeah
so if we get two , we 've got six and a half ?
Yeah , correct
And we need two , three , four , five
We only need five
six , seven including him
Well depending on how many of them , we haven't
Oh right , no , you said
to order
for Leek and Caernarfon
Oh beg your pardon , right , sorry
okay , alright ,
Well
so if you just go for the two
you 're a fleet driver aren't you Will ?
Fleet driver ?
You 've got a company car ?
Yes
Do you have your fleet insurance put on
I might
Because I need to photocopy it to send to
yeah , I think it 's either in my briefcase , or it 's in the car , but it 's probably in the briefcase , I 'll go and have a look
Okay , so tomorrow erm I will do you a mock up for a , a bilingual one
Yeah great
okay
Tell me why isn't that phone hot ?
Why ?
Well were n't you expecting phone calls today ?
I 've just rung up to see , I was gonna ask Jo to nip out and get me a cake and see if the advert was in , but it do it doesn't actually come out , it 's like the local Chronicle here , it comes out on a Thursday night
Ah , right , so it hits the shops tomorrow
so I'm off tomorrow so I 'll tell
to put them all through to you , is that okay ?
Just gonna go and fill in a
ha
You can have a look in insurance now , I 'll be grateful
Super
I do think I push me luck a little bit
oh he 's alright
Mine 's not printing
Why not printing ?
Suddenly decided not to page properly
No unless
It suddenly says hang on , I'm not wasting enough paper , let 's shove a few blanks through , fires more blanks than the T A that thing .
No it means someone 's stopped a program , stopped a printout half way through and it doesn't clear the page in
Oh is it spilling , spilling off is it ?
Mm , well no , I mean this morning this one came out nice
Yeah
I 've spent ages getting it so that it would er , you know , right
Yeah
and now page number is sort of out there
Something , something happens when people send a different program through and they don't reset it
I 've tried resetting it and it didn't work
No I mean stop the printout and recall , reprint out and set it up
Hello Scooby 's phone on the computer
no , no , no , no he 's not over there , I mean put it back through to her 's , he 's on the computer
yeah , yeah , did you want the spiral binder before ?
No it 'll wait
No it 'll wait he says , well it 's down here now
Tell , thank him very much for telling him
Tell you thank you very much for telling him .
Confused , you will be you thought it was a co , important call as well didn't you ?
It was Kate
When Scott due back ?
I don't know
he 's got twelve days leave to use up yet I think they should of given Darren in his place to do all this
instead of making us do it , or they should of got a school leaver
Oh I don't mind cos I'm getting paid overtime
Yeah that 's right .
Get a school-ey , get a school-ey in
I wouldn't mind a school-ey a couple of months ago
Oh , he was atrocious , what was his name ?
Steven was his name ?
No
Yes it is
Was it Steven ?
Yeah he looked like
He was a randy sod yeah
Right
but even uglier
I want , there 's a lab in er
Is it men behaving badly ?
With what 's his face then , Harry
Yes
er , there was a lad in a sketch with him , we saw the trailer and he looked like an older version of Macouly Maulkin , or whatever his name is , what 's his name ?
Macouly Katkin I say
Macaukin is right
Macaukin , Macouly Macaukin
Mm , mm
Sounds like you 're saying you caught me sulking or something like that no have you not seen it , he was in Inspector Morse as well .
Oh
He was one of the posh yeah
with the , yes , he was
With blonde hair
And big jug ears
Yeah , I think he looks like Macouly
He was murdered last
Yeah
he should of been murdered first he was awful
Aye he was getting on me wick
U G L Y you ai n't got no alibi
He 's in something else isn't he ?
He was on last night wasn't he in something else ?
I think he was
I can't remember seeing him
Yeah you did
out of so many programmes last week
Yeah and I shouted Mike , I said quick it 's him
It 's him , da , da , da , Cannonball Run
No I didn't see The Bill
Did you see a , the holiday programme when they picked the winner of that holiday the
serves her right
I was cringing
serves her right
It was excellent
What 's this ?
rung this person up live to say they 've won this holiday for six at erm
what , what is it Mecca Island or ?
not Mecca , but Mecca or something
He 's had a lot of entrance as well , I mean , you know a lot of people were away , you know , like something one in
and
Yeah and Annika Rice gets on the phone and first of all she thought oh , oh , I don't think there 's gonna be an answer , I , I don't think there 's gonna be anyone in , why aren't they watching us , why aren't they watching
Bet they 're watching erm Emmerdale Farm
So then this fellow comes to the phone , obviously his missus had entered it and he didn't have a bloody clue that she 'd gone in for it and he 'd just come home from work and er Annika Rice there , saying oh where is she ?
Why isn't she watching the programme ?
Well actually she 's gone to visit her mum , she 's had a heart attack she 's in hospital
oh , oh well this 'll be
a lovely surprise for her then
I don't you
Does she , does she ring people live
yeah , yeah
And she said er are you Mr or whatever the name was ?
And when she put the phone down at the end she said that was , that was
yeah so er , that was , that was
and she said er well that seems a nice holiday for Mr and Miss or Mrs
Yeah why do you think she said that ?
I mean it wouldn't be Mr and Miss if they were both
Well that 'd be brother and sister
Exactly
if they were , you know
Yeah , she fair , fair like she er nearly cut them up didn't she ?
The trouble was she was talking to people on camera and you didn't hear anyone laughing or anything embarrassing .
Mind you I 'd get myself embarrassed in front of sixty million viewers if I was on her money
Yeah , but would you wear those awful pratty outfits ?
We were having a conversation were n't we Graham ?
He 's been looking at that erm inspiration has n't , do you know I bet it would if he made a cup of tea why wasn't
I won't do it if it 's hinted on
You won't do it full stop
How do you
ooh I made a drink , what about bring it up then ?
Oh we 're so basic stop it , you beat me to it I was
Oh I have to agree with that I 've been watching
don't tell us your secrets Graham we don't deserve to know them , oh go on then so these are only your R S I dates aren't they ?
What are ?
Seventh twelfth , fourteenth , nineteenth , twenty third
Yeah Gina 's asking when they 're gonna clash with erm
Yeah
yours
Well when you get a chance I 'll have the accounts as well
The accounts are the twenty eighth twenty nine , thirtieth and the second
Of April ?
Yeah and the second and the fourth of June
Second and fourth of June ?
Yeah
Er what happened , why aren't you doing any in May ?
Oh because of the bank holidays and the
Yeah
interviews
and according
Have we got M E 2 , part of the
no
This , it 's a bolt on is it ?
what , not a five hundred or something ?
No , it 's quite expensive
Darren contact admin please , Darren contact admin
I will contact you in the near future in respect of the
is that what I had ?
No
doesn't sound as good does it as what I had before ?
Why what you done with the other one ?
I rubbed it out I
I think , you did have the word respect in it
In respect of the
no , er of making a site visit wasn't it ?
This is end of proposed sites
Yeah
this is to the
sites the above locations
the above locations
say again
The above site locations
Yes
Yeah , one thousand two hundred and fifty same as
Erm , are we any nearer the truth ?
No , what about ?
Whether you visit
no , whether , what we were talking about before ?
R S Is on the M sixty three
Yeah
No we no need
are we likely to just have ten ?
Two
Two R S Is
Oh I don't know about that but I think they 're likely on the same
it 's just that there 's a sense of
blah , blah , blah , recommended that interview have been in both directions despite in this difficult across , and I could n't say when you could do that at midday , but the implication is you have to do it when you
Hello son , had your
did you leave everything ?
Did he take the car ?
Was he alright ?
How are you feeling now ?
What did she bring you for your
razor blades ?
I don't think you can Graham I don't think it 's
I think it , well I think it
I don't think you 'll get a
erm
You won't get the number of ten
Good stuff , good stuff
erm
You 'll probably go get the
just got really unsafe unless the two sites are like half a mile , well at least half a mile if not , but I
hand signal
When you say in two direction , I mean we there 's no way they let you interview on the main line
Erm we switch you on five
Yeah
so we 're talking slip roads
and you know how to test for
right , I don't think you 'll get a free representation of the traffic flow
erm
if you do road to
yeah
I mean look , and even so I mean depending on where it 's gonna be
Yeah
If you 've got signs on the main line saying traffic point , traffic censors ahead , you 're gonna have people saying oh sod that I 'll get off at the next junction instead
Yeah
wouldn't you , I don't know how you 'll get round it
Alright , I 'll phone you a bit later on before I leave , okay .
wouldn't you Jan ?
What 's that ?
Like , this is that from the D T P that ?
That is , yeah
That is saying that erm despite the additional costs
yeah
we want it done in both directions , there 's no way you can do it on the main line
No
so you 're talking slip roads
Yeah
er Graham seems to think they 're hinting that they should be done on the same day
No way , I said before you can't do that
Well no
because
the safe , the safety aspect of it and I don't think you 'll get a true representation of the traffic flows if you did it both together cos like you say people will be diverting
Mm
Yeah , if they 're delayed getting on the motorway and see that they 're doing it the other side coming off , they might be saying
and go up
Yeah , but
to the next junction and get off
one , M sixty three six to nine this is , isn't it ?
Mm
So junction six is that the big mass oh no junction seven
Junctions five and six
Oh junction six is the collector distributor so we can't do anything on that
No
Junction seven is the big A fifty six , where we did the big count
Yeah
and junction
eight is that little
eight is the roundabout
Yeah , so where you gonna go now ?
and junction nine is the one where you come off and go to Ernston that way
Mm
which is not a very , but what I'm saying to Graham is if we do it on a slip road like , cos , cos I 've never done one before , if you , you 'd have to have warning signs if you got a census on the slip coming off
people are gonna say oh well I 'll get off at the next one
That 's what I said to you
Unless they 're gonna do them on the roads there 's the motorway , that 's Manchester , unless they 're gonna do them on the roads
Around
Yeah
yeah well
going in
er , I 'll go for that one
because you 'll be able to pick up M sixty three using the non M sixty three uses that one
Yeah , I 'll go for that
Yeah
but then you 've got the two directional aspect and like the cyclones either side of the road , they can't be opposite each other , it 's
No
the
states , they 've got to be accurate , they 've got to be at least half a mile apart
yeah but if they , if they were on slips they wouldn't be opposite anyway , would they ?
You can't mess about
Well you know you could do one at the slip
Yeah , there wouldn't be
Oh no , no
You 've got to do one on the slip off and one on the slip on , at the same part
Yeah
Having not done one I wouldn't know how they go about it even
No
I know it has been done , but when , For Ormskirk we wanted , we were looking to interview at the end of the M fifty eight
Yeah
and erm , about a hundred , most of it was under Manchester
Oh for Ormskirk as well
Yeah , and the others , the last hundred metres was under Lancashire 's domain , and Lancashire wouldn't hear of it , even though , I mean , that was on an approach to a roundabout
Yes
isn't it , er the junction there , and there was all erm deceleration lines and that across the road , they were slowing down anyway and we were gonna really narrow the cones and they were approaching a roundabout so I
Yeah
mean they had to stop eventually , but they wouldn't buy it at all , no way
Same as
didn't think they 'd accept that the two different police forces , one said yes the other said no , but then they stood
Yeah , one was from Delmonte Road wasn't it ?
That 's the one , he 's the one who said no they 're not
Yeah he was on the other end of the
Do you really think that the Jolly Green Giant puts the lights on at two o'clock in the morning and gets them all to pick the corn ?
Yeah , why do you think it 's a lie ?
Well I used to believe that but me mum said they don't really do that , and that was one of my great illusions completely shattered
You destroyed my dreams , my dreams are destroyed
I was dead upset
I can't get upset about that no , cos I
yes
yeah , that 's what I thought and , but if that wasn't bad enough , my mum because she knows these things , even said that he doesn't even say ho , ho , ho , Green Giant , doesn't , they don't even sing that song when they 're working they could n't sing , and you know the little corn on the cob man
A bit like
yeah , no I think we 'll have to liaise with Rob a bit on that
Just the ten ?
Just the ten ?
Yep
Yeah
Shall I throw that away then ?
don't let 's throw your words away
Just let me get the
Green Giant
ho , ho , ho
Is that right ?
Oh right erm to be honest I don't , the guy who set all that up has moved company , I'm just taking over the , the care of them really , unless erm Mr said anything , erm erm , yes if you would , er just hang on a minute , erm he 's got someone in
and he 's busy and not to be disturbed
Right
Mr , hello I 've had a quick word with Mike and he seems to think there 's some correspondence on the file , I 'll have to go and find the file and get back to you , so , er you , I haven't got your , your phone number there I don't think , er I only had your fax number right , I 'll get back as soon as I can , thank you bye bye .
Mr has just phoned about all this work and as , he 's saying
and he wanted to speak to Mike and I said I 'll go and check it
Right do you want a drink ?
Yes please
Teasy-weasy ?
Whoopy-whoopy
erm what do you want coffee ?
I think I 'll have a chocolate actually
Would you ?
er , oh , are you busy ?
Busy
Yeah
brewing
No , I'm , I'm not you see so I can do it if you 're busy
Oh that 's very nice of you to offer .
no
bring it up as scheduled
Oh that was a very dirty look you gave me then young man .
It wasn't was it ?
It was , you went
Have you put that on ?
She 's lying
So it 's on ?
words like drat and damn
Of course it is
What are you doing over your five days of weekend Graham ?
I'm going to Manchester shopping tomorrow
Are you ?
With erm
with my with my girlfriend
What 's her name ?
Lorna
Lorna
This is still
not the ex
Ah
It is
a newy
No , they 're back together , he 's normal
Oh so it 's the
It 's an oldie who disappeared and then came back
She is back in his world , ah
but no so , ex girlfriend
No
shot her dad
Shot her father , yeah
Has he accepted it ?
He , you know that bloke who you said you were on the phone to in Liverpool and he 's got
, yeah
Yeah , I thought it sounds like this Liam
Liam
Liam
it 's her dad
Mm
I mean , she , she
and me as well , oh
Ooh Graham ooh
I can't believe it
What 's his argument now ?
I treated her rotten whilst I was studying like I wouldn't take time off studying to go and see her or phone her when I saw her as often as I could , every weekend
Like what ?
I drove back and saw them
Without having a detrimental effect on the studying , you did what you could
I fitted them , I fitted the studying in and more and he said oh fair enough
Some people are born that way
The things I have to do
It 's wicked , so what you gonna buy her tomorrow then ?
What , nothing
Ooh , that speaks for news doesn't it ?
Mm
lunch
You 're not going round jewellery shops or anything are you ?
No , no , no , no , nothing , nothing like that
Telephone shops , you can get her a ring in there
Sorry
No we 're not
no that news is full of crap anyway , he said so himself
Yeah
You mean it 's a shit shop ?
A shit shop
I don't believe you sometimes
It is , it is working
No , no , nothing special like that
No , just a pleasant day
Yeah
you hope
in the rain and
Oh no , if it 's anything like today , which it probably will be , it will be nice .
Will you stop doing that please ?
Teddy 's going to vomit
if he don't stop
I mean if I start doing that
Yeah
I figure it 's got to go across from one side to another
I bet they would as well
ooh , er
ooh , er
you Richard
Where 's my letter coming in ?
No , have ring Mr tomorrow , confirm , confirm , affirmative
Confirm the events
confirmative , pardon ?
Events , relevance
Relevant
Ants
relevant , no , no , look
ant
ant
it is now
Mm I think you looked that up the other day I think I 've already put ring Mr , yes , stupid boy
Mike said I 've got to put a note on the fax say P S you , the charges
And is he kidding ?
It 's going on it
don't
he told me to put it on it
He told you to say it , but he had a shock when he
well he told me to say it
don't
But he told me to put it on
I don't think he 's serious Jan
He was serious , it 's his get out from telling you to say that in the first place
And he means to do it as a joke does he ?
Yes
I still wouldn't do it .
Who 's it to ?
Do you know who 's it going to ?
What ?
You have got to put it .
He was joking
No the other one
don't phone me again
Just put don't fucking
that 's dirt enough as per your telephone conversation today 's date please find attached copies of
Is it double M , double T and double E in committee ?
I hope this will be of assistance
Hang on , double M , double T and double E
Not in that order
Exactly
Have you seen that little worm ?
I knew that would take me longer
Sorry
on the , near the printer there 's a screen near the table or something , it 's got this little orange thing that keeps doing this
You 've lost me completely and that doesn't take much I'm sure .
Mm , this little worm
Graham will you show me your , your chinese worm please ?
Hello there , hey I 've come to see Mr Trevor , is it alright to pop in and see him ?
Yes , yes
Mm
I 'll have to wake him now anyway for his supper so
Are you sure ?
Yeah , Trev
Mm
Hello
Hello
you 've got a visitor
Guess who 's come to see you ?
Who ?
I think he 'll be needing his glasses
I think he will , he won't remember me I don't think either
Ten past five
Yes
How are you Trevor ?
Oh it 's Martine , hello darling
Who , he said , mm
Ah
How are you ?
Alright
Good I 've only found out today about you
No
I 've had me spies out you see Nicky
Nicky was here yesterday
Well that 's who 's told me , I didn't know anything about it
Yeah
not a thing
Oh aye
and she said oh , she said I 've been to see a friend
I can't write to you any more , that 's the trouble
I know , it 's a blow isn't it ?
It is , oh well , there we are
Never mind , she said to me this morning , she said I 've been to see a friend of yours , I said well who 's that ?
Oh she said Trevor , I said why , where is he ?
Oh he 's in hospital , I didn't know a thing about it , I 've been saying when we 've been to the Pentam , we haven't seen Trevor for a while , we haven't seen Trevor , and even Barry at the Pentam didn't tell me , he thought I knew
Did he ?
Yes , and every time I go in there , I say well what you know Barry and he didn't tell me that , he thought I already knew
Well , well , well
Terrible show , ah ?
Oh terrible show
Yeah
Ah , thank you darling
Card for you there
Thank you
I 'd of bought you some grapes only I 'd of probably eaten them myself
Well that 's very nice
you did yourself more bloody
well this is it , you 've got a good stock up anyway there
Oh yeah , yeah , yeah
Good stuff
Oh keep well , I , I seen your
straight in the wheelchair
Oh
out in the , you know in the precinct
Yeah
I looked up the window and no , no Martine there
No I wasn't there to wave to you , I thought
Oh dear
I wasn't there to give you a wave I'm afraid
No , no you were n't no , no you were n't anywhere
Not to worry , no working hard probably
Ah shame
These are nice isn't he ?
Ah , that 's lovely that Martine and who
Mike , me husband
Oh your husband
Yeah
oh aye
tell him I appreciate this very much will you ?
I will do , I will do
Thank him so much , so much , well that 's lovely , that 's lovely .
I thought I better call and see how you were doing
Sorry
I thought I better call and see how you were doing , now we know
Ah lovely
so there we go
What 's it like Marty ?
It 's not bad , it 's dry
Is it ?
Yeah , so , it has n't been a bad day , it 's been quite nice
Sorry ?
it 's been quite a nice day really
Has it ?
if I hadn't been stuck in the office all day , if I could of been out and about somewhere it would of been even nicer
Be nice yeah , yeah , yeah , you been to the Pentam today ?
so , still it 's nearly the weekend , pardon ?
Have you been to the Pentam today ?
I called in , yeah because I said to Barry I said here I said you di , you hadn't told me about our Trevor
Yeah
Oh he said I thought you knew
Oh he didn't bother
but er , he doesn't tell me anything , he doesn't tell me the gossip
doesn't he ?
No
Do you ever see Steve ?
No , I haven't done for a while see I
You
might of thought to ask him if I 'd of seen him , but you know the lad I go in there with Chris ?
Aye
Well I said to him only last week , I said wonder where Trevor is these days , haven't seem to see him in here , but er
Well I'm gonna come out , I said er , I'm going to , I'm gonna get well , I 've given myself a fortnight this weekend
Yeah
to get , to get mobile , to get going again
Yes
has been , anyway , and er after that I'm going , I'm going on the
oh that 'll be nice
Well I 'll be near my daughter
Well that 's right
and er , they 've found me a very , very nice residential home
Oh lovely
it 's only twelve people in it altogether , beautiful
Gorgeous
you know , it 's like a big family isn't it ?
Yeah , ah that 's nice
And er the bedroom they 've given me I can see
out through the window so I
Lovely
oh
tut
smashing
Oh that 's alright isn't it ?
But before I go I said to the
today , there 's a fellow there , I don't know whether you knew , whether you know him , he 's on the , he 's on the oil rigs he gets a
Mm
fortnight off and a fortnight on
No
and he 's got er rather curly hair and he comes into the Pentam
No , I might know him by sight , but er I can't think of him
Aye , right , I met him in the , in the , what 's the name of that sweet shop , Martin and somebody
Oh 's , yeah
Yeah and er , I said to Jane now I said now look before I go to Preston , I want to go in the pub
I must to go to the pub and see
Well yes
must see the boys and girls in the pub before I go in now
that 's it
so I'm coming in
Oh good
I don't know whether it 's this next week it depends on her when
Yeah
by the time she comes , because to get there she 's got ta come , so that , she can get me there
Well that 's it
exactly about lunch time you know
Yeah
get me in there for about one o'clock or something like that you know
Smashing , oh that 'll be nice
Oh , er
I 'll buy you a beer then
Aha , ha I'm not worried about that
I'm worried about oh the beer here is
yeah
ooh , you should n't be telling me all this
They 're looking after you well by the look of it
Oh they 're looking after me alright ,
smashing
the menu here is lovely
Is there ?
Oh very , very good
Ooh I might come for me tea tomorrow then
Ee , ee you do that dear
I won't have to do any washing up at home then
No you won't do
Oh dear
Of course there 's , there 's a , a very good er a very good menu to have er lamb and mint sauce and you know
Good god
or beef and Yorkshire pud
Yeah
oh , or pork
Living it up then you are
Oh aye , have to be careful you see bet I'm not much heavier than you now
No
I'm only nine stone thirteen
Ooh
so , you 're not much more than that
No , not quite
you 're not like it then ?
Not quite
I got
to make eight stone
Mm , just over
Well anyway I , I be
no you 've got to be very careful haven't you ?
When they , when they weighed me I thought I had to have my leg off , I went to the
centre and she 'd weighed me and she said nine stone seven , I said what ?
Mm
Have we got any erm , oh I use
nine stone seven , I said what you talking about nine stone seven , I'm eleven and a half stone , not now you 're not she said
I said what
Well that 's it
and the trauma of it all
Yeah
taken the weight off me
Yeah
so , that was that , so anyway
a fortnight ago I suppose
Yeah
and I was ten stone two
Ooh
and he said , now you 've got a rupture
Yeah , you 've got to be careful haven't you ?
If you put more than half a stone on
Yeah
it means that your leg 's got ta go and it 's got ta go on the leg and all this ulcer
Mm
so yes yesterday I was delighted I was only nine stone thirteen , so
Good
I was delighted yesterday
You keep being careful and you 'll be alright won't you ?
Well aye , you have
when you like things isn't it ?
Well that 's it
I like things you know
Well that 's it
Oh
it 's nice when you can enjoy your food isn't it ?
Oh well aye , I like it
yes
I like a good meal , and I'm afraid I like I use , I , I , even the girls on
chocolate stuff and all that , people say , I'm trying to cut it out though
Well yeah
so I give it these girls , them , let them have the worry
mm
Safer isn't it ?
Oh dear me
Oh my Irene she comes to see me
we 're terrible us girls and what , what with Easter coming up , we 'll be eating all these Easter eggs as well won't we ?
Pardon ?
And what with Easter coming up as well we 'll be eating all these Easter eggs and
That 's right , that 's right yeah , yeah , yeah
we 'll be big fat things
When is Easter love ?
Er , I think it 's the , the twentieth isn't it Easter Monday ?
Is it ?
I think so
Twentieth of April
Yeah , that 's Easter Monday , I think that 's right anyway
Well then I 'll be in the nursing home
Yeah , you 'll be nice , you 'll be close to your family there won't you ?
Yeah
Your daughter and that
I won't see the one , the one from Scotland I won't see
No , it 's a hell of a long way
to a long way
isn't it ?
But erm Jane and her husband have gone to gone , gone to Scotland today
Have they ?
er , he 's , he 's gonna have a day 's fishing with Bev tomorrow or Saturday
Lovely
tomorrow 's Friday isn't it ?
Yeah , all day
Oh they 're not going until tomorrow , I said today but they 're going tomorrow
Right
Yeah Jane is working today so they 'll be off tomorrow
Oh that 'll be a nice break
evening and they 'll be off to Glasgow for the weekend
Oh lovely
They 'll leave the two kids at home you see , they get
well this is it , this is it , be a nice break for them won't it ?
Oh lovely , yes , yes
Be smashing
Oh yeah
Very good , right
Barry 's alright is he ?
Oh yes
Is he still keeping everybody in order ?
Yes , still doing well
Is he ?
still got his nice car
What 's he got ?
He 's got a Porsche now has n't he ?
Someone told me he got a Porsche
Yeah it 's lovely , some money 's worth there , I think me and you have paid for that car
We have yeah
that 's true enough , that 's true enough
Oh
Well he 's not too bad is he ?
is he ?
No
He keeps his prices down very well
Yeah , he has n't put them up since the budget
Oh
they 've stopped the same
I don't think , well I don't
I don't think he 'll go over the top with it
No , he 'll not , I think he 's one of the cheapest in Mold anyway isn't he ?
Yes he is isn't he ?
Well he was anyway
Yeah well he has n't altered them
Oh no
We were trying to get him to do , it was Saint Patrick 's day wasn't it on Tuesday ?
Was it ?
Yeah , we were trying to get er get him to do Guinness fifty P a pint , but he wouldn't hear of it
It wasn't
we were trying to get him to sell the Guinness fifty P a pint because it was Saint Patrick 's day
He wouldn't have it though ?
No , he wouldn't , wasn't having it at all
Was he not
No I'm afraid not
Oh dear
but it was worth a try wasn't it ?
Oh absolutely
Oh yeah , yeah , are you busy these days ?
Yeah , keeping myself busy I 've got a lot of surveys coming up in Caernarfon of all places
You 're not going to Caernarfon ?
I am , yes
Oh , you going there to stay ?
Well I 'll be staying over there some of the time , but then I 'll be travelling every day
Will you ?
Yeah , it takes
Motoring every day
Yeah , it takes an hour and a quarter it takes to get there
It will to Caernarfon
Mm , quite a haul
Where will you stay when you get , when you , when you stay there ?
I dunno love bed and breakfast or something there , bed and breakfast or a little guest house or something
Hotel somewhere
Yeah , something nice so I get all me expenses for it
Aye , of course you will
so er , I might as well hadn't I ?
Well
so
I know what you mean , your husband 's gonna miss you there for a couple of nights
Well that 's it , have , have to sacrifice it 's all money isn't it ?
It 's all money yeah
It 'll all be worth it
Yeah , yeah , yeah
so
Yeah
I think I 'd better go home and make him some tea now , he 'll be wondering where I am
Will he ?
Yeah
Why is he home before you ?
Well us usually he gets home around half five
Does he ?
so it 's getting on now though isn't it ?
Twenty past love
Yeah , so er , he wouldn't of know you see , cos I only found out today , I wouldn't of , I haven't had a chance to tell him that I was coming here , but I thought well I 'd call on me way home and see how you are
He 'll believe you when he gets home
Yes
he will believe you won't he ?
Ah
Or do you want me to sign a
you 'd better sign a
for me , no he 'll be alright , have a nice bit of tea , so I will
Lovely of you coming
It 's alright , I 'll look out for you in the Pentam
Oh right
Ta ta love
Ooh that was the
lovely , I 've put lipstick all
Oh lovely girl
over these nurses
never mind
will be talking about you
never mind about them
You , you look after yourself
I will sweetheart
and hopefully I will be in the Pentam when you come down
When I call I will
Yes
Yes
or if you can tell Barry when you 're coming I 'll be definitely in there to see you , how 's that ?
Right dear I will
Alright
I 'll do my best
you look after yourself
Will do
Enjoy your tea
Pardon ?
Enjoy your tea
Thank you very much Martine bye , bye darling
Alright ta ta sweetheart
Bye I love you darling
Bye Trev
It 's chilly , come in .
Hello !
Look the dog 's .
You been polishing your brass on your door ?
Does it show then ?
Yeah ! door .
as nice as that .
Mind you , you haven't got all the traffic like we have .
Yeah , it 's cold !
Shut up !
Hiya dogs !
Can you turn the key ?
No .
Oh ,
Hiya !
Oh !
Ooh you 're good dogs !
Ooh
Come in here !
You are looking beautiful !
Got so many dogs .
Go on , in there !
Is it your mother ?
I know what your like .
Go on then !
got nowhere to sleep on this .
Ohhh what have done to this little dog !
Look at his little !
It should be over there .
But he doesn't
Well !
Absolutely !
Good God !
It 's some weight innit ?
It 's a door stop is it ?
There 's loads of big in the bathroom .
Well !
You must n't have Goosey Lucy No !
What 's the matter Chloe ?
What 's the smell in here ?
What have you had for your tea ?
Cos she 's still in season .
Why ?
Because she always goes quiet .
Usually she makes rather a fuss of Tammy , Tammy 's just going out look , she 's coming in aren't you ?
I know you 're just coming in , you are !
Oh !
You lucky dogs !
Little chews !
Right .
What for tea .
Oh shit , I haven't bought any scissors !
Oh and Mike still has n't been fo for today at work .
I washed my hair , special !
And I 've got ta pick that .
No , that 's .
You 'll love that Caroline , I didn't give it a thought I'm sorry ?
Where 's your ones ?
Well we 'll let you off .
I took them to work to clean my nails !
Oh , I hope you cleaned them out ?
don't want all gunge on my head !
Oh aye !
Cleaned all the snot out you know !
Erm you 've got a nice smell , what have you for your tea ?
Er , oh I made it , I made curry .
It 's very , very mild , it 's a mild curry mix we had .
Mm !
I 'll have that , if that 's a curry , well we said bloody hell we never sa , chicken curry this hot before !
No !
And I only had a bit though , with rice and some bread and some
Yeah .
poppadoms .
Oh , and tomato sauce , I always have curry and tomato sauce !
Ooh yeah !
You don't !
Pot pourri , with a loo brush now !
Hey , can you tell me something
Smells nice !
?
Yeah !
Cos it like , goes a long way .
But these are some other make erm looks like Lloyd 's own , it does make
Yeah .
like the but they probably made some things .
Looks like toothpaste .
Coming out ?
Mm !
Cos I got , er when I bought my pot pourri there was a little bottle or more like oil , you know , like how your mum
Yeah .
has ?
Erm and I had that , but I 've used the last of that to be honest .
I could do with a bit more .
Well they were selling pot pourris when I was queuing up to get ,
Yeah .
oh the other , the other lot were in Boots ?
No .
Go for a .
Er , smells
of blackcurrant the one that I 've got .
They 're like bloody well erm sweaty , mouldy !
They were !
I never smelt pot pourri like it !
Good God !
doesn't sound so good !
And I got a bag from erm Woolworths all blue shells in it for two ninety
Yeah .
five .
I'm sure there was
Just a very flat one , yeah .
And I 've started not having any to be honest .
I have about , I have half of that , quarter of that .
In work , they have to count it !
count them out , oh you 're down to eight now ?
Oh !
After a week they 'll soon sho , shove it up there !
But , you know
I don't think , there 's more than , you take two each .
Yeah .
I could n't back to , like I always used to have two erm but oh I could n't go back to that !
Sometimes now if I if I'm not careful and put a bit too much
Yeah , you picked up and is wro , the wrong one up .
Oh !
It 's just
you get used to it don't you ?
Yeah , that 's what I 've been doing cutting down gradual .
Yeah .
As I say , I 've always been like it that far for ages .
Yeah .
can't get in ten grains .
And you can taste the difference can you ?
That is always out !
Oh you 've took your things off your fridge ?
Yeah .
They 're on there now .
Oh dog !
Ooh !
Oh dog !
Coming in , yeah ?
How 's your mum and dad ?
Oh , .
Get in there !
There 's no need to be like that !
Go and sit on there , go on !
Go on !
See she 'd be attacking you if she was alright .
She 's moody for ages .
Your mum knows you are !
Your mum knows !
She 's sulking now cos we haven't really have we ?
She wouldn't go out in the car the other week so we like chained her to the wall we were .
And she ripped my nail right off , it was a great big long one !
Ohhhh !
God !
It was all blood gone on there , it 's grown a bit now .
Yeah .
Watching .
we were n't speaking were we Satan ?
We call her Satan now !
It 's alright , but mother didn't really mean it !
Go on fatty !
Get in her corner now !
What 's behind this cupboard ?
Well it wa it went up and it was like that dash used to be I should think it looks alright when I 've finished it .
It 's all the water .
Oh right !
come here ! .
It was a piece of thing and it screwed up .
Yeah !
Oh right !
Yeah .
If you were gonna switch the water on you had to run round and find the screwdriver
Oh , what a !
We had some people round
Controlled it , I was going to sneeze !
Had all these people round about the house .
When did they come ?
Did you have anybody that weekend when you rung on a Saturday ?
No , nobody .
Someone come the other day , what was it ?
Tuesday .
And they 'd been down the Lake District , they were from the Lake district .
Well he has got a job you know
Mm .
oh yeah , or something like that can't remember .
Yeah .
Well they said well we 'll go back on Thursday and he said we 've been round everywhere , he said , the thing is we don't know the area cos everyone
No .
keeps saying oh it 's a lovely area !
Lovely area !
I said well this is , but yo you can't take my word for it because
Well no .
I could be saying that to sell the house , but I said it is .
I said there 's a lot of nice areas round here .
She said oh yes , your kitchen 's lovely !
Oh everywhere 's lovely , oh yes !
I said oh well
Well they will not .
They will not have it , optimi optimi too optimistic because the first people I have , won't be the first one that 'll buy it .
Well that 's often the way isn't it ?
So
Well I mean you could imagine them loving it !
Yeah .
You know , I mean I can't imagine anybody coming round and not thinking it 's lovely cos you 've got it spot on !
But no one else has nothing else .
haven't they ?
No .
Actually I 've been I was sitting in the lounge today right and you know the situation there see his car going round the corner and stop and got out the car beaming at me , I said cor give him my old !
All the neighbours have seen us clip clip clop down the path .
Oh !
Oh dear me !
Get on your mats !
Tell her to budge up .
Next time she 's gonna .
Good though innit ?
It 's good .
Oh !
The wicker ones they 've been thrown out have they ?
The wicker basket thing have you ?
No , probably chewed it all up !
What are you like !
She was teasing , oh it 's probably the
Yeah .
wrong time for her .
They 've got ta have those like cushiony ones that you can wash .
Oh !
The .
My laddie 's got one of them like brown , very tough plastic
Yeah .
ones .
Ben got one of those .
That 's right , yeah .
No , and her .
Ay , is Pip alright ?
She bit the postman didn't she , is it or somebody , the milkman or somebody ?
Did she ?
Oh !
Yeah .
She does only like you .
The little madam !
Erm the
She bit the postman or
the postman I think it
because
was .
he you ee , his hand goes in the letter box
Yeah .
the window was slightly open and Pip was sleeping under the window in the conservatory
Oh .
talking about , you know .
Looked out well he put the letter on er the it was slightly open so he had to put it you know , I mean the postman
Yeah .
and the next minute rar rar rar
Oh my God !
Well , my mum said he should put them through the letter box .
Yeah .
Or I mean I think he 's , she 's bitten him before , if he had any sense he 'd leave them at the gate or something , I mean somebody would go for them .
Yeah !
Wha , silly fool !
No sympathy with people like that !
And the best laugh is erm my mum , like , with Laddie like Laddie wouldn't hurt a fly and she can hear the postman sometimes , my mum get back !
Get back !
Get back !
Just cos he 's barking like a welcome .
Mm .
And er , he 's petrified , well that 's no way to talk to a dog and if you 're gonna start off being aggressive they 're gonna go for you you sho
Who 's petrified , Laddie ?
Oh the postman .
The postman !
Petrified of Laddie , good God almighty !
Mm .
Well my mum sees loads of dogs and that and she just , good boy , good boy !
Yo , I mean if you ignore them practically they 're alright .
Yeah .
wanna a fag ?
Give it up .
I'm going mad !
Oh you give it up ?
I have .
The what ?
Ay do you wanna dirty weekend ?
. Worm Chloe oh got ta worm you soon Chloe .
And you mum ?
Oh erm Tam if you 're in this house .
We 'll have to ring this vet up see where your cards are .
Dear Tammy and Chloe it 's booster time !
To see where what 's gone ?
They send them a post card through and I thought it was about February , but Win reckons it 's the end of March their booster time .
Oh !
And er to see when we go every year don't they ?
I haven't !
You have .
I 'll bloody well tell Nicole !
Get knotted !
They 're not , they 're real .
How do you get
They 're real .
your nails that long ?
don't do any housework !
!
They 're not !
I'm growing them for the wedding , they 'll have to get cut because I break them .
Mm .
But I , they are real these .
Then they grows a lot and they all break .
I 've always had strong nails .
No well mine aren't strong .
They don't grow very nice shape .
I keep saying when they get sort of quite long that I 'll have them properly shaped and
Mm .
whether they 'd stay in the right shape or not .
Well that one grows like a claw .
Yeah .
That 's how Susan 's got , Susan 's are so bloody thick you know !
Well they are .
And they curl right over , ooh !
She 's got back from er , Tunisia .
Yeah .
I haven't spoke to her , I meant to ring her today but it 's been all bloody go !
Erm but she 's had a nice time .
But I told you on the phone didn't I , it rained and
Oh !
whether she 'll have much of a tan or not , I don't know .
I don't think she was that bothered , I 'd be annoyed , like !
I don't mind , I wouldn't of minded it a bit dull to start off erm and it would of probably done her good cos she wasn't used to it .
Mm .
You 'd be a bit pissed off wouldn't you ?
If it didn't if you didn't have any sun .
But , you were saying erm your dad 's mum and dad had been
Oh
and it was raining
they thought about that .
Cyprus , did you tell me ?
No .
Saudi no .
Oh was it ?
No , no Saudi !
Near the Sahara Desert anywhere , somewhere , tha , somewhere round there I think .
Oh !
And they 'd had rain hadn't they ?
Mm .
And no end of people !
Erm
But get a picture of something .
Yeah .
Well Susan would have been home now .
Oh .
You know the sunbed you had was it a fast tanner while you was on holiday ?
You 've asked me this before , it was a fast tan .
Oh do they ?
Yeah .
How often do you go under it ?
Oh or was it ?
Oh , make your mind up !
Yes , it was you .
Er
How often did you go under it ?
I went every day .
Every day ?
.
I started off qua , er quarter of an hour so half ha , it was only one of these things that goes over the top .
I just did half and half and then I built up with the second couple of days then I did twenty minutes and then by the end of the week I went twenty five minutes half an hour .
And er
Oh .
just built it up from there .
How many weeks is that for ?
I think I had it for about six or , six or seven weeks , something like that .
Cos I had it for a month , cos I didn't know whether I was gonna like it , I 'd never been on one before and er I 'd heard Judith say that you could feel claustrophobic , you know , with it over you
Mm .
but , so I said oh I 'll have it for a month and then I 'll tell you then whether
Yeah .
I want it extended and that was fine .
But when I rung to take it , for them to take it back they had a special offer on and it was twelve weeks for forty pu , pa , you know , were doing it cheap
Mm .
cheaper than what I 'd had it for but I mean they always do something like that
Mm .
don't they ?
You can guarantee it !
Erm I 'd have one aga , I mean , I wa I wanted mine for Alan 's wedding so I could have a nice tan for , with my suit .
Erm cos I 'd always said ooh I wouldn't ever have a sunbed and all that , but I did in the end , cos we were n't gonna go anywhere so
No .
and , like I said I mean anyway if you 've got a tan
Mm .
you can wear your nice summer clothes I 'd hate white legs !
Mm .
Erm and I dunno , you just feel better , you feel good , you do .
I don't well like , we 're not going abroad so I want one but they 're so bloody cumbersome and I don't want it
Yeah .
I got nowhere to pu , hide if anyone comes round .
Yeah .
So I don't
Yeah , this one , you could store it up on it 's own
Yeah , but they 're still in the bloody
but
way aren't they ?
That 's it !
No , this one yo , well we had but it wasn't a fast tan .
Yeah .
Are you going to do much on ano , on a fast tan one this time ?
No , well like I said I mean I didn't think mine had tanned me that much until I saw the photos from Alan 's wedding , I was like a nigger .
Mm .
Erm but he was a good chap , this one , he come and delivered it , set it up and
Yeah .
all the rest of it .
It 's the one on er , the Aston Hill by
Mm .
the plaque .
Erm but like , ideally , I said oh yes we can have it in the spare room , well there was that much rubbish in there clothes and God knows what else I ended up having it on our bed well it every time you wanted it you had pull it out , and they 're bloody heavy !
It was
Yeah .
on casters but the wheels
Yeah .
were n't much cop !
So it was a bit of a pain but
As soon as I sell this I can get one .
Sell it tomorrow then I 'll get one .
Yeah .
An and the other thing is of course , when I first started going on it you can't read while you 're on it
No .
because you have to wear the goggle
Yeah .
things and mine kept steaming up .
Erm so it 's a bit of a I kept falling asleep .
Well I 'd be sitting there thinking oh God , I wish it would hurry up !
You got nothing
Yeah .
to do !
That 's it !
It 's alri , like Judith has got her own
Yeah .
and every night she 'd be on it !
She 'd be in the bath , on the sunbed , and you know , out like on a Friday night that was her , bath , sunbed
Yeah .
out she 'd go like .
Erm
But I mean she didn't hers wasn't fast tan one .
Mm .
Well she never looked brown all the time , do you know , I don't think it affected her after a while .
I think it was just the thought that she 'd been on it you know , and a nice bit of heat and everything , relaxing .
The first time I had mine I was falling asleep and does a big click when it
And it wakes you up .
wohhh !
And I
I used to
used to bang my head on the bloody thing !
With
Cos it I used to get know when it , when it , soon as it goes tick , tick , tick , tick , ti ti ti ti ti ti tick !
Yeah .
It 's not straight off .
Ooh I like them .
Horrible !
And it goes all black then doesn't it ?
Yeah .
Mike come up a few times .
Said ay what are you doing ?
Said nothing !
He said you 've been up here an hour and half !
I said , oh I 'd only have the timer and it let 's you do half an hour at a time
Yeah .
so you can't fry .
And er I 'd fallen asleep , it had clicked off and I was still asleep !
But er he went on it a couple of times could n't didn't like .
Aye Win said he was there and er sometimes he fell asleep and I 'd be oh Win !
Win And he , he 'd be fast asleep under it !
Yeah .
And then , I never went to sleep but I went sleepy but not didn't actually sleep .
Oh I was out like a light !
But on the I don't think you 'd bloody wake me if I had one now !
I 've been terrible !
Nine o'clock and I 'd have to go to bed !
Dunno what 's wrong with me !
Ooh !
And it 's just not like me , I 'd just be feeling tired all the time .
I was like that once .
I'm not so bad now .
So right where 's the
Where 's Win tonight ?
He 's at .
Where is the best place to sit ?
Er where did I do you last time ?
Nearer the light .
Can we shift this table a bit that way or other way .
Erm , what was I gonna say , oh aye , Mike said to say to tell Win
Mm .
to remind him about the cars .
I said I 've reminded him once !
forget you know !
When they get the time he 'll be , turn up sometime .
Ah
And so anyway , he 's bringing the money round sometime next week .
Okey-dokey
You 'll have to now won't you ?
Yeah .
He 's frightened
to do .
Oh .
That 's the least of his bloody worries !
Him
Oh .
turning up !
He 's been made up this morning , he 's had a big tax rebate , fifteen hundred quid !
Has he ?
Oh !
Mm .
Tax re , yeah .
The cat that 's got the cream !
Do , let me just drink this and I 'll do you .
No !
Oh !
Oh !
You 're busy in work then ?
Yeah .
Who was the feller that answered the phone ?
?
I 'd got through to a girl I said extension two three six and then oh and the feller said er
I 've changed now four two three
Oh !
three now .
Two three three .
Got a different office now .
Oh that was Dave .
Oh .
Pretty much
!
Well he 's okay but yo we 've all had to muck in lately because of all this change and he moans and he moans and he moans and he says , outright I'm not doing that !
Shall I tell you something now , he doesn't do it !
And he gets away with bloody murder !
And I said to him for God 's sake stop bloody well moaning cos we 've all got ta muck in !
Oh , if you don't wanna
get out !
What am I supposed to do then ?
Is he a newish bod ?
No .
He used to be a a driver , a driver , and then he used to be a driving supervisor and now he 's in like , in traffic now .
Oh !
He 's not he one that took this warehouse coordinator job ?
Oh no , he 's been sacked !
Oh has he ?
Well he he didn't take the warehouse manager 's job .
didn't he ?
He like er they thought he was too good for that .
They 've sacked him now .
Mm !
What , they thought he was too good or he thought he was too good ?
No but they thought he was far too good for him , put him on as trainee manager then they sacked him !
Oh right !
Oh he 's the one that was a bit flap
Mm .
Oh right .
Do you put a lot of conditioner in your hair ?
Yeah .
Only a bit .
Why ?
Well it just feels sort of
It 's quite dry at the moment really .
Oh it 's done really good !
No , looks as though they 've done you some sort of .
Wayne said tell Martine when she cuts your hair she 's not to cut the sides a lot , she 'll cut it , it 's quite different from the length between the sides and the back .
Okay .
Yeah , and there was the last time I cut it I remember .
That was ages ago .
Cos there was already a a difference .
I tend to trail the sides the though .
You know , wrapped round my finger , and then
Yeah .
it weakens and breaks it off .
Why who told you that , Wayne ?
What ?
No , I don't know why , it must do .
The sides always seem thinner and shorter than the back .
Yeah , cos like these bits as well , like some
Yeah .
of those are your fringe bits growing down aren't they ?
So that they make it as though , as though it doesn't just go fringe and then down , it sort of
Yeah .
a little bit
I know what you mean .
stepped .
Are you gonna , gonna put a towel round you just there ?
Yeah , have a look in that cupboard there .
Oh you found them .
Shall I get a tea towel or a real towel do you want ?
I want a the bottom one .
Yeah , that 'll do .
Nice tins them !
They 're quite nice !
Mm !
So erm , Charles mum bought them .
Mm mm ?
Mm mm !
Not too much of it then .
Well why don't I not take anything off the side ?
Well I said , just don't of me being in line .
Mm .
Yeah , I see what she means .
So that 's what
Please !
you want the back the same length as the side ?
It has to .
How much will you have to take off ?
There 's that much .
Make it the same length .
Mm .
scalped .
Yo , to get it the same as the sides
Mm .
you 'd need to take a good half inch .
Oh !
Oh I don't want that much off !
Not if I take a quarter of a inch .
Yeah , take quarter an inch off the back .
I 'll just trim the very dead ends off the side there .
Yeah .
It needs the dead ends cut .
And this one .
I mean it doesn't look bad all over really .
You know er there 's no tatty ends as such .
Well I think there is .
It looks awfully dry .
Ah yeah but it makes quite a difference though .
Might have a shop opening soon .
Have you ?
But not this last time cos Rose did it last time .
having to cock up .
Yes and she 's had a little boy !
hadn't she had that then ?
Er .
she
I wonder whether she 'll do a bit of you know , going round ?
Yeah , she says she will do .
She might , she could take the baby .
She says she 's going to .
Did she ?
Yeah .
Better had do .
Yeah .
Well I I want mine permed really for the wedding .
I fancy one of these spirally type perms .
Yeah .
How do you do
that ?
It 's just the way they roll the curler on so I 've been told but erm whether it 's simple as that or not I don't know .
Mm .
You know , like they 'd have to put a bit of a twist in it I suppose .
So it sort of comes out sort of ringlets
Yeah .
rather than a curl .
I dunno , I'm gonna try and see if er if Sarah will do it for me .
You know the the ?
Yeah .
See if she 'll do it .
Oh she does them ?
Yeah , she 's with er , Raymond and Jason .
But I wouldn't go to them
No .
really but seeing as I know her erm I thought I might give her a ring .
Are they building their house yet ?
Yeah .
Looks really , very nice .
Yeah ? ?
Yeah .
I just don't like where it is !
Where is it then ?
It 's on the common in Buckley
Yeah .
Erm well it 's not sort of by itself , you know it 's er surrounded by houses re , lovely houses , you know that are
Yeah .
big er , detached houses that have not long been built as well but to me , I can't see there being much privacy .
Or at least , not until they 've planted you know , shrubbery and
Oh !
what have you .
But erm they 're going through a bit of a wouldn't say a bad patch but with living with their mum , with their
Yeah .
mum for so long it 's driving Dale round the bend !
Takes it 's toll .
Well that 's it !
And she 's in her element like , with her mum , because
Mm mm .
with er the dad being dead
Yeah .
she 's been you know , used to being with her mum , I suppose she felt even closer than any normal you know , relationship .
Yeah .
But er it 's taking it 's , taking it 's toll on him .
Ah ah !
And what about Alan and Sandra are they ?
They 're alright .
Alan rung me the other day .
But er perhaps he didn't no , cos did I , did I call ?
No .
another guy .
Erm
No , he rung up said how you doing , alright ?
He says yeah , fine .
I told you he spewed up on Sandra didn't I ?
No .
Oh the dirty bugger !
Well they were going out .
At home , you know in Lichfield
Yeah .
They 'd been out and er I don't know who they 'd been with like but he must of had a bit to drink .
Anyway he woke up in the middle of the night , sat up and spewed up all over Sandra !
Said you dirty little bastard I said !
If Mike had even got a bit on me I said I 'd have bloody killed him !
I said it 'd be divorce , grounds for divorce that , I said I wouldn't have that !
Urgh !
She had to get up and wash her hair and urgh !
The dirty git !
I said I bet you were popular .
Is she working now ?
Yeah .
I don't know quite what she 's doing .
Oh .
Some little county or something like that .
Westminster .
Yeah .
Oh !
So er , yeah so he rung up
Mm .
said oh he 's not here I said , he working .
Oh I said I'm coming up we 're just on our way .
I said oh I said we 're going up to my mums .
Oh it was the dancing school .
Said it was a fortnight ago and
Mm .
er , I said if it had been a normal Saturday I said we 'd have cancelled that you know , we 'd have met you in Duffley but er , I said my mum 's supposed to be dancing .
So erm you know , I can't do much about it .
Oh never mind , he said you 'll have come down here , I said yeah .
Have you been down there yet ?
No .
Mikes been down before though .
Sometimes .
Erm so then so we sort of finished off having a chat , he said , oh we 'll see you when we see you .
So I went back into the spare room , I was doing some ironing which was on the you know and the next minute the phone went !
Oh bloody hell it 's like a mad house here !
Anyway , I went to the phone hello !
Hello !
Alan ?
Oh , he said I 've done the wrong number !
I said who you trying to get , Daisy ?
He said ooh yes , he said oh , I said God , I said you must just remember that this is the number you 've just bloody dialled !
No , he said I didn't !
Ooh there 's one for you , Mandy 's pregnant !
Oh is she ?
Yeah !
I knew she would be .
As soon they come back I reckon it was conceived when they went skiing in the week .
What does Daisy have to say ?
I haven't seen , we haven't seen them .
We 've only heard via the grapevine .
Oh !
So er I reckon she just want a skive from work to be honest !
She said bef , you know , she said before oh yeah , you know , when we 've been having a joke she said oh God I could do with a break from work she said , oh yeah !
Not much of a reason is it , to er
Not really .
Yeah , I reckon you wanna grow these sides down properly now and stop twiddling with them !
It 's the sides that are dry .
That 's not bad .
And erm when Glenys is back on the scene get her to level it all out for you .
So she wanted it really dead level in the front I reckon you 'll need a whole inch off your back here .
Bloody hell !
It 's nice and thick though .
And you haven't got that twiddly bit any more where your head used to go .
You know , when you get up in the morning .
Yeah .
I don't think I'm gonna take any more off to be honest .
don't , just cut it straight .
Twiddly bit off there .
And my fringe .
Yeah .
Yeah I mean , like this bit here is very white blonde as well .
You know , your hair li , I suppose this has dried as well
Yeah .
because you cos it 's been by your face like , the back 's still wet .
But erm it 's a different texture like , with the colour as well .
So the next time you have it streaked don't tell them to keep those bits out of it .
Although you can't because you 'd have to have the the top done wouldn't you ?
No , when you just have your roots done
Mm .
she doesn't touch these bits with
No .
does she ?
Yeah .
Cos it 's a lighter colour there .
Yeah .
And then it 's a lighter colour .
all different colours like a tiger .
Yeah .
Which way shall I turn round for the fringe ?
Erm you 're gonna have to
Turn this way .
What you doing with the fringe then , just that 'd be like fringe .
Are you cutting it ?
No .
I hope you have !
!
I hardly cut it shape the ends .
You promise you didn't get any edges .
I am not !
It 's not straight .
No your fringe is like erm dry like the sides isn't it ?
Mm .
You 've been cutting haven't you ?
I have not been cutting it !
I'm telling you now , I haven't !
I'm sure you wouldn't dare as well .
Mm mm mm .
Oh do you ?
You 're alright , yo you only just make .
Do you have your washer on every day ?
Yeah .
If it 's nice , you don't think oh I better do some .
Have you got a mirror here ?
I 'll show it you .
It 's in the .
It 's just on your right there .
I 'll get the Have you layered it ?
What do you want ?
Have you layered it ?
No .
It 's on
Do you see much of Stevie and Karen ?
No .
Well we saw them , we were outside the chippy one night and they were going out they were whatever you call it ?
Oh we want to go out !
We want to go out !
Okay then .
She 's oh she 's put weight on , she looks .
I mean she dresses up well..
Mm mm .
So he often enough does he ?
Yep .
Apparently they 're looking for a house now .
I can't see either of them making a commitment .
Mm .
Anything like that .
How old is he now ?
Must be about twenty two .
So he 's young ?
No , but she 's .
Go on the beach ?
?
Really ?
Yeah .
But though ?
.
Oh I see , they have been about for a while .
Ay ?
haven't really been over as well .
Yeah but I think they should .
Mm .
Twenty one again isn't he ?
.
Your friend talks a lot about them now don't you ?
Or something like that .
You been exercising ?
Ay ?
Mm !
All those !
We 'll get Sarah as well .
That er I thought that was quite good that innit ?
What ?
Go and put some bi bit of mousse on it now .
Okay .
And then you can it for me .
Super !
Are you gonna go up ?
gonna do and let ?
Yeah well we 'll sit in there .
If we can work it .
Why what 's up with it ?
Well it 's falling apart innit ?
can't you afford a new one ?
Well could of had a new one .
The last two years it 's been falling apart so we have to ke kept kept folding the wheels back on
Ooh sorry !
things like that .
Bloody hell !
Is it in here ?
Yeah .
What do I want now , mousse .
Ooh you are good dogs !
You are good dogs !
Have a quick hoover .
Hoover the bits of hair .
You 'll have to move from there my sweetheart .
Oh God where 's the bloody thing on there ?
That 'll do .
That 'll do , dogs !
Good God almighty , there 's a thing !
isn't it ?
There 's a bloody thing !
Cor !
You managed to work the old thing .
Yeah !
It doesn't stay up when you
Oh no !
It falls down and cracks you on the head and things like that !
Actually I 've moved it a bit too far that way have I ?
Oh let me do it .
Only wa , still a bit long that way .
Okay ?
It 's close .
That 's bet , better .
Oh sorry Tams !
Oh you 'll have to come over here .
by the dog .
Push the things out .
Got a big wire on it .
Oh is it ?
Ooh sorry !
It 's a bit professional this isn't it ?
No , .
Big shot .
Is this a new one ?
Yeah , well the other one , bought me one for Christmas it before Christmas we went and got this .
It 's got a diffuser as well .
Put the diffuser on .
I find it dries , it helps a lot that does .
Can you put loads of mousse on ?
Yeah well
Come on then !
Ooh !
Do you wanna mint ?
No ta !
wasn't asking you sweetie peetie Well you 're supposed to .
I want it styled , right that 'll knock the socks off my husband when he comes in !
Oh my God !
What do you expect !
Why , what 's the matter my hair ?
Ay , I'm not very good at the old styling lark , I 'll say .
Put that there so it doesn't choke him .
Put that there so what ?
So I don't flick my ash everywhere .
Hello !
Better watch out now she 's gonna come and get me with this bloody thing !
Ooh ooh ooh !
Erm right .
Oh what have you done to it ?
What ?
Well it 's all over the place now !
Shut up !
Now , how do we do this then ?
Erm .
Bloody hell fire !
I never use a hair dryer any more .
Oh Christ , I'm not very good at this !
I don't wanna pull you !
I 'll tell you when you pull me !
Oh well when it hurts anyway !
Oh hang on , I can't do that !
I 'll have to do it like this .
They always kept the the brush moving and that don't they ?
Yeah alright then .
Well I don't .
I 'll have to do it like this !
Tell me if it gets too hot on your head .
Right .
Well it probably is .
So have you got to , is that burning or
No , it 's alright .
Too hot ?
It 's in my ear though !
So do you think ?
So you still haven't been to see this house in are you ?
Your not gonna tempt fate ?
No , not yet .
There 's a little row that goes down beside it round the back , I never knew there was .
don't ooh !
Er nearly took off then !
Erm you go down a bit of a lane and it 's gets you on the through road doesn't it ?
Yeah , you go up a stream , a river .
Yeah .
Ooh the dogs will like
A pool .
it down there .
Oh they love it !
Are you going ?
I never been round there I went up the other .
We went to the river in the car .
Is there much water in it ?
Well didn't go in my car , went in his !
In the .
Ooh you got a floppy ear !
I know !
I know !
Ohhh !
Well I don't know whether this will like impress Win when he gets in .
Probably go out again !
No , I must admit your hair is looking a lot thicker and healthier .
We have lift off !
?
What ?
It 's alright , is it blowing ?
Oh God , I don't know how all the hair , how hairdressers could stick doing other people 's ha , I think your i , your own is so much easier to do because you ac , you do it your own way .
Yeah .
That 's it .
I 'd be too damn anyway , I would !
Hot ?
Blowing cold on my back !
Really ?
Well this should of done .
Oh what ?
Oh the .
I 'd assume that 's nice .
Oh !
Oh !
We 'll have to go and .
You what ?
You know , and I told you about that I'm having my er done .
Yeah .
Well he 's he 's nearly finished it now inside , well he 's transformed it no end !
It 's all fitted cupboards , swirling table spotlights !
Oh good God , very nice !
So it 's about ooh
That 's when we 're to help out with ?
Yeah , he 's got a few big jobs .
Oh Bugsy , go and lay down !
She 's daft , she 's sitting on this !
Mm mm , yeah .
Laddie used to be like that didn't he ?
You know , when his and
Oh !
nudging you .
How are they , your nan and granddad , alright ?
Yeah , fine .
Seems ages since I saw them .
It was new year or
Well
Christmas wasn't it ?
New year .
Whe when did you see them last , Christmas ?
Yeah , I went with you didn't I ?
I had my Santa 's hat on .
Oh that 's right .
We came with you , what were we doing ?
I dunno !
You said you were going to your mums for something
Oh that was right .
and I come with you .
You were coming down the Pheasant pub then were you ?
Aye , that 's right .
Oh what 's she been chewing ?
A mint .
Oh I thought it was chewing gum !
Do you want your hair done as well ?
don't like the hairdryer though do you ?
Laddie hates it !
He tries to bite
don't think she likes it .
Oh !
No , you don't like it .
Ooh show me teeth !
She 's a big softy isn't she ?
How old is she now , four ?
Er , well no she 'll be four the end of the year .
!
Ah !
Dale left me .
And my dad 's picking me up .
Ay how did you get on that er oh wait till I 've finished this bit .
Stop it !
What ?
How did you get on that Friday we went to Chester ?
Yeah ?
And you Winny 's things , did he like them ?
Oh yeah !
He were made up with them !
Was he ?
I didn't need them though .
But they 're nice .
Ooh !
Exactly what you said he 'd say !
And how did you get on on your night out the fo this Friday night ?
Oh it were crap !
Was it ?
Where do you go ?
You meeting in the Falcon were n't you ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
, bloody hell !
It 's terrible when they start laughing !
Oh that 's pretty !
Ooh she 's beauty !
Ooh a little punky I was laughing at the sheep up at my mums tha over the weekend , they had that many you know they get branded well
Yeah .
they had green , they had red and everything
Ah !
they look like punk sheep !
Right what do you put a bit on and then erm dry it with a hairdryer .
Oh this 'll be a good idea !
Right , we 'll do this .
What we 're doing ?
We 're gonna make it stay .
So as that you don't , you won't even have to run your brush through it in the morning , how 's that ?
Oh superb !
Right .
Stop it !
Yeah , yeah .
It 's !
No don't , don't cos you 'll hurt me !
Oh !
Ooh that 's nice !
Sit down !
Tickle your ears !
!
Has it worked ?
Oh yes , I 've cracked it !
Oh love it !
She 's got the hang of it at last Chloe , you 're alright now !
We 're getting there .
We 're onto a winner now .
And the next .
Oh stop it !
I think I might dye my hair blonde you know .
Peroxide .
Do you think it will suit me ?
I don't know .
Go on then .
Well if you use that streaks at the front why don't you try a wig on .
Werhh hoo hoo
Good idea that is .
Just you make up for it .
Oh !
lately , so .
don't have to .
How are you ?
don't beat him up !
Erm no I don't think I have actually .
Oh .
No so .
You 'll have to have a go at them with all these rabbits !
I 've said no .
Oh oh gosh !
What you talking about me ?
How did you know ?
I was here .
I was in the army .
And ca !
Go on !
He made you
And then he says , then he says , no , we went to and he 's in the gym so
Ha !
and they left me behind !
Your worst nightmare 's come true !
And what the hell do you think !
What did they say ?
And what did Mick say ?
It 's not a little dream .
Erm don't get advice .
It 's er the wedding that causing the problem isn't it ?
That 's the ultimate .
Tony foretells difficulty or a journey followed by a successful issue in your
!
But becomes a serious matter .
No that 's .
didn't it ?
Just wanted the horse and trap basically !
When I woke up I didn't really wanna go !
Normally like the isn't it ?
With the
I went
you know , you can have
I hate it where that girl is !
You know you 're not gonna get back to sleep until you 've been !
don't you just hate it when that happens !
don't you just !
Oh !
Right are we onto and structure , page two of this .
Okay .
Yes .
Great !
Great !
Great !
Great !
Great !
Great !
Great !
Great !
Great !
That bin 's getting on my wick !
I saw Peter last night .
I said bloody hell don't you dare bring him in !
He says , I 've been about , he said I see you still sleep in your bed , but you 're not putting them bloody pistachios !
we used to eat loads of them and er keep all the shells and then put a few in everybody 's bins , so as they 're not pissed off !
Well it 's boring just putting them all in the the same one , innit ?
Oh God !
We 're gonna meet Graham today !
Bastard !
He 's in Manchester today and
Is he ?
Buy an engagement ring .
He 's not !
We asked him that .
Ah !
Well I'm just .
Well you 'd laugh if you see my girlfriend !
. Have you crossed this outside ?
Yeah .
He won't be wanting to work either .
Oh not , .
How do you spell work !
Here are , lots of new know about .
Thank you .
But he 's coming back later .
Oh !
Come on !
We want to get those .
I know !
Oh well , yeah !
No .
Definitely !
Denise has got one of those as well though ai n't she ?
What ?
Money !
Yeah .
Nineteen ninety two .
I 'll do any notices announcing police officers .
You could of said !
You 'd better hope and pray that you wake someday into your own .
don't like smoking .
Mm mm !
Okay !
So
So what bit is okay isn't it ?
No ?
No .
Aha !
Missed that .
Had read poisoned er located on the murderers in the area around .
Come on !
The will be O seven hundred , two nineteen hundred hours .
Mm mm mm mm , service station , mhm mm .
Behalf of the Welsh Police of Swithra Cymbra
Stop swearing !
Mm mm mm .
Agreed with the Chief Superintendent ?
Ah !
I don't know whether that is what he 's gonna be called .
The police officers at the service station which is course of action .
That 's still the same , the nineteen seventy four road traffic act , that has n't been updated that we know of .
Mm mm , mm mm mm , .
Ooh ooh hoo hoo !
All located on two lane roads when no bike has .
Correct ?
Mhm .
It is essential therefore , the true , mm mm mm into reverse , mhm mm mm even in time .
Okay !
Right .
Morning Billy !
Morning !
Early bird ?
Early am I ?
Half past nine ?
Not early is it ?
It is for you .
Lunch time not !
Right , each service station will have a supervisor
don't get off me trying to be funny .
see the officer
aye , what the survey , stroke , site manager .
.
I reckon that one should be sur survey stroke supervisor it should be .
Survey manager , stroke survey .
Mm .
Because it 's the .
Well no , I don't think we need to put stroke supervisor , ah ?
We 're gonna be the survey manager and not
Well that 's gonna be
su they maybe .
Survey
Survey manager .
And survey manager is above supervisor so in a way then
Okay .
You know , it 's not worth erm so the last paragraph that you find is twenty nine .
We could just put manager could n't we ?
Or advisor , manager could n't we ?
Er well I just want to you did say you can quote
Erm
no problem , anyone that .
made u well up to a under twenty drivers .
Yeah , okay mate .
Yep .
Erm and it 's Mark John .
Er ?
Er two years .
Service
Yes .
catered and designed
Jason William .
How old is he ?
Er , seventeen .
?
No .
These are stunt school .
How about that .
The survey manager has located and designed the survey stations in the Chief Superintendent or whether he 's had them built .
That covers it dunnit ?
Oh erm
I was gonna say is it necessary to put and will be at the survey site at all times to ensure a smooth operation .
Well it 's
Got ta say it up there doesn't it ?
it 's got ta go up there so
Yeah .
I don't think you need it in .
And that 's it for that innit ?
There should be some more there .
Hello !
Yeah .
I'm .
that 's a special one !
Ooh why thank you !
.
How did you come across that ?
Been in my filing tray for about two years !
Oh !
.
Oh , okay .
I thought we were , I can't find it .
Erm
Oh alright .
Oh , yeah that 's what I thought .
These the files ?
Yep .
That one .
No , that 's the fax machine
Yes , fuck off !
Yes .
He doesn't think !
Well you know tha were you on our division ?
Mhm .
So who 's responsible for ordering downstairs .
.
Who ?
Gail is .
Oh is that right ?
It 's up on the poster here as well .
It isn't Tracey then ?
No .
No .
Tracey don't do it .
It 's Chris and then .
Just writing something .
Ah , drop all your things if we 're gonna start
the fully , are we never , are we only gonna have a supply ?
Oh good cos you 've got them .
Around A Audbury
Because we 're loony
Tracy will do all
Okay ?
the files and what er
And others I could mention !
You should n't , should n't
to be asked !
You should both have everything there
Right so that 's
Yeah .
Yeah .
Well then
Erm
The local
Yeah .
bus company and emergency services have been informed of the survey as well as local members of parliament .
The best one to talk to and get something done is erm
And then we need members
Erm .
of parliament .
.
All local bus company
Erm
No .
Ah , I didn't realise that made fo
Right , so his actual
But a is because it 's been used though .
That 'll be
Aha .
I mean that doesn't include any assessor of payment
No .
Mine 's just reading the emergency services have been informed of the surveys .
Yeah .
Erm
Right , so what 's the point of that ?
Well , I 'll have to er , send you a copy of my er invitation to renew from the
So I need the ?
Yes .
Yeah , okay .
Well my accounts er
Mike , shall I put stroke in there ?
Yeah , and you 'll have to erm
Yeah .
And I put erm I just , areas .
On there , yeah .
I don't know why it 's called .
Survey managers , right .
We can always change it , managers whenever .
What I 'll do is er those out and actually have them as a you know , usually they they don't have that fly sheet on , that 's
No .
an inquisities for the report .
What I think it , what makes it good erm , is that so we could er lift the paper out and
Yeah , once again so dingy grey means
No , I 'll that , we 'll just type it in again .
But I 'll take the originals cos it 's on there before .
Aha .
So we 'll copy that , or we 'll have to change it to survey manager , this one anyway .
And I think when it says notes for supervisor , we can just put manager down there .
And
Manager
,
and , yeah .
Quite isn't it ?
Yes .
E Any driver over twenty five plus the two name yes .
Could n't you manage to get ?
Well you see that 's
Erm
It 's er and it 's er
What 's your wife 's name ?
Er no ,
Okay .
the car , it 's thirteen ninety five eleven .
Okay .
You mean a ?
Yeah .
er he doesn't think he 's .
What have you got ?
Ay ?
I crossed it out because I .
And it doesn't .
I thought that was okay , what you 'd done ?
I crossed it out because I thought it was gonna say cos I thought it said , survey managers are instructed to work at all times
equal to supervisor so I crossed that out and then I realised that it said intervene .
Erm well no , no .
Oh !
Thought it would .
Yes .
We 'll have a few reports to do next week .
Yeah .
Yeah .
. Thank you , bye bye ! dunno what 's going on after those files !
Dunno what .
got all the flash gear and the policemen were fined two hundred pound
Well
and as long as I reply
they can't do anything .
they in a
No .
round about four hundred
Yeah well there 's
so I stayed where I was .
This year their policy 's has and Direct Line have sent me a quote for two hundred .
That 's er Di diddle di dee dee dee dee der isn't it ?
Er
Direct Line
that was , that was .
Oh .
Which one was that ?
You know , with the little car jumping up ?
Something Direct .
Yeah .
I thought it was called that .
It 's not Direct Line it 's something Direct .
Yeah but First Direct
That 's it .
Them .
Is it ?
Yeah .
I don't know .
I don't make a habit of admitting to it .
Why ever not ?
Hello !
No , I'm not worried I'm got something .
Yeah .
Yeah .
How long have you known him ?
Yeah .
He sent me er to renew his
What ?
and some
So what do you do ?
I 'll take the
Pleasure .
Er er er !
Okay that 's fine .
Then we 'll have a .
Okay .
G
Okay , yeah great !
Yeah , I 'll just ask him , and that is er what , all the red ones have to be used for now ?
Ah ?
Or do we send them to Mike ?
I 've done this before .
Oh we don't ?
Have you ?
Oh !
Right , okay then .
I 'll put them back onto your phone .
Bloody hell !
Ay !
What a !
Right , thanks mate !
He 's gonna sell me out and tell you all the Kirby ones .
.
Pardon ?
.
Yeah , number forty seven .
Aye !
Aye !
To the
Try and avoid him .
Yeah , .
Are you alright ?
No , .
Mhm .
Probably went down too much .
Down ?
Down .
about eighty .
There 's one er ,
I think she 's right .
We 'll now try
Oh yeah .
No difficulty .
Go back and let me but , yeah , I mean that 's the idea .
The idea is that 's the one tha that 's generally .
Well yes it 's .
That
they like to mend it .
It 's not there
don't want .
No , you 're alright .
I don't see that any more .
Then erm
Ah !
That 's
better .
We should draw a .
Mm .
Oh , that , that 's just er that was er quite reasonable
Yeah .
really .
Yeah , oh yeah !
Cos they ai n't gonna get none !
I mean , it 's a bit easier with , cos everyone 's done it before and you all know what you 're doing .
Mm .
Have to be a like a hawk on mine !
Mm !
Yes , .
Well no it 's erm the same as and the stuff .
It 's er , .
What 's his first name ?
.
And is he Liverpool ?
Is he ?
Chester ?
Do it yourself !
This ai n't mine !
I know you !
bee um bum bum .
You look tired Tine
erm put it on there..
Well jus haven't you got enough to be getting ?
Well , so that 's erm
, hello !
Hi !
Sorry ?
Yeah .
Monday ?
Give us a clue Billy ?
Oh !
No I didn't .
Oh well done !
Well done !
What you getting ?
Brand new ?
Well ?
Mhm .
Mhm .
Well congratulations !
Er I can't say .
No !
Are you coming back ?
Erm , yes and no .
No , er it 's not closed it 's left open .
Well I think everyone 's finished anyway .
Is it ?
Ha !
Is it ?
Mhm .
So have you got a nice to go with this promotion ?
Mhm .
Oh God !
Alright .
Mm .
Where 's your two front teeth ?
Sorry !
Mhm , course it does .
Are they going to increase your wage a after the recession ?
You got a clause saying that ?
Well you wanna get it in writing !
Well I would try and get something to that effect in writing .
Yeah !
Yeah .
Where are the other ?
You should n't have given it !
Mhm .
Yeah .
Mhm .
Mhm .
You are kidding !
Mhm .
Mhm .
Mhm .
Why ?
What have you done ?
Ah , I see !
No .
Why ? mm , possibly now .
You sound different .
To rest .
No news of him at all ?
Aha .
Get out !
It 's last years .
I just .
That 's alright .
Just don't have an accident !
Right , that 's a good job done there !
Does that mean I got ta phone Judge cap in hand ?
Well it could be .
I 'll see him
Wait until I 've seen if Will 's got his .
Well I 'll see if I can the te telly I must have a .
Well if Will has n't got his it means they haven't been issued .
I think they were , were .
I 'll see er I 'll see to .
Have you sent a letter of confirmation to Mr ?
No .
That 's on the list here .
Good morning !
Can I speak to please ?
I 'll ring him today and tell him .
Mhm .
And er he can wait if you haven't done
Hello , is that Tammy ?
no
Hi ! ,
hi , it 's Rob from the Moore office .
Erm I'm of er I'm been asked your
Does he have to give him a quote before you
insurance er
ay ?
certificate .
Does he have to give you a quote ?
No , cos we know his
The R A C book
Yes .
of .
What about the er
Not got a as well .
certificate and it 's last year .
We 'll know more about er , to it .
Yeah , I'm sure I'm I 've
Okay .
I 've got ta try and do my figures .
I think , I'm fairly sure you 've er sent me one previously .
Yeah , if you could send me I 'd appreciate it .
Oh no !
Okay ?
Lovely , thanks a Tammy , yeah , and you .
bye bye !
Tell Jan there 's one on the way .
Okay .
Right .
See if there 's a letter on the file .
Mhm .
And if there is read through it and see the you know , li and then Peter will .
Okay .
Actually I mean my mammy 's not very good .
I can imagine them doing it now for all it 's worth .
The , did they have a piece and you cut off the bottom ?
No .
No , they had to have it with them at on the
That were just the temporary passes for the motorway that we had to return to department .
Er , .
Yeah .
Right , well I'm sure
Yeah .
they put four two nine .
Forty two pound twenty nine .
Well when they put they put sixty five staff before the surveys ?
That 's still four two nine six that innit ?
And it 's still four two nine six .
Well I dunno .
Four two nine six .
But the report 's called six three five .
.
I 've got ta do the books for those files on Sunday so I 'll , I 've had to leave
No .
it till then .
Yeah , smashing !
That 'd make more sense wouldn't it ?
Cos I'm going through the document , er
Er
documents issues .
Down what ?
Documents erm , from first of January this year .
So , required .
I 'll put that on this slip of paper .
Oh !
Okay then .
And there oh !
I want to see it 's bloody silly !
So these agree ?
I think we should have somebody in here you see .
Mhm .
Erm so , put on here since January .
Okay .
So that re , will just be a couple of reports and something
Right .
You going home now ?
Alright ?
Yep .
So that that 's of erm as big a task as we 'd really like to .
Yeah .
This one .
Hi Bob !
I need to know as soon as possible now whether we can do these surveys or not so I can fill the policies in .
So as soon as you can let us know , I 'd be grateful .
I hate that !
I 'll phone you Thursday night all night , .
Who Bob ?
He 's going to Yeah .
Mm .
It 's three quarters of an hour when I was at mum 's .
Yeah , it 's annoying when they say they 're gonna ring isn't it ?
I mean , er , I 've got this Jean hanging on .
Mm .
She 'll be there won't she ?
She 's dangling !
dangling , ay ?
I just can't go ho oh oh mm mm mm , mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm mm , mm mm mm mm .
Bless you !
Oh !
Actually Jim erm
Mm .
we 've got a feller that we use for , he 's seventy odd !
George .
George .
Why ?
Well this feller that rung me was sixty three .
Ah , these agencies use them to .
So !
No , we wo , we were just saying like that it 's a shame because like maybe some of them have been made redundant or
Oh I see !
Yeah .
Yeah .
and Bev was saying do you get more men than women ?
And I said , well it used to be
Normally .
But it 's all women !
More women .
Well , yeah it was .
But now more and more maybe cos they 're taking early retirement or getting made redundant I mean it 's the fellers isn't it ?
Yes .
So that 's not going ?
Get them go and look at
You what Jan ?
You know when we 're going to look at the four forty five I may as well get book four two nine six seven .
Or , perhaps we could just think of something between us .
Oh yeah , I don't see why not .
I'm sure we could er put our heads together and come up with something .
Mm , heaven !
Ah !
Now this Miss .
What 's Mr like to get hold of these days , during the day ?
Er afternoon 's dodgy Morning 's alright .
Cheers .
Have you got an address close to it ?
Yep .
Oh I 've knocked it off .
Some something better than erm the Daniel one .
Did you hear about that ?
Permanent
No .
letters .
Have you got you want a .
Yeah .
I , I 've got these letters out of here to be honest .
It 's almost on one .
Mhm .
And er get her the confirmation one she wants .
And erm yeah that 's it .
Put all that on for the attention of Mr Ray
I had a phone call from so she said to me come down to the admin , so I went down and she 'd opened the letter and give it back to us .
The post .
What a stupid
So I took it home and stuck it under the door .
And have we done anything ?
No .
Well it had department erm Frank
And Chris the tomboy !
that address and for the attention of Mr Ray And it arrived back to us !
Oh this chair .
Can I copy from ?
No you bloody can't copy !
God you 're so cheeky , you !
I'm not gonna have them going to Ormskirk Mm .
Mm !
What a cheeky , young , person !
You copy the ones from to these didn't you ?
I did not !
Those are , pull out of my own head those are !
No !
Did actually .
Eighty ?
Yeah .
Mm mm mm , mm mm mm mm .
don't keep them all in my feet !
I do .
Wilf is going to be , Sergeant .
Mm .
You just wanted write his name didn't you ?
Well I suppose so really .
But if you know them why should you put Dear sir ?
Well it 's true .
I see what you mean .
Does seem a bit silly doesn't it ?
Here , that 's innit ?
Just , I don't believe my luck ! .
What ?
Oh !
Put your phone down .
Sorry mum , I thought you you was out still .
Oh !
You all set then ?
Dad pack all his gear did he ?
Mhm .
Mhm .
Good stuff !
And here .
Yeah .
Quite an expanse of blue sky .
Well .
Yeah .
Oh yeah !
Mhm .
can't be bad !
They rain all the time .
Mhm .
Mhm .
Yeah .
Mhm .
Been a busy little bee .
Mhm .
And you mum I 've got yeah , will do erm I 've forgotten what I was gonna say now .
Oh Pat phoned , she does want Jenny to baby-sit .
Okay .
Okay .
m

Lot seventy does not have a horn with it but Lot ninety two , the good news is it does have a reproducer er Lot one hundred and eleven should have a black dot against it to indicate that it will be removed from the premises if not cleared within the stated time Lot one seven four is withdrawn one nine one the estimate should read eight to twelve hundred and finally Lot one nine eight is withdrawn .
Right , Lot one is on the screen now , yes , there it is , Lot one fifty pounds for this , fifty pounds anyone ?
That 's fifty pounds bid , fifty five fifty five now , any more , fifty five .
All on fifty five fifty five , any more ?
At fifty five , all done ?
Fifty five only sixty down there , thank you , sixty on the left , sixty five seventy , five seventy against you on the left , now any more ?
Seventy five , you all done at seventy five eighty eighty pounds now , eighty five eighty five , any more ?
At eighty five bid standing standing at eighty five against you all seated now , at ninety pounds , standing at the back and I 'll sell at ninety pounds , are you all done , ninety pounds ninety five just in time one hundred one ten one twenty one thirty one thirty still on the left at the back at one thirty , any more now at a hundred and thirty pounds ?
Can I have the number sir .
It is eight five seven , thank you very much .
And Lot two erm two receivers and an H M V pick-up attachment Lot two er fifty for these , fifty pounds anyone ?
Fifty pounds fifty pounds , anyone at fifty fifty pounds , no one at fifty , twenty then , twenty pounds twenty pounds at twenty , twenty bid down there , thank you , any more at twenty ?
Twenty pounds , twenty two twenty five , twenty eight thirty five forty , five forty five forty five , all done at forty five , now any more ?
At forty five , fifty standing fifty five fifty five standing at fifty five , any more ?
Fifty five pounds all done at fifty five , now any more at fifty sixty sixty pounds up there all done then at sixty pounds
Er Lot three showing Lot three the er Radio Year Book fifty pounds anyone ?
At fifty pounds fifty bid , sixty seventy , seventy pounds any more at seventy ?
Seventy pounds , five , any more ?
At seventy five all done , at seventy five only , any more at seventy five pounds ?
Any more at seventy five .
And Lot four is er an Amplion speaker Lot four and I 've fifty offered , any more at fifty , alright sixty sixty pounds , any more ?
At sixty , all done at sixty only , sixty five , seventy five eighty five eighty five stands , any more at eighty five pounds ?
All done at eighty five pounds ninety good for ninety five one hundred seated and ten one ten on the right standing a hundred and ten against you all at and twenty one thirty one thirty , on the right standing , at one thirty are you all done at a hundred and thirty pounds .
That 's number nine O six , thank you .
And Lot five there 's Lot five , the er V two Lot five and I have four hundred pounds offered for this one four hundred pounds and twenty four fifty , four eighty at four hundred and eighty pounds , any more at four eighty ?
Five hundred five hundred now , any more at five hundred and fifty five hundred and fifty pounds , any more at five fifty ? at five hundred and fifty pounds against you , are you all done ?
At five hundred and fifty pounds any more ?
For one three O .
And Lot six Brownie number two and Lot six er fifty for these fifty pounds fifty , anyone at fifty ?
Fifty five , sixty , sixty pounds , any more at sixty five , any more , seventy , seventy five eighty five ninety ninety standing , any more at ninety , all done ?
At ninety only , any more at ninety pounds , all done , ninety five one hundred one ten one twenty one twenty standing , any more at a hundred and twenty ?
All done at a hundred and twenty pounds .
nine O six , thank you .
Lot seven is the Andia Cockatoo loudspeaker now showing , there it is , thank you , Lot seven and two hundred is offered for this , two hundred pounds and twenty , two twenty forty , sixty two sixty now any more at two sixty , all done ?
Two sixty , eighty , three hundred three hundred pounds any more at three hundred pounds , all done at three hundred pounds , and I 'll sell at three hundred pounds , any more ?
One one two five .
Whoop .
Lot eight is the Pye transportable showing twenty pounds at twenty pounds twenty twenty , twenty pounds at twenty pounds twenty pounds .
Lot nine is a Brownie number two thank you , there it is , Lot nine twenty for this one twenty pounds twenty twenty two twenty five twenty five seated , any more at twenty five pounds , at twenty five , twenty eight thirty thirty five forty forty five fifty fifty pounds down here any more at fifty ?
I 'll sell at fifty pounds all done , fifty five standing standing at fifty five , sixty sixty there now , sixty five seventy seventy pounds on the right , any more ?
Against you on the aisle so eighty at the back now against you , all done at eighty pounds right at the back , eighty pounds , are you all done ?
I 'll sell at eighty pounds .
Number three one O thank you .
Lot ten Gecophone number one and I have eighty pounds , eighty five , ninety ninety pounds , any more ?
Ninety five at ninety five , any more at ninety five pounds ?
All done then at ninety five , any more , ninety five , one hundred , one ten against you now , a hundred and ten , twenty , one thirty at one thirty with me , all done at one thirty ?
I shall sell then , it 's with me at a hundred and thirty pounds .
. Lot eleven two Pye portables , Lot eleven fifty for them , fifty anyone ?
At fifty pounds fifty fifty pounds at fifty pounds fifty pounds .
And Lot twelve is the Ediswan mains receiver , Lot twelve and I have forty offered for this , any more at forty ?
Forty pounds , any more ?
At forty , all done then at forty five standing , fifty fifty five , sixty sixty five standing at sixty five , any more at sixty five all done at sixty five , seventy seventy five eighty eighty five ninety ninety five one hundred one ten one twenty one thirty forty one fifty sixty one sixty .
one sixty , any more at a hundred and sixty pounds , at one sixty any more ? thank you very much .
And Lot thirteen
is the Grafonola with some needle tins and things , Lot thirteen , twenty for them , twenty pounds at thirty pounds , anyone at twenty twenty pounds , twenty three , any more , twenty at twenty pounds any advance on twenty pounds , two , five eight , thirty thirty pounds against you , thirty five forty forty five fifty fifty five sixty sixty five seventy seventy five standing at seventy five pounds now , any more at seventy five at the back , I 'll sell at seventy five pounds .
and Lot fourteen is the cabinet now showing , thank you , Lot fourteen , fifty for it fifty pounds anywhere at fifty at fifty pounds fifty at fifty pounds fifty pounds , anywhere at fifty unwanted then at fifty pounds fifty pounds .
Lot fifteen thank you , is two portables , Lot fifteen , twenty for them twenty pounds anywhere at twenty at twenty pounds any more at twenty twenty two twenty five twenty five pounds down there , twenty eight thirty thirty five forty five fifty five sixty five seventy seventy pounds seated , now any more at seventy , seventy five eighty eighty five ninety ninety five one hundred one ten one twenty one twenty seated , any more at one twenty ?
All done then , I 'll sell at a hundred and twenty pounds .
And the number is nine one seven , thank you , Lot sixteen mahogany cabinet gramophone , there it is , Lot sixteen , twenty for it twenty pounds anywhere ?
At twenty pounds twenty bid twenty two twenty five , twenty eight twenty eight pounds against you now , any more at twenty eight ?
All done at twenty eight pounds then , any more , thirty five thirty five against you standing , thirty five , all done then , at thirty five pounds , any more ?
Forty forty five fifty on the fifty pounds , any more at fifty and I 'll sell at fifty pounds .
The number is nine two seven , thank you , Lot seventeen is a Stroviol and a couple of bows to go with it , Lot seventeen and I have sixty offered for these , five , seventy five seventy five pounds , any more ?
At seventy five , eighty five ninety five one hundred , one ten against you now , one twenty one thirty one forty , one fifty with me , one sixty near the back at one sixty there , any more at one sixty ?
All done at a hundred and sixty pounds one seventy one seventy now on the one eighty one ninety one ninety two hundred two hundred pounds .
All done at two hundred and I 'll sell at two hundred pounds .
Eight six one , thank you .
Lot eighteen is the H M V Model thirteen there it is , thank you various accessories to go with it , Lot eighteen hundred pounds for it , one hundred anywhere ?
One hundred pounds one hundred one hundred bid , ten , twenty one thirty any more at a hundred and thirty pounds ?
All done at a hundred and thirty only , one forty , one fifty sixty , one seventy eighty ninety standing at one ninety , any more ?
All done then ?
Bidding two hundred two two twenty on the aisle
bidding two forty bidding ?
Er two sixty two eighty two eighty the bid , any more at two eighty now ?
I 'll sell at two hundred and eighty pounds are you all done at two hundred and eighty pounds .
And your number ?
Eight six three .
And Lot nineteen is the H M V Model one six three , now showing , thank you , Lot nineteen and I 've three hundred offered and twenty
three eighty , four hundred and twenty four eight , four fifty , four eighty at four eighty now , any more at four eighty ?
Four hundred and eighty pounds all done at four eighty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred and fifty at six fifty now , any more ?
It 's with me at six hundred and fifty pounds all done at six fifty then ?
I 'll sell at six hundred and fifty pounds any more ?
One three six .
Lot twenty is a Pathe Gaulois glass horn , there it is now showing , Lot twenty and I have three hundred offered , three twenty three fifty three eighty , four hundred twenty fifty , four eighty at four hundred and eighty pounds any more at four eighty , five hundred and fifty five fifty , any more ?
Five fifty , six hundred , six fifty six hundred and fifty pounds , any more ?
Six seven hundred , seven fifty seven hundred and fifty eight hundred on my right now at eight hundred pounds , any more ?
At eight hundred , eight fifty eight fifty on my left nine hundred nine hundred pounds , any more ?
It 's against you bidding on my right at nine hundred pounds , now any more at nine hundred pounds ?
You all done then , on my right nine hundred pounds any more ?
All done ?
Six six five , thank you .
Lot twenty one the lacquer cabinet gramophone thank you , there it is showing , twenty for this twenty pounds anywhere at twenty twenty pounds any more at twenty ?
All done at twenty only , two five eight thirty five forty five forty five standing , any more at forty five pounds ?
Fifty fifty five sixty five seventy seventy pounds standing there , any more at seventy ?
I 'll sell then seventy five eighty five ninety five one hundred , one ten twenty , thirty one thirty on the left now at the back one thirty are you all done at one hundred and thirty pounds ?
Number nine six seven , thank you .
Er Lot twenty two is a Beltona portable there it is , thank you thirty offered for this , any more at thirty ?
Thirty pounds , any more ?
Five , forty at forty pounds any more ?
At forty , all done at forty pounds five fifty five , sixty five , seventy five , eighty five eighty five at the back , any more ?
Eighty five pounds then , at the back and I 'll sell at eighty five , ninety on the aisle , ninety five one hundred one ten one twenty one twenty on the aisle , at one twenty , are you all done at a hundred and twenty pounds ?
. Now Lot twenty three a red portable one O one , there it is , Lot twenty three twenty for it twenty pounds anywhere at thirty pounds , thirty twenty bid , thank you , any more at thirty thirty five forty five fifty five sixty five seventy seventy pounds seated , any more at seventy ?
Five eighty eighty five ninety ninety pounds ninety are you all done and I 'll sell at ninety pounds .
one seven , thank you .
Lot twenty four this is the model one six three there it is , thank you , I 'd like two hundred offered for this one two hundred pounds any more at two hundred ?
Two hundred pounds , any more ?
At two hundred pounds , are you all done at two hundred , two twenty , two forty two sixty , two eighty three hundred , three twenty three fifty , three eighty three eighty with me now four hundred on my right at four hundred pounds , are you all done at four hundred ?
I shall sell then at four hundred pounds .
Five seven six , thank you .
Lot twenty five little red Peter Pan there it is now showing , thank you and I 've a hundred pounds offered for this , any more at one hundred ?
One hundred pounds and ten , one twenty , one thirty , one forty one fifty , one sixty seventy , eighty , one ninety , two hundred and twenty two twenty seated , any more ?
At two hundred and twenty pounds two forty two sixty , two eighty three hundred three hundred pounds , three twenty on the aisle three fifty three eighty three eighty on the aisle , bidding sir ? for three that bid 's on the aisle , three eighty , any more at three hundred , four hundred four hundred and twenty on the aisle at four twenty , now any more at four hundred and twenty pounds and I shall sell at four hundred and twenty pounds .
Lot twenty six is the Edison disc phonograph , there it is , thank you , Lot twenty six , hundred pounds for this , one hundred anywhere , one hundred pounds bid , ten , twenty , any more at one twenty , thirty one thirty now , any more ?
You all done at one thirty , one forty , one fifty one sixty , seventy one eighty one eighty on the right , any more ?
At a hundred and eighty pounds , standing on my right at a hundred and eighty pounds , are you all done ?
I shall sell at one hundred and eighty pounds , any more .
That 's number five seven six , thank you .
Lot twenty seven is the cottage gramophone there it is , thank you , Lot twenty seven and I have a hundred offered and ten , twenty , one thirty forty , one fifty , any more at one fifty ?
One hundred and fifty , sixty , seventy one seventy now , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred and twenty , two forty , two sixty , two eighty , three hundred , three twenty in the front at three twenty now , any more ?
At three hundred and twenty in the front row and I 'll sell at three twenty , are you all done at three hundred and twenty pounds .
thank you .
Lot twenty eight is a Klingsor there 's the Klingsor now showing , Lot twenty eight and I have five hundred offered for it , any advance on five hundred pounds ?
Five hundred pounds , any more ?
At five hundred , all done at five fifty , six hundred six fifty , seven hundred seven hundred pounds with me now , any more ?
At seven hundred pounds , seven fifty eight hundred eight hundred , it 's against you now , any more at eight hundred pounds still with me at eight hundred , are you all done at eight hundred pounds ?
I shall sell then at eight hundred pounds , against you all in the room .
Number one two nine .
And Lot twenty nine is a Mikkyphone , that kind of Mikkyphone , Lot twenty nine and I have a hundred pounds offered , any more at a hundred ?
One hundred pounds and ten , one twenty one twenty , it 's against you now , one thirty , one forty , one fifty , one sixty against you at one sixty , the bid 's with me at one sixty , any more ?
One seventy on the aisle one eighty one ninety down on the aisle at one ninety now , any more ?
At a hundred and ninety two hundred two twenty two twenty , any more bids ?
On the aisle at two twenty now , are you all done at two twenty ?
I 'll sell then at two hundred and twenty pounds .
thank you .
Lot thirty is a Peter Pan there it is now showing , Lot thirty a hundred pounds for it , one hundred anywhere ?
One hundred pounds , one hundred and ten , one twenty thirty , forty one forty standing , any more at one forty ?
All done then at a hundred and forty pounds , standing at the back , one fifty one sixty one seventy , one eighty one eighty standing , any more at one eighty ?
It 's against you seated and I 'll sell at one hundred and eighty pounds , one ninety two hundred standing at two hundred now , against you seated , are you all done at two hundred pounds ? six six , thank you .
Lot thirty one is the Model four six one , Lot thirty one there it is now showing , thank you , fifty for it ?
Fifty pounds anywhere at fifty ?
At fifty , fifty pounds bid , five , sixty sixty pounds five , any more ?
Sixty five all done at sixty five now , any more ?
Six , seventy , thank you , standing , seventy five eighty eighty five ninety standing at ninety pounds , against you seated at ninety pounds , are you all done ?
I shall sell then at ninety pounds , any more , ninety five ninety five on my left , now any more at ninety five pounds ?
I 'll sell at ninety five .
Number eight six , thank you .
Lot thirty two is the H M V one O one showing now , Lot thirty two and I have fifty offered for these , five , sixty sixty pounds any more at sixty ?
At sixty pounds , five , seventy five , eighty five , ninety ninety pounds , any more ?
Ninety five one hundred standing standing at a hundred pounds now , any more ?
At a hundred pounds , are you all done ?
And ten one hundred and ten up here on my right , any more at a hundred and ten pounds ?
I shall sell then at one hundred , and twenty one twenty , at a hundred and twenty pounds , are you all finished at one hundred and twenty pounds ?
And thirty , just in time , any more then at a hundred and thirty pounds .
And the number 's , thank you .
Lot thirty three is a horn gramophone there showing , thank you , Lot thirty three erm a hundred and fifty offered for this one hundred and fifty pounds , any more ?
One fifty , one sixty , one seventy one seventy now , any more at a hundred and seventy ?
All done then at a hundred and seventy , one eighty seated , one ninety two hundred , two twenty , forty two sixty two hundred and sixty pounds , any more at two sixty ?
All done at a hundred and sixty , any more at two two eighty seated then at two hundred and eighty pounds any more , are you all done ?
At two hundred and eighty pounds .
nine three , thank you .
Lot thirty four another horn gramophone now showing , thank you and I have two hundred offered for this , twenty , two forty , two sixty , any more at two sixty ?
Two eighty , three hundred , three twenty , three fifty , three eighty on my right at three eighty now , any more ?
At three hundred and eighty pounds there and I shall sell at three hundred and eighty pounds .
thank you .
Lot thirty five is the French phonograph now showing , Lot thirty five a hundred is offered for this , one hundred pounds and ten , one twenty , one thirty , any more at one thirty ?
One hundred and thirty pounds , any more ?
One forty , one fifty sixty , one seventy eighty , one ninety , two hundred and twenty forty , sixty one sixty , any more ?
Two sixty , two eighty two eighty down there now any more at two eighty ?
You all done then at two hundred and eighty pounds ?
Three hundred seated three twenty three twenty standing , all done at three twenty and I 'll sell at three hundred and twenty pounds , three fifty three eighty three hundred and eighty pounds standing , any more ?
Bidding ?
Four hundred four twenty four twenty standing , any more ?
Four twenty standing then and I 'll sell at four hundred and twenty pounds .
Nine seven six , thank you .
And Lot thirty six is a Puck there it is , thank you , Lot thirty six , fifty for this fifty pounds anywhere at fifty ?
Fifty pounds fifty bid , thank you , fifty five sixty sixty five , seventy , five , eighty , five , ninety , five one hundred , one ten twenty , thirty , forty , one fifty one sixty one sixty at the back , any more at one sixty ?
I shall sell then , one seventy new bidder one seventy on the aisle , now any more at a hundred and seventy , one eighty one eighty at the back again , all done then at a hundred and eighty pounds .
thank you .
Lot thirty seven is an Edison Gem phonograph as you can see it has some cylinders with it er fifty pounds for it , fifty pounds any bids , five , sixty , five , seventy five , eighty , ninety , one hundred a hundred pounds and ten any more at a hundred and ten ?
One hundred and ten pounds , any more ?
One twenty , one thirty one forty , one fifty sixty , one seventy , one eighty one eighty up here , any more at one eighty ?
One ninety two hundred , two twenty two forty , two sixty two sixty seated , any more at two sixty ?
All done then at two hundred and sixty pounds two eighty new bidder three hundred three hundred pounds , all done at three hundred then I 'll sell at three hundred pounds .
thank you .
Lot thirty eight is the mahogany Monarch with brass horn now showing , thank you , I 've five hundred pounds offered , any more at five hundred ?
Five hundred pounds , any more ?
At five fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred and fifty , nine hundred and fifty , one thousand one hundred , two hundred , three hundred , four hundred five hundred at one thousand five hundred pounds on my right , six hundred seven hundred one thousand seven hundred pounds on my right now , any more at one thousand seven hundred pounds ?
I shall sell then at one thousand seven hundred pounds .
Number nine seven six , thank you .
And Lot thirty nine is four six O , there it is , Lot thirty nine two hundred offered for it , any more at two hundred , and twenty two hundred and twenty pounds , any more ?
At two forty , two sixty two eighty , three hundred three twenty , three fifty three eighty , four hundred and twenty , four fifty four eighty , five hundred , and fifty five fifty standing now , any more ?
At five hundred and fifty pounds , all done then ?
Six hundred new bidder six , six fifty six fifty standing seven hundred , seven fifty seven fifty standing , all done at seven fifty then and I shall sell at seven hundred and fifty pounds .
one two , thank you .
Lot forty is the Zonophone advertisement now showing , thank you , Lot forty for which I have eighty pounds offered , ninety , one hundred and ten , one twenty , one thirty one thirty standing , any more at one thirty ?
All done ?
Standing at the back , one thirty and I 'll sell at one hundred and thirty pounds .
thank you .
Lot forty one Edison Gem there it is , Lot forty one eighty is offered for this eighty pounds , ninety , one hundred one hundred against you now , any more ?
At a hundred pounds , all done then at a hundred and ten , twenty one thirty , one forty fifty , one sixty seventy , one eighty one eighty with me , it 's , any more at one eighty ?
I shall sell then at a hundred and eighty pounds , are you all done at one eighty ?
Lot forty two two Columbia portables there they are now , thank you , Lot forty two , fifty for them fifty pounds anywhere for the portables ?
Twenty then , twenty pounds twenty pounds at the back , any more ?
Twenty two five eight standing twenty eight pounds standing now , any more at twenty eight , thirty , thirty five , forty forty five , fifty fifty pounds on my right , any more at fifty ?
Fifty five fifty five at the back , any more at fifty five pounds ?
Sixty on the aisle sixty five sixty five standing , all done at sixty five pounds ?
I shall sell then at sixty five pounds seventy , just in time , any more at seventy ?
It 's on the aisle now at seventy pounds .
And that number is nine two seven , thank you .
And Lot forty three is an H M V one O one and a Columbia as well thank you , Lot forty three and I have forty offered for these , any more at forty ?
Five , fifty five , sixty sixty pounds with me , any more ?
Sixty five , seventy , five , eighty eighty pounds , any more ?
Five , ninety ninety pounds with me , any more at ninety ?
I 'll sell them at ninety pounds , ninety five , one hundred one hundred pounds still with me , any more ?
Are you all done at one hundred pounds .
six one .
Lot forty four there it is now showing , Lot forty four twenty for this , twenty pounds anywhere ?
At twenty two in the Lot twenty pounds anywhere ?
Twenty bid , twenty two five , eight thirty five thirty five pounds , any more ?
Forty forty pounds standing , any more at forty ?
Bidding ?
Standing then at forty pounds , are you all done and I 'll sell , forty five fifty fifty pounds standing , any more at fifty ?
Are you all done then at fifty pounds and I shall sell at fifty pounds .
Nine six O , thank you .
And Lot forty five thank you , Lot forty five is that 's Lot forty five an Edison Home phonograph Lot forty five , an Edison Home phonograph with H reproducer and large brass horn and I have two hundred pounds offered for it , two hundred pounds , any more at two hundred ?
Two hundred and twenty , two forty , two sixty , two eighty , three hundred , three twenty , three fifty , three eighty three eighty , it 's against you now , any more at three eighty ?
The bid 's with me at three hundred and eighty pounds and I shall sell , are you all done at three hundred and eighty pounds .
. Lot forty six Trade-Mark gramophone , there it is on the screen now , Lot forty six I 've a thousand pounds offered for this , one thousand pounds , any advance on a thousand ?
One hundred two hundred three hundred , four hundred five hundred , six hundred seven hundred one thousand seven hundred pounds standing , any more ?
One thousand eight hundred nine hundred two thousand two thousand two hundred two thousand two hundred pounds , any more ?
Two thousand four hundred two thousand six hundred standing at two thousand six hundred pounds , any more ?
Two thousand six hundred pounds and I shall sell at two thousand six hundred pounds .
Three two seven , thank you .
Lot forty seven is five postcards there 's the two , there they are twenty pounds for them twenty anywhere ?
At twenty pounds twenty twenty pounds twenty is bid , thank you , in the doorway , any more at twenty ?
I 'll sell them at twenty pounds then , in a single bid , are you all done at twenty pounds ?
Any more , it 's in the doorway at twenty pounds twenty two twenty two near me now , any more at twenty two pounds ?
All finished at twenty two , twenty five twenty eight twenty eight still , twenty eight then , all done now at twenty eight pounds .
Number nine one five , thank you .
Lot forty eight a Style number six now showing , thank you , Lot forty eight and I have three hundred offered , three twenty , three fifty three hundred and fifty pounds , any more at three fifty ?
All done , three eighty , four hundred four twenty , four fifty , four eighty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty at seven hundred and fifty pounds , any more ?
Eight hundred and fifty nine hundred and fifty one thousand one hundred two hundred three hundred one thousand , one thousand three hundred pounds then one thousand three hundred pounds , all done ?
One thousand three on my right standing and I 'll sell at one thousand three hundred pounds .
Nine seven six , thank you .
And Lot forty nine is the drip-pan Gem there it is , Lot forty nine a hundred pounds offered , hundred and ten , one twenty , one thirty , any more at one thirty ?
Forty , one fifty , sixty seventy eighty one ninety two hundred and twenty forty .
sixty two eighty three hundred three twenty three fifty three eighty four hundred four twenty four fifty four eighty five hundred and fifty five fifty on the right then , any more at five hundred and fifty and I 'll sell at five hundred and fifty pounds .
Nine seven six , thank you .
And Lot fifty is a suitcase Standard , there it is now , Lot fifty for which I have a hundred and fifty offered , sixty , one seventy , one eighty one ninety two hundred , two twenty two forty , two sixty two eighty , three hundred and twenty , three twenty seated , any more ?
At three twenty , all done then at three twenty now seated and I 'll sell at three hundred and twenty pounds .
Number eight nine three .
Lot fifty one is a suitcase Home , there it is now showing , Lot fifty one , two hundred for this two hundred anywhere ?
Two hundred pounds anywhere ?
Two hundred , two hundred bid and twenty forty , two sixty , two eighty three hundred three twenty three twenty now , any more ?
At three twenty , three fifty standing , three eighty four hundred four hundred pounds standing , now any more at four hundred ?
Bidding sir ? four hundred standing , four twenty on the aisle four fifty four fifty standing at the back , any more at four fifty ?
Four eighty five hundred down there five fifty at five fifty there now , any more ?
At five fifty , it 's against you all on the left , at five fifty , any more at five hundred and fifty pounds ? is nine seven six , thank you .
Lot fifty two is an Excelsior there it is , Lot fifty two , hundred for , one hundred anywhere ?
One hundred bid and ten , one twenty , thirty , forty , fifty , one sixty , seventy , eighty , ninety , two hundred , two twenty , two forty , two sixty eighty two hundred and eighty pounds standing any more ?
Three hundred , three twenty three fifty , three eighty four hundred four hundred on my right now , any more at four hundred ?
I shall sell then at four hundred pounds .
Nine seven six , thank you .
Lot fifty three is an Edison Gem there it is you can see it now Lot fifty three and I have a hundred and fifty offered for this , sixty , one seventy , one eighty ninety , two hundred two hundred , yes , two hundred and twenty , two forty , two sixty two sixty near the back seated , any more ?
Two eighty three hundred , three twenty three twenty standing , any more at three twenty ?
All done then and I 'll sell at three hundred and twenty pounds .
Nine two three , thank you .
Lot fifty four is the Fireside Fireside Fireside horn , there it is , thank you , Lot fifty four two hundred offered , twenty , forty , two sixty two hundred and sixty pounds , any more ?
At two sixty , all done at two sixty only ?
Two eighty , three hundred three twenty three fifty , three eighty , four hundred and twenty four fifty eighty five hundred and fifty , six hundred and fifty six hundred and fifty pounds , any more at six fifty ?
Seven hundred seven fifty seven hundred and fifty pounds , all done then and I 'll sell at seven hundred and fifty pounds .
seven six , thank you .
Lot fifty five four phonograph horns and Lot fifty five , fifty for them fifty pounds anywhere ?
At fifty bid , thank you , five sixty , five seventy , five against you seventy five , eighty eighty five ninety at ninety pounds up here , any more ?
Ninety five one hundred one ten one twenty one thirty one hundred and thirty seated , one forty one fifty one sixty one sixty standing , any more ?
Bidding ?
Standing then at one sixty , are you all done , one seventy , one eighty , one ninety two hundred two twenty two twenty on the left standing , any more at two twenty ?
All done then ?
Two forty two forty standing at the back now , all done at two hundred and forty pounds .
Nine two four , thank you .
And Lot fifty six is the gramophone horn basket there it is , thank you , with the horn inside er fifty is offered for this , fifty five , sixty , five , sixty five pounds , any more ?
Seventy , seventy five , eighty five ninety , ninety five one hundred , one ten , one twenty , one thirty , forty one forty down there , any more at one forty ?
All done ?
Any more at one hundred , one fifty one sixty , one sixty in the centre , any more ?
Seventy one seventy , one eighty one eighty one eighty , are you all done at one hundred and eighty pounds seated in the centre .
number is nine one seven , thank you .
Lot fifty seven is the car mascot there it is , Lot fifty seven I 've a hundred and fifty offered for this , sixty , one seventy , one eighty one hundred and eighty pounds , any more ?
One eighty , one ninety two hundred , two twenty , two forty two forty now , any more ?
Two sixty , two eighty two eighty , three hundred three twenty three fifty three eighty four hundred four twenty four fifty four fifty at the back on the right , any more at four fifty ?
Four eighty against you now at five hundred five fifty five fifty seated , any more at five fifty , it 's against you all on the right now five hundred and fifty pounds .
Number again is nine one seven , thank you .
Fifty seven A , an additional Lot the H M V Silver Shield , there it is now a hundred pounds for this , one hundred anywhere ?
One hundred pounds one hundred pounds for the Silver Shield is bid , thank you , any more at a hundred ?
One hundred pounds now , any more ?
At a hundred and ten , twenty , thirty , forty , fifty , sixty , seventy , eighty , ninety , two hundred two hundred pounds seated near the back , two twenty standing any more at two twenty , at two twenty , two forty two forty seated now , any more at forty ?
I shall sell then at two hundred and forty pounds , two sixty two sixty on my right , any more at two hundred and pounds ?
And the number is eight six eight , thank you very much .
Lot fifty eight collection of record pads and bits and pieces for which I have a hundred pounds offered , and ten , one twenty , one thirty , any more at one thirty , forty , one fifty , one sixty , one seventy one eighty , one ninety , two hundred , two twenty two forty two forty on the left at the back , any more at two forty , two sixty , two eighty two eighty three hundred three twenty three twenty on the left near the back now , at three twenty , are you , it 's your bid , sir , at three twenty pounds , any more at three twenty and I 'll sell at three hundred and twenty pounds .
number is nine five eight , thank you .
Lot fifty nine gramophone spare parts this one , Lot fifty nine for which I have two hundred pounds offered and twenty , two fifty , two eighty , three hundred and twenty , any more at three twenty ?
Three fifty , three eighty three hundred and eighty pounds now , any more , it 's against you all at three hundred and eighty , any more ?
Four hundred four hundred pounds and twenty yes four twenty bid 's with me now at four twenty and I 'll sell at four hundred and twenty pounds .
One three six .
And Lot sixty Edison Combination Attachments there we are , Lot sixty er fifty for these , fifty pounds anywhere ?
At fifty , fifty pounds twenty then , twenty pounds twenty pounds bid , twenty two , five eight , thirty , five , forty , five , fifty five fifty five pounds , any more ?
Sixty five seventy seventy five eighty eighty five ninety , five one hundred one ten twenty thirty one forty fifty one sixty standing at one sixty now , any more at one sixty ?
And I shall sell at a hundred and sixty pounds .
, thank you .
And Lot sixty one phonograph spare parts this time there we are , Lot sixty one and I have a hundred offered and ten , one twenty , one thirty any more ?
One forty , one fifty , one sixty , seventy , one eighty one ninety , two hundred and twenty there standing at two twenty , two forty , two sixty two six two eighty
three hundred three hundred pounds , any more at three hundred ?
All done at three hundred now , all done ?
Three hundred pounds .
thank you .
And Lot sixty two is the Edison ephemera , Lot sixty two , and I 've a hundred offered for this , one hundred pounds , any more ?
At a hundred pounds , any more at a hundred , and ten , one twenty one thirty , one forty fifty , one sixty seventy , one eighty one ninety , two hundred two hundred pounds , against you at the back , two hundred , two twenty front row now at two hundred and twenty pounds , two forty , two sixty two eighty three hundred and twenty three twenty on the right seated , any more at three twenty ?
It 's against you at the front and I 'll sell at three hundred and twenty pounds .
, thank you .
And Lot sixty three is the red Gem carrier arm now showing with an N reproducer I have sixty pounds offered , any more at sixty ?
Sixty pounds , any more ?
At sixty , all done then at sixty pounds any more ?
I 'll sell at sixty , sixty five , seventy seventy five , eighty eighty five , ninety ninety pounds with me , it 's against you seated , at ninety pounds , all done now and I shall sell at ninety pounds , any more at ninety pounds .
six O .
Lot sixty four is er advertising items , records and other bits and pieces for which I have sixty pounds offered , any more at sixty five seventy five , eighty five , ninety five , one hundred ten , one twenty thirty , one forty , one hundred and forty pounds with me , are you all done , one fifty in the middle , one sixty one seventy one hundred and seventy , any more ?
At a hundred and seventy pounds seated on the right one eighty standing one ninety one ninety on the right seated , any more at one ninety , all done then at one hundred and ninety , two hundred two twenty two twenty , any more ?
Against you at two twenty two forty two sixty two sixty seated on the right , any more at two sixty ?
At two sixty then , there I 'll sell at two hundred and sixty pounds .
Eight two two , thank you .
Lot sixty five is an album of postcards , Lot sixty five for which I have four hundred pounds offered and twenty , four fifty , four eighty four hundred and eighty pounds , five hundred five hundred now and fifty , six hundred and fifty , six fifty , any more ?
At six hundred and fifty pounds seven hundred , seven fifty eight hundred and fifty nine hundred nine hundred pounds on the right seated , any more ?
At nine hundred pounds now , all done ?
At nine hundred and I shall sell at nine hundred pounds down there at nine hundred pounds .
thank you .
Lot sixty six is the Columbia B Q , there it is , Lot sixty six four hundred pounds offered , four twenty , four fifty four hundred and fifty pounds , any more ?
Four eighty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred and fifty seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred against you now at eight hundred and fifty seated there at the back at eight fifty nine hundred standing at nine hundred , nine fifty , one thousand one thousand pounds , any more ?
One thousand pounds , standing at the back then at one thousand pounds , against you seated and I 'll sell at one thousand , any more at one thousand pounds ? thank you .
Lot sixty seven thank you , is the typewriter showing now , Lambert typewriter hundred pounds for it , one hundred anywhere ?
One hundred pounds , thank you , any more at a hundred ?
One hundred pounds and ten one twenty , one thirty , forty , one fifty one sixty , one seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred on my right at two hundred pounds , any more ?
At two twenty two forty two sixty two eighty three hundred and twenty , three twenty on my right , any more at thee twenty , three fifty three eighty three eighty on my right , all done at three eighty and I shall sell at three hundred and eighty pounds .
thank you .
Lot sixty eight Edison stand , there it is now , Lot sixty eight er three hundred is offered for this , three hundred pounds and twenty , three fifty three eighty , any more at three eighty ?
Four hundred four hundred and twenty , four fifty four eighty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty , near the back , seven fifty seated , any more ?
Eight hundred eight fifty nine hundred nine fifty one thousand one thousand pounds standing now on my right , any more at a thousand pounds , are you all done , it 's up there and I 'll sell at one thousand pounds .
Nine seven six , thank you very much .
And Lot sixty nine Edison Standard , there it is , Lot sixty nine , two hundred is offered for this , and twenty , any more at two twenty ?
Two forty two forty now , any more at two forty , sixty , two eighty , three hundred , three twenty three twenty with me now three fifty at the back , three fifty , any more ?
At three fifty and I 'll sell at three hundred and fifty pounds .
Eight nine three , thank you .
Lot seventy Edison Bell Standard , there is no horn included with this Lot , please note , Lot seventy and I have two hundred pounds offered and twenty , two forty , sixty , two eighty three hundred and twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred , four hundred pounds against you then at the back now , any more at four hundred , it 's with me , four twenty , four fifty , four eighty on my left seated at four eighty any more now at four hundred and eighty pounds ?
And it 's eight six three , thank you very much .
Lot seventy one a Stroviol now showing and I have fifty pounds offered , five , sixty , five , seventy seventy pounds , any more ?
At seventy five , eighty , five , ninety five ninety five at the back now , any more ?
One hundred and ten , one twenty one twenty seated , any more at one twenty ?
Bidding ?
One thirty one forty one forty now , any more ?
One fifty one sixty on the aisle , one seventy one eighty any more ?
One ninety one ninety , two hundred two hundred pounds near the back , any more ?
Two twenty on my left up here , any more at two twenty ?
I shall sell then at two hundred and twenty pounds .
The number is is it eight six three ?
Er Lot seventy two someone fed up ?
At fifty for it 's offered fifty pounds at fifty pounds bid five , sixty sixty pounds , any more ?
At sixty all done at sixty ?
Sixty five seventy five eighty five eighty five up here , any more ?
At eighty five now , all done at eighty five pounds , all done on my right and I 'll sell at eighty five pounds is there 's no further bids at eighty five pounds .
, thank you .
Lot seventy three is the Moscow Pathephone , there it is , Lot seventy three , fifty for this one fifty pounds anywhere ?
At fifty bid , five , sixty , five , seventy , five , eighty eighty five , ninety , five , one hundred , one ten one twenty , one thirty , one forty , one fifty , one sixty one sixty at the back , any more at one sixty ?
All done then at a hundred and sixty pounds at the back .
Eight two six .
Lot seventy four is the Concert that 's it , yes there it is the er Edison Concert , Lot seventy four five hundred offered for starters , five hundred pounds , any more at five hundred ?
Fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred , seven hundred pounds , any more ?
At seven hundred pounds , all done at seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred , and fifty , nine hundred , and fifty , one thousand one hundred , two hundred , three hundred , four hundred , five hundred at one thousand five hundred on the right now , any more ?
One thousand five hundred pounds , six hundred , seven hundred , eight hundred nine hundred , two thousand , two thousand two hundred , thousand four hundred , thousand six hundred , thousand eight hundred , three thousand three thousand pounds on my right there , now any more ?
At three thousand pounds then , are you all done at three thousand pounds .
Number nine seven six , thank you .
Lot seventy five is the reproduction Berliner , there it is , Lot seventy five hundred for , one hundred pounds anywhere ?
One hundred pounds is bid , thank you , any more ?
And ten against you now at a hundred and ten pounds , one twenty on the aisle , one thirty , one forty , one fifty , one sixty , near me at one sixty , any more at a hundred and sixty pounds , seventy one eighty one ninety any more ?
Two hundred two hundred pounds against you now at the back , now any more at two hundred ?
Are you all done then ?
It 's up here and I 'll sell two twenty new bidder two twenty now two twenty then it 's half way down on the left at two twenty and I 'll sell at two two forty two sixty still against you two sixty , it 's down there and I 'll sell at two hundred and sixty pounds .
is eight six four , thank you .
Seventy six thank you , is the Victor now showing , Lot seventy six , two hundred offered for this , two hundred pounds and twenty , any more ?
Forty , two sixty , two eighty , three hundred , three twenty , three fifty , three eighty standing at three eighty now , any more ?
At three eighty then , all done at three eighty , four hundred and twenty four fifty , four eighty five hundred and fifty six hundred and fifty six hundred and fifty standing , any more at six fifty ?
Seven hundred , seven fifty standing at seven fifty , any more ?
All done , seven hundred and fifty then and I 'll sell at seven hundred and fifty pounds .
six six .
Lot seventy seven is a Style four gramophone and there it is , Lot seventy seven three hundred offered for this one , three hundred pounds and twenty three fifty , any more at three fifty ?
Three hundred and fifty pounds , all done then ?
Three eighty , four hundred four twenty , four fifty four eighty , five hundred and fifty six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty it 's on the left at seven fifty now , eight hundred behind you against you now eight fifty nine hundred standing nine fifty one thousand one thousand pounds standing on the left at the back , one hundred two hundred three hundred , one one thousand three hundred pounds , that 's against any more at one thousand three hundred , four hundred , five hundred one thousand five hundred standing , any more ?
One thousand five hundred pounds then , are you all done at one thousand five hundred pounds ? thank you .
Lot seventy eight is the red Gem now showing , thank you , Lot seventy eight for which I have three hundred offered , and twenty , three fifty , three eighty four hundred , any more at four hundred ?
Four hundred pounds and twenty , four fifty , four eighty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred seven hundred pounds with me now , any more at seven hundred pounds ?
Against you all , seven fifty at the back now standing at seven hundred and fifty pounds , are you all done at seven fifty ?
I 'll sell at seven hundred and fifty pounds .
Nine two three .
Lot seventy nine is the Pathe now showing , Lot seventy nine and I have pounds offered for it and sixty , any more at one sixty ?
Seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred at two hundred pounds , against you , any more ?
Two hundred and twenty , two forty two sixty on my right now at two sixty , any more ?
At two hundred and sixty pounds and I 'll sell at two hundred and sixty pounds .
Number nine seven six , thank you .
Lot eighty Edison Bell Gem , there it is , Lot eighty hundred for it , hundred pounds anywhere ?
One hundred pounds , one hundred for the Gem , one hundred pounds one hundred pounds bid , thank you , and ten twenty , thirty , forty , one fifty , one sixty , seventy , one eighty , ninety , two hundred , two twenty , two forty , two sixty two sixty seated , any more at two sixty ?
Two eighty three hundred and twenty three twenty , all done then at three twenty , any more at three hundred and twen three fifty new bidder against you at the back now , bid 's on my left at three fifty and I 'll sell , the bid 's here at three hundred and fifty pounds .
Er eight six three , thank you very much .
Lot eighty one is the Victor thank you , there it is now showing , Lot eighty one a hundred and fifty is offered for this , one hundred and fifty pounds , any more ?
At one sixty , one seventy eighty , one ninety two hundred , two twenty forty , two sixty two eighty two eighty at the back seated , any more at two eighty ?
Three hundred sir , twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred , four twenty , fifty , four eighty , five hundred five hundred you offered five hundred ?
Five hundred pounds standing , against you seated now , any more ?
At five hundred then five fifty in the front here at five fifty , are you all done at five hundred and fifty pounds ?
Up here .
, thanks very much .
Lot eighty two an Edison Amberola seventy five now on the screen , Lot eighty two and I have three hundred pounds offered for this , any more ?
Three hundred and twenty , three fifty three hundred and fifty pounds now , it 's with me still at three fifty , any more ?
Three fifty then and I shall sell at three fifty , three eighty , four hundred four hundred pounds now , still with me at four hundred , against you all in the room and I 'll sell at four hundred pounds .
Four four six .
Lot eighty three is a Busy Bee there 's the Busy Bee , Lot eighty three , hundred pounds for it ?
Hundred pounds anywhere ?
One hundred is bid , ten , twenty , one thirty , any more at one thirty ?
One hundred and thirty pounds , any more ?
All done at one thirty , any more one fifty sixty , seventy one eighty one , one ninety two hundred two twenty two forty two forty at the very back there , any more at two forty ?
All done then at two hundred and forty pounds , all done ?
Two hundred and , two sixty two eighty two eighty standing at two eighty against you seated and I 'll sell at two hundred and eighty pounds .
Number three one O , thank you .
Lot eighty four is the New Compton now showing , Lot eighty four , two hundred is offered , any more at two hundred ?
Two hundred pounds , any more ?
Two twenty forty , two sixty , two eighty , three hundred , and twenty , three fifty standing at three fifty then , any more ?
At three hundred eighty , four hundred four twenty , four fifty standing at four hundred and fifty pounds , any more ?
Four eighty , five hundred five hundred pounds , five fifty , six hundred at six hundred pounds standing now against you all seated , six fifty six fifty seated on the aisle at six hundred and fifty pounds , are you all done at six hundred and fifty pounds .
Nine two eight , thank you .
And Lot eighty five now showing , thank you , a Zon-O-Phone , Lot eighty five two hundred offered , any more at two hundred ?
Two twenty , forty two sixty , any more at two sixty ?
Two hundred and sixty pounds , all done at two sixty ?
Two eighty , three hundred , and twenty against you there at three twenty it 's there , are you all done ?
Three fifty three eighty three hundred and eighty pounds , four hundred and twenty four fifty four fifty on my right now , any more at four fifty ?
Four eighty four eighty on the left , all done at four eighty and I shall sell then at four hundred and eighty pounds .
four eighty .
thank you .
Lot eighty six is a Junior Monarch there it is now , eighty six , two hundred offered , twenty two forty , two sixty , any more at two sixty ?
Two eighty , three hundred three twenty , three fifty three eighty , four hundred four twenty , four fifty four eighty four eighty standing , any more ?
Five hundred five fifty six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred eight hundred pounds seated now , eight fifty nine hundred nine fifty , one thousand , one hundred one thousand one hundred pounds now , any more at one thousand one hundred and I shall sell then at one thousand one hundred pounds .
Nine seven six , thank you .
Lot eighty seven Edison Gem there it is a hundred and fifty is offered and sixty , one seventy , any more at one seventy ?
One eighty , one ninety , any more at one ninety ?
One , two hundred , two twenty against you now at two twenty , any more at two twenty ?
The bid 's with me , two forty two forty now , any more at two forty ?
All done ?
It 's down there at two forty at two fifty still against you at two fifty , any more ?
Two fifty then , all done at two hundred and fifty pounds .
. Lot eighty eight is another similar Gem , there it is , thank you , Lot eighty eight and I 've a hundred and fifty offered for this one sixty seventy , one eighty , one ninety , two hundred , and twenty , two forty two forty , any more at two forty ?
All done then two fifty on the left at two fifty now , sixty two sixty , two seventy eighty two eighty then , all done at two hundred and eighty pounds .
Er eight ninety , thank you .
Lot eighty nine is a new Cecil Zonophone , there it is , thank you , a hundred is offered for this one , a hundred pounds one hundred pounds anywhere , one hundred one hundred bid on the aisle , thank you , any more ?
At a hundred pounds , all done at a hundred ?
One ten twenty , thirty , forty , fifty , one sixty , seventy , eighty one eighty on the aisle , any more at one eighty , it 's your bid , sir one eighty , any more ?
One ninety standing two hundred , two twenty , two forty , two sixty , two eighty three hundred three hundred pounds standing , any more at three hundred ?
I shall sell then at three hundred pounds .
Nine two four .
Lot ninety is a Dulcephone there it is , Lot ninety , thank you and I have er four hundred offered for this , four hundred pounds and twenty , four fifty , four eighty , five hundred , and fifty , six hundred and fifty six fifty standing , seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred and fifty nine hundred and fifty , one thousand , one hundred , two hundred , three hundred , four hundred one thousand four hundred at the front , any more ?
One thousand five hundred six hundred bidding ?
One thousand six hundred pounds here , seven hundred one thousand eight hundred nine hundred , two thousand two thousand pounds , any more at two thousand pounds ?
All done , it 's against you two thousand , are you all done at two thousand pounds standing on my right then and I 'll sell at two thousand pounds .
And it 's nine seven six , thank you .
Lot ninety one Intermediate Monarch mahogany , there it is and I have six hundred offered for this and fifty , seven hundred and fifty ,
eight hundred at the back , eight fifty against you now at eighty fifty , any more ?
Nine hundred , nine fifty one thousand one hundred one thousand one hundred with me , any more ?
Two hundred , three hundred , four hundred one thousand four hundred pounds , any more ?
At one thousand four hundred on my right and I 'll sell at one thousand four hundred pounds .
Nine seven six , thank you .
Lot ninety two is reproducer there it is , Lot ninety two er , eighty pounds for this , eighty pounds eighty pounds anywhere ?
Eighty bid , thank you five ninety , five , one hundred one hundred on the aisle , any more ?
And ten , one twenty , thirty , forty , one fifty , sixty , seventy , eighty one eighty on the aisle , any more at one eighty ?
I shall sell then at one ninety against you on the aisle now , two hundred new bidder two hundred pounds on the left at two hundred , are you all done ?
I 'll sell at two hundred pounds .
Nine four O , thank you .
Lot ninety three , a Kastenpuck there it is and I have a hundred offered for this , and ten , one twenty , one thirty , one forty , one fifty , sixty , seventy , eighty , ninety , two hundred , and twenty , two forty , two sixty , two eighty three hundred and twenty three twenty , three fifty three fifty , any more ?
At three fifty three eighty three eighty , any more ?
Three eighty four hundred four hundred pounds in the front now , any more at four hundred pounds ?
All done then at four hundred pounds any more ? one five .
Lot ninety four is the Peter Pan now showing , thank you , and I have sixty offered , five , seventy , five eighty , five , eighty five pounds now , any more ?
At eighty five ninety ninety five one hundred , one ten one twenty , one twenty on the aisle , any more at one twenty ?
All done then ?
One thirty one forty one forty on the aisle , one forty then and I shall sell at one fifty also on aisle , one sixty one sixty now near me on the aisle at one sixty , are you all done at a hundred and sixty pounds ? six seven .
Lot ninety five the three twenty Pathe discs , Lot ninety five erm fifty for them ?
Fifty pounds for these , fifty anywhere ?
At fifty pounds , anywhere at fifty ?
Fifty pounds fifty is bid , thank you , standing , any more at fifty ?
Fifty five sixty , five seventy five eighty five ninety ninety pounds standing , any more ?
At ninety pounds , ninety five one hundred one ten twenty thirty one forty one fifty bidding ?
One sixty one seventy one eighty standing at a hundred and eighty pounds , are you all done ?
One eighty and I 'll sell at one hundred and eighty pounds .
four six , thank you .
Lot ninety six is the Ampico rolls , Lot ninety six , fifty for them ?
Fifty pounds anywhere ?
At fifty pounds , fifty fifty pounds anywhere fifty fifty pounds fifty pounds .
Ninety seven there it is now showing , Lot ninety seven , singing bird in cage I have three hundred offered for this , three hundred pounds and twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred and twenty , fifty four eighty five hundred fifty six hundred and fifty , seven hundred fifty eight hundred eight hundred pounds seated now , any more at eight hundred and fifty nine hundred and fifty nine fifty nine fifty , one thousand new bidder thousand one hundred one thousand one hundred pounds , any more ?
At one thousand one hundred pounds on the right at the back , any more at one thousand one hundred pounds .
Eight seven five , thank you .
Lot ninety eight cabinet roller organ , there it is , Lot ninety eight two hundred offered , two hundred pounds , any more ?
Two twenty , forty , sixty , two eighty , three hundred and twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred and twenty , four fifty , four eighty , five hundred five hundred now , any more ?
Five fifty , six hundred and fifty seven hundred and fifty eight hundred eight hundred pounds near the back seated at eight hundred , any more ?
Eight fifty nine hundred nine fifty nine fifty on the right , any more at nine fifty ?
All done at nine hundred and fifty pounds .
Nine seven six , thank you .
Lot ninety nine Griesbaum figure , there it is , thank you and I have two hundred offered and twenty , fifty , two eighty , three hundred three hundred pounds , any more ?
Twenty , three fifty , three eighty four hundred and twenty , four fifty four eighty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred six hundred pounds against you now , it 's with me at six hundred pounds , are you all done ?
At six fifty new bidder at six fifty now , any more at six hundred and fifty pounds .
The number is eight seven three , thank you .
Lot one hundred is the Weber upright Duo-Art piano , Lot one hundred , two hundred pounds offered , two hundred pounds , any more at two hundred ?
Two hundred pounds , any more ?
Two hundred two twenty , two forty two sixty , two eighty bidding ?
Three hundred , three twenty can't see you three fifty , three eighty four hundred and twenty four fifty four fifty down there , any more ?
At four fifty , all done ?
Four eighty five hundred and fifty six hundred and fifty seven hundred seven hundred pounds on my right then , any more bids down there at seven hundred and I 'll sell at seven hundred pounds .
And the number here is nine seven six , thank you .
Lot one hundred and one thank you , is the Rogers Ampico piano , Lot a hundred and one , I 've five hundred offered , five hundred pounds , any more at five hundred ?
Fifty five hundred and fifty now , any more ?
At five hundred and fifty pounds , any more at five fifty ?
Five hundred and fifty pounds , any more at five fifty ?
All done at five fifty only ?
Six hundred and fifty six fifty any more ?
Six fifty only then bidding ?
All done then at six hundred and fifty pounds , any more at six hundred and fifty .
Lot one hundred and two there it is now , Lot one hundred and two and I have six hundred offered for this , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty , any more at seven fifty ?
Seven hundred and fifty pounds , any more at seven fifty ?
At seven hundred and fifty pounds , are you all done at seven hundred and fifty ?
At seven sixty , seven eighty seven eighty now , all done at seven hundred and eighty pounds .
Lot a hundred and three Ariston now showing , thank you , Lot a hundred and three , a hundred for it , one hundred pounds is bid and ten , one twenty , thirty forty , one fifty , sixty seventy one eighty ninety two hundred two hundred pounds , any more at two hundred ?
Two twenty two forty two sixty two eighty two hundred and eighty three hundred three twenty three fifty three eighty four hundred and twenty four hundred and twenty pounds down there , any more then at four hundred and twenty pounds ?
Eight five three , thank you .
Now Lot one hundred and four there it is now showing , thank you , Lot a hundred and four , Simplex fifty for it , fifty pounds anywhere ?
At fifty pounds anywhere at fifty ?
At fifty pounds , twenty , twenty pounds twenty pounds twenty pounds , no one want it for twenty pounds is bid , thank you , on my right , any advance on twenty ?
Twenty pounds only and I shall sell if there 's no further bid , are you all done ?
Twenty two now twenty five twenty eight thirty thirty five forty forty five bidding ?
Fifty fifty five sixty sixty five sixty five , seventy seventy five , eighty eighty pounds standing any more , it 's against you seated there at eighty pounds .
Three two four , thank you .
Lot a hundred and five is the Celestina now showing , Lot a hundred and five and I have a hundred and fifty offered for this , and sixty , one seventy , one eighty one ninety any more at a hundred and ninety pounds ?
Two hundred and twenty two twenty with me still , any more ?
Two twenty , forty , sixty two eighty , three hundred and twenty , fifty three eighty , four hundred and twenty on the right at four twenty there , any more ?
At four twenty then and I shall sell at four hundred and twenty pounds .
That is number nine seven six again , thank you .
Lot one hundred and six table barrel organ , there it is , Lot one hundred and six and I have two hundred offered and twenty , two fifty , two eighty , three hundred and twenty three fifty , three eighty , four hundred and twenty , four fifty there at four fifty now , any more ?
At four hundred and fifty pounds , all done then at four fifty and I 'll sell at four hundred and fifty pounds .
nine three .
One hundred and seven is a sixty five note er Pianola twenty for this one , twenty pounds anywhere ?
At twenty pounds twenty at twenty pounds no one want it for twenty ?
At twenty pounds twenty pounds all done at twenty pounds is bid , thank you , any more at twenty ?
I 'll sell at twenty pounds only , are you all done at twenty pounds ?
That 's number nine two seven , thank you .
Lot a hundred and eight a portable reed organ there it is twenty for this twenty anywhere ?
Twenty pounds twenty pounds anywhere ?
No one want it for twenty pounds is bid , thank you , twenty two pounds twenty five twenty five , any more at twenty five ? twenty five ?
All done then at twenty five and I 'll sell at twenty five pounds .
one hundred and nine the English chamber barrel organ now showing , thank you and I have eight hundred pounds offered for this fifty , nine hundred and fifty nine hundred and fifty pounds one thousand one hundred one thousand two hundred on my right now at one thousand two hundred pounds , any more ?
One thousand two , three hundred , four hundred one thousand five hundred six hundred bidding ?
Seven hundred , eight hundred , nine hundred , two thousand two thousand two hundred two thousand four hundred two thousand six hundred two thousand six hundred , two thousand eight hundred three thousand three thousand all done at three thousand pounds and I 'll sell at three thousand pounds .
Number again is nine seven six , thank you .
Lot one hundred and ten barrel organ showing at the back screen now , Lot one hundred and ten and I have three hundred pounds offered , twenty , three fifty , three eighty three hundred and eighty pounds , any more ?
Four hundred , four twenty , four fifty , four eighty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred eight hundred pounds on my right now , any more ?
At eight hundred pounds on my right and I shall sell at eight hundred pounds .
That is eight six nine , thank you .
Lot a hundred and eleven eighty eight note player piano , there it is , thank you twenty for it , twenty pounds twenty twenty twenty pounds twenty pounds , no one want it at twenty pounds twenty pounds is bid , thank you , twenty two twenty two now , any more ?
Twenty five twenty five pounds , any more at twenty five and I shall sell at twenty five pounds if there 's no further bid any more at twenty five pounds ?
Number nine two seven , thank you .
Lot a hundred and twelve erm twenty pounds for these ?
Twenty ?
Twenty pounds anywhere ?
Twenty pounds no one want them at twenty twenty pounds twenty pounds , all done then at twenty pounds only ?
Twenty pounds twenty pounds .
Lot one hundred and thirteen the singing bird box ,
Lot a hundred and thirteen there it is now the Rochat and I have two thousand for it to start at two thousand , two hundred two thousand four hundred two thousand six hundred thousand eight hundred , three thousand three thousand pounds , any more ?
At three thousand , two hundred , five hundred three thousand eight hundred , four thousand four thousand two hundred four thousand two hundred pounds down there , four thousand five hundred , four thousand eight hundred five thousand five thousand pounds in the fourth row , five thousand pounds , any more ? five thousand five hundred six thousand six thousand pounds , any more ?
Six thousand five hundred seven thousand seven thousand pounds , any more ?
At seven thousand pounds all done at seven thousand , the bid is here and I 'll sell at seven thousand pounds .
Eight seven three , thank you .
Lot one hundred and fourteen now showing another one by Bruguier , Lot one hundred and fourteen and I have four thousand pounds offered to start with , four thousand two hundred , five hundred four thousand eight hundred , five thousand at five thousand pounds , any more at five thousand ?
At five thousand it 's with me at five thousand five hundred fifth row at five thousand five hundred pounds , any more at five thousand five hundred pounds down there and I shall sell at five thousand five hundred pounds .
seven three , thank you .
And one hundred and fifteen is a Rochat again now showing and I have two thousand offered , two thousand two hundred , five hundred two thousand eight hundred three thousand at three thousand pounds , any more ?
Two hundred , three thousand five hundred , three thousand eight hundred four thousand two hundred four thousand five hundred four thousand eight hundred five thousand five thousand pounds , any more at five thousand pounds and I 'll sell at five thousand , all done at five thousand pounds .
Number is three one seven , thank you .
Lot a hundred and sixteen thank you , another Bruguier now showing and again I have two thousand offered to start , two pounds , any more at two thousand ?
Two thousand two hundred two thousand four hundred , two thousand six hundred , two thousand eight hundred , three thousand three thousand pounds down there , three thousand two hundred three thousand five hundred three thousand eight hundred three thousand eight hundred , any more ?
At three thousand eight hundred pounds then , on my right bidding ?
Three thousand eight hundred pounds , all done at three thousand eight hundred pounds .
Lot one hundred and seventeen another Bruguier now showing , Lot one hundred and seventeen for which I 've three thousand offered two hundred , five hundred three thousand five hundred three thousand eight hundred , four thousand at four thousand pounds now , any more at four thousand ?
Four thousand pounds , all done at four thousand two hundred , four thousand five hundred at four thousand five hundred pounds , the bid 's with me , are you all done at four thousand five hundred and I shall sell then at four thousand five hundred pounds .
three seven .
Lot one hundred and eighteen singing bird box now showing , Lot one hundred and eighteen for which I have five hundred pounds offered and fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred and fifty , nine hundred at nine hundred on the right there , any more ?
Nine hundred pounds , all done at nine hundred pounds and I 'll sell at nine hundred pounds .
thank you .
Lot a hundred and nineteen singing bird box now showing , Lot a hundred and nineteen for which I have six hundred offered and fifty , seven hundred , any more at seven hundred pounds ?
Seven hundred all done then , seven fifty , eight hundred eight hundred pounds now , any more ? hundred pounds eight fifty I hear down there , thank you , any more at eight fifty ?
Eight fifty on the right and I 'll sell at eight hundred and fifty pounds .
Three six O thank you very much .
Lot one hundred and twenty mother of pearl case now three hundred for this one , three hundred pounds , any more ? three hundred and twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred and twenty four hundred and twenty , four fifty four eighty five hundred fifty six hundred six fifty seven hundred seven hundred pounds near the back , any more at seven hundred , and fifty new bidder against you now seven hundred and fifty over there on the right at the back and I 'll sell at seven fifty eight hundred eight hundred on the left at the back , now any more at eight hundred pounds ?
Against you on the right eight hundred pounds and I shall sell then are you all done at eight hundred pounds ?
Three two six , thank you .
Lot a hundred and twenty one fine musical necessaire now showing , thank you , Lot one two one for which I have eight hundred pounds offered , fifty , nine hundred and fifty , one thousand , one hundred one thousand one hundred pounds two hundred three hundred one thousand three hundred and fifty , any more ?
One thousand four hundred on my left at one thousand four hundred pounds any advance on one thousand , five hundred one thousand six hundred seven hundred eight hundred nine hundred one thousand nine hundred pounds , any more at one thousand nine hundred ?
The bid is there at one thousand nine hundred pounds one thousand nine hundred pounds .
Number thank you .
Lot a hundred and twenty two overture snuff box Der Freischutz this one , Lot one two two for which I have one thousand pounds offered , one hundred , two hundred three hundred four hundred one thousand five hundred one thousand six hundred , any more at one thousand six hundred pounds ?
One thousand seven hundred , eight hundred nine hundred , two thousand two thousand two hundred , two thousand four hundred two thousand six hundred , two thousand eight hundred three thousand two hundred three thousand five hundred , three thousand eight hundred four thousand four thousand two hundred four thousand five hundred at four thousand five hundred pounds in the fifth row now , any more at four thousand five hundred pounds , all done ?
Four thousand five hundred pounds .
Er eight seven , thank you .
Lot one two three is black composition snuff box , there it is now , Lot one two three and I have three hundred pounds offered for this and twenty three fifty three eighty , four hundred four hundred pounds and twenty , four fifty four fifty with me now , any more at four hundred and fifty pounds , any more at four fifty ?
Four hundred and fifty pounds , are you all done at four fifty , four eighty at four eighty now all done at four hundred and eighty pounds .
seven .
Lot one hundred and twenty four thank you , another one showing here , three hundred is offered and twenty , three fifty , any more at three hundred and fifty ?
Three hundred and fifty pounds , three eighty , four hundred at four hundred pounds are you all done at four hundred ?
It 's with me and I 'll sell at four hundred and twenty , four fifty against you at four fifty , any more ?
All done then , it 's with me still at four hundred and fifty pounds against you all in the room .
four seven .
Lot a hundred and twenty five thank you another snuff box now showing , Lot one two five for which I have two offered and twenty two fifty , two eighty , three hundred three hundred pounds , any more ?
At three hundred pounds , are you all done at three hundred pounds ?
Any more ?
Twenty , three fifty against you at three fifty now , any more ?
Three eighty , four hundred four hundred pounds , any more ?
It 's with me then at four hundred pounds and I shall sell at four hundred pounds .
Four hundred pounds , all done .
four seven .
Lot a hundred and twenty six snuff box there it is now showing in a painted tin case and I have five hundred offered for this five hundred and fifty , six hundred six fifty , seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred eight hundred pounds , any more ?
Eight hundred pounds are you all done then at eight hundred and fifty , nine hundred at nine hundred pounds with me still , are you all done at nine hundred pounds ?
One four seven .
Lot one two seven Laurencekirk box , there it is , thank you and I have four hundred offered and twenty four fifty , four eighty , five hundred and fifty at five fifty now , any more at five fifty ?
All done then ?
Six hundred , six fifty against you at six hundred and fifty pounds , any more ?
Bid 's with me , seven hundred , seven fifty eight hundred , eight fifty nine hundred at nine hundred pounds in the fifth row , any more at nine hundred pounds ?
Nine fifty standing at nine fifty then , are you all done at nine hundred and fifty pounds ?
Three two six , thank you .
Lot a hundred and twenty eight is the snuff box now showing , thank you , Lot one two eight and I have six hundred pounds offered , fifty , seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred eight hundred pounds , any more ?
Eight fifty , nine hundred nine fifty , one thousand one hundred , two hundred one thousand three hundred four hundred five hundred one thousand six hundred , seven hundred eight hundred one thousand eight hundred pounds , any more ?
One thousand nine hundred new bidder one thousand nine hundred pounds near the back in the aisle two thousand two thousand two hundred two thousand two hundred pounds near the back , two thousand four hundred two thousand four hundred pounds on my left and I shall sell at two thousand four hundred pounds .
thank you .
Er Lot one hundred and twenty nine three airs snuff box now showing , Lot one two nine for which I have five hundred offered , five fifty , six hundred six hundred pounds , any more ?
At six hundred and fifty , seven hundred seven hundred against you now , any more ?
Seven hundred pounds any more at seven hundred ?
All done then at seven hundred pounds , seven fifty , eight hundred eight fifty , nine hundred , nine fifty , one thousand one hundred at one thousand one hundred in the fifth row , any more at one thousand one hundred and I shall sell at one thousand one hundred pounds .
And the number is three one seven , thank you very much .
Lot a hundred and thirty tortoiseshell box now showing , Lot a hundred and thirty and I have four hundred offered for this one , four twenty , fifty , four eighty , five hundred , and fifty six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty and fifty nine hundred at nine hundred pounds fifty , one thousand one hundred two hundred one thousand three hundred four hundred , five hundred , six hundred , seven hundred , eight hundred , nine hundred , two thousand , two hundred two thousand four hundred two thousand six hundred two thousand eight hundred , three thousand three thousand pounds it 's your bid at three thousand any advance on three thousand pounds , are you all done then at three thousand pounds ?
Three one seven , thank you .
One three one thank you , now showing , Lot one three one and I have five hundred offered for this fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred seven hundred now , any more ?
Seven fifty , eight hundred and fifty , nine hundred and fifty , one thousand one hundred , two hundred one thousand two hundred pounds , any more ?
One thousand two hundred pounds , the bid 's with me , are you all done at one thousand two hundred pounds a thousand three hundred on my right now at one thousand three hundred pounds , any more ?
At one thousand three hundred and I shall sell at one thousand three hundred pounds .
Six six seven , thank you .
Lot a hundred and thirty two there it is now , a snuff box with micro-mosaic lid , Lot one three two and I have eight hundred pounds offered for this one and fifty , nine hundred and fifty , one thousand , one hundred , two hundred , three hundred , four hundred , one thousand five hundred , six hundred one thousand six hundred pounds at the back in the aisle , any more ?
One thousand seven hundred one thousand eight hundred , nine hundred , two thousand , two thousand two hundred , two thousand four hundred , two thousand six hundred eight hundred three thousand three thousand two hundred three thousand two hundred pounds , any more now ?
At three thousand two hundred pounds , three thousand five hundred three thousand five now in the fifth row three thousand eight hundred three thousand eight hundred pounds , any more ?
All done then at three thousand eight hundred ? sell at three thousand eight hundred pounds .
Nine five seven , thank you very much .
Lot a hundred and thirty three now showing , thank you , Lot one three three and I have five hundred offered and fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred seven hundred pounds , any more ?
Seven fifty , eight hundred and fifty there at the back in the aisle at eight hundred and fifty pounds nine hundred and fifty one thousand , one hundred two hundred , three hundred four hundred a thousand five hundred six hundred one thousand seven hundred , one thousand eight hundred , nine hundred two thousand two thousand two hundred , two thousand four hundred six hundred eight hundred two thousand eight hundred pounds in the fifth row now any more ?
Two thousand eight hundred and I shall sell two thousand eight hundred pounds .
Er three one seven ?
One hundred and thirty four er Bordier box , there it is , Lot one three four it 's illustrated in the catalogue a small box with a , Lot one three four and I have three hundred pounds offered for it , three hundred pounds and twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred , and twenty , four fifty , four eighty five hundred and fifty , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty eight hundred and fifty near the back in the aisle at eight hundred and fifty now nine hundred nine fifty nine hundred and fifty , any more ?
At nine fifty then , all done then at one one thousand one thousand one hundred still near the back in the aisle at one thousand one hundred and I shall sell at one thousand one hundred one thousand two hundred just in time any more ?
One thousand three hundred all done at one thousand three hundred pounds .
Nine five seven , thank you .
One hundred and thirty five a small box by Capt , snuff box by Capt now showing er I have er four hundred pounds offered , four fifty , five hundred and fifty , six hundred , six hundred and fifty , seven hundred and fifty , eight hundred and fifty on my left at eight fifty now , any more ?
At eight hundred and fifty pounds on my left seated and I 'll sell at eight hundred and fifty pounds , all done ? five .
Lot one hundred and thirty six tortoiseshell case Lot one three six Martinet and Benoit could well be , yes it 's in a plain tortoiseshell case er I have four hundred pounds offered for this , four twenty , fifty , four eighty , five hundred five hundred pounds , any more ?
Five fifty , thank you , six hundred six hundred pounds with me , on the screen six hundred pounds with me , any more at six hundred pounds ?
Six fifty , thank you down there at six fifty now , any more at six hundred and fifty seven hundred seven fifty seven hundred and fifty pounds , are you all done at seven fifty then ?
Any more at seven hundred and fifty pounds .
And the number again is eight seven thank you very much .
One hundred and thirty seven snuff box of casket form that 's the right one , yes and I have two hundred offered for this two twenty , two forty two sixty , two eighty , three hundred and twenty , three fifty , three eighty , four hundred at four hundred pounds , any more ?
Four hundred pounds , any more , it 's with me at four hundred now , are you all done ?
Four twenty , four fifty four fifty , any more ?
Four fifty , four eighty , five hundred five hundred , it 's still with me at five , five fifty five fifty , are you all done at five fifty and I 'll sell then at five hundred and fifty pounds .
Three one seven , thank you very much .
Lot a hundred and thirty eight silver gilt box with micro-mosaic , there it is now showing , thank you and I have one thousand five hundred pounds offered to start me , six hundred , seven hundred , one thousand eight hundred , nine hundred , two thousand two thousand pounds , two thousand one hundred two thousand two hundred , three hundred thousand four hundred , five hundred , two thousand six hundred on my left at two thousand six hundred pounds , any more ?
At two thousand six hundred pounds in the aisle at seven hundred , eight hundred two thousand nine hundred three thousand three thousand pounds , any more at three thousand ?
Two hundred , three thousand four hundred three thousand four hundred now any more ?
Three thousand four hundred and I 'll sell at three thousand four hundred pounds on my left .
Two five two , thank you .
Lot a hundred and thirty nine snuff box in tortoiseshell case now showing initials W B D on the top and I have four hundred offered for it , four fifty , fifty , four hundred and fifty now , any more ?
At four eighty , five hundred five hundred pounds with me , any more ?
Five fifty on my right now at five fifty , any more at five hundred and fifty pounds ?
Are you all done at five hundred and fifty pounds .
thank you .
Lot one hundred and forty is an overture snuff box , there it is , thank you it 's a Mozart one and I have one thousand five hundred offered for this , six hundred , seven hundred one thousand eight hundred one thousand nine hundred any more at one thousand nine hundred pounds ?
One thousand nine hundred pounds , all done then at one thousand nine hundred pounds ?
Two thousand at two thousand pounds now , any more ?
Two thousand , all finished and I 'll sell then at two thousand pounds , are you all done at two thousand pounds ?
And Lot one hundred and forty one

And er the result of all of that has been that the current development programme scheduled which we have supplied to the committee is probably about as fast as the programme is capable of running .
First flight still going to be in April .
We are confident it will be in April , yes .
And will that aircraft be less capable in its first flight than you 'd originally hoped ?
Erm it is always been planned that the this er release of the flight control system will be phased through five steps and the capabilities at first flight are more or less what we had been planning er right from the outset .
The cost is going to be some three thousand four hundred million I think er t to the U K. That 's er e gone up by about thirteen percent four hundred million roughly , er over the original estimate .
Half of that is due to programme reorientation because of the extension of the programme by two years as I understand it , can you spell out what those costs are and are we having to pay more because Germany wants to slow the programme down ?
Perhaps I can ask Mr Perry to er fill in the details on cost .
yes erm Mr Trotter er that er apportionment of the four hundred and fifty million between er the effect of programme re-orientation and other factors .
Can I just say that I had figured four hundred million it is in fact four fifty .
Four fifty million , sorry , four fifty million erm between programme re-orientation and other factors , was an apportionment we made er back in the er first part of nineteen ninety three and in the light of later information I think we would revised that now erm we are still negotiating with the contractors on the revised contract price and we do not have definitive costs yet but in fact the costs increased as a result of the rescheduling of the programme directly should be quite modest .
There are some unavoidable costs er on that account , particularly on the engine programme where delays to the aircraft programme which result in extra costs on the engine side , are the customer 's liability , erm but the main increase in cost is actually in the equipment area and results I think , from the fact that the equipment prices turned out to be higher than was originally estimated at the start of the programme and also the fact that U K industry won a higher work share on equipment that we had originally been entitled to and budgeted for and lastly the point you mentioned that Germany has withdrawn from some parts of the requirement and that made certain equipments non-common and we have had to take a larger share of the costs of those equipments than originally planned .
Okay .
Can you spell out how our share of the cost has increased because our share of the work has increased because I thought presumably the bill was still divided proportionately between the countries .
No the the bills are met by er on the territorial funding basis so basically we pay for the work done in the U K .
From which we will get the benefit presumably when production 's done .
In in in in er general terms .
Whether the production work sharing is something that is still to be decided er at the start of that phase but on the equipment , we were er originally entitled to thirty three percent of the common equipment er when we last gave evidence to the committee the U K work share for equipment stood at some thirty six percent of those that had been selected at that time .
We have succeeded since in getting it down to something just over thirty four percent now er and erm therefore we are not much above our original work share but each percentage point of equipment costs us about ten million pounds extra .
somewhat concerned at the er production sharing is not yet to be agreed er i i i is there a formula that is going to be applied ?
Yes indeed erm the the general M O U states that er work share will be proportionate to the off date that each nation takes .
So it 's dependent upon the finalisation of the orders .
Indeed
numbers
But w what about er er further increases the there seem to be some suggestions that we may find the three thousand four hundred million going even higher .
I prefer not to speculate about that er at this stage , particularly in public session we are tha that is the current estimate of project cost .
We are waiting for a new quotation from Eurofighter for their part of the programme erm but in advance of receiving it I 'd not rather not speculate as to which impact it might have on the project .
I think we might come back to that Mr session and see if we can extract a little more that way .
I is there anything you can tell us about the additional costs of er er increased specifications , there have been some increases as well minor reductions .
Is there any specific item you can spell out for us that additional costs .
I'm not aware of
Well
any increase in specification some , some of the programme has been re-orientated .
I think I I can now understand
Yes
the the point er er that you 're making Mr Trotter .
W in the estimates will you have will have received , we have made provision for some additional costs that were not covered by the original quote , the new weapons for example , were not covered in the original quote so they will be covered in the new programme cost .
That 's in the three thousand four hundred figure .
Yes
But can we .
to some degree but not all and you know in in due course we will provide you with a full breakdown of this , exactly what is in and what isn't in .
I think there 's only one other point which I 'd I 'd like to make and that concerns the the programme re-orientation and the cost implications of that er one aspect of programme re-orientation which we 've been conscious of is the need to preserve the delivery dates of the first production standard aircraft to the Royal Air Force and Italian Air Force in the year two thousand .
Now erm when you work back from that date er all the various activities that industry have got ta go through erm you discover that erm the production investment activities er really need to start to some level at some very low level , er later this year .
But er the these production investment activities are associated really with production engineering , er very closely aligned with development and erm unless you can do those between now and the end of nineteen ninety five , when we start the P I phase in nineteen ninety six before you can really make any progress you would then have to do a further year and a half of production engineering so in the new quotations Eurofighter are making a case for what they term a development assurance phase , some advance production engineering work starting later this year and going on until the end of ninety five but when we start P I in ninety six , we can start with a bang and make fast progress .
Yes thank you .
I 'll ask Michael Colgan now to take us a bit further down a look at the costs .
Erm yes Mr Chairman .
Mr Gordon in your erm opening remarks you referred to the fact that erm following the programme re-orientation I think you words were that the full government are now capping their liabilities on the programme .
Well now at the outset only seventy three percent erm of the development programme was subject to maximum price .
Do I now understand it that the whole programme is subject to maximum price ?
That is our aim and I 'll invite Mr Perry to explain that a little further .
Yes as you say there there is a budgetary or pegged element in the original prices and we are , as part of the amendment to the contract to reflect the the revised programme er seeking to place the total of the price for the Eurofighter contract onto a maximum price basis so that there would be no er areas which were not capped .
On the Eurojet contract we are seeking to actually convert that to a fixed price at this stage because the programme is more advanced it is reasonable to do that er on the air frame contract probably the uncertainty and the degree of risk at this stage is too high to move to a fixed price at this point .
Right , now am I right in saying that that in order to control erm costs erm the elements covered by the maximum price were divided into thirty four packages , is it still thirty four packages ?
Yes .
Erm and ho how many of those do you expect to have agreed as fixed prices at er this stage of of the development ?
I think er the original plan would have envisaged er a very high proportion of that work having been converted to a fixed price at this point in the programme because according to the original programme not only would the aircraft have flown but we would be entering production investment at this stage and we would there be be fairly confident about the er maturity of the design , however the programme has proceeded much more slowly than originally planned and the amount of er the price that has been converted to a fixed price is indeed quite modest er we have in fact I think only converted eight of the price packages to a fixed price er basis so far .
Eight .
And it is unlikely in fact now that we we will convert more until er probably nineteen ninety five er shortly before going into production investment .
Erm now could you help me on some of the the terminology used because I gather that six of the packages have been or about to be erm priced on the basis of a ascertained costs erm I I just wondered if if that was a sort of euphemism for for a cost plus .
What is ascertained ?
Essentially it mean that er the work is is more or less complete and therefore we are pricing it on the basis of the actual out turn of costs .
So it is essentially a fixed price ?
Fixed .
Fixed cost .
Er well costs that are known .
Yes right .
All uncertainty has been removed now .
There 's one of the packages been priced on a forward basis , what does that mean/
That means that the work is not yet er complete er and therefore er we are pricing against an expectation of the likely out turn of cost .
Right , well am I also right in thinking that as as a rule of thumb , fixed prices should be agreed before a third of the war , of the work is completed ?
That would be desirable .
So erm can you tell us what proportion of the work erm had been completed before prices were fixed erm for those packages that have been an and also what proportion of the work has been completed on those packages yet to be priced .
Yes well if we take for example er probably the largest of the packages which we have priced converted to a fixed price basis so far which was package number three , er the tooling for the development aircraft and roll equipment which is erm er forty eight million pounds , that was priced in August nineteen ninety two when eighty percent of that work had been done .
Right .
Mr Colman if I might add that re- orientation has brought with it the need to change our pricing strategy and therefore rather than going package by package right through the whole thirty four , we 're actually trying initially on the engines to go in one bang to price everything on the engines and do it in the next few months .
Right .
For the er we 'd really like to do the same thing for the whole weapons system with Eurofighter also but the the premium that eurofighter might demand to cover the risk .
No .
Their risk might be more than we would wish to face up to right now .
So we have put a marker in the ground and said we are not going to move forward in the production investment phase until we are satisfied that we have a fixed price at that point so we are actually going to cap our liabilities for Eurofighter with a max price for the whole of the remainder of the programme and then we will fix the price and hopefully get some economies from fixing at that point in time before we move forward into the next phase .
So unclear .
Right
Pricing the strategy on the packages that er we have er mentioned is er now changing .
Right , now you you 've already made it clear to us that about half the increase in development costs are due to increases in the costs of the equipment .
The that is so erm how much in total and or proportionally was due to equipments themselves being more expensive than expected and how much because the U K share of costs was higher .
Erm I s don't think I can give you a precise answer to that question er off the cuff Mr Colgan , I think we 'd have to let you have a note on those figures
hmm right , yeah but all these equipments would have been selected by by competition would they ?
Yes indeed
And on a fixed price basis ?
Yes , yep fine thank you .
Yes just before we leave however the question of what occur in my mind how you 're going to get from the present position in what appears to be a cost plus basis as we go along to a fixed cost basis and presumably the programme and I in in , are running as it were , are running effectively on the cost plus basis
Well .
and that accounts of twenty six of the thirty four packages .
I I don't wish to , to quibble but is actually a cost minus basis industry is not being paid its full costs for this programme , they 've been paid a percentage less than the cost they actually incur .
Depending upon the master .
a very good piece of negotiation on your part erm that er there must be a reason why industry 's prepared to a lost leader .
It 's is not er er so much a lost leader , it was an incentive negotiated into the contract for industry to make progress .
They were , are paid at a certain percentage of their incurred costs well below what it has actually cost them , until they demonstrate an achievement at a particular milestone and then the percentage is increased and er .
lost leader .
Er well y yes , they 'll be running at a loss right through until we eventually fix the prices for the whole programme and er hopefully the if they do it very efficiently we might make some profit .
Well er thank you very much .
ask , how many equipments have still to be selected ?
Erm the answer is is very few erm the pilots N B C filter the N B C ventilation supply pack , the I R decoy and flares and the chap munition erm those are the only things that have not yet been selected .
There are three equipments that have been selected where the contracts have not actually yet been placed .
And is part of the package i d d does the package er of the aircraft when it comes to be served include things like the simulator or is that something that outside the contract and is bid for quite separately .
Erm , the simulator will be developed er for this aircraft starting at the same time as we enter the production investment phase .
So our , our cost figures for the project will include the simulator but in the next phase of the programme .
Currently we have no authority to develop the simulator .
Right .
Thank you very much .
I 'll ask John McGuillion now to have a look at the flight control system .
Thank you Mr Gordon erm you stated I think in your opening , I think y your opening statement , can you confirm that the two year delay has in gaining the first flight has been in actually gaining the flight control system er certified for flight .
Erm the certification of the flight control system is the critical path item and has been for some considerable time .
Yes would have been enough .
Sorry .
Yes would have been enough .
Yeah , sure yes .
there have been other reasons for delays er up until about a year ago .
So what , can you outline the basic technical problem that you 've been having with the flight control system ?
Well er I think as I mentioned at the outset , there 's no fundamental technical problem er a system operating broadly in the same way er was designed an an and proved on the United Kingdom 's experimental aircraft programme er six or seven years ago , er this particular aircraft , the airfighter two thousand , will employ a rather more er extensive capability in its flight control system .
It 's not to interface with more systems , there 's a lot more software in it and er therefore the companies concerned have got a lot more work to do .
I think it 's true to say that the design responsible company , Deutsch Aerospace erm has discovered that er there 's a lot more software in this system than they had originally imagined and the , their sub contractors of course , they 've had to er write various parts of that for them and erm putting together the four elements of the programme has been a lot more complex than anyone imagined .
So it 's a combination of those factors , if you like , management difficulties , underestimation of the basic task er one or two er hardware problems within the system as a whole .
All of those things have led to lead to this kind of delay .
Let 's go to hardware problems , one or two , what were they ?
Erm the inertial measurement unit which is er a rather critical piece of equipment er in er a system of this nature initially did not perform to the the full level of requirement that that we we desire so you know , some further development had to be done on that before it would match the system .
If you get a hardware problem of any kind here it actually inhibits you from completing the software .
You can't verify software until you 've got hardware that 's capable of operating simultaneously with the software .
The that is the kind of knock on effect we experience .
So let 's look at the er software , who set the specification , who specified the software ?
Erm the specification was written by Deutsch Aerospace .
That 's fine , erm what sort I mean what are we , are we back in back in the old problems we 've had before with or is it written in something else ?
Er it 's written largely in high level language , yes .
Alright that 's fine .
So Deutsch Aerospace specified it .
Yes .
And er G E C Marconi , Avionex er were responsible for making sure that it worked within the hardware in the system .
Er G E C Marconi 's are the leader of a consortium , a four nation consortium of companies that are supplying the computer and are also contributing to the software .
So there 's four nations writing the software ?
Yes .
Speaking different languages .
Yes .
is this not a recipe for disaster ?
Er we have taken every possible precaution to make sure that it 's not a recipe for disaster .
But it but it 's delayed the project by two years .
Yes erm and er I think in the course of that we will have learned a lot of lessons the er that 's not a facetious comment , it 's true er the the first time you write er a software programme erm and any of you will will have experience of this , it takes a long time to get it right .
Once you 've done it once it actually relatively easy for you to improve it an an and getting it better in the next iteration , erm that is exactly the situation you 've got here .
G E C , leader of the team , had done something like this before , not quite the same but something like it before , but their partners haven't so there 's a training process to be , to be done .
Hang on can I stop you .
G E C were the leader of the team .
Yes .
And that 's right , they did the software on the experimental aircraft programme .
Yes .
But the lead company was specifying it was er Deutsch Aerospace .
Correct .
Why , when G E C had all the expertise to do this and Deutsch Aerospace frankly , does not have a great deal of background in this .
Yes well , for the experimental aircraft programme British Aerospace specified what G E C had to do and er a a this time , if you like , Deutsch Aerospace has taken on the equivalent role that B A E had for the experimental aircraft programme and er Deutsch Aerospace are not without experience in flight controls they have .
They didn't say that an and but they in this particular area , remember this isn't fly by wire , this is fly by light .
You 're
dealing with a lot more information er and much more complex switching arrangements so I think Deutsch Aerospace had any experience in that at all did they ?
They have been er working with the North American Rockwell company on the X thirty one programme .
Which is comparable complexity and er they have picked up considerable experience from that but , you know , I don't wish here in this committee to in any way challenge the er capabilities or the competence of erm , of Deutsch Aerospace to undertake
I'm not
this role .
I'm not , I'm not doing that , what I'm challenging is the consortiums decision to award the contract to a company who had not been involved in that particular area as opposed to a company that had .
Was this purely er the result of trying to keep the percentage share ?
Erm , yes that is more or less the case .
So beca so because we keeping the percentage share , trying to keep the percentage share down , the aircraft is two years late and two hundred million pounds more expensive .
No no let me please finish my original statement .
The initial allocation of system design responsibility was negotiated between the four aircraft companies , Deutsch Aerospace , British Aerospace , Carsa and Allenia and against the background of an M O U which said we must share the technology on this project between the four nations and in a particular way which ensures that each of the nations has got access to all the high technology aspects of the project er therefore the individual companies identified those areas of the project , were they felt they either could lead best or wish to lead and for the United Kingdom British Aerospace erm identified the avionics system integration as the major complex task that they would take responsibility for .
Deutsch Aerospace took the flight control system .
Allenia the utility control system er Carsa , the communications system and so on .
So there was that allocation of system design responsibility right at the outset and that determined who would write the specification for what .
We then went a stage further and to share the technology established joint teams for each of these major areas , so that er the specification while it was under Dasa 's leadership , it was actually done by a joint team which involved expertise from British Aerospace and the other three and er therefore at that time the whole Eurofighter consortium was confident that they were making the best use of the available expertise across the four partner companies , each bringing to the table , their own so that they could go forward on a confident basis .
Now er sure the programme has been delayed for all the reasons I I 've mentioned .
One of the reasons er with the benefit of hindsight , er was that we underprovided test equipment er as you you have mentioned we have software being written in four nations and er it 's got to be assembled , somewhere .
Each of those four nations er really ought to test the software pretty thoroughly before they hand it over but because er we could n't afford four lots of test equipment we said right , ship your software out , in tested to only a modest level and it 'll all be tested centrally in the Deutsch Aerospace facility .
Now that has led to many iterations in the software design and development as the programme has rolled forward because every time you find a mistake , it 's got ta go back along the whole test route .
For the future of course , we have now erm negotiated with Eurofighter a rather better arrangement , they 're setting up a joint team , they 're trying to do all the work in one place and they really are now making a lot of progress .
So I think the the Eurofighter team has learned from the mistakes that were made originally in the allocation of the work and the way in which it was handled and they are now putting it right .
I'm sorry that it 's taken so long .
That has been the main probem problem with the delay , can you confirm that erm assuming the the software is er is actually rated flight safe er that there are other stages yet , we 've still got to integrate the weapons systems , sensors and everything else .
So that 's all got to happen and can we expect that the improvements that have been made now to the syst to the management of this process will not give rise to the same delays that occurred in getting this system flight safe .
Erm I am confident that Eurofighter are grasping the thorny problem now in a very businesslike way and er are making the individual partner companies fully accountable for the systems for which they have design responsibility and this again is a aspect of the renegotiation of the contract which we think is very important and we 're determined that er this will happen .
And who 's bearing the cost of the delay , the two hundred million ?
Er , for the most part , industry , er we have refused to pay additional costs at the government level which arise as a result of the slip er induced by industry 's own er causes .
Could we move on to the constant frequency generator problems er how much do by this ?
Erm the constant frequency generator is not actually delaying the first flight , the , the first aircraft will not have a constant frequency generator on board it .
We will introduce the constant frequency generator at prototype number four .
Er , the this generator er ran into some development difficulties er a while ago and er Eurofighter chose , say I say , a a standby or an alternative generator which is suitable for the first three prototypes and er again the cost of that particular delay will fall to industry .
That 's fine .
You 've told that in your written submission , that supply for the infra-red er infra-red sa er search and track was changed , why ?
The original supplier er withdrew all his guarantees about the performance of the detector , or indeed his commitment to the delivery schedules , shortly after we had er placed the development contract with the consortium and er the consortium recognised that it could not live with that situation and immediately set to work to find an alternative supplier .
They have found one who is prepared to give the guarantees , who is delivering the detector , the detector that is on offer by er sheer good fortune , i is actually now better than the one which erm the consortium had chosen originally .
So the bankruptcy of the original supplier was nothing to do with the delay or actually going for another supplier ?
wasn't , it wasn't that supplier than went bankrupt , that was another case .
We have a , we have a second problem on the infra-red search and track consortium that one of the team members has erm unfortunately hit some financial problems .
Have these six specifications for the defences aid subsystems been relaxed ?
No .
Thank you .
coming back to the the I R S T supplier .
Who does the checking out on the central people who we may place contracts with ?
Erm the selection er er of er suppliers for the infra-red search and track w that was performed in the first instance by Eurofighter and the procurement organisations are the four Eurofighter partner companies make the checks on the potential suppliers in accordance with a schedule which we , the four governments , have provided to them .
So they 're carrying out the checks initially on the the capabilities and the financial soundness of the , of the proposed supplier .
The this problem with the detector , it 's another level of subcontracting down and er if you you 're buying a piece of equipment of this kind from a a consortium er essentially you can't dictate to him precisely who he 's going to use to supply the components for that system and er it is the problem came to the notice of officials when the consortium came forward and and said look , we we 've got these terms in our contract er concerning detection range and so on and er we may not be able to meet those , er so we questioned the reasons and then of course they revealed that they were having problems with the supplier .
Er , they were immediately told to go away and put that right and they chose a different supplier .
Erm , thank you .
Can we now move on , have a look at the production phase last weeks .
Yes er on the production phase , can I ask a very general question erm are you satisfied every one of the participants is now totally locked in .
Sorry , every one of the ?
Are the participants totally locked in to the the production of er Eurofighter ?
Erm , we have er frequent conversations with the other governments at an official level and all the information that we have erm is that the four governments are contending to proceed with the D I and the production phases in the same time scale that I have quoted to the committee today .
They last gave that assurance at the Secretary of State level on the tenth of December ninety two and that was a clear assurance given at that time , that each government has a firm intention to proceed with the next phase of the programme .
And , to the best of our knowledge , that is still valid though er of course to answer the second part of your question , are they fully locked in .
None of us are lock in to this P I and production phases , we will not be locked in until we sign the memorandum of understanding for those phases and that is scheduled for nineteen ninety five .
Because er each of the governments er has the domestic political problem and er each government , including our own , is not guaranteed to survive until until the final production stage .
Yes
Er , so do you you , at a civil service level , as you you are reasonably satisfied all is being done to guarantee we reach the production stage .
Yes I am satisfied .
On on er on production erm before the costs reductions had been identified , industry had said that the cost of production would actually increase , could I ask by how much it was said it would increase ?
Er , yes I will invite Mr Perry to address the question of cost .
I think that erm the actual position er assured was that industry gave us a quotation in erm April nineteen ninety two which actually was somewhat higher than we 'd anticipated , but I'm not sure that industry reyu viewed it as an increase because it was probably the first time they had formally quoted a price .
Er , however erm because of the concern about er the overall cost of the programme and the production cost in nineteen ninety two , we required er the companies to undertake studies into ways of reducing the programme cost and it was as a result of those studies , that they came up with a list of potential savings er which in the U K case er could knock fourteen percent off the price that they had quoted in April ninety two .
W was the increase er entirely offset by the cost reductions ?
Erm I I think it is true to say that the , the cost er reduction which they offered brought the price back within what we regarded as the affordability within our defence programme , er the level of affordability .
Okay , and one of the cost saving measures er is a more efficient work share ar arrangement , can you give some examples ?
Well in in general er the original work plan had divided up the production work to share out the technology and this meant that components were being shipped around more than actually they they needed to be or that was economic and it was found that there was the potential to concentrate manufacturers sub-assemblies for each of the major components of the aircraft and subsequently assemble the major components in one country rather than several .
For instance , components of the wings were being shipped around between countries , which clearly was not economic .
So wh what what changes are being planned then for the er production of the wings ?
Perhaps I can pick that one up .
understand there 's some overlap between the U K and Spain on er on that .
There , there is er certainly in the development batch aircraft , er an overlap there er and the three companies were involved in the manufacture of the wings .
Now there are only two wings on the aircraft and clearly that is not very efficient .
So we suggested that for the production phase it might be better if one company was to build one wing and the other company the other er and that 's .
the third wing .
Well yes er , we hadn't thought of that one Mr but maybe we should do that .
Er , so i it 's er changes of that kind that have been looked at because if you move production work out of one nation into the other to get a nice rationalised allocation of work , you build this wing , you build that wing and so on , you then have got to do something with the minor components to get back to you original erm work share allocation and percentage times .
Now we won't know what that work share allocation in percentage terms is , until each nation makes its commitment in nineteen ninety five , to a production buy and that is the time when we will finalised the details of this work share transfer plan .
What about the radar , I understand er it takes three hundred days to produce and a hundred days er is believed to be taken up in travelling from one site to another .
Yeah , that er little anecdote I I 've heard mentioned previously , er the the ray dome erm is erm er currently in the course of development and of course the the four nations each wish to participate in this interesting piece of technology .
So the consortium that was doing the development arranged the work between themselves in a way which they themselves considered to be efficient .
As it 's turned out , it 's not efficient because the the ray dome spent a tremendous amount of time moving from one country to the other , there 's no doubt about that and before production we would want to see that particular nonsense removed and the whole thing made a lot more efficient , but for one or two development batch ray domes then you know , they 'll just have to learn from that lesson .
Savings were also intended from what has been described as other productivity improvements .
Can you amplify on that please ?
Erm I I think it 's difficult to quote examples off the cuff here er the er British Aerospace for example , I know that erm er the company has planned to introduce cellular manufacturing techniques for some components which will reduce the number of man hours that are devoted to the manufacture of that item an and given a level of throughput will do the job a lot more efficiently .
That 's the the only example I can recall off the top of my head .
British Aerospace moves completely to Germany er a a third savings measure erm will be er from economies in logistics support , can you perhaps
Yes .
comment on that .
Er , yes in the studies in nineteen ninety two er Eurofighter suggested that there could be reductions in the holdings of spares , rolled equipment and support items as a result of the more accurate forecasting which we expect to emerge from the logistics support analysis .
So if group captain White has already given you an example of the reduction we 've made in in some of our er scalings of those equipment , er it was also suggested by the contractors that economies could be achieved by reducing the number of bases , the extent to which all squadrons should be fully multi role equipped and by contractualising more of the second and third line support , erm , we and the other partners are still considering these proposals in detail er and haven't actually taken decisions yet but there are certainly some possibilities in that area for er economies against the original cost estimate .
Yes and the savings are planned er from keener equipment pricing , er how , can you explain , how can this be achieved .
Well
Will it be through greater competition ?
The quotations which Eurofighter provided er in nineteen ninety two were based on the equipment option prices which are included in each of the equipment development contracts .
Er , they believe er that it will be possible to improve on those prices in negotiation with the suppliers .
Perhaps I I might amplify that a little .
In that erm just as we 've discussed the allocation of work on the airframe between the four nations on m most pieces of equipment there is a an allocation between the four nations and er in in many cases a consortium with the same members has actually won the competitions on five or six different pieces of equipment .
So we 're trying to encourage the equipment suppliers now to look again at what they have won on business for Eurofighter and perhaps allocate the work between themselves a lot more efficiently so that instead of each one of the four members building a given percentage of the five items , they say right we 'll take this one , all of it and we 'll build all of it , you take that one , all of it and build that one and so on an and in that way we might be able to er er improve considerably on the costs of production .
Thank you er ooh .
When one goes for a major adventure like tornado you hope that most of the difficulties are are ironed out , clearly they 're not , another set of difficulties emerges .
With the benefit of hindsight er could the tornado programme have been made more efficient with the lessons that you 've learnt so far , er from er Eurofighter an and secondly , perhaps more difficult , er the lessons you have learned from tornado and certainly from the current project , could they be transferred to other complicated collaborative er project , programmes like cobra and ?
Erm , well I I could n't speak for the latter two programmes cos I don't know enough about the arrangements there but I have got a a fair amount of knowledge on both tornado and Eurofighter .
The tornado aircraft was developed under a cost plus environment er contracting environment and erm at the time that was actually the most efficient an and probably the only practical way to do because the the risks inherent in having three partner companies that don't know how the others work , getting together to build a single aircraft , were , were extremely high .
So we proceeded on a cost plus basis , also the cost plus environment actually brings the partners together because if there are three of us working on a cost plus contract and I have a problem , my two partners rush to help me because clearly there 's some more profit for them , erm if the only difficulty with cost plus contract of course is that unless you have a a real ceiling on the total er costs that you 're going to pay , it may keep on rising far higher than you 'd ever imagined .
Now on tornado the development costs erm I know , exceeded the original expectation by quite a considerable margin but the production costs were much less and overall , taking the two lots together , it turned out to be a good buy .
Er , so the lesson we learned from tornado was that we want to try and cap our financial liabilities for the project for the development of it , at a much earlier stage and er drive as tough a commercial bargain as we possibly can .
So we embarked on a different commercial strategy , trying to implement that that lesson .
It has had considerable benefits , it 's had one or two drawbacks and er I think the biggest lesson that we have probably learned so far from the Eurofighter programme , is that we have to be very careful when we make work sharing agreements in future , that er we don't try to drive the work sharing requirement down to too low a level .
If we can keep it in broad percentage terms of the total work at the project level , fine , that can be done , efficiently and effectively .
But if you say we must share every piece of equipment in those ratios , then you do create management difficulties and the potential for delay and and indeed that can in turn add to costs .
So those are the two lessons .
Thank you Sir Nicholas .
Er , I'm I'm very concerned about the question of these costs .
Er , obviously any Ministry of Defence er er contract is a soft touch as regarded by the supplier .
You have limited er suppliers who you choose er having heard the figures that you 've given us today erm i it seems to me that there is very little control of that expenditure .
Now , when you are entering into a contract , and I wonder if you could send this to the to the chairman er your letter er of erm contract because to have a contract which can be varied in its cost always upwards is a very dangerous contract and I would interested to see the contract that is supplied which does not control price .
Erm obviously we can er prepare a note for the committee setting out the main features in what I would call our commercial strategy .
Erm I would hesitate before offering the chairman or the committee the contract , er the contract for Eurofighter actually runs to thirty four books and it stands about that high and er .
Well just send the financial section .
And that is probably about thirty percent of it .
But erm it is a subject which is er investigated every year by five teams of auditors .
We have a team from each of the four nations and we have a team from NATO .
Erm Mr Gordon , given the fact that we are running a little short of time I think if you could give us a note on your contractual arrangements then that will take this matter forward and we
come back to you if necessary .
I 'd be pleased to do so Mr Nicholas .
Thank you very much erm I have one last question on this item er that I 've now lost oh yes it was a erm Mr Perry , you mentioned under the logistics savings that were possible er the potential cut back in R A F bases .
I think we 've only got four which er this aircraft can fly or for the moment the three tornado F three bases and the one jaguar base er is the ministry says they 're looking at cutting back on those ?
I think er we 're in danger of perhaps getting a misunderstanding going here .
What we have been talking about in economies and logistics support is reducing the amount of second line base facilities for this aeroplane .
How ever many bases the Royal Air Force decides to operate from is a decision which the Royal Air Force can take in due course .
But erm the logistics costs are made up from the costs of procuring spares and support equipment largely and er for an aircraft such as this , the amount of equipment required to operate at first line is very low indeed .
To maintain the equipment at second line requires quite extensive test equipment and facilities .
However in this aircraft we have specified a very high degree of re reliability and if you look at the total number of occurrences for each piece of equipment that are going to require maintenance , it 's so low that it doesn't justify the provision of maintenance facilities on every base .
So what has been suggested is that er we examine the possibility of centralising the second line facilities that are normally provided on every base and only do that at perhaps two bases .
I see thank you , yes that 's very helpful that clarifies the position on that and finally I 'll ask Michael Colgan to take us into the question of the management systems for the contract .
Yes er Mr Chairman we have , at the moment , two intergovernmental management agencies involved in the same building in .
First of all we 've got N A M A managing the tri-national tornado product project and then we 've got N E F M A er handing the er Eurofighter , same notions as the division of Spain .
You were talking earlier about er applying the lessons learned here from the tornado programme to Eurofighter , surely the best way of doing so is to involve the same people , they 're in the same building .
What are the difficulties about amalgamating these two management agencies and just having the one .
It might also assist in work share and offset because perhaps if things were getting out of balance on Eurofighter you could actually use the tornado pruject , project and get a greater balance .
Far more flexibility surely .
Erm well could I deal with the management agency question first an an then perhaps I 'll invite Mr Perry to speak on the difficulties in trying to equalise work share of one project with trying to counterbalance on another .
The erm management agency that was set up for tornado was structured and manned for that specific task .
When we started the Eurofighter programme , we did look at the possibility of expanding N A M A so that it could also conduct the management of the the Eurofighter project .
erm One of our buyers , Spain , er was not in favour of that solution because they were not a member of the tornado team and they did not want to see some kind of old boys club er running this project which was very important to them .
So it was agreed , right in the beginning that we would establish a separate agency to manage the Eurofighter two thousand programme , but that we would look at the possibility of bringing these two agencies together at as early as possible time and the most expedient way for all concerned .
So we have followed that plan and in nineteen ninety we conducted a study as to exactly how this could be done , a er an integrated agency management structure was devised and a plan was er produced which would have resulted in the two agencies merging at the beginning of this year at the start of the what was then planned the D I phase .
Er unfortunately the the problems which occurred in nineteen ninety two with the threat of German withdrawals from the Eurofighter two thousand project put a complete stop on the plans to merge the two agencies .
Is it still intended it happen .
Yes it is .
Before the production phase ?
It is intended and er all four sets of government officials are resolved to integrate the two agencies in time for the commencement of the P I production phases .
So that we will then be operating with a single agency covering both projects .
And on the work share .
Work share for
I think that the idea of offsetting imbalances on on one project er with transfer the work in other is certainly very interesting but of course as far as the erm tornado programme is concerned I think it it is now really far too late because production is over apart from the the second Saudi Arabian order and we are really only working on the manufacture of spares and given that the existing suppliers are all tooled up for those and indeed her are way down the learning curve having produced vast quantities of them , it really wouldn't be economic to transfer any of that work now I don't think .
Thank you .
Thank you Michael .
I think that er what we will do now gentlemen is go into closed session so I will suspend the sitting er while the present public leave us er so the sitting is now .

Well to be quite clear I'm prepared to allow debate on that motion if you wish it to be if the majority of you wish there to be a fight , but if the majority wish the er to pass the vote on the amendment I will take that , do you wish to .
May I ask then formally those who wish to pass , now to the vote on the amendment
I'm that
you have to call for those in favour intention will you now call for a vote for those against
I 'll call for a vote for quite clear I am going to stick to what I 've said that I consider that the amendment has been proposed it can be if it 's to be accepted it can then be accepted by the Committee as a whole
excuse me can I ask a question ?
Can I assist here ? the motion that has been mooted and the amendment has been proposed the amendment has been accepted the question now is whether what the the motion has been made and uh it is a matter for you to go to your suggested that certain members be allowed to speak at the end of the day it is a matter for you to decide uh control of the who is allowed to speak on that particular motion as amended of course
here here
is that a the wish of the committee
thirteen minutes and is it specifically other members
not each just go into the debate don't waste all the time
right , ah may I call on the first person to whom this is going to be I believe you speak on the
thank you um , it will be quick ah one of the things which caused distress last year was the reduction in the for sixth formers and I was sorry to see that it wouldn't be restored this time .
But the next best thing is for more money towards fourteen to nineteen education so that 's very welcome at least and was widely supported in the various versions we saw this morning , my concern is with the way in which this money is to got from the centre to the school and I 'd like to speak very strongly in favour of what if I got what you 're is education so that we aim to assist schools to build on their own interests and and not have it parcelled out by some central authority which is and which a sigh of this is an area of great relevance to schools

Good this is an interview with Douglas from Blackwood part of Motherwell .
Is it
Well yes the postcode 's Motherwell Blackwood 's er just south of Hamilton about four miles south of Hamilton two miles north of Lesmahagow .
Er so it 's just just on the M seventy four .
Just .
Is it Lesmahagow is it ?
Erm
It is Lesmahagow .
I just wondered how that was re erm er er pronounced .
Now on my er you and I spoke didn't we er Douglas ?
Yes we did .
I 've got circled circled good voice here .
Well I am used to the telephone .
Okay .
Yes yes .
Erm you 're now you 're not doing anything at the moment , we we agreed it was resting .
Erm sales and computers Mar you were with Martin 's ?
Retail Group yeah yeah .
Thank you .
Right now if you 've got your application form , you 've got a C V there as well haven't you ?
Yes I have .
Good that 's great .
Application form
Good .
C V .
I'm having a quick read through this and I 'll I 'll ask questions at the same time .
Where we what we have over on that table Douglas is a representation of er all the products and the and the compa companies that we market our products through
Mhm .
ranging from estate agents , and there are two on the end here from er both products are involved with estate agents , medical practices area health authorities , schools universities and colleges up in the top right there and the obvious ones down in the er corner there .
Yeah .
And I 'll ask questions as we as you 're doing that erm
No problem .
Okay .
This is going to be more or less in line with what erm you told me on the phone anyway isn't it ?
I certainly hope so yeah .
Yeah .
Well I can only make much notes as my hand will allow me to .
They still use terms like Lanarkshire and Dumfrieshire up here don't they ?
It 's like us down in the in England using the old county names some times .
Absolutely yeah .
Strathclyde covers such a oh it 's a huge area .
Massive area isn't it ?
I mean in terms of population I think I somebody did er Strathclyde regional council used to be a client of mine when I was with Three M er well you know a client of my rep up here but er and they told me some time that I think a huge percentage of the whole of Scotland 's population
Oh it 's it 's about fifty percent .
Is it ?
Of the Scottish population .
Nearly half yeah .
Yeah .
Then you get the Highland Region and it 's
Yes it 's only a small percentage of such a huge chunk of land .
Crazy yeah geographical .
Yeah .
So if everything goes all right with what we discuss here today then er Douglas you can er you are available to start immediately in effect
Yeah .
Hope we can give you an opportunity .
Yes yes .
Oh smashing okay .
It 's alw always very useful that er erm if we have to people have to ask us to wait around for them for five or six weeks or sometimes on a three monthly er er resignation thing it er
Yeah it er
it tends to to elongate the whole process .
In fact I would say that ninety five percent of the people we take on are er either resting as you are or self employed anyway .
Right right .
I'm sure that er I'm not in an unusual position er having been made redundant twice on the trot .
What I'm really looking for is er the option to take charge of my life myself .
I I I think certainly erm you 're you 're just at the age , er did we discuss this magic forty plus
No we didn't .
No no .
It 's one of the delightful , I 've been recruiting for a long time and it 's it 's one of those erm delightful things to be able to say to people on the phone when they tell me they 're fifty or fifty four to say that 's not a problem .
Because they 're so used to getting rejection .
I 've also had people at forty plus telling me the same thing which is a nonsense .
With all that
Yeah well what
experience down the drain is it 's crazy .
Yeah .
Last last time I was er resting was er about sixteen months ago and er I actually applied and got pretty far down the line er for a position within Woolworths only to find that er when they stated that they wanted people between the ages of twenty eight and thirty five they did actually mean that .
Er so regardless of the fact that er I was er well recommended and eminently suitable er for the job they wouldn't even let me go
yeah
go for the the final interview .
Er I was forty at the time so I was five
Five years
Five years over .
Yeah yeah .
Mm .
I I think that er
It 's disconcerting .
I think companies well in fact B and Q erm recently announced that er not recently I mean in the last eighteen months they 've started to have their er stores erm
It 's actually long longer er
Longer than that ?
Yeah I mean I
I think Macclesfield was one of the first er
That 's right that was about five years ago .
Is it that long ago ?
Yes I was still there er when they the initiative
They announced that .
Yeah yeah .
Well I we used er used to live in Macclesfield and er of course you know it springs to mind when er but I didn't realize it was that long ago .
It seems so recent .
But I don't know whether that policy still prevails but
Erm I I think does but er I don't think it er became quite the successful initiative that er that they hoped it would be .
I mean I do think there are limitations with er
You still have to get good people in their fifties .
That 's right that 's right .
You 've still got to get good experienced people in their fifties and er whilst a lot of people have experience or a lot of experience er from their their previous working life it 's not always easy to make the jump into
face to face aspect isn't it ?
Well it 's but it 's it 's the modern shopping experience
Oh ah you mean in other words you the fifty pluses are still
Well back in the days of the hardware stores .
Yeah yes right .
Yeah the corner shop and all the
And it 's going to be difficult for er a lot of people to make that transition .
Yep .
Er a lot of lot of people in the fifties sixties age group
May not even agree with it I don't know .
Well they 're still uncomfortable
Yeah .
uncomfortable a bit uncertain and perhaps even a bit threatened .
And a lot of them still haven't worked in large organizations
That 's right .
and erm B and Q or wha any of those retail shops may be er that box that they see on a on an estate now but er it is a huge organization .
Almost the opposite to of er what I'm looking at er coming from er being employed by larger companies to basically working for myself .
Well erm take it from me that I 've worked for for major American corporates and one major British corporate and er there is still something that you may miss all right .
This is a little bit of advice .
But I went erm self employed back in eighty eight .
Oh so it 's not long ago is it ?
So it 's not long ago .
But er but I was at my late forties and er er there are still times that you you feel that that urge to be involved in the er meeting up with your mates every day or your colleagues and having a good chat about business .
I believe and this is why I'm involved with I believe that you get the best of both worlds here .
Because here you have an opportunity to go launch yourself onto a self employed erm platform and can not provide a better platform for that and I would say that wouldn't I he 's thinking .
Mm .
But erm because I 've been out there doing this and that 's that was part of my if you like to come in to do the recruitment side of it , er I had to experience and I'm glad I did because there were one or two pre-judgements I had about advertising sales , as most people do , erm that I had to get wiped out of my erm my my system .
And I was in my early fifties when everybody tells the world that it 's it 's harder to adapt and get er some of the traits out of your system .
Er didn't take me too long to do that but certainly did about my my views on advertising .
They 've changed quite the opposite way because er I now know that it can be done and how important advertising is to the even to the local businesses .
So you make er you know we 've my I would have explained as much as I can on the phone exactly how we operate .
Sure .
Douglas now your background here is mainly erm er retail face to face but I can also read into and what er this and what you told me on the phone that there 's erm quote a lot of sales as well .
Absolutely .
Er particularly my past experience with .
Er I mean I was involved in direct and corporate selling .
Right .
Albeit briefly er in that er twelve months with er with .
Er I have had some successes to date .
Er notably er a sale for a hundred and seventy systems .
Er er in Yorkshire er and some
That 's not bad if you got Yorkshire people to part with their brass for
Yeah but I'm a Scotsman er and Yorkshire
Yes .
Yorkshire people trust Scots
They do don't they ?
Yeah yeah
much more than you know some from down south
Yes that 's right .
Yeah .
Er it 's but I don't really have any problems with with selling er I'm not hard sell er I don't believe in er stuffing things down people 's throat .
I mean if somebody says no that 's fine .
Okay .
Well now
I don't have a problem with that .
Good .
That last point is quite im er quite important when it comes to selling advertising .
I would have said to you on the phone we don't make appointments to go and see people to talk about advertising .
So when we do the telesale er sale on the phone bit
Yeah .
erm you 're likely to get plenty of no 's .
Ah I understand that understand that .
That doesn't mean to say that you 'd have let them necessarily get away with it on the spot but you you 're still going to do a persuasive tact but in the end if they say no fine .
Sure .
Because there are plenty of others waiting in the wings .
Mhm .
Er okay well let let 's er let me outline erm Douglas exactly what today 's meeting 's all about .
I don't call these er interviews I call them discussions because they are self employed positions and er I seem them as a business opportunity rather than a job quote job .
Erm one of the things that I like to emphasize er at this stage is that although it 's self employed it is as close to being employed as you can possibly be with a company but then but still destined by your own efforts to earn earn the money .
What I can tell you is that will provide the ultimate in backup for any self employed person that you cou I could ever wish to meet .
We have an infrastructure that 's been built up over twenty years so er and you 've read our brochure and I hope it 's it was as impressive to you as it is to most people .
It 's a it 's a very impressive er brochure very well laid out which er I would expect obviously from a from a publishing company .
Yes .
If they can't get that right then we ai n't gonna
get most it right are we ?
Yeah .
But no I mean as I say some of the content was was was very interesting and er the concept is er well it 's something that excites me .
Remarkably simple yet it still needs an awful lot of erm individ er people teams of people back at head office backing you know know what I mean .
It looks like a locally printed or erm product which a lot of local printers could print this there 's
Sure .
no doubt about that .
But what they don't have is is that team of individuals throughout the U K funding something which is presented free to the client .
Which is going to be absolutely superb for the client .
You imagine ima imagine going to these clien especially doctors they 'd snap your hand off .
Well I can't imagine a doctor turn turning the offer down .
Well he 's used to getting free drugs er you know
Yeah .
samples and things like that .
That 's right .
Here 's something that he by law has got to have .
He 's no option he 's got to have something like this .
So rather than produce a simple double sided sheet or
Aha .
whatever and that he can produce a quite easy .
Quite entitled to produce something like that photocopied on his own photocopier .
Providing those basic elements
But that would actually cost him more .
Er it would cost them
Yeah .
erm and certainly it would not have much retention .
They could they 'd have to keep cut back .
Whereas these booklets for instance are certainly retained because they 're a two year thing .
And he 's had the size as well .
Right .
Okay what did you glean from the er brochure erm in the main ?
In terms of ?
Oh just generally ?
Very very innovative idea .
Mm .
Er and er well it 's not just one innovative idea er it 's just innovative idea after idea er which is encouraging because it er means that the company is not resting on its laurels er having found an avenue and an opportunity they don't seem to be content just to sit expanding and developing that and doing nothing else .
They do the expansion and the development but also looking at er other areas to move into .
Well certainly er four years ago er four of those products were n't in existence .
That 's yeah .
And we have relied solely on estate agents up until that point .
And this is not the end of the story .
I believe in er three or four years time I will need a a table er twice the size of that for examples of the of of the material .
Because there are plenty of other areas that this will we haven't even started on hotels yet .
There are plenty of companies that do hotels bit itty bitty er
That 's right .
but er one of our major competitors has just gone out of business so we 'll get a spin off from that both in both in estates er and in the hotel scene so
Mm .
Why why has the competitor gone out of business ?
They don't have that in the infrastructure .
They they don't they 're not paying their reps .
You see one of the thin well they call them reps sorry we call them consultants now .
Erm one of the things we guaran well the guarantees er er several guarantees we give to our our self employed consultants and that is that we will pay all commissions earned the following week
Mhm .
we will pay them for a start , that 's that 's the that 's the trouble with a lot other companies and er it wouldn't be professional of me to mention names , but let me tell you that er that 's one thing we do make sure that people erm get their money when when they 've earned it .
Erm and secondly we guarantee continuity of work .
Nobody sits at home unless they 've asked to for two or three days .
Nobody sits at home waiting for the next assignment .
Right .
Erm particularly in the self employed capacity .
If we were paying them a salary then of course it 's up to us whether we have them at sitting at home doing nothing , they wouldn't they 'd soon get bored with it .
But when you 're self employed it 's very important to know that you 're going to get
The opportunity .
The opportunity .
Yeah mm .
And that 's what we provide .
We provide a platform for people to earn substantial money erm you know the only guarantee we give you is that we will give you the opportunity .
And quite quite honestly our top earners are top earners because they won't sit back and do one advertising deal a day and say , Hey aren't I clever .
They will do two or three .
Yep .
Because in fact to do all of our assignments you probably only need to do an average of one a day .
I think you mentioned on the telephone now one per day gives you something like seven hundred and fifty pounds per week .
Aha yep .
The average cost of all our ads erm co er is six hundred pound average .
Yep .
All right ?
Whichever you know if you take the cost some cost twelve hundred pound for a full page others cost three hundred and fifty and some cost even two hundred and fifty pound for a small strip on the golf cards .
So there 's there is quite a variety of across all of our companies but on average it 's six hundred pound and on average it 's a six thousand pound assignment er er target .
And if if we home in on that then certainly then that 's a nice comfortable seven fifty to eight hundred pound a week .
But there you are that 's mister average .
Mhm .
So what er
Mister high-flier does a lot more than that .
What percentage do you actually pay er to in in commission ?
In commission ?
Well the basic is thirty percent on all advertising sales .
And then we er we 'll talk in a bit more detail depending on which company you and I decide that er you know once we decide in fact that is for you .
Sure sure .
Erm and I suppose I should er really start into into that erm area now and that is the purpose behind this erm meeting is er three fold .
Erm and once we 've got one decision out the way the other two are fairly simple and that is that you and I agree that is is is the is the right time er right place and and time for you to launch yourself em employed er aspect .
Erm certainly most people will agree that you 'll earn far more money as a self employed and commission only
Mhm .
because salary company car and all that is only one another form of commission anyway .
And that can be taken away from you very quickly .
Yes .
Whereas you could choose to take this away if you want .
That 's right .
I mean the d d difficulty I 've got er is I'm sure the same as you had er about five six years ago
Mhm ?
is is just actually making the step .
Oh sure .
After twenty odd years of being er a paid employee , albeit a very probably because it 's I have been a very well paid employee .
Yes yes .
It 's a it 's a difficult jump to make .
Yes .
Er but I'm pretty certain
Well you must have heard enough on the phone erm and there and there 's no bull which I gave you
Oh I'm intrigued
and and seen that .
I'm intrigued by it .
Yeah yeah .
Erm and if it 's not it 's er I'm not going to deny the fact that some people say you know this has been good for me for the last eighteen months erm I'm er I'm used to being self employed I'm going to stay that way but I'm looking at other avenues .
But what I hope what we hope of course is that some people give us a real good try .
Mhm .
Er because I don't believe this company er could be matched in what it can give er to the individual .
Anyway if we dec if you and I decide that er is er is for you er the other two decisions today i er are as follows .
Erm we decide which company or which environment which environment you feel you might feel most comfortable within .
And the third one is when .
And I have to say that we give our commitment very quickly and we would like to think that people also give erm their commitment .
So once we 've decided which company you 'll work within I can come I can provide you with a training course immediately .
Right .
And we ac we actually look for that sort of commitment too .
Okay .
I do I do have three or four interviews lined up and obviously I would have having been afforded the opportunity of of the interviews I would like to follow up .
Now these interviews are between now and the end of next week .
Fine .
Well what I would what I would do erm I would rather have a commitment for a date to start when you go out of here and if you say if you 've got if you 've got something that comes up then fine .
Then we part .
Right then what I what I want want really is is something fixed
Okay understand Rod .
All right ?
If you decide that you know you 've got something better or or alternative fine .
Hello .
It is Rod yes .
Yes .
Mhm .
That 's What you want .
Mhm .
Yep .
Okay fine .
Well you know at least you 've er had the courtesy to phone which is a lot of people don't .
That was one o'clock wasn't it ?
Okay thanks for your call and good luck .
Bye .
You 've had few a few callers today Rod yeah ?
Mm ?
You 've had a few callers .
One or two actually .
That 's that 's not bad .
It 's it 's the people who don't turn up always amaze me .
They they
don't turn up and don't call .
Oh yeah .
There must be plenty of work out there I always think .
.
I can understand er I mean we had some calls off er last week mainly because erm we we took we 'd spoken to those people before Christmas and we do expect people to to drop out .
But I still ex I still out of courtesy expect people to phone but may be I'm old fashioned .
No no I mean it 's er it it it is only polite isn't it to to do that er
Yes sure .
you 're supposed to be
So to get back to what we say er yeah I like to fix a date and if people phone up and say well look I 've I 've got something else or I 've changed my mind I would rather have that than to have lots of paper work on my desk that just says may be or may be not .
Okay .
Okay ?
Yep .
Erm now you 've had a chance first of all I after our chat er par particularly on the phone and I make notes of people who er I think come well across on the phone because you know how important that is to us .
Yes .
Er we sell the whole concept on the phone er but we also have the luxury of face to face .
Er which a lot of telephone sales people in whatever they 're doing don't .
Particularly the advertising stuck in a local newspaper office phoning all the businesses under the sun .
They 've never seen the people they phone them every week saying do you want a fifty pound advert in a paper which is dumped the next day .
So it 's gone .
Whereas here we 're we 're selling a erm a very much more prestigious item and also a much more long term er commitment on both sides .
And I don't seeing any problem at all in you being able to come over well on the phone which is the important thing for us .
Looking at the environments where do you think you would feel most comfortable ?
Now I that 's a luxury I have to say that most recruiting people do not get .
Cert certainly the the opportunity does appear to be er huge in the the practices the medical practices .
Er having said that er some of the newer opportunities must have er a lot of oh catching up to do if you like er to to the levels of the estate agents and to a lesser extent the doctors surgeries .
Well the estate agent er area has been around now for twenty years so they 're rather used to us in that .
We we 're we are market leaders in that we are very well known by estate er estate agent companies and er and of course er advertisers .
I mean the new areas of course for us er and I still count the medical practices as a new area although it 's been for four years
Sure sure .
we 're well into erm I suppose we must be approaching somewhere in the region of two thousand surgeries out of fifteen thousand that are available to us .
So there 's still a huge
But we also are now in resales of course .
Cos every two years they 're resold .
So the first two or three hundred we did in the first year have now been resold twice .
Mhm .
Because it 's four it 's nearly five years on .
The universities er and schools er is probably the next well it is it 's the next major growth area .
We 're we 're just about to mail may be it 's gone out now , six thousand universities and colleges throughout the U K. And state schools are as interested that product as independents .
Much more so nowadays I would have thought .
Much more .
Well they 've got to get bums on seats you see .
That 's right .
It 's a case of parents choice .
So who do we er home in on ?
All of those er folders will go out to the parents .
Yep .
And as soon as the parent opens up and or they 're moving , and or they 're moving into the area , there 's the advertising for them .
Yeah yeah .
And so there 's prestige in going into the school .
And of course our most recent acquisition is the golf club company .
Erm and that 's another .
So so really you 've got er I was out on the medical practices so I know how successful that can be .
And the other thing of course about medical practices is there 's no limit on the amount of advertising you 're selling to .
Whereas all the others have specific slots .
Yeah .
So once you 've done it you can't sell any more even though there are two or three people in the wings saying can I go into it .
yeah yeah .
Erm you just have to hope you can pass it on to er er the next assignment you 're doing .
Okay let 's go
Which you
let 's go for medical practices .
Okay .
Right because certainly er this this is er wherever you go in the country there are going to be medical practices and schools , golf clubs start to get restr more restricted and estate agents strangely enough still are widely spread up in Scotland here .
Okay well what we 'll do is home in on that .
And what what what you have here what I I you 'll get to take this away of course .
This is an information pack which will tell you exactly what we do on medical practices .
First of all can I say that er remind you that there 's no responsibility on your be on your part to actually go round surgeries saying do you want our product .
No I understand that .
And that 's
that 's one of the main attractions to be honest .
Okay yeah .
Er we we have warmed it up as much I would have said this on the phone , we 've warmed it up as much as we possibly can .
Erm and our marketing executive who goes round signing the surgery up leaves a certain amount of information er and particularly these erm a sheet si similar to this with er we ask the practice to sit down and compile a list of businesses .
Erm and this of course can constitute an opportunity to do the whole of the assignment from .
However let 's get into the real world and realize that er that medical people are not the best marketeers in the world .
Erm they will leave it to their practice manager and the practice manager will do his or her her best to list out as many businesses which with they have links or are local .
Most important thing when you receive this is on on day one of the assignment er Douglas is to not just accept that list as it is .
You need to sit down with the practice manager or whomever and say right now you 've listed all these , why , what 's peculiar about what 's particular and peculiar about these that you should say that this is a good opportunity .
And the more information you get about those businesses the easier it 's going to be for you to er to convey to them you know a lot you 've done your research on them .
Understand .
Temptation is to get on to the phone immediately
Straight away .
straight and erm a lot of people make that , very experienced sales people still make that mistake cost they 're not used to it .
When you arrive at the assignment there 's an envelope waiting which will contain that list .
Right now that that the rea other reason for qualifying that is the list may be six to nine months old .
So it might not have all the latest
Right .
one or two companies may have gone as we know by the by as it were .
Yeah yeah .
But the er information from the for you and the doctors are included includ into the envelope er with things like such as that .
That tells the erm the the exactly what you 're doing there .
Now some of the staff may not be aware that you 're they 're having a medical practice booklet brought together .
That allows them to read in comfort exactly what you 're what you 're gonna be doing there .
There 's other information which will be shown to you on the on the er training school .
And the training school 's fully expensed .
We have hold it at head office every week .
All right there 's one every week .
Yep .
And er
Typically la last for one week ?
Er it typically lasts for three days .
Right .
Erm and on this side we send people out for two days before they come in to training so they are at least familiar with what what we do .
So it 's two days out in the field with one of our trainers or top people and then they come in for the three day course .
So they 're not coming stone cold .
All right .
But that 's fully expensed at all times .
Travel and hotel whatever okay ?
Here 's a couple of er samples of books and we I 'll refer to those erm during the next er three or four minutes .
But what I need to show you is erm the sort of earning potential because that 's quite important for you .
But also the pricing .
If I can just open those up and have a couple of samples of .
Now we 've kept it fairly simple on the on the medical practice side and we have three sizes and three sizes only .
That 's a full
Yep .
a half and a quarter .
Right ?
So four quarters will be er constitute a full page .
When the sales er exec on marketing goes round to contract the surgery to take that product there are two things that are generated .
First of all they discuss the number of booklets that we 're going to produce
Mhm .
and that will be determined by the patient list .
Right ?
So if you 've got a big patient list fifteen thousand we do a three to one ratio because of course there 're there 're number
Number
yeah the numbers game .
So we will guarantee to print five thousand booklets per year .
That 's a guarantee .
We can actually do unlimited publica erm print for them .
But at least we guarantee that 's the minimum .
Whatever that figure is there will automatically internally produce a target figure that we want for that book .
Right .
Now that target figure is identified the day you arrive at the erm at the surgery .
On the documentation that you receive direct from head office .
And that is a figure you just have to have fixed in your mind all right ?
It 's it 's not if you don't reach seven thousand pound it 's not a a failure situation , it 's just that 's we would be very happy to have that because the following year which is when no expenses come up for you know no no production costs come from erm then er that 's that 's the sort of profit we need to calculate for the
Yes .
second year .
However on er on this particular product erm of course it 's unlimited advertising sales .
Excuse me .
Right .
In fact we 've recently had a fourteen thousand pound booklet and you can when you take this home work out yourself exactly what that generated in three weeks for the sales consultant .
And you can see he was a very happy person .
I'm sure he would be yes .
Could n't do that on the other products because there 's limited number of slots .
However the assignment took a little bit longer than it er than if he 'd been on the other product range .
Okay .
So having got that figure er fixed in my mind that 's what we 'd like to go for but erm and we pay thirty percent commission on all advertising sales , whatever you do however many you sell , you will get thirty percent commission and you will get it the following week , providing you do one or two things for us .
I if I can ask you to home in on that five thousand pound figure , once you reach five thousand pound on any assignment you get another fifteen percent bonus .
There 's a small bonus there at four and a half but I ask people to fix in their mind
Mhm .
five thousand pound .
So that anything over five thousand pound you get another fifteen percent in other words forty five percent commission .
All bonuses are paid at proof stage and I 'll explain why in a minute .
All your commissions are paid the following week but when it comes to bonuses we we there is a slight delay , two two may be two to three months .
Erm and the prices are as follows .
As I said there are just three sizes but I 've got five five prices , I would just like to home in on those three .
Thousand pound is a full page .
We always launch into a thou erm a full page erm sell .
All right ?
So when we get on the phone we always talk about full page .
Yep .
And the work downwards .
If you work if you work on a quarter page at three ninety and cos remember you 're telling all this on the phone .
Unlike traditional sales where you wait until you get round there to tell them what the price is you have you have to er tell them what er the price on the phone .
Those are the prices and we they are premium slots .
That 's a premium slot which would cost twelve hundred pounds .
All this will be gone into a lot more detail on the training course .
You have an allowance if you need it of ten percent on the spot .
If if you really need it to get the deal .
To push a sale .
Erm don't s you know if you 're not a discount man forget that you you just have to say I'm I'm gonna use it if I need it .
But if you are persistent
Or a four thousand per that 's the sort of thing .
Now that 's that I have to say is achievable in two weeks just the same .
Because if you sold two or three full pages and may be four halves and a couple of quarters you have reached your seven thousand pound target .
Yeah I mean I 'd gather that look at er
Yeah .
at the prices .
Yeah
Yeah .
Yeah .
It 's you don't have to sell a lot if er you 've got a couple of full pages and a couple halves .
Er in fact I would probably think that erm having looked at some of the results recently I would think that that 's going to be somewhere close to average now .
And you er that 's gonna fluctuate as well .
If you go into central London around east er around the East End erm that may not be an assignment that will , you see that 's me prejudging .
It 's probably gonna be a damn good book because of all the businesses wanting to get associated with the doctor .
Could well be .
Cos you never know .
One of the things I I I found it very difficult to start with I must admit is that to to prejudge that people would or would not go in .
Now if I point out that it 's in bold erm and it preempts a question that generally comes up and that is if we er we will pay thirty percent up to a hundred miles one way away from home and er if we had to send you , and it 's a big if I have to say it 's a big if in especially in the medical practice side , if we had to send you more than a hundred miles we will pay another five percent .
However , our top earners are top earners because of two things .
I may have mentioned one and that is that not satisfied with one deal a day
Yes .
and also they ask for those thirty five percenters .
And they are quite happy to put up with what I would term the inconvenience of going there and back each day
Yeah .
more than a hundred miles .
I have to say I did my assignments I went there and back I didn't I didn't mess around with staying away .
It was an extra cost but also I learned in the end like the top earners do er and I guess I was mister average because I was coming in to do this job not that one , erm I I decided or worked out that I could do two or three deals in a day between a certain hour .
So I didn't travel during rush hour and I didn't travel back during rush hour .
And these top earners have it to a tee .
They will do it between eleven and three thirty .
And they will have done their work .
The company has no problem with that because you 're you know if if you 're doing the business you 're happy because you 're getting the commission .
Yep .
Okay well that that 's in simple terms and you 've got this to take away for you to study erm then that we we that 's the that 's the sort of earning potential you have and it 's there
Yes .
especially on this side .
And will certainly help pay the mortgage .
Yes right good .
Now we will pay all those commissions on the basis of you achieving er first of all the sale but also a minimum amount of paper work .
And I have to say that this is the minimum I 've ever seen for a sales person to have to do .
But it has to be absolutely right .
Er that which makes it as critical as as a lot of er paper work .
It 's critical to get it right because there are situations where if you don't get it right then they have to hold some commission back and that 's a pity .
That 's an excellent incentive to get it right .
I made absolutely certain I never sent in a duff contract .
Because it is it is very simple if you follow the guidelines and I'm gonna point out one or two things why it 's essential that you do not make an appointment to go and see people unless they know everything up front .
First of all the major documentation we 've got is the contract and there we have six companies and we have the same contract for all six .
Just the difference is the colour .
Right .
All right .
If you 're colour blind then it 's it 's a pity .
May be it 's good for you I don't know .
Er no because if you have a hundred hundreds of these arriving on the er on the doorstep on Monday then you need to er know exactly which company they 've got to go into .
But they 're all the same so that if you are er with which is the medical side and an opportunity arose for some other reason for you to transfer to another group we haven't got to retrain you .
Right .
Because they all do the same thing .
But some of the things you need to point out before you go round is that you do want a thirty five percent deposit of the first year 's payment .
I take it a cheque is that acceptable ?
Er oh yes .
Yes .
Yes in fact that 's the only way you should take it .
Erm thirty five percent and you will have worked you will te you will be able to tell them that on the phone .
Once you 've agreed the price if that 's a thousand pound or thousand pound page then you want thirty five percent of the first year 's payment .
And you have a little chart to help you do that .
But if you haven't got one you make it up yourself .
But the other thing that you have to er be erm very clear about is er on on the monetary side is if there are two signatories to the cheque , right ? both of them need to have signed it .
But the other important is that they both have to sign the banker 's order .
So you tell them about the thirty five percent you tell them about the banker 's order that will need signing .
How many signatures on the banker 's order fine can you make sure mister Fred Smith is with you as well ?
Yeah .
when it comes in .
Cos you can not if you left this with anybody you 'd never see it again .
You kept phoning back for it , oh I 've lost it , it 's gone through the system , tell you what scrub round it next time you 're around I 'll I 'll go into the booklet .
Erm and also we take take the second year 's payment a year later .
Now that 's a good sales pitch because a lot of people think you 've got to
Find all the money up front .
Find all the money .
So it 's in effect three stages .
Thirty five percent about two months later when when they get their proof okay we take the balance balance of the first year through that banker 's order .
We take the second year 's payment a year later .
So it 's in a three stage payment in effect .
Now if you get and this of course once again will be gone through in much more detail er on the training school .
That will generate two out of the three things we want , that 's the contract and the cheque all right ?
The third th the other thing is of course we need to know what they want in their ad .
Yes .
This is the form once again they 're colour coded .
This is the form we use to send the copy in either attached to this form or at least erm a basis of a design down here .
Now we don't want our sales consultants to be graphic arts experts because we have right the way back in in head office
People who know how to do it properly yes .
Loads of people doing it .
We 've got twenty year 's experience thousands of ads on our on our records .
Most of our advertisers have have been in something or other before .
It 's a very rare situation where they 've never advertised .
Yes .
Okay .
Erm if they haven't then you just get a few ideas , got a graphics pack and you say well is this the sort of thing you want , well this is what the er the builder did last time .
That 's right you show them something
You can show them samples .
But in the main we will lift whatever they want if they 've got something like that in existence if not we 'll do it for them .
And it 's at no extra cost that 's all built into the price .
So they don't have to go to an advertising agency or a graphics designer to have it all drawn up we 'll do that for them .
And at proof stage is when we pay your bonuses .
Yeah .
And that 's because we 've got the the balance of the first year 's payment .
And those are the three things get that right plus a compliment slip and a letter heading , because if we have to lift a logo if that if we had to lift that off er you know photocopy won't er photocopy won't do , so we we take a compliment slip or letter heading .
This is of course the most important document .
Yeah .
Ju ju just
Yes any questions ?
Well just an observation really .
Aha .
If er I'm gonna be taking thirty five percent er up front
Thirty percent thirty five percent if you earn more than a hundred
No no sorry
Oh I beg your pardon the deposit cheque .
Yeah yeah .
We 've had that 's that 's the observation I was gonna make , that 's er just so happens that that almost the amount that 's gonna be turned round to me the following week that that
aren't we clever ?
Yeah very good .
Yes .
Oh yeah we we if if it 's if you 're on a thirty percent and mo which most of them would be if you 're on a thirty percent commission assignment then the other five percent just goes in the pot .
If you 're on a thirty five percent then we 're covered .
And our belief is that we 've got money to pay you that 's why we don't delay in paying you .
No no it 's that 's er
Okay ?
that 's very reassuring .
That 's the point .
Yes .
Oh well that 's fine er I mean Howard 's concept is absolutely brilliant erm and it ca it makes our assign our consultants very happy .
We had seventy at the beginning of last year , I think I may have said on the phone , a hundred a sixty five right now .
Yeah .
And we 're going for three hundred this year .
Well that 's another reason I'm sat here is the fact that er you know you 've actually doubled it .
Big growth .
And this is the this is a typical example this is my la my last but one assignment last but one commission form , I would pick one of the good ones wouldn't I ?
Erm but this is a this is an average okay .
The the reason the total down the bottom is cos of the bonus er element .
But we we put down the I 've crossed out position number it is size , erm er we took this from another sheet
Yep .
okay ?
Erm and we forgot to change it that 's all .
Each consultant has it 's ow er his or her her own unique number , so does the assignment , we list the position , the advertiser 's name in brief , the practice we 're working at and the town .
What I 've just described is a full and complete contract .
There are organizations like BUPA hospitals and some others erm who have special arrangements with us where we don't need a deposit cheque and we don't need a banker 's order but we do need an official order from the hospital .
Yes .
That replaces those two things .
You still get your commission .
You know in full .
Unless they 've changed it but I think it is .
There 's the erm er the value of the contract per year , there 's a first year you know it 's just the the co cost of the ad thirty percent that 's what the commission was worth and it 's nice to come out with a signature for a erm and this was a charity one so they got it slightly less , erm er and know that you 've just earned yourself that much .
That 's
Yeah .
why you know dealer day like that was we 're we 'd be quite happy about .
This figure here is in effect what we would should be looking for per week .
Right .
If we if we home in on something like that two eight three thousand then we 're going to be earn earning that much for ourselves .
Now I mentioned bonuses paid at proof stage .
As soon as an assignment has been fully proofed it goes on to a list which is published every two months to all of the sales execs and you just look out for your number , all right ? and you 've got your own personal records of course , if you know you 've earned bonus then that 's where to claim it .
I emphasize the word claim because that 's exactly what it I I mean .
It 's not paid automatic because some people , well first of all we don't know the precise dates when the proof is going to go out and also some people like to leave it there .
To pay tax , pay holidays ,
Yeah .
buy a new car .
Some guy took his er bonuses after two years recently and I think he got somewhere in the region of six thousand pound .
Not a bad lump .
Safe as houses , you don't forfeit it by not claiming it it 's just you you know you you as and when you need it .
Yep .
And all that all that , yes ? all that documentation if you get it in there by Monday we pay all the money int straight into your bank that week .
Can I can I on that particular one er you the value of the contract 's two eight six O , so how many er brochures would er publish ?
Based on that because it falls below the
No that 's one week .
All right ?
That 's one week 's
Oh that wasn't the complete
No no no .
No that 's just one week assignment .
Sorry .
I may have put three in of those for one assignment .
Mm .
That 's a nice week .
It 's a nice week .
But that 's an average week you see for a lot of people .
You imagine what the guy was putting down for his fourteen thousand pound booklet .
Yeah .
He had twenty nine different categories of advertising .
That 's not bad it 's an all time record .
And providing all that document done let 's face it it is simple providing you make sure that people er the advertiser knows what you 're what you 're looking for before you go round there then there should n't should n't be too much problem .
No that 's okay admin doesn't hold any terrors for me .
Well you have to do it .
You you see the important thing is that that contract has to be done in front of the and so does the copy , so does the cheque so they 're all done on the spot .
There 's not anything waiting for you to get home to .
Yeah .
You can't change you can't change anything on there because the guy 's signed it .
So once you 've done that in front that 's that out the way , the copy out of the way .
You may have to wait for one or two things but you know like like copy sometimes but I didn't used to send them s erm er contracts in unless they had everything .
Yes .
I was prepared to go back and copy .
As long as you 've got that contract and that deposit cheque that 's the crunch .
Well there you go .
Of interest ?
Yep yep .
It 's er
Okay well I know I know you said that you were looking at one or two other things and quite honestly I would expect you to be .
Erm
Er you one must be reminded that er it 's only three weeks today from when I was made redundant
Sure .
so er and I 've er been pursuing all sort of avenues .
Not not just self employed but obviously the the traditional route er as as well .
Er I mean I 've written off er cold er letters to
Are you doing networking really networking you see
Well marketing marketing itself .
Yeah yeah yeah .
Yeah yeah .
Er as well as applying for er vacancies that appear in newspapers as well as er registering myself with er agencies with whom I 've been in contact
Okay .
er within the past .
Er an obviously that 's generated a number of appointments and some interest at this stage .
Er and er well I look to to myself and my family to to make sure that er I don't just jump without fully reviewing the opportunity 's that are available for me .
Well I I would have said on the phone that under normal circumstances if you 're salaried or have been salaried I don't talk people into this unless they 're a certain age .
Anybody over forty I say it is a legitimate time to talk to people about self employment .
Now erm in the main the most the people who go and talk , if they talk genuinely to their their other half or I always say partner instead of , nowadays that 's politically correct I think , erm then they so they 're they 're a lot of the times they 're talked out of it .
I it 's it 's a pity to be talked out of out of what we 've got but er it it it 's a case , sorry I say talked out of it it 's discussions and erm you have to say that most er ladies look at saying well now what can you promise me every week
Mm mm .
aspect .
However , I don't think you 're gonna get a better commission only er package from whatever direction that this .
Well I mean obviously I'm the obvious alternative is er financial planning to to
Financial services ?
Financial services financial planning yeah .
Let me tell you that 's the graveyard at the moment .
Yeah well it er it may well be .
Eighty five percent turnround in staff .
That 's not my figures that 's the financial services figures .
It it 's obviously er er route that I 've looked at but this certainly appeals to me a damn sight more than er that .
I mean I know ju a simple little thing but er telephone calls will be made from the practice .
Yeah ?
Mhm yep .
No cost at home .
Which is er it 's it 's a concern .
You 're on the move every three every three weeks you get to know another group of people .
Mm .
You don't have to don't have to procure my own leads .
No .
All you have to do provide is your own car .
It 's okay about that .
You 've got that .
Yeah got that done that with a bit of
Well as long as you 've got a car I don't want to hear that .
As long as you 've got a car .
Yeah .
Er you can not
No I mean I
do
One of these guys has always had a company car .
Er my company car er has gone back and er well until I find out where I'm gonna end up I'm not gonna dive in and purchase another car just er for my
No .
exclusive use .
No we we provide a training course er Douglas so erm all right .
What I 'd like to agree on though is at least a date
Okay .
when providing you know depending on what else happens that I can say that here 's a date and that individual will start at .
It er we are expecting him for the course on that date .
Right .
If we go you know .
Let me just explain exactly what we do .
Erm the training course er as I said two days er I 'll count it as a full training course .
Training course er involves two days out in the field , told you
Yes .
that .
Er that 's not necessarily in Scotland it could be somewhere else but we er pay you travelling and your and your hotel .
Understood .
All right .
Up to a certain limit .
Erm if you stay in the er Imperial Hotel every er time you go out that 's up to you .
Erm and then three days in head office okay .
Now you said you you had a number of other er options that you were looking at which I understand .
Yes .
And you said that by the end of next week you will you will have done those and know whether you want them and whether the companies probably yes ?
Basically yes .
Okay .
So if we 're looking at that being the week ending oh sorry week commencing thirty first of January is next week all right ?
Mhm .
If we looked at erm the week commencing seventh of February as being the two days out that would be from the ninth er that would be the tenth and the eleventh of February .
Would that be er be about just over two weeks ?
So the two day two days out and then the following week on the
Yes .
Yes I 'll go for that .
Oops .
Right ?
Okay so that 's in effect the tenth isn't it .
We 've just changed some of the had to have some of my little notes down there .
Yes Thursday the tenth of February .
So my two days are the tenth
That 's right .
and eleventh .
Yeah I 'll drop all this down for you so you don't need to make any notes .
Thursday the tenth of February on Wednesday the ninth , now this is all on the assumption that everything is going for us
Right .
rather than what you 're what other options you have .
I would have expected you to be doing that .
If I can ask you to read through this for me before you and it will tell you exactly what will happen during your training
Yep .
in head office and out in the field .
Okay .
The course erm temporarily is being held in the Grand Hotel in while we er extend our training school because we 're doing two more rooms on to the training school .
There will obviously be the opportunity to catch sight of head office yeah ?
Oh yes .
In fact if you 'll if you look in here you you get a it starts off with a tour of er head office and all our facilities there .
And now accommodation has been provisionally reserved for you for that date .
What I need you to do is to phone the hotel direct and confirm you 're arriving .
No problem .
Right ?
If you read all this it will tell you exactly .
There 's a map and the Grand is just about there .
Yep .
Somewhere around there .
That 's an er an expenses form and you know bring this information with you to the in-house course , the three days in-house erm because they 'll ask you for that at the end of .
Okay ?
If I can ask you to read that
Yep .
at some time .
Now we pay we pick up the tab at the Grand Hotel for those three days in-house .
Now if we have to send you out fur you know er with a trainer or top person who where you need to stay away we will pay .
We will always pay your travel costs whichever you know whichever er er second of the training course you 're on .
Erm we will pay bed breakfast and evening meal up to thirty pound a night and I have to say the trainers will always know of some good deals .
Right .
All right ?
That was only if on that Thur on that Mon Thursday and Friday if you have to stay away on the Wednesday night and the Thursday night then we cover that .
Okay .
The rest of it 's picked up by us anyway .
Can I ask you just to sign that to say you know that and there 's a copy here for you .
Yes please print your name .
I wouldn't have anywhere near that signature .
Oh it 's in there somewhere .
It 's in there somewhere .
It 's years of practice .
Yeah it 's amazing you know I was watching my son my son when he was about eleven or twelve practising his signature .
And it was it was so nicely written I I saw it the other day it was no difference .
Read both words .
Oh and mine mine is very readable .
Okay .
So I just put up there Right I 've got everything there .
I just need your photograph er Douglas for security .
This is becoming quite popular this method now .
A lot of clients that I had when
Is it polaroid ?
Yes yes .
It 's on the on the spot thing .
We do we do allow people
Tie straight ?
Tie 's straight yes you you can smile good .
Sometimes er when especially the the er older element have been so delighted that we 've offered them an opportunity because everybody else has said they 're too old and after all this they 're getting really excited want to come and then they look so glum in the photographs
and I say well come on I said you can you can smile you know .
Was it just me that was excited you said .
That 's right yeah .
Yeah .
All this will be confirmed in writing to you Douglas .
Sure .
Obviously I 'd be delighted if you choose to come this direction but I understand of course that you have other options to look at .
Yeah .
What one question I should have asked
Ask ask any
When er when we were on the subject of er the the labour turnover er in the insurance industry , what is the turnover in ?
Well er if you looked at the I 'll give you one or two averages and and I have to say that these are figures that are a mixture of what we know from the industry and what we what we know from our own company .
The current financial services turnover and this has this has been published in the Financial Times and the Telegraph is somewhere in the region of between eight five and ninety percent .
Now that is massive because of all the new er erm it they made it very difficult for independents to survive .
Oh yes with er
Yeah absolutely .
and so forth .
And also the the elongated period where they can claw back commission from you .
That 's been a disaster for people .
Two to four years after you left for instance the Pru or one or two other companies they can still claw back commission if somebody cancels a life
Yeah .
that 's part of the contract .
Now I certainly would never sign anything that erm required me to do that .
Er and then the direct sales averages somewhere around sixty percent .
Now we 're going to be somewhere between forty and forty five percent .
So in that sense we 're below average .
It 's not bad .
And that 's not bad .
When you consider
No it 's not bad in in my my sort of retail career and that somewhere between thirty and thirty five
Oh well
er was was the norm
Yes .
er in managerial positions .
Yes yes .
In assistants particularly with part time you 're talking of the order of fifty to fifty five percent .
Yeah we we we 're we 're we wouldn't have retained those out of a hundred and er what is it a hundred and ten people .
Er was it ninety five people er over the last year we retained .
You know coming from seventy to hundred a sixty five in fact when had their sales meeting last Friday it was observed that the sales force in the er which were gathered which we do every two months in the in the major suite the training suite er conference suite at head office er that was the total number of sales execs we had in January the previous year .
Whereas that was one group that had the same number in fact more than that we had ninety people there .
That 's how we 've grown and partic and particularly .
I take it a number of er execs have been with the company for a
Yes .
a similar number of years as yourself .
Yes top earners .
Yeah top earners .
And even even sorry even some of the mister averages or miss there are some very successful ladies .
In fact a lady picked up all awards er last week last Friday she cleared almost cleared the floor she was so good .
Okay Douglas all that will be in writing to you .
All right then .
Look forward to you erm making a decision to come with us but er that 's in your hands .
Okay thanks very much .
We can certainly offer you everything you need on a self employed basis .
It certainly does sound very attractive to to me Rod .
Good .

Drug abuse wrecks lives and families !
So is it here to stay or could we , all of us , do without drugs ?
We all take drugs in some form or another , some are legal , you can buy them over the counter or your G P may prescribe , those are illegal , but still widely available and used at a price .
What we 're looking at in this half hour is why and how we use drugs and what we might change .
And let 's start with a question , do you take prescribed , or illegal drugs ?
Or have you ever taken ?
Button one for yes , and button two for no .
And if there 's anything surprising about that results , it 's that nineteen people say they 've never taken any kind of drug !
Eighty one have said yes .
What have you taken , or what do you take ?
Yes ?
Erm , inhaler for asthmatic attack , well to prevent asthmatic attacks .
And have you been taking that for quite a while ?
Erm , sin , well I think , er about seven years .
And you would go on taking it because it 's a
I don't need it very often , erm I'm not a bad asthmat , it 's an allergy to animals
Right .
so it 's a rare occasion have to use it , but I probably have to have one with me all , for the rest of my life .
Okay .
Up there .
I take Thyroxin for an under-active thyroid gland .
Mhm .
And these are prescribed drugs then ?
Yes .
You get that from your doctor ?
Yes ?
Maccresin for a , arthritis .
For arthritis , right .
Yes ?
I take Tamazapam to sleep .
Erm , and I have no side effects to it , I 've been on it for quite a long while .
Every night ?
Every night .
One every night .
It induces four hours of sleep , and if you sleep after that it 's a normal sleep .
I waken up fine
Yeah .
no problems .
And how long have you been doing that ?
Erm nine years .
And why did you start ?
I had a bereavement , a very close bereavement in the
Yeah .
family and they put me onto valium , but having worked in psychiatric I knew the results of valium , so I I gradually broke them down and got off them but for six full months I could n't sleep
Mm .
so they did put me onto some .
But , I I kno , I do use them as they 're prescribed , one
Mm .
per night .
And they do help .
So you 've got a drug that you can live with ?
Yes .
Yeah .
Yes .
Yes ?
Steroids .
My mother takes these .
Okay .
Any others ?
Yes ?
I used illegal drugs erm
Yep .
for seven year .
Yo yo you did do ?
I did , aye .
Now , now you 're the first person who 's said you used ill ill illegal drugs , I yes ?
I 've took illegal drugs and prescribed drugs .
You did or you do ?
Or yo you
I take prescribed drugs now .
Yes .
But , did you used to take illegal drugs ?
Yeah .
Well let 's , since we 've got onto that why ?
Just to get a hit .
Just to feel good , forget or whatever !
And how old were you when you started doing that ?
Started at fourteen or so .
Yeah .
And how did , an how did you begin ?
I mean was it through your friends or family or
You just take one , I just my pal had a bad or something and she was prescribed er a se , a certain kind of sleeping tablet , Tamazapam and just I started in to say amounts up to twenty five at the end of the , do you know what I mean ?
It 's quite expensive isn't it ?
Ah but you need it .
So , how did you change ?
Did you see
Er I went er er sa C D P S
Mhm .
Do you wanna say what that is ?
Well it was er it 's Community Drugs Project
Yep .
Scheme .
And erm to get pro a nurse , like you get a along with the nurse .
She 's here er , and she put me in a hospital and then going off for something .
And that was that ?
Mm .
Well
And you
I'm still on some stuff .
Yeah .
But she got me so , over the worse part , yeah .
Yeah .
And what would you say to a fourteen year old girl who might be watching this who might think of doing the same thing ?
Just none of you ever tra da er , it ruins your life , ruins your family and everything !
don't try it once ?
No .
Waste of time !
Would you say the same thing ?
Aye , I would gi that .
I would advise
erm , any young person never to try it .
It ruins and wrecks your own life and family 's life as well !
Well we 've got onto illegal drugs , and of course le or , do you think illegal drugs are attractive almost because they are illegal ?
I mean , th there are other things that can give you a hit .
There are , there are legal drugs in our society , and you may not think they should be legal , I don't know , there 's there 's er , alcohol , I suppose is the most commonly used one but
It would start probably because they are illegal , erm but basically because everybody else running about me er , was trying it , my friends so it basically boiled down to peer pressure at the start .
So what were you taking ?
Heroin .
From the start ?
Mhm .
And did it give you a high ?
At the start , aye .
And then what happened ?
And then it just became a drug that I had to take for every day use .
Erm , had to take it to feel normal .
And how difficult is it to stop doing that ?
Oh it 's very difficult .
But now I 've been drug-free for over a year erm but I 'd been trying for a few year before that and had nay managed to succeed .
But through the help er , the group that I'm well involved in , which is Carlton Athletic Recovery Group
Mhm .
I 've managed to stay straight to day .
And what was the point at which you thought I want to stop doing this ?
I want to get off drugs ?
Well the point that I wanted to get off drugs was , my family not wanting any more to do with me , erm , they 'd shut the door on me .
I 've got two young sons as well , erm they two got took off me into foster care , and that was when I really had to decide it was the either the drugs or the children .
So it was one day you made the decision and you stuck with it ?
No , not just one day , as I said , I 'd been trying for a few
Yeah .
year but the end result came when the two children did get took into foster care erm , that 's when I realized that it was a problem and I had to do something about it .
What what what do you think of those two experiences ?
Yes ?
I admire them for being able to sit there in front of everybody and say they actually , what they 've been through because it must have been sheer hell er , trying to come off and withdrawal symptoms , I mean , I don't know much about it cos I 've never taken well I smoke
and I take a drink , but hard drugs misused drugs it just must be shu he sheer hell !
And if they 're coming out stating that your families turned their back , they 've had enough
Mhm .
who do you turn to ?
These , these seem to be extreme stories .
Mhm ?
Er , I do believe that er , if the question was asked have people taken less , you know no not heroin
Mm .
but dabbled in it in a a younger age ?
And what the response was to it because , well I I did try it merely sort of to experience it , and I don't think that it was an addictive experience and
Aha .
I really don't think there was any ill effects at the time .
What , what are we talking about here ?
Well erm just er dope re , you
Dope .
know , marijuana .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Are they bo
And having smoked the odd joint I don't really feel
Mm .
that it was it was that detrimental .
Okay .
Well le let
No .
well le , let 's ask that tha that question then .
Have you ever used illegal drugs ?
And I'm not going to pick on you so you can feel free to answer the question .
Button one for yes , and button two for no .
I mean , nobody has to speak who doesn't want to .
Can I answer that question ?
Yes .
Marijuana is nothing like taking heroin , smack , whatever , it 's nothing like it !
I think we should maybe ask the question why youngsters take drugs and , maybe we would get to the root of the problem .
And what do you think the answer to that is ?
Erm , sometimes they 'll say they 're bored .
Maybe
Aha .
we have to try and divert their attention .
Probably the only way to try and prevent it is to go into the schools and get people that have been through the proble , the problem theirselves to go into the schools and try and educate the kids to stay off drugs .
Because , you 're getting it , I know in the east end of Glasgow where I come from
Mm .
you 're getting them as young as eleven and twelve and , they 're trying these drugs .
You wonder how they 're getting them .
They 're getting them because you 've got old drug addicts going to the doctors getting prescribed drugs that is nay there .
Th the one do they really want them ?
But
Yeah .
it does to get them money because they can sell that and then go and get the , the drug they re , they require theirself .
So they can enter the secondary schools and they 're selling it to these young kids that just don't know any better .
Yeah .
So I think if what we 're doing just now , cos I'm part of Carlton Athletic as well , and what we 're doing just now is trying to get into the secondary schools in the east end , and getting this message across to the kids not ee to buy these drugs .
Yep .
Over there .
There actually is a drug-wise project
Aha .
that is run in the secondary schools in the first year where the children are talked to by the police and they see videos and they are a act
They must have terrible programmes !
they are act to
they are , asked to respond to
Aha .
various situations and they
Aha .
do role play
Mhm .
and all sorts of things to try and discourage them from this .
You don't think that 's a good thing ?
I 've , I 've used well I 've decided not to use the drug- wise project .
I worked in the east end for a year with young people , I think it 's very , very moralistic , I don't like the idea of the police coming in and and teaching
What
the the group work sessions .
I to , I think it 's a very
What what what would you pu
bad package !
What would you prefer ?
I think what we should be looking at is pu , campaigning for de-criminalization of soft drugs , like cannabis
Mm .
because the use of recreational drugs like that is not necessarily problematic .
And I also think that we should looking at harm reduction methods , in schools definitely not drug- wise .
Yes .
If you carry what
Mm .
you 're saying to it 's logical conclusion , then why don't we just erm , open up Hampden up sell the stuff there , you know people , you know , if children want it or adults
I don't
or anyone , why not have
Well
it there ?
why not ?
I mean tha I I I
I don't think that 's
A lot of that isn't harmful .
Is is that what you want for children ?
Well we sell alcoho
Or young people ?
we sell alcohol quite freely .
Well maybe you should just
Quite socially acceptable .
Wha what do you mean de
But it
criminalize ?
I mean , do you mean that you would mean that you would get it on
Yep .
or that it should be a
think it should just be available in in shops ?
With , with certain regulations .
Er
Yep .
with er , there would be a certain amount of state control .
Er , behind you .
Mhm .
Erm we talk about cannabis being made
Mhm .
legal now , if some of the people here could see the damage that cannabis does , it 's the first step towards hard drugs !
And I don't know anybody that addicts , I deal with a lot of addicts , and a lot of families and it all started on cannabis so , you should nah talk about legalizing any drug !
One thing that I think we have to be very careful about , if we did legalize cannabis there would be a proportion of adolescents who would get a great kick out of it , but there would those who don't get the kick because it 's not illegal .
There are people who feel that it 's great to break the law , and a word of caution , that I feel is important , is that the same group of kids will react against drug programmes in the schools .
I don't know that the school 's is the right vehicle for this because in many ways , the children who are getting into these things pay more attention to the peer group , and it 's more important to have community groups , community cafes , things which are not seen as authority getting at them .
So why do
Yeah ?
Up , up there .
Up there .
Yes ?
I think we really have to look at the Dutch experience and
Yep .
see that the fact that in Amsterdam theyde-criminalized cannabis and they do not have the same kind of problems .
It means that the drug squad there can concentrate on harder drugs , and certainly I I pu , a recent interview with a a police inspector from Amsterdam said he would rather deal with , you know , he would rather have cannabis users than certainly alcohol , problems with alcohol .
Mhm .
Yes ?
Erm , I just think that over the generations er ma a er perhaps we 're forgetting that in the seventies , for instance , er well , cannabis was a at that time a popular , a popular thing , but you also had ecstasy isn't either the main thing in the in the papers
Mm .
but er , even then if you , if you could go to your doctor , if you wanted slimming tablets , they gave you Dexadrin or
Mhm .
a derivative of it , which gave you the same high that ecstasy does and er , and if you didn't it from the doctor you could buy it on the street .
So that 's twenty two years go , and ecstasy , I think 's only the same thing reoccurring .
Mhm .
It 's like er a fashion and because it 's on the black market , it 's infinitely more attractive .
The papers have taken it up , and as such , there 's an awful lot of hype about it , and I think makes it more attractive .
Yes ?
Well I just wonder you , there has got to be some kind of relationship between the fact that most people who take drugs live in really run down deprived areas .
I mean , I think tha that you have to look at that .
Because people have got nothing to do !
Er , I mean lots of people have got nothing to do and are unlikely to be employed during that time .
So you think , you think people who live in in well off areas , there 's lots to do don't take drugs ?
No !
You don't think that ?
Oh well , you know No , I don't think that , but I think that you have to I mean there has to some kind of relationship between I'm not saying it 's anything to do with the personalities or anything like that but
Yes .
it 's got something to do with the fact that people have got nothing to do in those areas , and no cha , no prospects , no chance of getting a job and it 's actually quite a purposeful way of spending your time .
I think that 's really patronizing !
You 're saying that
No , but I don't mean to be patronizing .
if I help with addict that they need to compensate for for er , things missing in their lives , perhaps they just like it .
Yes .
Yeah !
Well maybe .
I mean there 's nothing wrong with I mean people do just like .
I think
I think if you talk to drug users themselves , we 've already heard about some of them talking about coming off drugs
Mhm .
if you talk to drug users who will tell you coming off drugs or withdrawal symptoms are not as hard as many people believe that they are .
What they do find difficult is filling their day once they have actually come off drugs because they have built up a kind of lifestyle that has already been said
Mm .
around their use of drugs
Mhm .
and in areas where there isn't any chance of them
Mhm .
getting jobs , they find this really the most difficult part of staying off drugs .
Mhm .
I think there 's , there 's quite a difference , erm , in between physical dependency and psychological dependency
Mhm .
when you 're talking about taking drugs and it 's been shown that the effects erm the biological dependency isn't that great and it 's no sort of worse than coming off erm , having a bad cold
Mhm .
whereas a psychological dependency is what 's really you know , difficult and what makes it hard for people to come off drugs .
And studies have shown that if people are injected , even with not a drug that sort of , satisfies their need for a while , and what does work is a change of environment for people and that does come down to people not , you know , being able to work , people being unemployed , and also peer group pressure like th , the woman said over there .
Erm , if all your friends take drugs then you 're more likely to erm , take them and it 's harder
Mm .
to break that habit .
Mhm .
In front , yes ?
You .
Like the woman said there , there seems to be a lot of help for people who are on drugs , and who then want to come off them , but the after-care service seems to be you know , a lot erm , there 's not a lot help for the people , they get the help to come off the drugs and then they 're put back into the society that they are from and they seem to still have that pressure to go back to where they were previously .
Is tha is that , is that true ?
Are the support services inadequate ?
I mean there are a number of professionals here .
Yes ?
Erm , I work in a project at the Southern General Hospital in Glasgow , and one of the things , there 's young who experiment with drugs whether we like it or not , and I think it depends what drug i is available at that time , so we could sit here and go through the different periods of time .
But I think , we 've not been good attracting women into services , I think , the responsibility that a woman drug user has over child care and a whole range of other things that male drug users don't have .
Erm , yes
Mhm .
then I think , we haven't , I think we 're getting better at attracting women into services and and providing what they 're looking for but we need to hear from them what they 're looking for , erm er with , from those services .
And certainly , if you look residential centres , which is one part of , of a treatment erm of what we have in Scotland or or nationally
Mm .
erm , isn't very good , for women with children in particular .
Mhm .
isn't it also about the hypocris , hypocrisy of a society that 's saying that one kind of a drug is okay , and another sort of a drug isn't okay ?
Erm , I mean one
Which one is wi which ones are you thinking
Oh .
of ?
Well , alcohol 's okay .
Yes .
I mean it 's okay to come to this studio and , in Edinburgh and walk up a busy street and see people going into pubs and being drunk !
But it 's not okay to walk up the same street and see somebody using something else , obviously .
And , surely it 's about erm helping , I don't know how you go about it but the illegality of it prevents people admitting it and asking for help , and taking erm any advice that people can give about using it safely .
Yeah .
And it 's about safe drug use , you know what I
Mm mm .
mean ?
Mm .
Well , safe drug use is quite a challenging concept .
I mean I may maybe decriminalization is part of that but I , as someone said why sho , why should n't people take er , drugs if they want to , they 're allowed to take other drugs ?
What do you think about that ?
I mean i i
Well that 's what I'm saying , you know drugs erm , well you 're looking at society where we 're given drugs to make us feel better .
Mm .
I mean there 's a lady down there talking about taking
Tamazapam to help her sleep and has no problems with that , fair enough !
But there was another lady there talking about taking Tamazapam as a drug of abuse and tha , that 's the difficulty .
I wonder how many of you have experience of taking tranquillizers ?
Do you ?
Button one for yes , and button two for no .
And I'm sure that medical people here will correct me if I'm misusing
Mm mm .
the term tranquillizers .
Well thirty nine people say yes , sixty one no .
Of those , of those thirty nine has a , has it been a good experience or not ?
Yes ?
No !
I had a very
No ?
bad experience with tranquillizers !
My father died erm sixteen years ago and I was put on to tranquillizers , up until that point I had never needed a drug in my life , and I was put onto tranquillizers and I had a terrible experience !
Did you ask to be put onto tranquillizers ?
No .
Th we th , I think at that time it was just the done thing , you hand out tranquillizers , erm but I found it a , a really bad experience
Yeah .
and ended up having to take anti-depressants to reduce the effects of the tranquillizers .
So you actually became dependant on the tranquillizers did you or or or you simply had
Mm .
such bad experience on them ?
Ah , yes I , and I 've never
Yeah .
taken one since .
And I refuse under any circumstances to take them !
I'm just going to comment on the lady over there .
I never went to the extremes with heroin , but I was addicted to valium for seven years erm and I 've been clean from valium for four months erm through a drug programme in Brenda House
Right .
Erm
I went to the doctor at seventeen , just about to be married and he put me on Librium to calm me down .
My parents were absolutely shocked when I went home from the doctor , seventeen year old and living on drugs , so so to speak , just because I was a bit excited about getting married !
You know it was
And di , did you take the Librium ?
I was entitled to !
See , extraordinary !
Yes ?
I take Attavan on on a nightly basis
Yep .
simply to shut off my brain to enable me to sleep , much the same as the
Mm .
lady over there I 've no bad experience with it , I am not muddled-headed during the day
Mhm .
erm , it just allows me to switch off .
Mhm .
I didn't know specifically asking for a sleeping tablet .
And during the time where Attavan was getting a very bad press , I went back to the doctor and said , would it be advisable for me to change ?
Mm .
I still want something to turn me off at night , er and is Attavan that bad ?
If so , can you give me an alternative ?
And he said , in the with the , the drug , th , with the amount that I was taking , the , there was no need to co , er concern myself with it .
don't you think that a lot of doctors are too willing to hand out these tranquillizers ?
They see these weak
Yeah .
women coming into their surgeries , highly strung and th the answer to their problems is , give them a tranquillizer and be done with them !
Ye , I feel actually women go , or people in general , go to the doctors expecting a tablet , a prescription , and are very disappointed if they don't get one .
Erm , but I personally think there 's a lot of other things that the doctors could be offering , er , pointing us in the direction of er relaxation techniques and , all sorts of things .
Erm , I think they 're quite good at saying stop smoking , or stop taking it but we don't offer anything in it 's place .
Mm .
And I think that drug taking has always been here , it will probably always be here , but in most people 's life it 's a transient thing , it 's a phase perhaps erm as animals we like to change our mental state ?
I don't know , there 's ha pu , I think there 's a lot of reasons why .
Mhm .
Rec , erm the lady behind was stating that recent a , I mean recently I had about , er went through a bereavement , lost
Yep .
my brother who I was very close to went to the doctor and , instantly he , pres , er prescribed Tamazapam tablets for me , knowing that I myself am a single parent so I have a responsibility .
Mm .
I 've my daughter to look after .
didn't ask me anything !
Just looked at me saw how I was , prescribed the Tamazapam tablets , and I had a terrible experience with those and that 's only in the last year !
And so , how 's that affe , I mean , what do you think about that ?
Because at the end of the day are we not responsible for ourselves ?
I mean you don't have to take drugs !
But you 're taking a , a , a G P 's word for it , that these tablets that he 's given you are gonna help you through the emotional pain
Mm .
that you are going through .
They done nothing for me at all !
Mhm .
I had a phobia about going to the dentist , and the doctor wanted to give me tranquillizers but I didn't want to take them , so I actually went for hypnotherapy which helped .
Yeah .
In the past we had a lot more family structure and friends , a good neighbourhood network , but if you had problems er , you could go , you could talk about it
Yeah .
you could get it out of your system .
But now women are meant to go along on an even keel and when something upsets them they think tha e , I should n't be able to express this any more , so I 'll go to the G P and he 'll give me something and then the emotions will go away , but unfortunately they don't go away , they just go wandering , they 'll come back again at another point .
I think there 's something that we haven't discussed , and that 's that , doctors don't seem to prescribe tranquillizers to men , it 's women , and they do wrongly prescribe them to women .
Is that true ?
No .
No .
In my experience it is .
Maybe men talk about it even less than women do .
I mean do do yo , do you think women take more drugs than men do , whether recreationally or or or fo for their health or now th , is th is there a particular problem that women have with drugs whether it 's illegal drugs or tranquillizers ?
Yes ?
Do men , not perhaps drink alcohol more than women ?
Aha .
And women use the tranquillizers as the alternative ?
I don't know !
Well I , no one 's saying much about alcohol !
Yes ?
In a study which I did , er erm I find that
Aha .
erm women were being prescribed tranquillizers about three times as often as men and in fact , women go to see the G P three times as often as men .
Mhm .
So , I think the two things go together that way .
Well let me ask you this question , would you say that using drugs has improved your life ?
Eighty one people here say they 've taken drugs , and probably more than that , has using drugs , any kind of drug improved your life ?
Button one for yes , and button two for no .
And who knows what they 're talking about , those fifty two people who said yes .
What about the contraceptive pill , that brings a lot of joy ?
Di we In , in , indirectly there !
A final question , do think society could do without drugs ?
Do you think , do you think we could ever do without drugs ?
Button one for yes , and button two for no .
And I think you 're probably quite right you eighty three !
Seventeen people have said yes , we could do , where are you you idealists ?
What are all the asthma sufferers , and arthritis sufferers , and various people going to do ?
Yes ?
I don't think we could be completely drug-free , I mean obviously medical conditions dictate that you have to take medi , medicines
Mm .
but , when it comes to taking other drugs , for a thrill , yes you could do without them , and one of the ways you can do that is by taking time out for yourself , whether you 're a single parent or if you 're a you know , if you 're a family , the important thing is finding time for yourself and not for your family or your dependants .
I think that deserves a whole programme .
How do women find time for themselves ?
We 'll talk about it another day .
Thank you all very much indeed !
Thank you for watching .
See you next time .
Goodbye .

Mick , National Officer .
President , as delegates will know this is my first report to Congress from the Public Services Section and in the time available could I warn delegates and onwards to eight hundred thousand members , their families and all their friends and the eight million members of the T U C and their families and their friends , a sizeable group of British people who , President , now consider theirselves as past , present and future patients of the N H S , and rightly so .
Well , do I have news for you and them .
In April and May of this year , the Junior Minister of Health , in April Tom announced from the shared platform with David , the Tory MP for Havant , but better known as a leading member of the Tory think tank , that regulations had been lifted to allow private capital to have free access to the N H S .
To undertake buildings of hospitals , the complete management of hospitals and to retail a full range of health service products .
President , David followed on and said , and I quote , the successful takeover of the National Health Service depends on agreements being excluded from the present unions and he has not been contradicted .
President , this was supplemented by the Secretary of State , for Health in May , last month , by golden Virginia Bottomley , that further offered an invitation to the private sector to form a partnership with the government to take over our public sector N H S , to provide the flair and the entrepreneurial skills and imagination of the private sector of British industry .
What an example , what a record .
U K private industry nil , the rest of the world ninety nine and still playing with plenty of time on the clock .
Congress , to it further we have no lon we are no longer patients , we have all been renamed customers and clients , the new management practitioners use the language of the private sector , corporate customer targeting , they refer to theirselves as commissioners of health service care working with the internal market .
Fund holders talk about buying the best products available at the lowest price , regardless of the inconvenience to their customers
Mick , Mick , just one second .
Colleagues , let 's keep it quiet please .
regardless of the inconvenience to their customers who might have to travel further afield , away from their homes and communities for treatment .
Fundholders have to manage their financial budget they 're told , like any other small or medium sized businesses .
They want to develop purchasing skills , cash flow skills , cost control skills and labour cost controls .
President , for those who have , I'm sure , who 'll these fundholders are , we used to call them family doctors .
Congress , President , the government have got no guts to announce publicly that their intentions to privatize the N H S on a date that will give the leading time with the razzmatazz and P R that they 've done before to sell shares , to sell shares in the British public in a public nationally held N H S , there will be no seats , there will be no Inspector Morses and others as there 've been with Telecom , gas , water and electricity .
The present private health service companies like B U P A , that already , are all ready to move into the front door and take over , so this year my first report on the N H S could be replaced in nineteen ninety four on the report on the private health care industry unless we take action .
Based on the following , delegates , I 've been lucky like many of you , to live in a country where I have had available to me a National Health Service that has been the envy of the world .
Like you , on occasions my family and I , along with my parents , have had the benefits of being able to use the National Health Service free of any ongoing financial burden to the family .
There is an opportunity now on the fifth of July , when this may well be our last chance to demonstrate , all of us , along with health service workers , cos they can't do it on they o on their own .
And publisly , publicly and forcibly on that day , which is a date we should be celebrating the forty fifth anniversary of our National Health Service , instead we will have to demonstrate to save our National Health Service .
President , delegates , brothers and sisters , I will be there on the fifth of July .
I hope you will be with the health service workers , not just because I have the honour and privilege of being a national officer with this greatest union in the country .
Not because I directly res have some responsibility for representing our membership within the Health Service , but because as I said earlier this is my Health Service , this is your Health Service , it 's our families ' Health Service that we have enjoyed the benefits since nineteen forty eight .
I will be out there because I am , and this may have surprised a lot of , a very youthful appearance of me , I'm gonna be a granddad in August and October this year .
And no Tory government is gonna take away our Health Service from my grandchildren , who will be born in a National Health Service hospital and hopefully will enjoy the benefits and the care during the rest of the nineties and well into the next century .
I move my report to Congress .
Thanks very much , Mick .
Colleagues , turning to Mick 's report , page seventy one .
Yes Eric , London Region .
Erm , I suppose we ought to say welcome to the Health Service , Mick .
Erm , I doubt if you 'll get too hard a time from us .
Possibly not covered in the report is the commitment that this union is giving to the Health Service .
We 've created a new sector , I , I 've seen over the last three or four years , changes in the way that we 've tried to represent our membership in the Health Service from the old industrial conferences to combined industrial conferences into the er , current erm , section that we 've now got .
The problem is that we seem to have dropped the Health Service off more and more and more over that period of time , and I think , to be fair , the programme sums it all up , two motions on the Health Service .
It used to be a major debate at this congress .
It 's not just the better the members that we 've got working in the Health Service , it 's about everybody in the room and everybody in the country who wants to use it and we 've got ta get it a bi a bit higher up on the agenda at this union and I hope Mick , that you can give us the confidence and give us the commitment , that that 's what we 're gonna get from this union .
Seventy two .
Yes .
President , Congress .
I should like to ask Mick regarding the long service ambulance personnel .
A lot of them now are being took off A and E work , put on out-patients and most on it 's now the art of trust .
I was took on to be able to keep the written terms and conditions .
Thank you very much .
Thank you , seventy three , seventy four and seventy five .
Mick .
Thank you President .
Er , Eric erm , asked about er , profile and resources and er , hoping I would er , provide the conference , confidence er , of our membership in the health ser of getting the profile up .
Eric , I reported to the C E C on Saturday night when presenting the , the Health Service Conference report , that I would be making a detailed report to the next er , meeting of the Public Services Section Committee on resources er , on what I see in the first five month of my er , ten year of office er , what , what we need to do , to play our part in the public service , to extend ourselves within the er , the Health Service .
That report , I trust will be adopted by the , er the public services national committee and go back to the C E C for the endorsement and er , watch this space .
I just , Birmingham Region , I think the delegate who came up second about long service ambulance staff and the going down .
If I could see him at the back I 'll er , I 'll just get the question a bit more clearer and I'm sure I can help .
Thanks very much .
Alright , thanks very much indeed , Mick .
Colleagues , National Health Service , composite motion fourteen and motion three O five .
Er , composite fourteen to be moved by Liverpool Region .
President , Congress .
Doug , Liverpool , North Wales and Irish Region .
Health Service worker .
The latest demonstration reforms proves the point what trade unions have been saying since the inception of Trust Hospitals and I think the word trust is the wrong word to use .
It should be mistrust hospitals because the people who work in the service were all guaranteed certain things which have not come to pass whatsoever .
The whole trust of the reforms is to break up the N H S piece by piece .
If you worked in the industry you would see what was happening and you would be aghast .
You just do not believe the moves that they try to do .
The main thing is they don't inform you of what 's happening now until it 's happened and then they say , oh well , we didn't need to consultate with you cos it doesn't affect your members .
But in knock on affects it does .
Through privatization , privatization of occupation and health .
Privatization of finance , privatization of all the ancillary workers .
That more or less exhausted now .
The only people who seem to be excused from the privatization is the senior management executives .
Morale in the service is at an all time low .
Through the pressures put on our members by the private contractors , if they get recognition , and not guarantee , no sick pay , reduced holidays , no check-off , the , I could go on and on and on .
Then the fortunate staff who are still employed and they 're regarded as fortunate that you 've still got a job , because that 's what the management use repeatedly to professional people like nurses , sisters and other professional organizations who work within the Health Service , you 're very lucky to have a job .
There 's very many unemployed .
Why should you complain ?
Our nurse members have been waiting now , some of them , since nineteen eighty eight for grading appeals .
There are twenty eight thousand up and down the country waiting to find out , have they got the correct grade .
That is a legacy of the late Mr Kenneth Clarke , Health Service Minister , now the new Chancellor .
God help us with the economy , if he comes up with a crackpot idea like he did over these grading appeals .
So because of the embarrassment , Mrs Bottomley has instructed all her Regional Health Authorities to clear the backlog of these grading appeals .
But Mr Walgrave , another Minister of Health decided in nineteen ninety one that he would do with a , a famous thing called Section Thirty Two .
But he was in a peer mechanism which had been a longstanding thing with trade unionism management for many years , with no replacement .
So what they decided to do , they would accept the clinical grading appeals which says that a panel can be up to six members , of three members of management and three members of trade unions .
The Mersey Region , where I work , have decided that they wouldn't accept that .
They would accept the panel of one trade unionist and one member of management .
And they said that was the only way that they could clear the backlog within the time limit that Mrs Bottomley has set .
This union and other unions have protested most vigorously to the Mersey Region and they decided then to go ahead with the appeals by approaching other trade unions , not necessarily involved in clinical skills , like the plumbers and the joiners of the A U E W and the EPTU .
No disrespect to their craft , that 's their job , but would you like it if you were sister , working in intensive care or an A and E department to have your appeal judged by a plumber or a joiner and that 's what 's happening in the Mersey Region at the moment .
We have other stupid things like a nurse training college , let 's close it .
So we close it down , to make it way for a new hundred bedded day hospital , which 'll be not private , guaranteed , no way will it be private .
But it can't be managed in this country cos nobody 's got the expertise of the management of these sort of hotels .
So we 're bringing the Swedish Airlines to come over and manage it .
So we close a nursing college and we 're gonna make it into a hundred bedded day hospital and it 's gonna be managed by a Swedish Airline company .
That 's the sort of thing that 's going on at the moment .
I could go on and on and on .
I have to show you this , cos that is the disgrace and you all saw it , we read it on Tuesday .
There 's no way that child should have died , but you know what these famous words in real terms , in real terms we are putting more money into the Health Service .
The people who are putting money in the Health Service , I don't care whatever city you go to , you will see an appeal for a new kidney machine , a new special baby care unit , you 're the people , the public are putting the money in , because they 're certainly not .
The only money they put in to the chief executives and their two yearly pay re review performances that they get , for cutting other people 's wages or contracting Health Services and for somebody to have to travel that distance for a , to die , is absolutely appalling and it 's a disgrace .
I could go on and on and on and I 've listened all week to the debates and I agree with what John said on Sunday .
I think a lot of people do .
If we don't get together collectively to get rid this government , you and your families and Mick and his grandchildren , there won't be a health service there .
I move .
Comp fourteen formally seconded ?
Thanks very much indeed .
Motion three O five to be moved by London Region .
Did you formally move ?
Oh he 's coming , right .
Sorry .
John from the London Region .
President , Comrades .
Erm , Congress , the Tomlinson review of the Health Service in London contains many questionable aspects , midst conclusions stem from the misguided belief that market forces will resolve all the problems .
That 's sheer and utter rubbish .
This is a flawed document and indeed it comes to very questionable conclusions .
The under-funding of the N H S has been the main cause of our having reached this crisis point .
Closures and amalgamations are simply destroying internationally renowned centres of excellence and creating a positive area for redundancies , voluntary and compulsory , early retirements and relocation of about twenty thousand personnel .
This massive attack on the labour force in the inner London , the most heavily deprived districts in the country , ignores the social dimension , the climate of deep recession and the added importance of an economic entity in local judicious management .
A massive reduction in beds erm will have , no doubt , a follow up in the rest of the United Kingdom , with its inevitable result on health care and jobs .
The onward march of the Trust program is destined to swallow up the N H S as we know it , health care delivery biased in favour of the money orientated , terms and conditions for the workers on a take it or leave it basis , short term contracts as the norm and reduction in sickness entitlement .
Certainly longer hours and less pay , all that was hard fought for tossed back in our faces .
The intent of Tomlinson will add greatly to the expected one hundred thousand job losses in the capital in nineteen ninety four , a rise of thirteen percent .
Are they careless or just mad .
People in poverty is no way to help the inner boroughs .
The N S , the N H S employs from the highly skilled and professional to the semi- skilled , manual workers , ancillary , clerical , maintenance , nursing and midwifery personnel , mostly locally based .
What 's to become of the pool of labour when the heart and soul is torn from London by the ruler of the political obviously , no consideration for the human consequences of its policies .
Major , I also mean my man , his decisions and bed closures courts disaster .
Patient care will suffer , demand for care will increase and er , primary care will this point again and again .
While they haggle over the prices in the Trusts , you must continue to suffer and the socially deprived remained bottom of the waiting lists .
Now look at the tragedy of Barts .
Closure will destroy both the historical and the esteemed .
The Royal Marsden , place of care and genius , to go , another victim .
What about Queen Mary 's , Roehampton .
Hope for the limbless .
I thanked him greatly .
Harefields , giving life with great heartlessness and many more .
Congress , fight , fight indeed with all your might .
They have got it wrong .
Help to put it right .
All must have heart .
Tomlinson , John Major 's government seem to be twin spirits , who know exactly the price of everything but the value of nothing .
Can no one rid us of these medalling and wilful misfits .
I move .
Thanks John .
Is that formally seconded please .
No .
No ?
Eric , London Region , Section three O five .
Sorry , to take a little bit of time but I did point out we 've got two motions on the Health Service and erm , I think it 's a little bit more important than just er , formally seconding .
The arguments in Tomlinson , too many beds in London .
There 's too many beds in London , there 's a small outfit called the E B S , the Emergency Bed Service .
Because they have so much trouble finding beds in London hospitals , they 've got this little company set up to do the job for the doctors , so there is no way in the world that I can believe there 's a shortage of beds .
The hospitals of excellence , as some people have put them , the major teaching hospitals , all in London , nationally they import that expertise once people have done their training .
You get rid of those hospitals in London , you 're gonna lose the opportunity , and the colleague from Liverpool summed it up , they shut a nursing college , right .
And that 'll go on , and that 'll continue to go on .
The major training is done in London .
Nowhere else will be able to afford to do it , so let 's not pretend that it 's not gonna affect those people outside .
The Trust certainly won't train .
That 's an area where they 're not gonna get involved unless there 's an awful lot of money and yes , there is money , for them for a training budget , but certainly not enough to cover what would be lost if , if Tomlinson , and let 's face it , if they win Tomlinson it will just continue .
The specialist units that would go , cancer units , heart units , children 's units .
Colleague again showed you one , there was another one on television today .
A child that 's er , been unable to have an operation because of the closure of the Westminster Children 's Hospital .
These things are going on all the time .
Other hospitals will not pick up , I don't care what the Virginia Bottomleys says , or any of the others from the Kenneth Clarkes , he 's the one who did the major destruction job on the N H S .
He then did it in employment , you know , it 's obviously now gonna continue , I don't know quite erm , how much more damage he can do on the economy , but that 's the guy who started it all .
We 've got a major problem in the Health Service .
It 's back door privatization .
The are too few beds in the Health Service , whether we like it or whether we don't and what they 're trying to do is force people to use the private sector .
That colleagues , whether we like it or not is back door privatization and we 've got ta fight to oppose it .
Thanks Eric .
C E C are accepting both these with a statement colleagues and I ask Edna to put that view for the C E C .
Edna , speaking on behalf of the C E C on composite fourteen and motion three O five .
Congress , President .
On Sunday in his General Secretary 's address , John Edmunds reminded everyone in the labour movement that we need to , need to express our arguments simply if we want to get the message across .
Earlier this year , I heard the whole of the debate about health care reduced by the media to just four words .
It was about the debate , about health care in America and the words were provided by an American reporter .
So the fir four words need to be translated from American into English .
But those fe four words tell us a lot about what lies ahead for the N H S in Britain , unless we 're very careful .
The words were coverage and cost containment .
By coverage they meant the fact that thirty five million Americans are not covered by health insurance .
They are exposed to whatever illness or injury lady luck throws at them .
And the free market system doesn't protect them because they tend to be too poor or too old for health insurance cover .
Either they can't afford private health insurance or the American insurance companies regard them as a bad risk to be acceptable .
Today in Britain , Michael is looking for ways to make people take out private insurance against all sorts of possibilities .
Poverty in old age is one .
Health care must be another on his list .
You can bet your bottom dollar .
By cost containment , the American media meant that the U S A spends almost twice of national income on health as the U K does , but for no better results overall .
Americans are no healthier on average than we British .
The Americans burn up lots of their health expenditure paying lawyers ' bills .
Today in Britain 's N H S we are spending more and more on accountants and fi financial consultants and less and less on health care workers .
Since nineteen eighty nine , the number of N H S managers has risen by eight thousand , while over eight thousand nurses and midwives ' jobs have been lost .
All over , the Tories are trying to import Transatlantic techniques .
N H S Trusts has been going out of their way to recruit managers with experience in private profit sector .
They want bosses who will be in human , American human resources techniques , like things , related pay and personal contacts .
One very recent in those debation at Ealing Hospital in West London , has been invited to , invited the staff to hand back this year 's pay rise .
In return for probably not making staff redundant .
Probably .
I think it 's their idea of a loyalty bonus .
You pay the boss instead of him paying you .
We also now have G P fundholders .
With these you can forget all you ever heard about health care based on medical need .
Their speciality is jumping over obstacles , to jump , queue jumping to be precise .
Other doctor 's patients are having their operations postponed in order to allow the patients of G P fundholders to be treated first .
Money talks , is exactly what we warned about .
Cash coming before care .
Congress , I didn't look into any crystal ball .
I simply watched an American T V news item , but it gave me a frightening vision of what the future could hold in store for us , unless we fight the Tory policies with all our might we can muster .
That fight will be helped if you vote for composite fourteen and motion three O five .
Thank you .
Thanks very much , Edna .
As Edna indicated colleagues , the C E C are supporting comp fourteen and three O five .
We 'll take the vote .
All those in favour of composite fourteen ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Motion three O five .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Colleagues , just before we go on to Election Systems er , there is a meeting at lunchtime , and two of the principal speakers at that meeting is Bernie Grant MP and Billy .
They 're both sat at the , the back of the hall , would you extend a very warn welcome colleagues .
Thanks very much .
Election Systems , colleagues , motion one four eight , one four nine , motion twenty eight .
Now mo motion one O three has been withdrawn by the , the Northern Region .
At the end of the debate I 'll call Ernie to put the C E C point of view in respect of the three motions left because they 're seeking reference .
Call motion one four eight to be moved by Midland .
Les , Midlands and East Coast Region .
Moving motion one four eight .
President , Congress .
Last year at Blackpool I moved a motion calling for review of the C E C election procedure .
We agreed to reference back .
We agreed to reference back this year .
I asked the C E C and congress to re-affirm the commitment given to us .
The supreme body on this great union and the vote re vote in return reflects the fault in the system .
Postal votes are a disaster .
The answer that our voting is no worse than any other union 's is not satisfactory .
We should be in the forefront and not compare our faults with others .
I 'll look forward to a working party to be set up to address this situation .
This should not be put on a back burner .
I move .
Thanks very much .
Is that formally seconded ?
Motion one four nine , Midland .
John , Midlands and East Coast Region .
President , Colleagues , I 'll be very brief .
This motion has been put up this year because there are changing circumstances which really do require us to give elections to the C E C deeper consideration .
For instance , with the merging of branches , we could find ourselves in a very enviable position of more than one members wishing to be considered as a candidate for the C E C .
Therefore , it makes sense that the branch , in the first instance , should be addressed by these people so that we can make up our minds at that level as to who we feel will be the best person to start recommending to go forward .
Now , I do understand that the C E C has already set up a working party to look into this whole issue of elections to the C E C , and no doubt , that will also include a review of the byelaws .
My region welcomes this and hopes this motion will be given due consideration .
I move , thank you .
Thanks very much , John .
Is one four nine er , seconded ?
Thanks very much .
Motion twenty eight .
Midland again .
Peggy , Midlands and East Coast Region .
President , before I start could you er , please ask erm , at the doors if they could keep quiet a bit because delegates can't hear some of the debates .
You me you mean colleagues who have gone outside and they 're having a chat and a smoke , what have you ?
Yes .
That 's right .
Yes , if ya can hear me outside , we 're watching ya .
Just keep quite while Peggy 's speaking .
I have had some stick this week .
President er , delegates .
This union has done a great deal for equality .
isn't it time that members standing for C E C elections were given the same equality with Regional Secretaries , who as we all know , all year round , in all regions , when a leaflet or a booklet goes out to members , in most of them there is a photograph of the Regional Secretary .
Obous obviously the purpose of this is to create an identity with the members .
By inserting this an amendment to rule eleven , you 'll be giving the colleagues standing in future C , C E C elections the same facilities .
I understand the C E C are seeking reference .
My region has agreed to er , reference , after it 's been seconded .
Thank you .
Thanks very much , Peggy .
Is that formally seconded ?
Thanks very much indeed , and I understand that the region , Midland Region , are prepared to remit one four eight , one four nine and motion twenty eight .
Is that correct ?
Conference accept that ?
Thanks very much .
So Ernie will be very pleased to know that he 's not required to er , star this morning .
Section Secretary 's report , Keith , Process and Construction Section .
Keith , National Secretary .
President and Congress .
It 's my privilege and pleasure to present to Congress the first report of the Process and Construction Section .
Congress will recall that over the years I 've made references to the close working relationship , which was developing between G M B and our German colleagues .
Given this situation it 's a delight to report that the launch of the section in February was accompanied by the signing of an historic partnership agreement with our German colleagues .
This agreement is the most significant , bilateral agreement between two European unions in different nation states and covers some one point seven million members and I was most heartened colleagues , with the er , welcoming comments that were made by brother David from Durham City Central er , clerical branch from the Northern Region in his address .
Erm , the partnership agreement er , arose from a clear conviction by both unions that positive trade union action is better than rhetoric .
That it is inadequate for trade unions to merely pay lip service to a European prospective , or to be deterred by the refusal of the U K government to accept its European responsibilities and deny rights to U K workers that are enjoyed by every one of our European colleagues .
We assert that strong trade union relationships , on a day to day basis , must be developed in a bilateral form and this agreement provides for substantial trade union cooperation in the European Community and beyond , and it 's already materially advancing the interests of our members and assisting the development of free and independent trade unionism in Eastern and Central Europe and the former Soviet Republics .
And the importance of this work , colleagues , will become clearer later in this report , but at this point er , President , I would wish to place on record , although he 's now has to leave er , to catch his plane , the attribute to my friend and colleague , who was here during the earlier part of Congress , as an honoured guest .
He 's one of the co-architects of the agreement and there is no doubt that his vision , energy , enthusiasm and dedication can not be over emphasized and is deeply appreciated by this union .
Congress , the section held its inaugural , National Conference in April and unanimously adopted as priorities for the section , four main areas of work .
Recruitment , new agenda agreements , health , safety and environment and Europe .
All areas in which the section has got a proven record of achievement .
Because of time , I intend to concentrate on the European dimension .
Now one of the first fruits of the partnership agreement with the Germans , is a successful initiative on joint training and education of officers and shop stewards funded from the E C fourth programme .
It 's a two year project , which in the first year includes three large seminars and the production of a number of booklets together with a training video .
The first of these seminars was held in March , when sixteen members of the G M B , principally lay activists , and of those principally members of the section National Committee and five officers participated with an equivalent number of German colleagues erm , at the training centre in .
Now it was the unanimous view of the entire G M B contingent that the seminar was stimulating , exciting and laid the basis and the foundation for continuing cooperation on a day to day er , basis with our German colleagues .
The second seminar will be held in July at National College and the third will be held at the Training Centre of the German Mineworkers ' Union in October .
A union with which we 'll be amalgamated within the next eighteen months .
Now , the entire project , which includes language training for , for all the union 's activists , together with the conclusions reached will form a handbook on training , for distribution throughout the European community .
Now , we readily recognize , Congress , that there 's immense prestige attached to this initiative for the G M B and over two hundred activists will have jointly participated during the two years of its existence .
Colleagues , the important thing about the agreement so far , is that we have already destroyed the myth , perpetuated by the employers , that joint work across national boundaries in Euro- multinationals are inappropriate because of differences in trade union cultures , organization and systems of collective bargaining .
This materially assists all G M B members and not simply those in the Process and Construction Section .
The two unions have also devoted considerable resources to promote the formation , growth and development of free and independent process trade unions in the former Soviet Block .
Both unions are proud to be associated with this noble and historic enterprise , and share the view that this work is essential to assist the people in those countries to build democratic , political , social and economic systems .
We 're already seeing the successes .
Four weeks ago in Budapest the executive committee of the World International I C E F accepted into membership from Russia alone organizations representing seven million workers .
Wind up please , Keith .
Congress , we 'll appreciate the significance of this situation and I commend my report .
Thanks very much .
Turning to the report , colleagues , one seven three , one seven four .
Yes .
Yep President , Congress .
Who 's the biggest ?
Keith .
Oh alright , you go on then .
Certainly the cheek is anyway .
No , just quicker .
Northern Region .
Keith , I 've had a look at page one seven four , Chemical and Allied Industries and I can't find anything in there about the recent problems that we 've had at Allbright and Wilsons .
So I pa I turned to page seven , one seven three , the new section for the Process and Co er , Construction er , Section and I can't find anything on there .
We 've had problems at Allbright and Wilsons for some time on a change of working pattern , but this is just a modern way that companies have got today of de-manning people .
Now , we got permission to go ahead with a , a ballot for industrial action , which took place and although it was a majority for industrial action , it wasn't the required two thirds majority .
I do have to thank on behalf of my stewards ' committee er , Terry who gave us a lot of help and also the er , Regional Section who also helped us .
But when it went to National , everything just gone .
The question is Keith , from my committee , where the hell were you at in our hour of need ?
Thanks very much .
Yes , colleague .
Thanks President .
Ken , Midland and East Coast Region .
President , I 'd like to er , offer thanks on behalf of my membership in the Process and Construction Section , on the false agreement , it was a very successful week and just to echo Keith 's words , those links that we made are working and we are in correspondence with the , our colleagues in and we 're picking that up in terms of recruitment .
Thank you .
Thank you Ken .
One seven five ,
one seven six , one seven eight , one seven nine .
Keith .
Yes , President , Congress .
In answer , first of all I must thank Ken for er , his erm , his comments .
Erm , the delegate from Northern Region referring to Allbright and Wilson .
I think what we have to understand , colleagues , is that this report actually is put to bed , print-wise , well in advance of this Congress .
It doesn't in any way claim to be an absolutely up to the minute report of absolutely everything that we 've done in the previously twelve months since last Congress , and quite frankly , it just could not be that .
So , we do apologize , but hope you 'll understand er , the delegate particularly , that we just can not ensure that the report has got absolutely everything in it .
The involvement of brother Terry Hayes .
I'm glad that you commented er , so favourably about brother Hayes ' er , attendance at your headquarters conference because , of course , brother Hayes is acting on my behalf in that capacity .
When you ask what happens at national level , well what happens at national level in these industries is that we have dozens and dozens of requests for headquarters conferences each year .
I can not possibly and conceivably , and no good other individual officer , actually handle all those and some them have to be delegated .
In your case you could n't have had a better officer , in my view , to handle that situation .
I'm delighted that you were pleased with the response .
Thank you .
Thanks very much , Keith .
Colleagues , we now have a very pleasant er , duty .
I'm going to ask Tom to make a presentation .
Thanks very much er , President er , to mark the occasion of the launching of the British er , Boxers ' Association we 'd like to make a little er , presentation to Barry , who 's the President of that Association and erm who you know , of course , is the Chairman of the Institute of Professional Sport and the Professional Boxers ' Association has got the honour of erm , immediately being part of that er , body and has the assistance , of course , of er , the many people involved there .
From the G M B point of view , of course , we have quite a sporting section and we 're proud to have this link er , with both of the organizations and we 're pleased to have been of some assistance to the er , British Boxers ' Asso Professional Boxers ' Association er , in er , this launch and establishment we felt , because we 've got the Scottish professional footballers , who are well established and er , are very much an integral part of the G M B and we 've got the Northern Ireland er , footballers , we 've got the rugby players and we 've got speedway riders all of which come under .
Mick , the National Officer has been er , the link between these organizations and I hope that the er , Professional erm , Boxers ' Association will give some credit to the G M B in erm , establishing themselves and we hope , as an organization , that in the future that they can be successful and we can be sure they will be because they 've not only got the likes of Barry but they 've got many other , prominent er , boxers who will , I'm sure , establish erm , the Association in a very er , positive fashion .
Can I , on behalf of er , the G M B , Barry erm , make a presen presentation to you This is the er , first er , picture that was taken at the launch of the Professional Boxers ' Association .
We had it mounted and we 're proud and pleased to be able to present that to you on behalf of the G M B .
, of course , will er , go down the of history because it 's their very first executives meeting .
Many may they come back .
Thank you .
We had tried to get a couple of er , here in Portsmouth but he had to attend , so we thought as we prepared for this conference this morning er , on the miners , that it would be appropriate to get a miner 's lamp to put and have them simply inscribed with the erm , the memory of the occasion , which turned out to be
President , Tom erm , to President and Congress , ladies and gentlemen er , I 'd first of all just like to say thank you , a big thank you for your support .
The Professional Boxers ' Association would try er , many years ago , and it didn't have the support of people like the G M B and the S P F .
Erm , I know there are a lot of genuine boxers that are members of the G M B and I want to thank you because we just want to know that .
Thank you very much indeed .
Professors er , Congress .
Just very quickly I 'd just like to endorse what Barry has said , erm .
I was when I actually bumped into the Bishop of the other day .
But very , very quickly erm , I'm actually delighted that this organization has helped breathe the life into not only the Professional Boxers ' Association , we are extremely grateful .
. Thank you very much indeed .
Thanks very much indeed , Barry and don't let anybody tell anybody in the trade union movement that the trade union movement is not moving .
It 's moving constantly and we 're increasing all the time .
Thanks very much indeed , colleagues .
Colleagues now , back to the agenda .
G M B trains a number of motions in this particular section , two four four , two four five , two four six , two four seven and two four eight .
There are a number of points of view the executive want to put and I 'll be calling Paul at the end of that debate .
First one , motion two four four .
Southern Region to move .
Other movers , if they would come down to the front , it would assist .
Thank you .
Frank , Southern Region .
In the past , Congress , personnel departments and management have been in the privileged position of using computer technology .
In some cases , using it in a re reactionary fashion .
To hance enhance , both their arguments and their presentation when dealing with us , the trade unions .
Most of us here , will have experienced graphs that assess the performance of the workforce , expenditure and income of the company .
Most of these are a computer designed programs which effectively help our counterparts reinforce their position concerning our members , their conditions and their output .
We , we advocate training for our members , encouraging bosses to offer them more .
We too need to challenge this and update our own training facilities for our activists .
It 's time to turn the tables on the management .
The G M B and the trade union generally need to have at least the resources the management have .
How can we do this I hear you say .
Firstly , the primary objective for us as a trade union must to be ensure G M B activists , shop stewards and officials all have access to training and computer literacy .
And adequate software must be made available to ensure G M B activists can put into practice what they 've been taught and use it to the labour movement 's advantage .
With the right sort of software package a world of information can be at the fingertips of the G M B activists involved .
Obviously , in the initial stages not all activists would have access to terminals , but most will .
In national negotiations , officers should make a priority of the need for terminals for our key activists under facilities agreements , possibly under machinery for negotiation .
Software , could be designed in such a way that it can be exchanged and regularly updated including information on subjects such as C O S H H , labour law and industrial relations and social groupings within the G M B structure .
What I 'd also like to say is I think it 's e ecol erm , ecologically correct as well for us to move into computer literacy and computer designed programs .
I mean , the am amount of paper pushing we do in the G M B is incredible .
Coming onto the second part of this motion , language training .
This is another area that looks to our future .
With the present developments in European Works Councils across national borders , we should be learning other languages .
We will meet more trade unionists from other countries in the future and as Keith was saying early on , our link up with German trade unions is very favourable , it 's a very positive step .
However , will we follow the traditional British concept and ignore other languages being disrespectful at other nation 's cultures and backgrounds ?
We need to set an example as well , at this present time M S F are already in a position where they 're training their activists in other languages .
What we need to do is get our members and make them feel that they 're part of Europe , not dispossessed by it , at this moment in the time there 's not a lot for them in consideration of Europe .
We need to try and make sure from the grass roots level up , we have involvement .
To coin a phrase by John , I live in a very small house said Confucius , but my windows look out on a very large world .
And that 's what the G M B need to do , to grasp the nettle to move forward .
Both these concepts , computer literacy and language training are ways of attacking present pessimism and mobilizing the will within our movement .
Support these motions for a better future , arming our grass roots has never been more important .
I move these motions .
Is there a seconder , formally seconded ?
Pardon .
Yes , formally seconded .
No , no , seconded .
Why don't you want to formally second it ?
You 're just deliberately being awkward all the time .
can't win 'em all .
Mr President , Congress , Steven , Brussels Branch , Southern Region .
Seconding motion two four four .
Many delegates have talked about Europe this week , about the E C , about the directors ' laws and regulations come out of it .
One general line of agreement between all delegates is that we need to develop our links in Europe .
We 're in Europe , our role in Europe can only increase .
What we should be looking at is how to maximum our potential to further the trade union interests in the process of European integration , because one thing 's for sure .
If the evolution of the E C continues , and it will , working people must be as organized as possible to ensure that trade unions are not forgotten in the race for a single market .
So how do we get organized ?
We must continue to forge links with sister unions right across the E C , and what better ways to target our priorities in this area , by targeting the languages , training in the union .
Especially for young members .
This union aims at increasing the skills of its members with various training and education schemes .
Let 's look at how we can get tr language training incorporated into these schemes to give , particularly our young members , an additional skill to use in their trade union work .
We must work together in Europe , colleagues .
We must work with trade unionists of different nationalities and language groups to make sure that European movement is united and speaks with one voice .
The British do not have the best reputation for language skills , in fact , we probably have the worst .
Let 's be progressive enough to show our commitment to sister unions in other European countries by giving our members the language tools needed for the European trade union movement .
I second the motion .
Please support .
Two four five ?
Mel , Lancashire Region , moving motion two four five .
President , Conference .
The withdrawal of public funding for trade union training is yet another attack on the trade union movement within this country .
In particular , an attack on this very union , the G M B .
I say in particular our union because everyone here knows we probably have the largest and best training programme of any other union in Britain today .
But there is a cost to that training , a large cost , and to some extent the allocation of public funding money offsets that cost .
As I understand it , nearly a hundred and fifty thousand pound is allocated each year to the G M B .
As that money disappears it will inevitably put more of a burden on the union .
We need to ensure that we take the opportunity to look hard enough at the decisions which are to b er , to be made , to reassess how our training is to be provided .
We 've got a number of motions on the agenda asking for the C E C to look carefully at the cost of training at the National College and at the regional education courses .
We had a motion which was put before Conference last year and it was carried and it was asking for a similar review to what 's being asked for this morning .
The cost of training should be very carefully considered .
In that review which is being sought in the motion we need to think strategically , not just about our own provision , but to ensure that a large scale T U C provision is maintained .
The T U C courses that are equally under threat , as pum public funding is withdrawn from them .
The reality is the T U C provides training for more G M B representatives than does our own training programme and very often at considerably less , less cost , and certainly in my region , where we have a very close relationship with the T U , T U C , the training is of a very high standard .
We must ensure that the T U C tr er , programme remains , otherwise the cost to our union funds will be astronomic .
Therefore , we 've got to review the training programme .
We 've got to grasp the nettle .
Yes , there 's going to be pain , but it 's our future , what is at stake , when we talk about the education training of the activists within this organization .
I call for , therefore for the C E C to bring back to Conference next year , a full report on how training should be given to the education and maintaining the activists of this union .
Next year at Conference .
Thank you .
Thanks Mel .
Formally seconded ?
Formally seconded , thank you .
Motion two four six , Education , Birmingham Region .
John , Birmingham Region , moving motion number two four six .
President , comrades .
In nineteen eighty nine , Mrs Margaret Thatcher said , I do not see why we should pay for the education of conflict .
And for once in her misbegotten life she was right .
Because trade union education is conflict based .
It 's based on the fight for better working conditions , it 's based on the fight for health and safety and it 's based on the fight for fair laws .
What Mrs Thatcher and those who followed her did not say , was that it would be Tory Party policy to cause conflict , in their unremitting attack upon our movement .
Examples of their prejudice are contained within the anti-trade union legislation passed and the shame of the treatment meted out to our brothers and sisters , in such places as Dover , G C H Q , Timex , local government and the present piecemeal destruction of our National Health Service and the attendant deaths that go with it .
You look round , you can see the results of this misery that they have caused on any housing estate in the country , in the eyes of our youngsters condemned to a life on the dole .
To our men and women chucked on the redundancy scrap heap .
Yes , Mrs Thatcher spoke the truth all right , but it was her truth , not ours .
In nineteen seventy nine the grant for trade union education stood at one point six million .
That may seem a lot of money .
But not when you put it into context with the vast sums of money spent supporting privatization , or the salaries of over privileged , so called captains of industries , industries that once belonged to this nation .
The grant has not improved in any real sense to today 's figure of one point seven win wrong one point seven five million and now it 's the government 's intent to reduce the grant by stages until nineteen seventy , nineteen ninety seven it will be removed completely .
This is the continuance of Thatcher 's truth , passed on by Major and his gang of incompetents .
It is the attempted destruction of our ability to educate each other .
Why should they be interested in our education ?
It 's simple .
The first line of defence for the trade union movement is you .
You 're the ones who defend the grievances and the disciplines , you 're the ones who prepare the information for the industrial tribunals and there 's no doubt about it , comrades , this one is aimed at you , the representatives .
If your ability to gain the skills and information needed to combat the many complex issues that you have to deal with is impaired , then the government and employers will have what they want .
A workforce kept in ignorance and unable to organize .
This is the goal of the government 's plan .
You 'll not hear from them about the confusion methods used to present figures on profits or unemployment .
You will not hear about the inequality shown to our women , nor will they tell you about the workers killed by unsafe standards .
You will not see government courses on combat and crisis management .
No , comrades , the only place you 'll receive such training is with our union .
No wonder they choose to attack it .
This motion is about recognizing what they 're up to and also the valuable service offered to stewards and members through our regional and national education courses .
It 's also about the advancement of your personal skills .
Many of you who come to this rostrum this week will have been trained in the democracy of congress before you got here .
Our training is the best that any union can offer .
It 's the training of equality , the training of research and a measured approach
Could you wind up now please .
Right , President , and a measured approach to responsibilities and trust that is placed in you .
I call upon you to maintain and improve that standard , to ensure that this government does not succeed in its attempt to deny working people the most valuable asset they can attain , knowledge .
And with knowledge the result of fight for fair treatment for all workers .
Okay President
Colleagues , thanks very much indeed .
Thanks a lot .
I move .
Thanks very much .
Two four six seconded formally ?
Formally seconded , thank you .
Motion two four seven , Lancashire to move .
John , Lancashire Region , moving motion two four seven er , the one you 've all been waiting to support .
Congress , colleagues , I wanna begin by stressing that this motion is not about reducing the level of training the G M B offers its members .
What it is about is using our members ' money to benefit the people who represent them by moving the responsibility of training from national to regional level .
That in , in turn will allow the C E C to dispose of the National College and in the process it should ensure this future is safe .
We have real difficulties getting financial information regarding the National College .
You will be aware that the National College warrants a whole page in the General Secretary 's report .
From that page eight , we can gleam the fact that seven , seventeen hundred stewards attended a total of a hundred and twenty four courses in nineteen ninety two .
That is less than fourteen students a course .
Also , a total of thirteen thousand , three hundred and fifty three delegates used it as a conference centre .
In the mid eighties we invested our members money in a National Education Centre , and now ten years later it 's become a Conference Centre and a hotel and we 're not fully booked , can be used for training the stewards , along with the occasional Regional Council meeting for the Lancashire Region .
Can I make a point to ya .
Normally , or sometimes rather , we use the college for our Regional Council and I , I think on the last meeting we were discussing , the Regional Council members were discussing , the er , the amalgamation .
And we were , how we were gonna combat it , and in the very next room were or rather holding a conference on how to do us in .
But , in our own college .
Congress , the G M B is renowned for its ability to represent people .
Trust House Forte is equally famous for providing conference centres .
Colleagues , the membership is going down , the contributions are going up , the education grant will be history by nineteen ninety six .
The National College has now become a financial liability that this union can no longer justify .
Regional training is the answer , where stewards will receive training based on the need of the industries they are employed in .
This motion is not seeking to score points off anybody .
What it is doing is hoping that the college , our union 's future will be secure .
Support the motion .
Two four seven formally seconded ?
Formally seconded , not formally seconded , Steve .
I read no prejudice cos I'm not allowed to so .
Steve , Lancashire Region .
I'm at the rostrum this morning , supposedly seconding motion two four seven .
The Lancashire Region , as the last speaker said , has tried through the proper channels to seek full financial information on the cost of running the college , and its finan financial burden on the union .
It soon became apparent the way we were being footed about , we would have more chance of convincing Rupert Murdoch to stand as a Member of Parliament for the Labour Party .
So , what 's the reluctance to publicize the information we want ?
All we have in the General Secretary 's report is one page .
If you miss it it 's on page eight .
Yes , it tells us six hundred and forty seven thousand pound was raised to offset the G M B cost of retaining the college .
The operative word being offset .
What we wanted to know was how much does offset come to ?
In simple terms , what does it cost the union to keep the college open ?
If it 's a great financial burden as we believe it is , that money , along with the money generated from the sale of the college , we will be better used spent on setting up regional ar educational system .
Now I know this may cause a terrible dilemma for Alec and Bet Gilroy from , the proprietors of the Rovers Return , and you may well ask me , what 's that got to do with this motion ?
For those of you that didn't know , several scenes of the National College are actually displayed in Coronation Street , so now at least you 've got some useful information this week .
Now , I 've got ta tell ya , that in itself is enough for me to say close it , anything that 's related to Co Coronation Street .
Personally , forget as I say , I say it 's enough for me .
But seriously , I follow this report along with the Lancashire Region , the comments made by the mover of this motion and in the interests of financial commonsense , I urge the conference to support this motion .
Thank you very much .
You 're speaking in opposition Bert , are ya ?
Well , come to the rostrum , I just wish to make a point first .
Now colleagues , after the S O C report this morning , I indicated that we had a lot of business to complete , today and tomorrow .
Now , most delegates so far this morning , have in fact cooperated with that .
But we can't have a situation where people are picking and choosing , because everybody 'll want to do it .
Now , I know colleagues some would like to stay till Sunday , or maybe even Monday next week , but we 're not in that situation , so I again , I do appeal to all colleagues , all colleagues , you know , to assist in formally seconding , and to thank those that have done it so far .
Bert .
Yeah .
Bert , the Fulham One branch , London Region .
Erm , speaking in opposition to the motion to shut down the college .
Mike in the audience and he 'll probably give me a rollicking afterwards , cos I haven't prepared anything about this and I suspect I won't be able to speak till the red light .
The college is not is not an ideal site for education .
The architect of the college built the hotel , a bar and stuck a couple of classrooms on the end .
Not withstanding that , I think it plays an extremely valuable role in the education and the training of our activists .
It should not be looked upon as a cost , as a burden , but as an investment for our continuing prosperity in the trade union movement and more specifically the G M B .
People like myself , wouldn't have had the bottle , wouldn't have dreamed of coming up here if it hadn't been for the good work of people like Mike and Harry , who in my opinion do a superb job in training me , you , all of us in this union .
Uniquely within the trade union movement , the G M B has a centre of excellence in Manchester , because that 's what it is .
As I mentioned those tutors are possibly unrivalled in the world of trade union education .
Of course we should try and cut costs .
People like me in the past used to rail that we had commercial enterprises using the college .
I 'll accept that , if we can nick some money from the private sector to educate our activists , so be it .
Naturally , I understand the balance of , the balance has got to be kept right and we should n't sacrifice the training of our activists to get more revenue in by renting it out to commercial firms , UNISON , I don't know , the Pet Food Retailers ' Association or whatever .
It 's got to be kept in perspective .
But I 've just briefly looked at the education and training part of the General Secretary report and it says here , National College rammed a hundred and twenty four courses over a thirty week period attracting approximately seventeen hundred G M B representatives , a wide range of residential courses .
Well , that 's not bad is it for starters ?
And there 's something else you should bear in mind as well .
I do understand the need for regional education because clearly it 's less expensive , but it 's not just what you learn in that classroom at National College and any of , anybody who 've been there will know that .
You learn just as much in the corridors , in the bars , in the grounds , talking to your colleagues , fuelling each other 's enthusiasm and I certainly , every time I go to that college , I come back home full of renewed hope , fire and passion .
Oppose this motion .
Two four nine , Birmingham .
President , Congress .
Cliff er , Birmingham and West Midlands Region , moving motion two four nine .
This is addressed to an area which we seem to miss in our training .
Some four and a half years ago when I was elected as a branch secretary of a fairly substantial branch in the Birmingham Region , I had two hours with the then finance officer and he said , well it didn't last the two hours , and he said er , well you know all there is to know now , about how to run this branch .
If you 've got any problems have a look and see what people have done before , but if you make any mistakes , we 'll write and tell you what you 've done wrong .
I haven't had a lot of letters from Regional Office , I 've had one or two .
Er , I know I 've made some mistakes which they 've missed and I 've managed to put those right as I went on .
It is difficult , especially with larger branches who still retain some considerable cash collection , I turn over somewhere in the region of eight thousand pounds a year , which isn't bad in , in this day and age .
I 've got to advise auditors er , how they can do their job ,
I 've got ta advise people of the correct forms , the correct er , way of going about things and what benefits there are available .
A lot of the benefits , yes we know about .
But there are things that we 're not avail er , we 're not aware of and I'm looked on as something of an expert , so God help those people who come and ask me er , what there is , what forms they should use and what is available on the , in the organization , if I'm looked upon as an expert .
What I want to , for you to do , is to pass this and for the C E C to look at providing some education specifically to the administration and the running of branches .
Let 's become professional at branch level , because at branch level is where we carry the administration of this organization .
I move .
Motion two four nine formally seconded ?
Thank you very much .
I call Paul to put the C E C position .
A jogging Paul .
Erm Paul , London Region er , putting the response from the C E C .
Can I first very quickly er , congratulate Sue and Eddie on behalf of the London Region .
We understand they 're about to or shortly become grandparents .
Erm , well done er , the only thing that Eddie now needs is Hughie 's elocution pack and all his Christmases will have come at once .
Erm , Congress C E C has asked you to accept motion two four four with the qualification , support motions two four five , two four six and two four eight and accept motion two four nine also with the qualification .
We are seeking the withdrawal of motion two four seven .
Motion two four four deals with the fundamental issues of new technology and developments towards greater union cooperation in Europe .
The issue of technology training is currently under review and the G M B , W E A partnership in establishing the Labour Telematics Training Centre at National College for a pilot project lasting twelve months is proof of how seriously we take this subject .
Frank , an initial training project er , language training project in support of the G M B initiatives is shortly to start at National College .
We really need a bit of time to evaluate that and that 's the qualification that we 're putting on that .
The idea of financial and administrative training in motion two four nine is a good one .
However , it would be virtually impossible to force that onto people , on the branch officers and we recommend acceptance again with that qualification .
Just er , slightly deviating , I come to motion two four seven , which asks the C E C to dispose of the National College .
We recognize , all of us I'm sure , that during periods of tight , financial stringency most sectional activity is beyond examination and inspe inspection as Mel who moved two four five requested .
But you know erm , the training committee 's view that National College has already achieved savings and approved efficiency while mainin maintaining standards , and the huge number , over seven thousand G M B members participating in some form of activity at a National College last year .
The college provides a National vocal point for the G M B and to both National and International vis visitors , symbolizing the best of this organization stands for .
I think , that the movers of two four seven did not create , or seek to create an intention of concern , but you know there 's something else that many speakers have done this week when they 've come to this rostrum .
They 've talked about the way that employers , that employers treat workers , and do you know what that resolution does , because it 's printed in the preliminary agenda and I make no apologies for saying this .
Printed in the preliminary agenda and the staff who work diligently on your behalf all the year round , see a resolution like that on the conference floor , about whether or not they 're gonna have a job at the end of this week it 's not the best way to do business .
I don't believe John , that that was the intent of the resolution , I'm certain of that , that is the effect and I think in the interests of everybody , I 'd ask you on behalf of the C E C to withdraw that motion .
If you won't , I hope you , if you won't , then I 'll ask Congress to oppose .
Thank you very much President .
Colleagues , I put the motions to the vote .
First one 's motion two four four .
That 's being accepted .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Motion two four five is being accepted .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Motion two four six is being accepted .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Motion two four seven , John , you 're being asked to withdraw .
Right .
C E C are therefore asking you to oppose the motion .
All those in favour of the motion ?
Against ?
That 's lost .
Motion two four nine is being accepted .
All those in favour ?
Against ?
That 's carried .
Thanks very much indeed colleagues .
Colleagues , we now come to part of our agenda that 's extremely pleasant .
As I mentioned to you on Sunday morning we usually deal with , usually deal with this particular matter on Sunday morning , but we decided that because our new young members ' section is growing in its influence and activity and , of course , we now have resolutions on the agenda that this now warranted er , separate attention er , on the agenda .
And I refer , of course , to the G M B youth award .
And of course , if this union and the trade union movement is to prosper then we must encourage our young people to come through .
To come through , to become conveners , branch secretaries , yes regional secretaries and occasionally general secretaries of the union , and we need more women .
So I'm particularly pleased this morning that the award is going to a young woman and I'm equally more pleased that it 's going to a young woman from the Lancashire Region .
And I'm more pleased that it 's going to a young member in the textiles section because that 's a very difficult section .
We all know textiles has had the grind for years and years and years and all our activity , all our activists , the shop stewards and the branch secretaries and conveners in that particular section , they need a lot of support , especially the young people .
And in this connection , the award this year goes to Catherine who already has got a fairly formidable pedigree in the movement , shop steward , member of a branch committee , trades council , young members ' advisory committee , the National Committee but I think best thing so far , she 's actually chaired the T U C young members ' conference and that 's an achievement for this union as well .
So , I hope she goes places , I really do because young members and young trade unionists in this union are gonna get this union 's support so , go back to your branches and tell everybody that .
We want 'em to come through .
Colleagues , it 's my pleasure to make the award to Catherine on behalf of your , your union .
Thank you .
Er , I 'd like to say thanks to me branch for nominating me up first place for this award .
I 'd also like to say special thanks to me Regional Secretary , Ernie and also Regional President , Mel .
Er , special thanks also to Neil for all support and encouragement that he 's given me .
I 'd like to say that I do sit on T U C youth forum and the G M B have the strongest , most active youth section so let 's keep it that way and give our young members all the support and encouragement they deserve .
I would just like again to say special thanks to Ernie , Mel and Neil for all their support and I hope they 're gonna be first in bar to buy me a drink .
Okay , now in this connection colleagues , the Deputy General Secretary 's report , pages one O eight , one O nine , one one O , one one one , one one two and one one three , and I call composite motion number nine , unemployment of young people , Southern Region .
Congress , Mr President , Steven , Brussels branch , Southern Region .
Congress , there 's a very familiar phrase which is often used in the English language , a phrase which many of you may have used yourselves from time to time .
Youngsters today , it is said , have never had it so good .
You 've all heard it and many of you may still believe it .
But what young members , what young people find ironic , is that the same people who are telling them they 've never had it so good , in the same breath accuse them of being responsible for high community crime levels , drug and alcohol abuse and the violence .
But the funny thing which strikes many young people is that they are being made scapegoats , then it is certainly not because they 've had it so good .
One million of them are under twenty five years of age , a disproportionately high number , you 'll agree .
This figure is a national disgrace and reflects totally the continued failure of this government to invest in high quality education and training for young people .
Despite all the fine statements that young people are the future of the country , they are still a disadvantaged group and will remain so until they are made a priority policy target .
One million youngsters unemployed , colleagues , what a waste of human talent and energy , what a waste of a vital community resource .
And imagine the demoralizing effect that this is having on them .
Young people three , four years out of college and have never had a job .
Is there any wonder that their attention and energies are diverted to elsewhere .
But for those who do have a job , it 's hardly plain sailing .
Cheap labour , low pay and conditions er , poor conditions are all characteristics of the young person at work .
They are discriminated against because of their age .
We can all think of spec specific cases , I will describe just one .
Jim left school at sixteen , joined a Y T S scheme , years ago , with an electrics company .
He was on the scheme for a year and then stayed as a trainee earning thirty pounds a week .
He stuck this out for three years and finally qualified as an electrician in his own right .
The same firm immediately sacked him , because they would have to increase his wages and he 's never had a proper job since .
Just one example of how vulnerable the young person is in the workplace .
We can all think of other examples .
Colleagues , young people need the special and particular protection of the unions .
They must be a priority target group , so we can prevent exploitation and discrimination and provide them with adequate training in health and safety and other matters .
In this context the campaign for a minimum wage has never been more urgent .
But this union does have a good track record in campaigning for young people .
The young members section has come on in leaps and bounds in the last few years .
Young members have this excellent magazine , Issue , which you 'll find in front of you this morning .
It is the only union youth magazine which exists in the U K and it specifically addresses young people 's problems , fears and hopes .
My only criticism is that it doesn't come out often enough .
We need more issues of Issue , Mr President .
But let 's look at how we can increase young peop members ' participation in this union , at how we can address the problem of recruiting young people .
Fourteen years of Tory government have taken their toll on the impression , on young people 's impression of trade unions .
These impressions are more likely to be negative than positive , or even neutral .
Never forget colleagues , that there are thousands and thousands of young people in our society who are frustrated , disappointed , angry and in desperate need of union protection .
They are the future of the G M B , let 's get them in and let 's keep them in .
I move .
Comp nine formally seconded ?
Formally seconded ?
Thanks very much .
Motion two four eight .
Youth G M B Scotland to move .
, G M B Scotland , moving motion two four eight .
President , Congress .
We must recognize the need to encourage a youth of the G M B to participate more fully within the union .
The G M B is now the leading union in youth affairs .
Recruitment of the young into the G M B is essential , as youth represents the future of this country as well as the future of the union .
However , the reality for young people whom we represent in the nineteen nineties is that they face the prospects of having to survive in a declining British economy .
Youth unemployment is now a serious problem in Britain and many under the age of twenty five have never had a real , permanent job .
According to a Labour Par a Labour Party survey based on information from Scotland 's job centres , eighteen to twenty few twenty four year old out of work has risen by twenty eight percent since nineteen ninety .
Many youngsters have never known the satisfaction of being handed a wage packet and it can be so soul destroying for them .
The feeling of helplessness must be so overpowering as young one , as one young man told me , we are the forgotten ones .
This government is doing nothing to give them hope and their pride back .
The G M B is a legal union in youth affairs .
We have appointed a National Youth Officer and we have been there leading the way , ensuring that young people have a voice in Britain 's second largest union .
Every region round the country now has a regional advisory youth committee and nearly all has an annual youth conference .
More training of young members should be provided as well as distribution of literature aimed at young people .
We must encourage a youth to become shop stewards and safety representatives .
We must ensure that black and ethnic minorities are represented in our youth section and those with disabilities who are very often forgotten about .
The youth represents the future of our country and our union .
Educate them early of the benefits of being in a trade union .
We would also benefit from their outlook and their fresh ideas .
The young will encourage their friends and workmates , not only increasing the membership but mating , making our union stronger .
I move .
Two four eight formally seconded ?
Formally seconded , thank you .
Motion four three four , Northern Region to move .
President , Congress .
Sean , Northern Region , moving motion four three four .
Congress , any delegate who lives in a university town or who has a son or daughter at college can testify to the special promotions that all banks offer to students .
Some banks , colleagues , offer twenty five pound when the student first opens an account .
Some offer a free filofax , and others offer book tokens or record vouchers .
Banks offer such goodies , not because students are rich and represent good business to the banks , not colleagues , because out of the goodness of their hearts they believe students need a helping hand .
No , all of Britain 's high street banks offer special rates and free gifts to students because they know that those in training and attending college are a , are the prospective workforce of tomorrow .
They also know that once a person joins a bank , in most cases , they do so for life .
In short , colleagues , it 's an investment .
Motion four three four , Congress , calls upon the C E C to adopt the same attitudes as the banks .
Not to give freebies but to invest in the workers of the future .
After all colleagues , General Booth , the founder of the Salvation Army said , why should the devil have all the best tunes ?
Congress , I urge you to support motion four three four .
Four three four formally seconded ?
Thanks very much .
C E C are seeking reference for four three four and I call Paul .
Paul , Southern Region , speaking on behalf of the C E C .
President , Congress .
The C E C is asking you to support composite nine , motion two four eight and refer motion four three four .
Composite nine is about putting young people back to work and that has to be a priority in a year which has seen youth unemployment hit the one million mark .
Our own young members ' section earlier this year , highlighted the plight of those hundreds of thousands of sixteen year olds , who started nineteen ninety three without a job .
This summer there 'll be trying by thousands more as they come out of school and straight into obscurity .
Victims of the government 's youth training guarantee .
The unset seen scandal of Major 's Britain , a hundred and twenty thousand , sixteen to twenty four year olds , not on the register , not in a job , no scheme to join and no benefit available .
A recent survey found one in six young people , including some of school age , earning less than one pound an hour .
What sort of employers are there out there , that exploiting these young people ?
It 's a disgrace and we should campaign and find out where these employers are and publicly put 'em to shame .
What a way to treat young people .
What a way to run an economy .

Hello , what 's that , you been , have you been writing letters ?
Aye .
That for me , thanks very much , that 's nice , oh can I have that as well Natalie ?
Well now , what have you been doing to your eyes ?
She 's been screaming all ear .
Eh .
Eh .
in my ear .
Your ear ?
What , is that that ear sore ?
Is it ?
No .
No ?
It 's this one .
Is it the other one ?
Let 's have a wee look in with my torch .
.
No .
Sit on your Gran 's knee .
Come on sweet .
No .
Just a min just
Come on he 's gonna look in my eye .
No , no .
Look .
Natalie ,
Look .
it 's gonna look in my eye .
Look
Oh look , this is where we 're getting .
Oh look Natalie .
Behave , come on .
Natalie look , look .
Oh
Look , it 's just a wee light .
Look at the wee light .
Look it 's just a wee light .
It 's not , it 's not gonna be sore for sit up .
Come up and sit on your Gran 's knee for a wee while .
Oh Jamie , Jamie .
That 's it , just a wee while , we 're not , we 're not gonna you .
That 's a wee girl .
That 's it .
Yeah , you 've got a very ,
that 's it .
All done .
That 's it .
It 's all done .
You were crying , you were just getting on were n't you , you were just getting on ?
You were just getting on ?
You were just getting on , were n't you ?
You were just getting on .
She thought I was coming up with my eye .
Aha .
What about your Grannie , we 'll give your Gran some nice medicine or some nasty medicine ?
No .
No ?
Would you like some nice medicine ?
No .
Would you not ?
Gran .
Your Gran , right .
What 's your Gran 's name ?
Will we give her nice medicine or nasty medicine ?
Nasty medicine ?
Oh thank you very much Natalie , her eyes
Yes , aye , it 's the same .
I think she 's got trouble with her sinus in here , and it 's blocked the tube
Aye .
here and here and that 's where the trouble 's coming from .
Just see just see wee black things in my eye .
Yes .
Wee black yeah .
Wee black things , that 's right .
That 's right .
Oh she was screaming this morning .
Ear drum instead of being straight up and down like that , it 's pushed a way out ,
Ah .
it 's stretched , squeezing it from the inside .
And her mummy and daddy 's away at work , and I said , If I leave it till
Hey are they ?
Making lots of pennies for you ?
Well they now .
Oh aye .
He was made redundant .
Now then .
One two three , she 's what , she 's four now ?
Four .
I see the .
That 's the bad one , he 's always in a bad mood isn't he ?
He 's
That one .
No .
Can you see Thomas ?
Where 's Thomas the Tank ?
No , that 's
That 's
not Thomas the Tank Engine at all , you 're just kidding me on .
No ,
No .
no .
I cannae see it either .
Where is he ?
Come on , no , .
Look , here , can you see this , look , one two three , up you go .
Oh yes
at the very top .
Right at the top , look , right at the
Natalie .
top , look .
Nat , that 's him .
Yeah , that 's Thomas , you silly thing .
That 's the wee cookie .
Who 's a silly ?
Who 's a silly ?
Right thanks very much .
Right , okay , right .
I 'll come and tickle you again .
No .
Oh ,
Say , Bye .
Come on ,
And here I come to get you .
Right , okay Mrs .

all Executive Directors of the Company together we 'll answer any questions at the end of this short presentation .
First the figures , furniture retailing continues to be highly competitive so I am pleased to report that turnover for the twenty eight weeks was through to the twenty million five point five percent better than the same period in the previous year .
Operating profit for the period was twenty seven point four million compared with a pro-forma level of nineteen point four million last year an increase of forty one per cent .
Profit before tax which includes nineteen point six million pounds worth of profit from the sale of the Group 's investment in Carpet Right was forty four point one compared to a loss of twelve million for the same period last year .
An extra share of five P of which two point two P relates to the exceptional period on the sale of Carpet Right shares giving interest net earnings per share of two point eight P .
In a few moments I 'd like to tell you briefly about the trading background to the figures and to give you an indication of how business has been since the period ended and particularly since our important sale started on Boxing Day .
But first I 'll ask our Finance Director to go into the figures in a little bit more detail .
Thank you good morning ladies and gentlemen , turnover grew by five point five per cent during the twenty eight weeks the sixth of November to three hundred and twenty million there 's been no inflation in our selling prices so all of this growth is from increased volumes particularly in upholstery , beds , appliances and Pronto .
Although the total retail trading area is unchanged at the period end there are in fact two different underlying elements new footage has been laid down in France but this has been off set by a net reduction in the retail trading area in the U K. The sales per square foot which excludes retail sales and is based on the waiting average trading area shows an increase of seven point two percent A low margin of fifty five point six per cent was down from fifty eight point five per cent in the same period last this , this was mainly due to a drop in in-house manufacturing participation and adverse exchange rates .
Gross margin was as we expected broadly level with the second half of last year .
The reduction and payroll costs of five million or six point eight per cent reflects the staff reductions which took place last year These are efficiency gains primarily in areas of management and distribution .
As a result of tight every-day control costs other operating charges at seventy eight point seven million have fallen as the percentage of sales by point nine per cent to twenty four point six per cent and depreciation in the period has fallen by two point three million to eight point four million .
Our sub-leasing of of surplus retail area has continued in the period and combined with a small programme of retail park developments will enable our retail area grow , sorry will enable our rental income to grow .
Indeed rental income will be in excess of nine million pounds for the full year compared to seven million pounds for last year .
Combined effects of these initiatives has resulted in operating profits rising to twenty seven point four million compared with the pro forma level of nineteen point four million last year , which is an increase of forty one per cent .
Our net operating margins have risen from six point four per cent to eight point six per cent .
There is a net interest charge in the period of three million which is a decrease of two point four million on the same period last year .
This reflect the cash from the sale of the Group 's investment in Carpet Right together with low interest rates .
The profit on ordinary activities with more taxation was forty four point one million compared to a loss last year of twelve million but of course these two figures are not comparable .
This year 's number includes nineteen point six million profit on the sale of Carpet Right and last year 's number includes twenty four point seven million flotation and buy-out costs .
A more appropriate comparison is the profit before tax this year of twenty four point five million compared to a profit before tax last year of twelve point seven million an increase of ninety three per cent .
The forecast tax charge for the year is thirty four per cent which is below last year 's rate of thirty five and we expect this low rate to continue in the future .
Earnings per share in the period were five p but after taking into account exceptional Carpet Right gain this is reduced to two point eight p and compares to last year 's pro forma earnings per share of one point four million which included losses on the closing down of our operations .
The cash position at the period end showed net borrowings of thirty nine point seven million which compares to eight two point seven million at the same time twelve months ago .
has fallen over this period from seventy eight per cent to twenty eight per cent .
During the period net borrowings have fallen by twenty one point eight million principally due to the twenty one point four million proceeds from Carpet Right .
M F I traditionally has a stronger second half cash flow and net borrowings are expected to fall further in the second half of the year .
Two other key elements were within our cash flow .
First , stock levels were increased by nine point three million in preparation for our important winter sale .
Secondly we utilised available A C T capacity in the group to obtain an early recovery of eleven and a half million of A C T and this would not normally have been recovered until January nineteen ninety five .
Capital expenditure for the period was fourteen point six million and is likely to be twenty five million for the year .
Although similar to last year 's level of twenty three million you remember that last year 's number included the purchase of four freehold properties for nine million pounds .
You also know that on page nine of our interest statement we have created a non-distributable special reserve against which we are writing off our good-will reserve .
This has created a capital structure more suitable for a listed company .
Thank you for your attention I would now like to hand you back to
Thanks and I 'll just outline the background to the figures that has just presented to you .
During the period new kitchen carcasses , stores worktops and the sinks all manufactured by Hygena were introduced into all out stores along with a number of improvements to our bedroom ranges .
This will was completed in time for the sale period which began on Boxing Day .
We opened a new store in Christ Christchurch and rebuilt our North Shields site replacing the M F I store with a completely new one .
Two more stores will open in Cardiff and Yeovil at the end of next month bringing the total number of U K stores to one hundred and seventy eight .
These two stores will trade under the name of Homeworks and will operate as a testing ground for M F I 's mainstream business .
They 've been developed after considerable consumer research and will evaluate new products and new service ideas which if found acceptable will be taken up by the M F I chain .
We 've continued our programme of improvements to the M F I store design layout and presentation .
Seven more stores have been completely refitted and a further eighty four thousand square feet of surplus space has been sub-leased to other retailers increasing our rental income by another half a million pounds .
A new generation of a sell system has been successfully introduced into all our stores which integrates which integrates more closely the retailing distribution and manufacturing systems and raises the level of management information and control .
Our new customer tracking system is giving us detailed information on customer tracking flows and purchasing bands and as a result we 're refining staff working arrangements in all stores with a clear objective of increasing sales and improving customer service .
These two important operational developments are now allowing our staff to make more productive use of their time enabling them to concentrate more effectively on serving customers and selling products .
I am delighted to announce that we will soon manufacturing ovens at our Hygena factory in Stockton extending the range of products manufactured in-house follows on naturally as M F I 's position as the leading ah retailer of built-in kitchen appliances .
These new appliances will replace products imported from Europe and will retailed in our stores from Spring nineteen ninety five .
Finally , I have to report that sales in France have increased by thirty per cent with like for like performance of six per cent on the same period last year .
We now trade from forty eight locations in France with three more stores due to open in the second half of the financial year .
To ensure that everybody 's kept informed of our performance at regular intervals throughout the year we will in future announce our interim results in December , make a statement in February on the Winter sale performance announce final results in early July and give another trading statement at our A G M in September .
Today today we 're declaring an interim dividend of one point three three per share er compared with the same period this year er sorry let me start that again .
Today we 're declaring an interim dividend of one point three three per share compared with one point two five for the same period last year .
This decision takes into account the need to rebuild dividend cover whilst ensuring that higher earnings are reflected in increased income to share holders , just excuse me one minute Current trading .
Trading in the second has shown a clear improvement and since Boxing Day sales of fourteen per cent ahead of the previous year .
In particular sales of kitchens and bedrooms have shown considerable increases and whilst we 're pleased with the response to our new products we remain cautious on the outlook for consumer expenditure .
Now ladies and gentlemen if you have any questions we 'll be happy to answer them for you Can you just wait for the microphone because the guys at the back can't hear the question
right , erm Could you , you said that your payroll costs had come down by five million that 's figure is it ?
yeah erm
sorry
Have you got the figures there ?
Yeah , the payroll costs for the first half of last year were seventy three point eight million the payroll costs for the first half of the review were sixty eight point eight
right so it 's for the half year sorry , beg your pardon five million half year
that 's correct yes
Fine okay and how many employees do you now have
six thousand
six thousand seven the average number is a six thousand seven hundred and seventy four it 's actually erm financial highlights and I 'll just check give you the exact figure six seven seven four
right that 's a headcount that 's not
it is for equipment
that 's equipment right , and how 's that compared with the previous period last year
well the year we had seven thousand five hundred and seventy nine
sorry could you repeat that again please
seven thousand five hundred and seventy nine and at the same period last year which is November nineteen ninety two we have seven thousand eight hundred and forty three
right erm could I just check something else which was not mentioned er is that is it when you have opened these two Homeworks shops that you 'll be up to a hundred and seventy eight
yes that 's
and I was wondering if you could tell us a bit more about these Homework how they fit the M F I the plan of shopping
well the reason that we 've changed the name on those two stores is that any experiments we want to conduct have got to be conducted outside the normal M F I promotional platform and as we use the national press extensively the only way to do that is to change the name .
We had a long series of various pieces of research , one of which was actually talk to enormous amount of customers through customer and as a consequence of that we 've we decided to form a fairly business to produce a very different pair of stores , different in that they won't trade in the traditional way that M F Is gone ah they 'll carry different merchandise , different price lines .
Now what it is actually is a idea that part of our research and development actually engages the customer so that in the stores it 's very difficult to experiment in say half a dozen when the national press is out there every week making an offer that you don't carry by definition like that
So what bits are more up market more down market
what would you say about that
What we 're actually doing in terms of the product is we 're actually widening the franchise erm I don't like to use words going up market that suggests that we 're leaving our core customers behind , we will we will add any product that is complimentary to our core kitchens but er we 'll still be the main stance of the product in these two stores for instance , we 're going to introduce a house wear department it is something that we 've been experimenting with before we 're going to erm use the opportunity to widen the franchise on appliances we 're going to erm use the an experiment on erm floorings to match work tops , those kind of developments just to test to see whether the customer reaction is as good as we hoped it would be so that we can then introduce it in the main chain
Do they have to be a lot bigger these stores
No they 're just two standard stores , one 's twenty five thousand square feet in Yeovil which as you will be aware is a market town with a fairly wide catchment area and in Cardiff which where we 're opposite Marks and Spencers on an out-of-town development so they 're just two stores virtually picked because they were ready to open
right , my final question have you talked to erm Do It All about buying in in their outfit ?
We 've certainly talked to Do It All ha ha erm yes that 's definite yes
thank you
Can you tell us a bit more about this
Well it 's a both a fortunate and unfortunate circumstance as a result of the by-out a sorry as a result of the floatation we cut a great many costs which reduced our taxable profits but at the same time we did actually pay some divides and we 've also pay some dividends here in last year anyway .
The complication has been that because last year 's trading profits were lower than expected we didn't have any taxable profits against which to claim back this A C T so as this would be the first year in which taxable profits would arise unless we 'd not been unless we 'd been able to find some other way of dealing with it the A C T which we pay would not have been recoverable till January ninety five .
What we have done is we have erm been able to utilise some A C T capacity or generate some A C T capacity within one of the subsidiaries within the group um the reason for highlighting it highlighting it is not particularly to make a song and dance about it but is particularly to say that on the cash flow statement there is this in-flood and it is a one off in-flood we 're not going to be seeing that being brought forward every year , but basically what it is is we have profits in previous elements of the group which enabled us to generate A C T capacity enabled us to off set this A C T which we paid on dividends and bringing forward earlier than we would otherwise have done .
oh right
Conversely had we had the profits last year which would have generated taxable profits then we wouldn't have needed to have done that , so that 's one reason why it was not disclosed on floatations at the time and floatation was not regarded as an asset .
It 's not an asset unless you can use it .
Right if you can show us erm a main stream corporation last year
yes , but not again not one which we 're not able to off set this particular payment
I'm not sure you 've made it any clearer than it was before but erm
well don't look at me I can't help ya
how do you feel about the erm deal and a
I think a I think that a regional high street outlet will provide a threat to us certainly and it 's not clear yet which way they 're gonna try that business , but yes we are working at it very hard
If the erm Homeworks experiment is successful could we see many more stores turning over to that that format and that that or will you consider converting the whole chain or might you just have a separate chain called Homesworks ?
No I don't think either erm The whole emphasis of Homeworks is to learn things there which we can then bolt on to the main chain , I 'll be absolutely amazed if in fact Homeworks manages to drive anywhere near the amount of customers through it that M F I does or the problem we had in Yeovil is because it is a very rural area a is not having the M F I name above the door so no that is not the intention .
I do believe , however , we 'll learn things from it that we can quickly adapt and put into the hundred and seventy six M F I stores .
How big sales in France and how big are the sales in France and how do margins compare with the U K
Well the total sales in France for this year will be around twenty five million pounds
for the whole year ?
for the whole year so it 's a very small business the stores are much smaller than they are in the U K erm as regards your last point about margins the margins are erm at least equal to the margins that we achieve in the U K
Is that ?
Oh sorry erm we are expect the business this year to break even it broke even last year , erm and the reason for that is that we have expanded business very rapidly , last year we had only thirty five stores this year we 'll have fifty and we will probably have a similar sort of expansion programme for next year .
The cost of that level of expansion ah were largely written off against revenue or a large part of against revenue with the effect that reduces the business to break even .
What what proportion of the fourteen per cent sales rise since ah Christmas relates directly to to mark downs in that period after Boxing Day when you re- opened ?
None in the conventional sense that I take it that you mean mark down you mean clearing merchandise
yeah
yes , discounting merchandise is something we do all the time it 's just that the discounts are different in January and the merchandise to which they 're applied may be different .
We don't have a in our business as many other retailers do where for instance after Christmas may be and other such things to clear we don't have that , so there isn't any merchandise that 's been sold since Christmas that has been sold because we don't want it to be in the inventory post year end it 's it 's just generating trade by being discount price left so therefore to a certain amount your question would be has the post Christmas and it was pre Christmas no material difference we 're very satisfied with the gross margins since Christmas we haven't had to take any extraordinary measures to generate this erm this level of sales increase that 's being achieved at constant margin a flat margin
I think the ah just to remind you what we have always said is that that would improve our gross margin situation would be a change in in house manufacturing goods and whilst it 's a bit early to tell we are actually saying to you that the sales post Boxing Day have been in addition
What proportion of is now made in house ?
It 's more than sixty per cent and eight five per cent is made in the U K just about almost
as a matter of interest that 's actually would be higher than any other retailer in Britain actually that 's not commonly known no other retailer who has a penetration of whatever he sells as high as M F I does
Could you just repeat the figures for capital expenditure I think you said that this year was going to be higher than last year and explain explain where the money gonna be invested
Well this year 's capital expenditure will be around twenty five million and last year 's figure was twenty three million the point I was making in the speech was that twenty three million included nine million pounds for the , we must have some static in our nine million pounds for the purchase of freeholds , erm but the capital expenditure this year is spread right across the operation includes introduction of erm re-fits in a number of stores includes expansion in France , investment in systems and hardware and indeed also includes ah about five million pounds for a retail park development which I also referred to the park development on which we have an interest in the sense that we are developing an M F I store .
and of course if you want to include a small element this year a greater element would be for the new open plan .
Just a couple of detail points erm why have you seen a fall in your depreciation charge and an increase in ?
Right I 'll deal with with depreciation .
Depreciation 's been falling now for two or three years as our capital expenditure of depreciable assets has been falling indeed if you look at last year 's net of the nine million pounds purchase of the freehold to fourteen million the year before was only sixteen million erm so as the as the depreciation as the capital expenditure falls the depreciation will also fall that 's one reason .
The other reason was in the late eighties and early nineties we had a very large expenditure programme indeed in one year amounting to one hundred million pounds now of that are now becoming fully depreciated and falling out of the charge
what ah capital expenditure on non depreciable assets
erm , freehold parks , as I said last year we bought nine million pounds worth of freehold now
tended to depreciate with all this
not freehold land freehold buildings we 've been depreciating now for many many years .
so you know we 've actually been doing that is not new as far as we 're concerned
okay
no particular reason for the rise its general movements and not a serious movement as far as we 're concerned includes the whole element of debtors from ourselves to our wholesale debtors which is our own manufacturing operation where they 're selling to outside customers there 's nothing particularly significant in that .
How many re-fitted stores have you got now then how many are you planning to re-fit over the next year ?
We 've got in the new format sixty of the new new format but what we have been able to do is take elements of the new re-fitted stores and put those for instance erm Pronto we 've managed to take those and re-fit them separately but the actual new concept stores sits at about sixty-odd stores and currently what we 're doing is to check the that we have had a a re-fits this year erm where we 've taken space for other sub-lets where put the new concept back to but as far as the go in majority of the chain now we have most of the major elements i.e an upholstery area bed area Pronto representation and indeed the re-fit that was discussed in the Chairman 's statement the kitchen and bedroom re-fit erm was applicable to all stores so all of the stores have got new kitchens and bedrooms in
So no further re-fitting will substantially
yeah , erm I would take a guess that there will be because we still have ambitions to shed a load of space so it would be advisable to re-fit to release further space we have another twenty six smaller stores that we haven't done at all yet other than put a so yes we 'll have an on-going re-fit programme I can't give you the exact details because erm how many it 's gonna be but there will be certainly an on-going re-fit programme .
What is Pronto 's inflation
Pronto is erm an area of the store where we sell our occasional furniture and erm small priced coffee tables , hi-fi units the occasional furniture that may go erm whereas up until a couple of years ago we use to display this product around the showroom floor part of the new concept stores was that we actually set the same section in the showroom which is very much like a a shelving system whereby the stock actually sits on the shelves , the customer walks in and it 's an easy easy purchase straight off the trolley erm very much like the supermarket operation so it 's the lower priced good value occasional type furniture the cash and carry the kind of things that you don't need sales assistants for the kind of bookcase that you would put in your children 's bedroom that kind of thing .
As part of the what the stores back in the mid eighties were more expensive suites and so too conflicting we had a fifty or twenty five pound coffee table we sold the two greater mixture so its a methodology of just an ordinary table for exactly without conflict .
What were these what was the sales area of the how much sales area did you actually release in the first half and how much do you expect to go in the second ?
I 'll give you the answer to that one just bear with me a moment please I 'll try to be precise .
right the erm trading area the closing trading area at the end of the November ninety three was six thousand and forty sorry six million forty thousand square feet at the previous year in April ninety three it was six million and thirty six thousand square feet
that includes France does it ?
That includes France which has seen an increase in footage of a thirty thousand square feet and we 've also got a number of sub-lets we 've indicated that erm sub-lets should pay reduces it
do these figures include or exclude that sub-let
they include the sub-let space and where we sub-let space we deduct that space from the trading area figure
right has it still gone up ?
yeah , because we 've opened stores in France and we 've also a new store in the U K there 's pluses and minuses there 's pluses in France pluses in the U K with one new store erm and minuses with the sub-lets
sorry just remind us what proportion is is a flat pack represents of your total sales
unclear
fifteen something low eighty per cent obviously varies
low eighty
low eighty , low eighty it various from season to season as upholstery is more popular or less popular as beds are more popular at the
the other question , how seriously do you view the likely impact of the new the budget er change come coming into force in the spring on purchases of consumer durables such as yours bearing in mind your and your customer profile ?
Yeah I mean we did insert actually in the Chairman 's statement a cautionary note about the credit announcement because two years ago we had a similar increase which in fact by the time we got to the end of the year had disappeared so we view it with a lot of caution is the answer if you ask me to be more precise I can't because we 've never really had a set of tax increases the like of which we face now any other questions ?
In fact we oh sorry yes
erm sub-lets erm , on the sub-lets a big package deals with any other retailers and what would be the biggest
Oh the erm if there is a sort of major beneficiary that Carpet Right because of course we owned the in them fairly decent straight throughout Currys , Dixons and some of the market people Quicksave erm , the sort of spread you 'd expect on any retail park you know .
I think that part of our business makes it more difficult because ah the purchase of Allied Carpets by Carpetland is the space of the market at a fairly speedy rate and I personally believe other retailers will have the policy to sub-let surface areas in the next few years so it 's something we got on with three years ago and very pleased we did it .
Thank you very much for your attention gentlemen

That will be Val .
Er I think they have changed contractors .
Again ?
Again .
But anyway whether that 's true or not the this was a s s seems to be as a result of
criticism about them not turning up and this sort of thing .
Erm
Hi .
Sorry I'm late
So I had a long chat with the , with the cleansing officer and the main point
I know , I know .
Liz , do you want a chair ?
the main point that I made to him was that after such a superb beginning where , where they actually state how much rubbish we produce , there 's absolutely no mention even though there 's space at the bottom there 's no mention of recycling at all .
And he said well it 's a different , you know different department .
Mm .
I know yes
And this was , this , that , that wouldn't have entered into that brief but my argument was that , you know everybody would be much happier if there was less rubbish to put in the landfill sites in the first place .
Now that was about two weeks ago and I 've been sitting on it meaning to , to write to the press and say how disgusting it was .
Which I have just done today .
Aft , no
Yes , half way through I spoke to to the environ environment officer
Mm
who was much more switched on .
He 's a new environment officer , he 's only been there for a month or something .
And he says that erm .
He sort of agreed with me that it was a waste of an opportunity .
Erm but he did say that he 's actually writing a leaflet which they can run to seven or eight pages .
A detailed one about recycling .
anybody will read so eight pages .
Well I don't know .
I just don't know .
But I mean he was very interested and when I said that we 'd actually done a recycling directory and that I was thinking
redoing it .
Erm .
He was very interested and he would like to meet us and I said that if he 's actually doing a directory
all this all this about .
I thought Rob is doing a sort of recycling what do you call it composium
Rob has just done a green audit for the district council .
Yes .
Yes .
But we haven't had the opportunity to read it .
I mean he knows that we have a recycling d .
I was in touch with them .
I sent them the recycling .
Why do they pretend not to know ?
I mean they should be fully a aware of of of our
Val well this is a new guy .
is that Mr ?
Mr ?
.
The recycling officer .
Is that , is the one , I wrote to
Hold on .
There .
?
Yeah .
Is that the one you spoke to ?
Tom .
Yeah .
That 's him .
Only he said that they were gonna get an initiative through the schools on er
Is is
he 's the one
Anyway that 's that 's my letter .
Draft letter which I have not got , it 's very very rough , for the press .
Sorry I 've only got four .
That 's alright .
Actually some friends of mine were quite confused about what , why they should n't be able to throw their cooking oil away in their bin .
Because they said they 'd always done it and they had nowhere else to put it .
Somebody else said oh you should throw it down the sink but I didn't think you were supposed to do that either .
What ?
Cooking oil .
Cooking oil ?
Yeah .
If you have got one of those deep fat fryers you , you have quite a bit to throw away .
Well don't put it in water .
No , I don't .
I don't .
You put it in the bin .
No , they , they 've said in there you must n't .
Where ?
No not cooking oil .
Er pet , car oil .
Car oil .
That 's a totally different story .
I'm sure
But I mean the bottom bit obviously we 've got to talk about whether we actually do want
bifocals today new .
.
But this guy seems to be well worth nurturing .
Yes .
Here you are .
It says here oh that 's waste oil cooking fat and other liquids .
I know it says fat collection but I
Well that only should only be because erm the bin 's going to be soiled .
In in in in the end terribly smelly that 's the reason .
I mean why there should n't be cooking oil in in in landfill .
I mean
Dad
Dad 's not in
Mm
I can only think that I mean it sticks to the sides of the bin at the bottom
Well if it 's if it was very hot could it could it melt the plastic ?
It could even melt the plastic yes .
Or could it ignite ?
Yeah .
No I I definitely foodstuffs out of the water .
I mean into the bin first and then wash the dishes .
To keep the water clean .
Mm .
stuff you put in water .
Yeah .
Sorry ?
Was it printed on new paper ?
It doesn't say does it ?
Well it doesn't say , no
I think , I think they put recycled if it was don't you ?
Well exactly that 's
You seen that story , what is it , one paper er if you get the letter of the week you can take part in the draw and get a flight to from Stanstead to Dusseldorf .
Wh what paper 's this then ?
I I got it last night .
There was the most horrible letter in England or Britain joining the Common Market .
I 'll get you one of those bags .
No oh you did tell me about it
Yeah I did tell you .
Do you , well do you then know why doesn't , isn't Rob in touch with them any more ?
Oh yeah , very much so .
I spoke to Trish , Rob 's away at the moment
Yeah .
but I spoke to Trish tonight .
And erm
But I mean he 's also in the sub committee isn't he ?
There was this working committee wasn't it and then the sub committee to the working committee on environmental matters .
No , yeah but I mean that leaflet very likely wouldn't have you know I mean I think this this leaflet
No no but but that this Mr
Mr , yeah but I mean
didn't know
Okay he should , he should have tapped us as a resource certainly .
Yeah .
But I mean you know I I'm certainly gonna follow this up .
Mm .
And I think we ought to get him over to one of our meetings .
And and he said he would .
And I think if we could make it get one of the Uttlesford chaps to the same meeting
marvellous thing they did .
Yeah .
Well what he did say was don't you know don't go over the top in criticizing that because
Yeah .
you know he he says that there 's a lot of things which are happening .
He 's got all sorts of schemes a lot of schemes in the pipeline .
I suppose he doesn't want to be seen to be just reacting to your letter he 's obviously started doing these things off his own bat anyway has n't he ?
Oh yes .
Yeah .
I mean and and he he feels that er pressure groups like ourselves are very positive because it gives him a bit of weight when he 's arguing for things .
Yeah
Well they can't push it from the top
But I mean on a sort of wider thing erm
Yeah .
You know one of the things that we could do is to do another directory .
Yeah .
I think because I think I think
But
it 's a real shame we 're so out of date .
Mhm but I I you know we we 're can we actually do it ?
I mean we would need fifty people
No I would not distribute it
to deliver
er from door to door .
I would erm put it out in the library , put it out in in surgeries .
Put it out in public places and that 's it because I mean the number of people erm they went to these directories like hot cross buns .
I mean every week I supplied them with a new stack of everybody wanted them .
What , the recycling directory ?
Yeah
They come through the doorstep , through the doors though .
Through the door they they just throw them away .
They didn't read them .
I said well don't you live in Stortford , didn't you have it delivered ?
No .
And I'm sure they 'll pick them up if they see them in the
If they printed
print them up and they do it on their own will .
Could n't we do it with him ?
With him ?
Well yeah pro
I mean they could could n't they sponsor us to do it or something ?
Well yeah I I 've I 've whether he well I mean if , if he 's gonna do this seven page thing then I you know I you can look at it two ways .
Either we can influence and help that to be to be good or or you know if that 's a failure then see whether they can help us to produce one for the town .
Mm .
I mean I 'd much rather they do it if we can influence him enough .
They 've got the right information .
Well the thing if we did it with our as they keep saying there 's some , there 's so much in the pipeline .
I mean it might take us another two week two months before we get it out .
Three months .
Well
I would say six months .
Yeah
No I would just think of something really straightforward .
They do want stuff on local levels I mean if he 's East Herts he 's got a huge area , has n't he ?
Yeah .
It it might be a help to him to have little local groups that helped him out with these things .
But I mean if we print something and then suddenly they instal all these new bottle banks which we didn't know about .
Then they are not mentioned
Well
in our recycling directory and we can do the next one
He should know about them should n't he ?
Well we must that 's why , certainly have to , before
Could you drag him along to a meeting ?
Yeah well that 's what they said we could do that .
I 'll write that down .
Erm , is that okay for that I just have something that I read in New Scientist does everybody take it ?
No
Oh well I 'll give you one to look at it 's just a little article about
Thank you .
recycling in in Egypt .
And I just liked reading it so much that I thought you 'd like to read it too .
don't have to read it now cos it 's quite long .
It 's it 's it 's really hot .
Cos they they reuse absolutely everything .
And they make they 're living out of it .
In East German they are now drowning in rubbish because they used to have a perfect recycling scheme everything was collected and recycled cos they just didn't have the materials .
Now they are flooded with the West European goods their recycling isn't worth any more .
On the other hand they haven't got the landfills and the whole scheme that the west has developed and they I mean it 's a health hazard meanwhile .
One of the major problems they have to face .
Far East lots of guys sort of collecting cardboard boxes and that 's all they did they flatten down cardboard boxes and then another one did newspapers and whole newspapers and
The whole town is composed of a
Yeah .
it 's like a big .
I just thought it was interesting .
Erm I did write er as was suggested asking about erm facilities for cyclists in the potential shopping centre development in Bishop 's Stortford .
And they are , they are interested in cyclists but from what I could make out reading this they 're not really going to help us a great deal .
If you want to pass it round and read it .
It 's it 's they 're gonna use the green wedges that are already there and the existing footpaths which are already cycled along .
What , what good is that to me ?
It 's just in Stortford it 's not that easy for a cyclist is it ?
No
And they 've got all the places say don't lean your bicycle here and you 're not allowed to take it into Jackson
One girl nearly got knocked off going up Newtown Road .
It 's really quite narrow as you 're going up there .
What about the all the cars all parked round corners everywhere like up at Havers .
Mm .
They could do something about that .
Have you every cycled up there ?
Not round Havers , wh they park where those , those sort of shops are they they park all around the corners so that you have to go out round them .
And of course you meet something coming the other way wrong side of the road .
Oh yeah .
What annoys me is that everybody parks on the pavement as well .
Mm .
Seem to disobey all laws there are about parking .
It does , it doesn't really help us does it ?
Do you wanna pass these around as well if anyone wants to look .
All the replies got eleven or so replies that I 've had for that questionnaire .
There are a few people willing to help aren't .
But I haven't gone really as I hoped cos I 'd envisaged having the membership list with sort of names of who 'll make cakes , who 'll help on the stall and then know who to phone
Yeah .
when I wanted some help or who to invite to meetings but because I haven't got a reply from everyone or most people , it can't work does it ?
Is that all the replies you got ?
sent more than fifty out .
I did sixty and Caroline copied even more .
She 's a good girl .
Did Georgina reply ?
Erm did actually , yes .
Yeah , cos when I phoned she said she 's still quite interested .
Mm .
Yeah I thought she was
but she said if the baby .
And I 've got a local group summer questionnaire which I could n't really fill in .
. isn't it awful !
I thought I'm just as bad as you know everybody else really .
Cos I wasn't sure of some of the answers .
And that it it 's saying which of the following days of action has the group participated in .
I mean cos we haven't really sort of really done a proper day of action have we ?
We 've done little bits and pieces .
I know we did the returnable bottles .
.
I mean cos and we did that stall on peat but we didn't really take part in the peat day of action did we ?
.What do you think ?
Fiona and I did the electricity
What at the supermarket .
Is that the global warming and electricity privatization ?
That one ?
Was it ?
It was erm efficiency of
Oh fuel and efficiency .
Right that one then .
Oh we didn't , we didn't do the ozone layer one did we ?
Did you do a stall on that ozone layer ?
We did do something .
With the
Oh we did , yes .
with the , with er snow remember ?
That was Christmas last year wasn't it ?
Oh yes that was
That was ozone .
Yes it was we did
Oh so I 'll put down for that then .
Oh it looks quite good .
Right .
Have you written to your MP about fuel efficiency ?
Yes I did .
We did .
I know erm I thought I wrote to the electricity board in , I wrote to somebody about erm how er things should be labelled about how efficient they are when using electricity .
You took part in the er electricity efficiency didn't you ?
Yes .
Yeah but didn't , we didn't write to our MPs though .
I thought we were
supposed to write to somewhere else was it the department of the environment or now what would it be , energy ?
We wrote , wrote to them cos I 've got a reply to that letter somewhere with a great wad of information
about various fridges and
Yeah , yeah
and things .
Yeah
So I can't really say we 've written to the MP can we ?
We haven't found out about company car fleets have we ?
We tried .
Well I tried and then I was let down by the group .
I don't remember anything about that one
We arranged it two days or three days and each was cancelled
March ninety one ?
. In March this year ?
It was this year .
Last year .
Last year .
I didn't think we 'd done anything about that this year .
But that was last year .
Yeah .
But we haven't done a march ninety one then .
Scanned the local press for power station applications or authorizations H M I P .
Written to Michael Heseltine about acid rain ?
May ninety one .
Written to your MP to ask him her to press for strict E C standards for C O two emissions from vehicles May ninety one .
when was that ?
wasn't that on the talk ?
Do you remember this talk we had that was last year .
Er
writing a letter to Chris Patten about the protocol .
Yeah .
So that was , that was early this year .
Yeah written something .
That to do with the ozone layer .
I don't know .
It it 's mostly sort of things about energy .
isn't it ?
Questionnaire .
That 's definitely to do with the C F C 's
Yeah well this is C O two in in cars , private cars .
Yeah things to do with er emissions and
written that ?
In May ninety one ?
Yeah sounds about right .
Ask local car dealer to write to car manufacturers to press for the introduction of more fuel efficient cars ?
May ninety one .
No .
Lobbied your local authority on peat use ?
Not really did we ?
Erm joined the newsprint campaign ? no .
Written up details of recycling campaigning experience for and sent it to .
No .
Why me ?
. Complained to your MP about the national road traffic forecast .
No .
Looked out for threats to S S I 's .
Have we got them ?
S S I 's .
Sites of special scientific interest .
Have we got any in ?
Mm .
No .
No I didn't think we had .
No , I don't think so .
Sorry ?
Do you own your
No !
Do you ?
We we have acquired a large chunk of the the yes .
So you should , you should nominate that as a
site of the interest should n't you ?
Erm it 's valuable but not that valuable .
But it says here , written written to Linda Chalker about the I T P O .
Now I , I rang , I sent a postcard which was ready written .
Do you think that counts ?
Promoted the .
Well we did try .
Yeah , put that we did do that .
didn't get very far though did we ?
Actually that seems to have fizzled out .
haven't heard anything about that for a while .
Erm written to the government in U K bank about the bank propose new foreign policy .
I think we might have done that .
I think we might have done that .
I know that I 've written to British gas .
And I think I wrote world bank .
That was , thing is that was quite a long time ago .
I'm sure it wasn't this year .
This is February ninety one .
it 's alright but you get to the bottom of those stairs and sometimes .
Er check locally for claims of environmentally or sustainable tropical hardwood it 's not really , I mean I do look when I go to all these D I Y places to see what they 've got .
haven't really
local wood guides ?
Well Rob 's got two
cos I'm just deciding on a new window frame .
And all the firms are claiming that they only get their hardwood from government erm replanting programmes .
And one got a stamp and a seal on that .
But whether that is acknowledged by our Friends of the Earth I don't know because I mean they have so many stamps and seals on
They won't give you names now will they ?
The Friends of the Earth .
They won't give you names of companies any more .
No but if this stamp , this acknowledgement .
Oh it 's like a little is it ?
good government scheme or not .
Whether that is known by Friends of the Earth as a good scheme or not .
I think there 's a day of action coming up on this sort of D I Y stuff .
so maybe we 'll get some more information about that .
I'm gonna try and get the book back from Rob .
Martin 's an architect and and it actually probably would be you know it might be a good thing to actually sort of provoke a question with architects because they do specify these things and they 're the ones who actually say you know right we 'll specify hardwood .
It 's one of the decisions that are actually made by them in terms of what they use so erm that could be something that is
Yeah
round to architects just sort of provoking the question cos they , a lot of them have never thought about it
Mm .
and er you know if they did erm I mean Martin asked about the , he asked about the good wood guide you know and I told them where they can get it but that they can have it in their office and put it in their library .
You know so that , that 's quite a good idea .
Yeah
But that 's so quickly out of date again you see the good wood cos I mean they they have new government schemes , schemes every year don't they ?
Mm .
And new other schemes .
And
What , at least it will enable you to know what the tropical species are because some of them have got quite weird and wonderful names and most people don't know what some of them are .
Mm .
I know mahogany is citello .
I noticed they had some Philippine mahogany doors in Do It All
Mm .
on Saturday and yet , that you have to be careful because they they have that I 've forgotten what her name was on on Wogan saying next time you go into a D I Y store and you see a mahogany toilet seat you know don't boy buy it think of the forest .
Well if you go into a D I Y store you 'll find it 's a mahogany stain I don't know if they really make mahogany .
It would be very expensive
Yes you 'd probably gauge by the price I would think .
Yeah .
Plastic
plastic .
plastic one .
Erm oh
Yes actually this cycle thing .
Cycle parking is actually I wish they 'd actually pay a bit more places to actually put your bike and you didn't have to sort of tie it up to some lamppost or something
Yeah , yeah .
There 's hardly anything
I mean they could give you a decent stand to put it in cos I hate those ones at Sainsbury 's .
Cos if you 've got anything heavy in the bag , the bike falls over .
The ones at the library as well .
Er and they ought to have a little shelter over it to stop your saddle getting wet if it rains .
I 've got , I mean I 've got my spots where I park it , I , it at Woolworth 's and outside the post office because it keeps it dry .
And out of the way .
All the roads into town are just awful .
I mean the Dunmow Road , Hockerill
Oh yeah .
You know really scary .
You know you get asphyxiated with petrol fumes and then you get the danger of being thrown off your bike .
cycling
Yeah they squeeze you off the road if you go up that hill to Hockerill lights .
I
You must to cat .
Just walk slowly in the middle of the road .
So that there 's no way they can take overtake on the right or on the left .
That 's the only way .
Our cat , and I 've really watched her makes a point of going and walking slowly in the road .
And I think that is exactly what we have to do as cyclists .
Not squeeze to the side because they might not see you there .
right
Well you sh you 're supposed to ride a fair way out from the gutter , never in the gutter so they can see you round the bends .
Yeah but
And they often hoot you if you 're doing it but that 's the place
That is their fault if they hoot .
Erm especially going up that hill at Hockerill lights .
They overtake you and then they slow right down so that you have to go oohooh and stop .
You can't cycle that slowly up a hill can you ?
They come in too quickly on , once they 've passed you
They don't they 're in like that aren't they straight in front of you .
frightens me .
cycle underneath a car today .
Oh dear .
Michael 's got helmet .
That 's a good idea .
Yes idiot wearing it though .
If everybody looks like him !
Oh well .
I mean it looks alright if you 've got all the gear on you know cycling shorts and top and everything
make them like swimming hats with lots of little flowers all over them
Yeah .
But if you do get one you have to be careful you get one that 's done to the proper standard because some don't work apparently .
absolutely nothing .
Well that 's what I thought it just seemed to say they were gonna have sort of cycle ways going through the green wedges along where I cycle already .
Mm .
And that 's no help at all is it .
we can't complain .
That should do quite well in trying to get the traffic away from the centre in Stortford anyway .
Mm .
They were talking pedestrianizing
I think that 's been on , on the cards for a long time has n't it ?
Yeah .
Pedestrianizing and they 've never done it .
Sorry !
Erm Wh have we done anything about the environmental charter ?
Because I started doing it a long time ago
Yeah , yeah Bob did that didn't he ?
It vaguely Yeah and we presented it and then it fizzled .
The group fizzled out because we presented the charter .
And that was the aim of
It asks here have they adopted it ?
Erm
wouldn't or we aim to still try .
Well .
I I think , I 've a funny feeling that did adopt it but quite how much that means I don't understand .
Well it 's awful , having to do this questionnaire we , we 've done .
All these workshops that have been going on that we haven't been to .
Well they just kind of recognized the principles don't they but they don't ensure that they 'll actually put them into practise .
That 's what adopting means it 's not actually committing .
Yes I thought they had , yes .
How about these questions .
Does the group have a constitution ?
No .
Does the group have an office ?
No .
We 've got our plastic box !
Plastic ?
I know I know everybody will be disappointed but I could n't get cardboard ones , stick it all in .
We bought the storage boxes anyway to keep all the .
No but you can't really I mean that 's what supposed to have it like an actual proper office .
You can't have all in cardboard boxes .
It 's erm not easy to organize .
You can't and keep them open at the same time .
What is the most common problem you 've experienced in your dealings with Street ?
It 's phoning them up and the person I want to talk to isn't there !
I think .
Have you had any , anybody else phone them up or written to them ?
No ?
No .
I think they 're quite abrupt and rude whenever I 've phoned them up .
Are they ?
They 're not terribly friendly .
Oh they 're usually okay I , I mean what they don't know .
I mean I just find it annoying cos you get through to somebody who then passes you on to somebody else and then they 'll talk to you and say well the person you want to talk to isn't here at the moment so you 've had all this phone call and then you 've got to ring again .
And you have to do it in office hours as well .
What has been your proudest moment this year ?
Oh that was Rob .
When he was able er to enter the sub committee .
Oh yes .
He was really proud of that and he , he made a point of that being
I 'll write that down .
for him years of struggle to get any influence to finally find himself
Oh good one .
What sort of committee is it then ?
Hearing aid !
Well I think one does speak a bit louder in public meetings , it 's just .
And I I can only do this work I'm sorry .
Sorry I didn't hear
Oh I I didn't hear either .
Turn that thing off .
I was asking what sub committee it was .
Er the environmental .
They had a working committee didn't they and a sub
It 's East Herts isn't it ?
I think .
Was it East Herts ?
East Herts , yeah .
Yeah East Herts .
Environmental sub committee ?
Yeah .
He sits on it .
Well he had this environment mental officer , they they in inaugurated him then at this meeting meeting when erm the thing you handed over
Charter .
The environment charter .
Why 's it a sub committee ?
What happened to the proper committee as well .
Yeah .
reports then back to the proper actual coun the er
The work 's committee
district council meeting .
Well I know at district council there was two environmental groups , was it the officers group and the members group .
Oh .
I wonder which group
Herts county council .
Cos when I was on the Hertfordshire Environmental of the group which has folded
I 've got all this money in the Abbey National and there 's no , no group any more , I think I 'll have to keep
Keep quiet .
I 'll have to send it off to .
But anyway it transpired that there were two groups sort of working towards the same end and nobody could work out what sort of erm role each played and it was terrible .
Because you knew that they both had to agree before anything was done .
Oh .
I suppose that was one way of nothing being done .
Yes , they didn't communicate .
The officers group and the members group that was right .
Right .
Anyway .
Onwards .
Erm there 's going to be a sort of event at the Rhodes Centre .
Erm for one world week on the twenty fourth of October and we 've been asked to do a stall there .
Which I said yes to without asking anybody so I hope that 's alright .
What date is it ?
October the twenty fourth .
That 's a Thursday .
We 're doing a Traidcraft stall ?
Oh yes
You what ?
Well he wanted to know who the Traidcraft person
Oh really .
And he said , he said he tried to phone you up and I said oh don't worry .
Cos any you always get the answerphone .
could leave a message .
is it ?
It 's at the Rhodes Centre Thursday October the twenty fourth .
Well if we do a stall I would really like to have at least a leaflet on new recycling .
Yeah okay .
So that we have , I mean nothing of design or anything just short information because I think it 's so
Right .
out of date .
Yeah .
I know , and he said you could sell things as well now .
I don't know what you think , I just wondered did we ought to order anything from Friends of the Earth catalogue like those sort of things to sell .
Cos that , I mean they 're always going to be useful I use them myself and I expect you all
Mm .
The question is the quantity
Er yeah
I 've no idea .
Well I mean I I know what Barbara feels about this .
She feels that erm at the , the level that we are working at it is really coun be counter productive to hold stock .
Because however hard you try stock deteriorates .
Yeah .
Erm but I you know I feel that that very often we don't sell stock
Well could n't we just have a few things
and I feel that if we did have stock then then we would erm sell it .
So I mean that that 's two ways of looking at it .
Certainly if we 've got some stuff in a box
Well I mean we need n't buy the expensive things like sweatshirts
Shall I try at erm Cambridge ?
I mean it 's October .
Yeah but they , will they , they won't sell you on at a discount will they ?
Cos if we all
But I mean I I just know that that Harlow tried stock keeping and selling , they gave up .
I know that er in Hertford they were quite desperate .
All came up with the same idea and they wanted to do it .
And in the end they came to Barbara 's conclusions so that its a an expensive thing .
But I mean if we only had like the writing paper and the envelopes and re-use labels , small items of stationery
the stickers and I mean
they still do yeah .
But I mean I I expect , I mean even we had some left over e eventually you could sell them to our own members because they 'd all want to use it
Mm .
and it 's cheaper than ordering it off the catalogue .
That 's a good idea about Cambridge isn't it ?
You could borrow there stock , is that what you 're thinking and then take back what we didn't sell .
That 's what
I mean I 've never talked to them so I I don't know yet
Well if they would let us borrow it , that 's a different matter to buying it from then because we then wouldn't make any money on it .
Well I don't , I have never heard of a local group that makes money out of this selling .
Well you you buy it all at thirty three or twenty five percent discount so you can then sell it at a bit more .
But then you have then you have the stuff that doesn't sell and deteriorates and you still have to have paid for it so
I think it 's possible to make a bit of money but at at at the rate you know I feel we 're all the time putting the cart before the horse .
Erm you know if if we are going to try to keep going as a viable group then yes one of the things we should consider I mean I I don't I 've come here sort of thinking oh is this it , is this the crisis meeting or
is it you know erm I mean I feel so so passionately that that we should keep going but
Mm .
I also feel just that I am able to contribute next to nothing in terms of time so and I think w we 're almost all in that situation .
Erm you know we sort of seem to limp from one meeting to another without really committing ourselves to anything much .
And you know if we were able to commit ourselves to two public , two meetings , three meetings of some sort in a year where we 're actually gonna do something and present some sort of front Par part of presenting some sort of front is to try to sell a few bits of pieces if we 're prepared to accept that we 're going to lose money .
Yeah .
I mean if we , we 're preaching you should use recycled products we , if we had a few to sell at least
Mm .
Yeah .
I mean you you 're be selling your Traidcraft stuff I mean
Which
why why does Barbara believe it 's okay to sell that but not
No , well we 're , we 're in exactly the same problem with Traidcraft .
You know we we used to sell thousand of pounds worth a year and now we 're down to couple of thousand a year and we 're s , we are losing money on that .
Mhm .
No we 're not actually losing money but I mean with Traidcraft we are getting to the low point where we put borrowed stock
Well that 's the recession isn't it ?
Or
Well , what I thought was with this one world week thing at least people that , who go might be more receptive to what we have to say to show and sell .
Yes we 've done really well with with Traidcraft
because that is , that 's the whole reason for the the the concert and they 're gonna have this concert in there as well and people will be buying tickets to go to .
Yeah .
And I don't know an awful lot about it and there 's going to be all these stalls .
Where they 're coming obviously because they believe in that sort of thing so
Two or three years ago one world week was a full week of all sorts of different activities which were all very well attended .
It 's sort of dwindled very rapidly
Has it .
down to , I d I don't even know what happened last year .
Mm
We just had a stall didn't we ?
But it
Or was that last year what seven or eight of us wasn't it ?
At St Michael 's ?
The church .
Yeah .
That was last year or was that two years ago ?
Er
There was something at St Michael 's but I didn't know it was the one world week .
Yeah I have never been involved in a one world week event at St Michael 's .
I thought there was one there .
You certainly were there .
In the church
No I don't I don't think
Yeah .
Anyway I mean hopefully this this will be sort of you know if it 's well publicized it it will be well attended because of the past .
I think we might as well get in a few things and anyway I want some envelope re-use labels .
I 've run out completely .
There you are so many packets already .
Well if you don't want Traidcraft 's re-use labels I don't care !
Oh !
I didn't know you did them !
Well erm
doesn't matter does it
well apart from this leaflet on recycling facilities , what else shall we have ?
On the stall .
Well who 's gonna do the leaflet ?
I will .
I think we ought to sort that out
Well that will be , I personally think that 's the only thing we can do .
And we should just sort of say what is necessary to find out and everybody gets a few telephone numbers or telephone calls check out addresses find out about new ones , get in contact with the district council erm what is in the pipeline .
Find out about Uttlesford possibly why there 's is running and whether that is going to br breakdown .
Erm and if we then find money for printing it I would approach Barclays Bank , banks , local banks and would it do it very modestly the same local the same style er and only hand it out to places where people are likely to pick it up .
And not bother about .
I mean charity shops erm library , hairdressers , surgeries Boardman as I know
I think that 's a very sensible idea actually rather than er trying to do the whole town .
Because that was er you know I mean it got the group together
Yeah
I thought because everybody had the same experience .
I liked the experience because I had never done it .
Mm .
what a waste of time .
The number of people I 've talked to that I definitely knew had got and never knew they had got it .
Mm .
Yeah I mean but on the other hand the there 's probably quite a few that did read it .
I mean I know when we moved house I had folder and one of each had got in it the recycling directory
Mm
which is quite a nice surprise !
I mean had they had they sold to someone outside Bishop 's Stortford
Yeah .
then they could
Yeah .
Erm
I think we have to have something if we have a stall .
We lost all the erm cartoons original cartoons .
Yeah .
Oh that 's a shame .
Well I could photocopy that could n't you .
Yeah .
The detail
difficult to see what it is .
But erm
Oh that 's a real shame .
Otherwise I will just do it in a different colour , a different
I mean then
then then reshape the inside .
Yeah .
Er something before I I always forget everything .
The German Friends of the Earth 's people told me never to do the washing on Monday mornings .
I mean that 's something to put there as well I think .
Because it 's a peak time for electricity and the Electricity Board er produces according to peak demands .
That 's got nothing to do with recycling has it ?
No .
I know but
No .
But you do you think honestly though that that really does still hold true because if everyone ha mostly having automatics now you just wash as you go you don't have a washing day or is it specially Monday they
Like I 've got just automatically I wanted to do washing this morning .
Really ?
I don't .
I just put it , when it gets too bad you know if haven't got any clothes to
It 's an interesting though .
I didn't know that they produced according to peak
Yeah , I think it 's important to know
It 's very important to know , yes .
erm whatever .
don't do it Monday mornings .
I usually do mine at midnight when I get home !
Yes .
A lot of people do it overnight
Yeah .
but it 's not really a good idea because if something goes wrong with your machine
you 're not there to deal with it .
I mean I 've had mine flood and I 've had its thermostat go and it boiled everything .
I mean that would have been a disaster I mean it 's only because I was upstairs and I thought oh I can smell boiling .
You know it was like when you boil up hankies I thought what a !
. There was dye came out of everything it was awful .
And another time it was all pouring all over the floor
The other thing I mean to be healthy it 's more important to dry things and keep them dry for a while than to boil them .
Bacteria survive heat for a short time .
Yeah .
But they don't a for the percentage of bacteria that survives drought is is minimal .
So you don't need to boil logically .
Er if you just keep your hankies iron them , keep them dry .
Then they are , then they are sterile .
be bothered .
Anyway , back to the point .
He said pointedly .
Well leaflet .
stall .
We 've got to get back to the stall .
Yeah er the recycling leaflet .
Who 's gonna do it ?
It 's not gonna be done if we don't get somebody to actually front you know
well
take it on
The thing is that I I can do revamp it on computer .
Because it w you can scan
What ma manually ?
No you just stick it on a photocopier
I see I wa before you do that I 'll get in touch with the guy who drew it and if he if he has got an original copy he might be able to erm to er
What , what you can do is you can then get basically you get the computer to type that out type that out .
Ah .
And then you just do a run , you don't have to go on to print it at all you just print it off .
That 's one option
Then photocopy the rest of it .
I 've got a laser printer yeah so I mean that 's what I use for my business .
I 've got a Mackintosh and a laser printer .
So I mean
I 've got some recycled paper but but
Well Traidcraft 's got loads to sell .
Not doing very well are you
No !
because I have this erm dilemma .
Whether to just photocopy off a very good original
Yeah
or do we print the whole lot .
And we came to the conclusion it was cheaper to print
Oh
than photocopy .
What it 's a bit slow isn't it ?
Yeah it depends , well you can get get it to run through copies but the problem is that the cartridges for these printers they , they cost about fifty pounds .
Mm
They 're not cheap .
So if I can do one run and then photocopy it .
Mm .
It a is actually a lot better because you can get them usually get them down to about five p a copy .
Well won't you lose , lose definition on the drawing though with a laser printer ?
No .
No ?
No it 's even better
Oh that 's alright .
Okay , no it 's , I'm just going by the one at school and it , because it 's all made up of little dots you
No , this is a laser printer .
This does it absolutely it 's not a dot printer it 's it is a laser printer .
Oh , well he keeps calling it his laser printer ! seen it in action we don't see that well .
So you , you said you could do it for five p a copy ?
Well I r , I r , I reckon I reckon you can down to that , yeah .
That 's printing both sides .
Yeah .
double sided printer and I I 'll try and get that verified but
I think we could sell it I think we could sell it for
Yeah .
ten p or twenty p .
Oh that that would be a different ball game , selling it in places wouldn't it ?
Oh yeah .
Ho how many
That 's our , I mean , you know you can go round in newsagents or doctor 's surgery and dump them .
But to actually say right can you s can you collect the money for us !
Well one could put a box next to it .
Well in some places , yeah .
Yeah but I mean , mm .
a copy 's a lot .
It is , yeah .
Well although
I mean it I'm not suggesting that isn't cheap but erm to produce at five p a copy
Oh yeah .
thousand it 's gonna cost what 's it gonna cost ?
Er .
What 's five thousands ?
Five thousands .
Fifty pounds .
Mm .
Mm .
I mean I'm , I'm , I'm only going on the fact that I I tend to do everything on the cheap so I tend to get if I can find somebody who does photocopying I can do it then we 'll do it .
For me to produce that 'll cost me basically my time and my my you know I , say my laser copies ' paid for by my business erm
copies .
So I mean if I , if I produced for instance si five or six masters and then people can go and do copies here and there that 's actually not a bad way of doing it .
And that 'll be , I 've got about a ream of , well it 's only about a ream paper .
Just pr producing new copies as you need them rather than produce five thousand and I think we we have sort of hundreds to throw away in the end .
But I it to to er recycling .
Yeah .
Well I 'll get in touch with this East Herts guy to get all his information .
Good .
Mm .
But erm
You know , we need to find out where to take
somebody needs to collect somebody needs to be a contact for getting all the information to by a certain date .
Well you can get it through me , yeah .
Okay .
Tesco do they actually do now ?
No .
Has anybody been there ?
No .
Well they collect aluminium cans .
Oh do they ?
Yeah , that 's what I was told .
I acted on what everyone had told me I then asked my friend who had a contact in Tesco 's about it she said well there is one .
It 's just inside the doors , where you don't see it .
walk in like that and you 're looking at all the things in the shop not where
It 's not in the recycling centre .
Why don't they put it in the recycling centre ?
I think it 's cos , it looks like it 's made out of cardboard .
It 's , it 's probably run by the scouts .
They 're in charge of it like
Yeah , cos there 's one at the swimming pool isn't there ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
Mm .
Does anybody know anything about , there 's this little note in about erm recycling paper , all sorts of paper magazines , cardboard er on the first Monday of the month .
Does anybody know anything about that ?
Is this for Boots ?
every first Monday of the mo month is the Birchanger scout
scout
and he gave me that information repeatedly and he 's terribly involved .
It , it 's fantastic .
Right , yeah .
I'm always worried that his enthusiasm is stretched to the limit
No , no I mean the number of pe .
I 've just passed my A levels I 've got loads of papers going what can I do .
Well I said , ring Birchanger scouts !
And as far as I know he always .
I mean the address is on there anyway .
Yeah , oh right .
Is it ?
Oh .
er
quite pertinent actually if we are actually going to do one .
What ?
To ask people sorry in my , in the letter
Yeah .
to the press , ask people to er submit any information .
Yeah .
Oh what you mean you 're gonna put at the bottom of the of , the same letter or
Well , yes .
Yeah .
just write down all the information we 've got now so there is can recycling at the swimming pool and at Tesco privately run .
Swimming pool
Erm swimming pool
who 's going to get the information who runs that ?
Who ?
Mm ?
Well I can do that I suppose .
Well who runs what ?
The swimming pool
Because I know the scouts do the Tesco one and whenever they are put in these cardboard boxes they have to be sorted so somebody must sort them .
Oh they 're not , they 're not asking sorting , oh I see .
Erm so there must be somebody responsible and I think if , if we write swimming pool and people take their cans there
Yes we 'd have to check .
erm I should first check .
Check with them , yeah quite .
So I I do , you do Tesco .
I 'll do the swimming pool .
I , I , I would check who actually is responsible for that
.
But of course all paper now is
All paper ?
All paper .
What about this chap then ?
It 's in the library th with his number .
Well , you ring him but if he , if he gets upset or , or
Oh I see .
it 's it 's strange you can give that as an address .
Any Uttlesford town of some size has got a comprehensive recycling centre now that takes any paper
Do you have to sort it ?
Do you have to take it sorted ?
No .
No .
It 's just a big skip ?
And it says
at Stanstead
Do they then sort it ?
the car park
No , they it 's the council collects it and in Uttlesford , that 's why I said we should get at the same time an Uttlesford councillor because I would
Yes , yeah
like to know a , whether their new scheme is only temporary , is about to break down .
Mm .
Or whether they actually get the disposals cost incorporated into this skip collecting cost .
Because the money they can get for this mixed paper must be a pittance .
Mm .
Almost hardly worth their while but
If you look at the tonnage kept out of the landfill
Yeah .
it might work .
Yeah , but I mean it it
So where 's this place in Stanstead then , do you know ?
Erm if you go in , along Cambridge Road there 's the turning to the right isn't there the first when you come up the hill .
At the monument , th th whatsit hill .
Chapel Hill .
Chapel Hill .
Chapel Hill .
You go down there do you ?
And it 's by the library isn't it ?
Mm .
go down it 's it 's first left once you 've turned right at
You know where the library is ?
Opposite , opposite there isn't it ?
Opposite the fire station ?
Near the white house round the back of the white house .
Where the health centre is .
Yes , round the back of those few little shops in London Road .
And you can take anything .
You can take erm any drink can unsorted .
You can take glass and you can take pa papers .
And in Saffron Waldren
suddenly thought you still got to have a little holdall membership forms in it , haven't you ?
With all that peat and stuff .
they even take er pills .
With all that
Do they ?
Oh that 's interesting to know
Remember w we did that peat they had a box that had a national membership forms in .
We could have that on the stall could n't we ?
Oh yes , w I mean we have got various leaflets produce still which is in reasonable condition .
I 've got Yeah .
Yeah we could take that you know membership and our own membership forms as well .
What pub is that then ?
Did you say a pub ?
A pub , yeah , in front of the pub er in .
Just before the
Oh the one in .
Yeah .
Before you go to St Michael 's school , the pub .
What is it called ?
Oh yeah , it 's The Oak isn't it ?
The Royal Oak ?
Yeah cos that 's next door but one to me so , yeah .
Oh that 's where you are .
Yeah .
Well anyway that is a new item on the recycling directory
Right
Oh they 've got one near those shops in Humana ?
Could you find out what happens to the ?
Yeah I know they come er there 's a big lorry comes and collects them .
Yeah .
But whether they are sent to the third world or torn into rags or
Yeah
Well you 've got the , I mean industry uses rags .
wiping up oil and things like that .
I might c call .
If I see them collecting I 'll ask .
And then if you 're collating
you have to ring .
Yeah .
Erm find out from
Oh well I 'll get the
the charity shops what they want
Havers shops
Yeah .
address
Oh right .
Charity shops .
Ah er the other item that we must mention is any extra plastic bags
Yeah , I 'll ask about plastic bags .
are extremely welcome in any charity shop .
Now , what about engine oil ?
Because oh actually we 've got some in our garage now sitting there and waiting to go somewhere .
The council takes it .
The council takes it ?
Yes I'm almost certain .
I mean a visit to the council to find out exactly what they do take would be
Mm .
But can you take it back to garages as well ?
No .
No .
No .
Halfords Halfords in Harlow is one that that that we found out took it .
But I ce ce I'm almost certain the council takes it .
Yeah I remember big bins wasn't sort of sure what else
They also take batteries .
I know that .
Car batteries .
Do they ?
Car batteries .
The car batteries
That 's the council ?
to get money at at
Right .
But what about erm little batteries ?
I I'm collecting those .
Yeah .
You are collecting them ?
What happens to radio batteries ?
Are still doing it ?
Yeah .
And they bring them up to me
Ah
I'm just waiting for a day of action on .
What do English er what do the English do with batteries and then dump them !
In those letters Ursula th there 's
Yeah ?
a letter which says they they have stopped doing it .
Oh yeah .
That Photostad have stopped doing it .
Oh .
About the second , quite early on isn't it ?
Oh yeah I was
I was gonna say it 's about the last one !
Think you were reading them upside down !
Well they only , they only er took the batteries over to me before we left on holiday .
So they must still be doing them and that was two huge boxes .
Oh .
Er
I know they are not very happy
Well that needs a check that needs needs another check I I would guess .
Yeah .
And I quite honestly I don't
I I'm going to say about back to this erm sump oil .
My brother-in-law said he read in the paper that erm over a year sort of the amount of oil tipped on our land and down drains which should n't be there is almost like equivalent to the disaster at Exxon Valdez .
I heard that .
Th erm the amount of oil that people just tip on the ground , or down the drains or whatever
Mm .
over a year is equivalent to the disaster of the Exxon Valdez .
So really people ought to be trained to take their engine oil out
There 's this , there 's this er out of sight out of mind principal
You are fined you are heavily fined in Germany and for decades already .
You were not allowed to wash your car on a normal street because oil would automatically be flushed into into the guttering , into the
They must be going absolutely mad about East Germany must n't they ?
Well it 's just so incredible that this oil has never been I mean nobody focused on it did they ?
No .
People just don't think .
They just tip it oh tip it down the drain .
Same with petrol stations I mean the way they spill the petrol .
I know !
There used to be safety catch mechanism
Yeah .
but there isn't now is there it just comes splashing out .
Well really I mean with quite a few you really have to watch out which is
they had a row at erm petrol station when that happened to her .
And they said it was our car .
and , and it went , cos it was quite a bit more worth petrol that went all over the place .
And she refused to pay .
And they me up about it .
I , I sort of denied all knowledge .
I didn't know it had happened !
I think they were being most unreasonable .
We at the time the attendant said it was alright .
She didn't have to pay for it .
it could easily I mean will be shorter I think .
Sorry ?
fewer localities now .
This will be shorter .
I think we can easily put erm pits for daily life or how to be environmental .
And then
Oh a few tips .
Oh
With respect I really think it ought to be recycling and nothing else .
Mm .
Well I just find these , I mean we had quite a few now
Cos recycling sort of comes into the tips for daily life as well though doesn't it .
It 's part of it .
Like protecting people don't just save bottles they save their glass jars
seem to be patronizing people when really you just want to give information .
as well .
People don't always think of .
Yeah .
Re-using things , re-using things is almost the same as recycling isn't it ?
Re-use ?
Yes .
Yeah !
I suppose it 's I mean
Well it is really isn't it ?
re-using is better than recycling .
Yeah .
Erm .
So .
Erm I take
So it
Reduce or re-use , recycling ?
Has anybody got a con
punchlines are much better than sort of er .
Because people 'll read those .
Well you can write save money across the top then
Well I , I wrote actually that article for the the Herald and Post that has appeared in Harlow but not here .
A whole load of tips like that .
Oh .
Now every week I open Herald and Post and think oh it 's gonna be in there , it 's gonna be in there but it never is .
It 's only appeared in Harlow and she told me it would get in the Bishop 's Stortford one but it has n't so far .
It 's a bit annoying really .
Who does all the schools ?
As to recycling .
They must be checked .
What about asking Caroline ?
School .
Well I mean somebody who knows the teachers or
Yes .
That 's gonna be a difficult one cos they don't always want
I will I 'll do the schools .
Yeah .
erm the general public walking into their
Yeah .
.
We ought to split the schools because there 's quite a lot of them .
I 'll do the primary you do the secondary .
I 'll do the secondary .
What about that ?
Okay .
Primary .
Well I think Boy 's High were active in between were n't they ?
Whether they er still are .
How about St Mary ?
I I found that erm erm littered all over the place !
St Mary is wall !
The P E
Do they still do it ?
the P E teacher is supposedly collecting aluminium cans and we 've been through various daft schemes of stopping the children from throwing the cans everywhere because we 've got this coke machine .
And we even had one where they paid a ten p deposit on a can so they paid forty p instead of thirty or whatever .
And I got hardly any cans back .
Or they did was b buy them from the school canteen where they were still thirty !
And the coke machine wasn't used .
Well why not er encourage the canteen to charge forty
They didn't but then they had
as well ?
Well , they won't because they they they have to make money in order to survive .
The more money they make the better for them .
They have to run it as a business now .
For profit I'm afraid .
Er oh I did have one Polish lad who 's now left who used to go round looking for all the cans and he 'd then collect the ten p 's !
scheme folded .
Through lack of support .
So what else is mentioned here ?
I think that still holds .
And I can check , I will go and .
And car batteries is the same .
Other batteries I 'll check .
Pills er you check
Yeah .
.
Furniture erm yeah I think that 's .
Is there a second hand furniture shop now in Bishop 's Stortford ?
There is one isn't there ?
Is there one down by the Causeway ?
Yes there is .
Who is going to check that ?
Well I can check it .
Yeah .
Yeah ?
Whether they take
Yes .
Yes .
I mean whether they want any .
Right .
Okay .
Could I just borrow your pen and I 'll write that down .
Thanks .
Are Red Cross still taking furniture in Stortford ?
Now where is Red Cross ?
Erm Well I think the furniture you have to take down to Ware when I last phoned .
There 's a number in the er when I was Church Street so that 's a few years now so it needs to be checked .
Would you do that ?
So it 's whether they take furniture ?
Okay .
Newspapers I think that is normally isn't it ?
Do you think people are
folded
What 's that shop in the Causeway near the sunbed erm it it 's a second hand furniture in there isn't it ?
Is it ?
But h I mean are people in the habit of wanting to get rid of furniture ?
I mean I mean if it , if it 's really grotty I mean
Well you can get I mean , according to the leaflet you can just phone up and get the council to collect .
No .
Glass , we haven't got any bottle banks .
And that 's where we need to contact what is in the pipeline
Yeah .
bottle bank somewhere .
Yeah there 's , there 's one at Sainsbury 's now isn't there which is new since that .
Yeah there is Thorley Sainsbury 's .
Thorley Sainsbury 's .
They have one now ?
They do .
Yes .
Oh !
They suddenly found the room .
Yes actually .
Well in a parking block .
Er would anyone like coffee ?
No thank you .
one , two .
Now what was it , I mean or would you prefer anything else ?
some tea ?
Tea ?
I 'll I 'll go and check .
One thing I struck me this week there 's a new regulation as regard punctures on tyres because I had this completely flat tyre and a whole new set of tyres and I said to him well can't you mend it , can't you put an inner tube in like I I 've done before cos there was a nail in it you see .
Yeah .
And I said just get the nail out and re repair the inner tube he said no it 's the there 's a new regulation this year that if the outer case of the you know the tyre has
tea .
they 're not allowed to repair it because safety regulations because the whole expanse and then supposedly the actual puncture comes off .
And I said well what happens to these extra tyres ?
Right .
So he sa , I mean does anybody know anything about anything like that ?
No , no .
Presum I mean I just lost four
I know this I just know about about a sort of friend of ours is making money meanwhile in Germany .
He found well of course erm connections so he got the permission through the embassy .
He 's now running lorry loads of worn tyres to Russia , to the Soviet Union and makes money loads of money because the tyres , they could n't ha get any tyres so the tyres he saw there were totally without profile .
You know .
Yeah .
So the old tyres he could erm find in Germany were a lot better .
He carted them over .
. Making thousands out of it .
Yeah .
Well people do that here though don't they ?
Se sell them to Africa and places yeah .
alright if it doesn't rain actually so it wouldn't matter if they didn't have treads on er treads on the tyres if it 's dry it doesn't really matter you just go round slicks and
I think could chop them up and use them to make road surfaces with .
Yeah but percentages is
Mm .
At least you know they can do it !
Mm that 's right .
Oh they can do quite a lot of it .
I mean even the , the su surface out of the play in playgrounds .
Mm .
I can never quite work out why that .
most roads
So , so far I 've got two coffees here and one tea .
Anybody else for anything ?
I 'll have a coffee please .
Coffee ?
Black please .
Black coffee .
White .
White .
White .
So we 've got about six weeks in which to do this .
So how many weeks
I mean there 's no excuse I all the jobs are quite quickly done aren't they ?
Yeah .
So what we ought to have a deadline for collect collecting the information .
And then get together
Yeah .
to put it together .
And then decide on
And how to
And how to get , how to get it to put it together .
Shall we say three weeks ?
Three weeks Yeah .
probably for everybody just to do it and
Yeah .
and I don't think anybody has more time in in four weeks time
So if you say six weeks by then you
Yeah yeah .
It 's too near .
So the thirtieth of September we 'll meet here again .
meeting ?
Can , can we meet at house ?
Yes .
It 's more sensible for
Meet where ?
What 's your address ?
Forty two ?
Thirty two .
.
Is that alright ?
Or what ?
Mondays is actually not very good for me but hopefully by then
I don't think I can make that either but er
Val , can I have your phone number please ?
Right .
erm what did you say ?
Thirtieth ?
Well that 's .
go through .
So plastics erm ya I think that 's re-using is better than recycling .
And erm then mention the charity shops .
I mean we don't need to imply anything there .
There 's no new recycling centre nearby for plastics is there ?
So who mentioned this
The what ?
talk about recycling mention that .
I just remember it from the .
Now Bejam have become Iceland they haven't done the plastic bags collection have they like the , a lot of the .
They haven't got a provision for plastic bags
Is that worth checking out ?
I know a lot of the Iceland do have a recycling
I I 'll do that , if I'm doing plastic bags at charity shops I 'll check
plastic bag recycling
What 's happened to Sainsbury 's one p back cos they don't actually
Yes I was yes
they don't actually give you one p any more .
No !
I think supposed to , they are supposed to .
I I always make them give me three p
This in the Friend of the Earth , Germany she stayed with us , I really would have liked you to meet her .
She was fanatic !
You have cat f food in tins !
How dare you ! you know .
What do they
from the butcher and
Oh , really .
Locally , no transport .
Cut out transport .
Only local foods and
If it 's available .
Yes well mm .
So who , who .
Are you doing the bottle bank ?
You doing the bottle banks ?
who 's doing the bottle banks ?
Yeah .
Thanks ever so much .
Because er Caroline once wanted one in a school and we were n't allowed to have it .
No I won't thank you .
Well there 's one at erm .
The erm wine merchant .
You know erm the one down the bottom of Thorley Hill .
Well they were , they were sort of advertising er giving you money back .
. I don't know if
Down in the er
Yeah .
Can you find out more ?
And also we do
quite a few we can write at the bottom er for more inf if you have any more information or something in small print
Mm .
please contact and then we can do the next few hundred
The thing is you can , you can change them very easily .
Ya .
That means you can er pay for it easier .
I wouldn't print more than three hundred for a start .
So if we get further information we can always if not we can just get printed .
That 's very impressive isn't it ?
That 's that council of environment .
No sorry .
Council 's environment advisory committee .
Oh that must be that must be the one er
Rob 's on .
Thought this was good about the , buying the R S P C A that boat oil spill .
doesn't look very steady though does it !
Yeah they look like !
It 's ever so tiny isn't it !
Yeah .
coracle .
Well they 've got to keep their green image , green image going haven't they ?
So Kath while you were coffee making we decided on er three weeks for collecting information .
Oh right .
And another three weeks for production .
Which will make the thirtieth of September a meeting at Portland Road .
That 's a
Monday .
Although for two of us Monday 's aren't good .
So I don't know whether
I would prefer another day .
Three .
That makes three .
Monday or Tuesday is no good .
You can't do Tuesday ?
Wednesday ?
Wednesday now Wednesday would be the
Second of October .
Second of October .
It 's at your house ?
Is that all , that 's changed then has it Wednesday the second of October ?
Have we decided on Wednesday ?
No I think we should
thing is I don't think I can but er I mean I might be able to pop in for about half an hour .
Because I mean I can find out what goes on
Yeah and leave , leave the stuff
Yeah
beforehand .
I 'll probably phone it in actually .
Yeah .
If that 's okay .
Er second at what ti .
Wednesday second of October .
What time ?
Eight thirty .
Eight thirty .
And this is , this is about the leaflet is it ?
Yeah .
Yes .
Get all the information .
Decide on how we do the thing .
And erm do take it
To go into details of that it 's probably much more sensible to do it with just two or three people .
But er at least if we can pull the information together that evening that 'd be a start .
Form a sub committee !
Ooh !
sub committee with everybody present !
Well you can always divide up .
Thanks ever so much folks and I 'll see you
Oh you 've got to go .
soon .
See you .
Bye Katherine .
See you then .
Thanks Katherine .
Your welcome .
I 'll be in touch .
Bye .
So what 's gonna be on this stall then ?
Apart from the new leaflets and a few
Some re re-use labels .
Yeah .
You 're gonna buy , you 're gonna buy some ?
I 'll send off for some stuff .
I 'll just do it .
Okay .
Those Traidcraft ones .
We 've got some money .
Money sitting round accounts doing nothing .
How much money have we got ?
Oh .
Probably loads .
can't remember .
I 'd better let you know what we have got in stock just in case there 's anything there that you 're
Yeah .
You haven't have you ?
No .
I I don't think so .
Are you gonna get leaflets and you know Friends of the Earth leaflets ?
I 've got l , well they 've got loads , I 've got a big wallet folder full of all the various leaflets .
You have .
Right .
Erm
Car stickers and
cakes or anything like produce or
I don't know .
I mean it , it 's up to you .
I don't know if it 's that sort of a do really .
Mm .
Hundred and sixty eight pounds thirty nine pence .
Oh gosh !
Is that their new catalogue or is that the one , the summer one ?
This is spring summer .
It 's it 's the latest one isn't it ?
I haven't had another one .
I mean they may be just just just about bringing one out so
They 're just about to bring one out aren't they ?
The Christmas lot will be out
that one .
Sorry ?
August that one .
the R S P B
Well I I 've been sent a local
Oh that was is that true ?
No I 've got a
No , it said it in there
I 've got a local group six pound order form autumn and winter ninety one .
But I don't think they change that much .
I think they just sort of it 's the same thing in a different order .
And it 's it 's got a lot of sort of stuff that 's left over from
Christmassy things
That 'll do .
Yeah .
Erm .
But I mean do we want to have any produce or anything else ?
I'm just looking at this stall thinking there 's gonna be next to nothing on it .
Mm .
Yeah .
I think if some cakes we need definitely .
Oh .
So we have to do
To make it look right so
Good advertising !
What is the , what is the concert in fact ?
Well I , I honestly don't know an awful lot about it .
I don't think he knows that much
It was low cost through the
No cos it 's concert .
There 's going
Oh concert .
to be a concert there .
All Saints , they were going to have a concert were n't they .
No .
This is at the Rhodes Centre .
The Rhodes Centre .
The concert at which we 've got this stall .
Yeah .
The Traidcraft 's stall .
.
I mean he kept he didn't know .
He said to me on the phone he didn't know a great deal cos he was just getting it all together .
And he said , today he phoned me just as I was going out and I didn't really sort of stop and talk to him very long .
He just asked me what we needed and I said well a table .
We don't really need anything else do we ?
Like power supply or
Oh no quite
something with flashing lights on it !
So what time of the day is that ?
It 's evening .
seven or eight o'clock .
He told me .
How long does it go on for ?
No idea .
He said he 'd phone me again you see .
I think if there 's a concert there 'll be a rush at the beginning and there 'll be a rush at the end .
Possibly a rush at the , at an interval I suppose .
What concert is it then ?
I mean
Well I don't know !
Sounds a funny , funny evening to me ! bit of a mish-mash isn't it .
I mean
But he 's he just
The oth .
The other thing we could do .
Sorry .
Liz .
Is is to see whether green consumer Rob and Trish want to , to to have something .
I guess that would be a .
I mean I wonder who exactly you 're attracting if you 've got people coming to listen to music and then
Well I think something to do with the church isn't it .
I think he mentioned the church
go through the church ?
I don't know what the one , the the there 's usually a theme for every one world week each year and I don't know what the theme is for this year .
.
Act together for tomorrow 's world .
Yeah !
Fine !
Well .
Yeah .
There you go !
And he said we come under that heading so .
Good .
Right .
But all he
There 's nothing else going on apart from this concert
I don't know .
I 'll ask him .
I 'll ask him .
Erm we 'd better get on to a few other things .
I 've got erm Greenpeace written to me .
They 're having a family fun day on what day is it .
Saturday the twenty eighth of September .
That 's at Much Hadham hall , village hall .
Two o'clock to five o'clock .
They want to know if we want to have a stall there ?
Family fun day Much Hadham village hall ?
Yeah .
Do you know where that is in Much Hadham ?
Opposite the Bull pub isn't it ?
Right .
Er he wants to know do we want to have a stall there and that 's gonna cost us five pounds .
If we have that .
Erm
Well you could get produce for that .
And then if you ordered now .
I bet they probably be really competing with them in a way won't we cos they 've got all the same sort of stuff .
won't they ?
Yeah .
Greenpeace sell them mugs and re-use labels and sort of things like that .
I don't know what you think .
Erm and there 's er
I would suggest
If it 's a fun day why don't we do a game or something .
Why do , you know .
Well it 's .
They 're celebrating their twentieth birthday celebrations .
Erm and then th in the evening there 's an event .
Which starts at eight o'clock with two live bands , cabaret , disco and bar .
Tickets three pound fifty .
Does anybody want to go ?
That 's a good idea but it 's offer to do a game .
Well they 've got what they 've got on here is they 've got whale watch talk and slides .
. Punch and Judy show .
Magic and juggling with ka plate spinning .
Er Playbus painting competition .
Raffle , refreshments , tombola and various merchandise stalls so I suppose that 's us .
Quite
Mm .
Do they do fire eating act or
We can contortionism or my legs up behind my neck .
An alternative might be to just to ask whether some of our membership forms could be put out so that
Well I think they 're more interested in the five pounds !
Yeah alright well .
Yeah .
I mean to make a contribution .
No to be honest because that that 's what Greenpeace do isn't it ?
don't you belong ?
Yeah start the Harlow one up
Yeah .
the whole of their effort really is devoted to
Yeah they don't do it .
They 're actually , they just do fund raising to their local groups and everything else is obviously sort of controlled by central office or
That 's right everything is central .
Ac action is central or something .
Yeah but I mean
So they 're probably just gonna have their you know merchandise and a few people sort of
It 's difficult really because I mean we 're sort of striving for the same sort of things
I know .
Yeah .
aren't we .
It 's er you don't want to be seen to be erm
Who 's it actually run by ?
competing with each other in any way .
Well .
I think his name 's actually written out .
I'm not sure
It 's like trying to unite the churches .
Yeah .
It looks like somebody Plus Plusky Oh yeah .
No .
Oh well .
It 's signed by s .
Oh no sorry..
That can't possibly say .
Well it says Leslie at the top .
But there 's something else underneath .
I mean is that
but is that a Greenpeace central office thing or is it erm
A local group .
a local group ?
East Herts .
But does it , Pat does it doesn't he ?
for Herts yeah .
He still does it now .
How do you know ?
that have got so involved in that .
Yeah .
And and Bob did it here in Bishop 's Stortford but I don't know whether he 's still I think he still does it because he was very committed .
But I I just Pat was doing it for Bishop 's Stortford on or thereabouts because he sent me all the details about the whale walk .
Cos I I gave his name to this guy organizing the one world week .
And he hadn't had any joy out of Greenpeace .
Can I borrow that a minute ?
What this ?
Yeah
The problem we 've got with Greenpeace they might not have so much in the way of merchandise and they just have the stickers and
There 's the leaflets .
things and leaflets .
Yeah I think it just depends whether the local group want to take up the option or not .
I don't think there 's anything I 've got to tell you .
Er except there 's a day of action but it 's right that 's right into November now so you can hear about that .
So we this next meeting at
Yeah .
I I think we can sort out more about the st stall I mean if we can sell things
Well this this this er Greenpeace letter predates the September .
Oh that is a pity .
I think that 's actually a bit too soon to get ourselves organized
Shall I shall I just write off and send them like pound or donation and a few leaflets could
Yeah .
Say we 're quite prepared to make a contribution , mm .
you put them out or circulate them .
Yeah ?
Yeah I mean don't think Rob would be interested .
Yeah .
He he ought to know about it though
I 'll ask him about it .
Cos he lives up the road from there doesn't he ?
Oh yeah .
Erm
And he could collect some money for the
.
Alright I 'll tell
Yeah .
I expect he , you know they 're fairly busy but you know they may well
And I 'll tell
not want to go .
Yeah .
Anyway I 'll see you all on Wednesday
Thanks for coming .
Erm
Bye Liz .
I 'll going in the afternoon
There 's a few other things
that I 've got to get through here .
I mean
Erm I 've got here .
I 've been sent some stuff by Chris who used to run Harlow group .
Oh yeah .
Chris who was that ?
?
.
Not Christine !
Yeah that 's right they cos Erm so I 've got a whole long list of all these people who used to belong to Harlow which is absolutely enormous .
Is that Friends of the Earth ?
Yeah .
Masses of names
loads of money and
Well no , I
No they 've folded now
They have folded .
Well I think that list is the list that what was his name , Chris ?
quite a few as well .
But if you look properly it 's a , that is not only Harlow .
Remember he wanted to merge the groups ?
don't you remember ?
Oh yeah .
Oh yes .
Of course .
And he had all the numbers .
Because he also works
Yes .
Some of ou .
Yeah .
in a erm London .
isn't it the national ?
No it 's it 's all the
No .
He wanted to call it Stort group or something .
Oh yeah
Stort Valley or something wasn't it ?
Stort Valley group .
Well there 's a lo quite a lot .
It 's mostly Harlow actually when you look through it .
But there are Bishop 's Stortford ones too .
Yeah that 's all the
And the vast majority 's Harlow .
That was his plan of having
What , what do they do they want .
What do they want to do ?
Do they want join our group or
Nothing .
He said he he 's apparently just moved and he 's got involved with this other charity erm to do with the United Nations Friends of the Earth and just passed it on to me .
Cos the there there must be useful contacts you see .
People who sympathize .
we 've got the names .
Mm .
They were fairly enthusiastic when they started off .
Mm .
So I
But I I mean we I don't know whether you think it 's worth contacting or not .
It might be .
Yes .
W either when we 've got a reason to contact them
Yeah .
or with a specific letter for them saying you know welcome if you if you feel like it .
Actually just just quickly er I just noticed on that list of your questionnaires that we got back a couple that they didn't actually know what was going on .
And that you know perhaps this is er erm publicity wise I wonder whether we 're falling a bit short on our publicity .
Well .
they didn't know I mean like first newsletter we 've had in ages .
And it 's something else that we need to get
we can't just sort of
No exactly
We 've got to get , we should get more publicity .
But it 's ever so easy for somebody to sit at home and say well you should be doing this and you should be doing that
Oh yeah yeah .
and not doing
No I'm I'm not sa , I'm not saying .
I'm not saying you should be doing anything I'm just er
No I didn't mean you , I meant them !
No well .
I well really I don't think you should say you 're not doing enough !
No
I think last year more or less shows that we really have to concentrate on one thing .
Do it and then plan
Yeah .
plan the next .
Because otherwise we just
And then write about it if we want to .
Yeah .
So what what we 'll do quickly to write and inform them all that we 're doing this stall and won't we ?
Yes .
We could even send them a recycling sheet .
Yeah .
And the most recent newsletter .
Yeah .
Yeah .
And a , and a short letter I do don't know whether you said that .
Are you talking about this lot or
Yeah .
or that lot ?
Sorry ?
Yeah sorry I was also tal we were talking about our own membership
talking about Stortford
Oh right !
and we passed on .
No I think they I mean
They complain they don't get any information .
My first contacts with Friends of the Earth in this region sort of what six years ago was Harlow .
Mm .
And they were all enthusiastic and confident and
Well what happened to them ?
And when there was another friend who was still over here at that time .
And we went three times and they always planned and planned and planned and had ideas what they could do .
And they never pulled round to actually doing it
No .
properly .
Right .
And I think the same happened as with us .
They wrote letters and they did didn't have the energy
Mm .
to write again and again you know And you never get a positive answer , clear answer first , first time round do you ?
Mm .
You have to write and and write more details or put more pressure on and have more people write .
But if you just write a single letter
Yeah but you should .
I know you two have been
Yeah .
Mm .
I'm used to it .
I mean it evaporates .
.
didn't we have er a membership thing which said about erm membership form which actually explained what what we did in if you want to join return this sort of thing .
Yeah .
I 've got loads of those .
Have you still got those ?
Yes .
I 've got all those .
We 've still got those somewhere then .
Yeah .
Well I 've go have got the .
I don't think I don't know if I 've got a master .
But I know I 've got lots that could be copied so we could send them out .
Well I 've got the master still somewhere .
Well anyway it 's something to bear in mind the fact that we 've got that list anyway .
Erm
Yeah how many .
Sort of what 's the approximate number of people on it ?
I don't know .
I'm not very good at estimating numbers .
One two three four
Oh and then there was there 's it 's it 's it 's not all Harlow it 's all just
Yeah it 's Stort Valley .
Ya .
This Chris what was his name ?
I don't remember .
I don't , didn't even know his name was Chris .
don't you remember he he then suggested th that walk along the Stort ?
I do yeah .
I mean I 'd forgotten all about him but I can remember
Do you remember that .
That was a really silly thing wasn't it ?
Can I just have a look Kath ?
Yeah .
He organized it all and then I think was it a week before he suddenly said well we can't possibly have two hundred people walking along a nature trail that we want to protect .
And he was really of the illusion that there might be I think two hundred no six hundred people
Two hundred people might turn up .
turning up .
In the end I think three people turned up .
Oh .
It was , it was no it was
This looks really interesting .
get it .
I had to write off
Yeah .
Er it was a nice er display thing to show to show the kids when you do talks in schools .
Yeah yeah .
Well I mean I 'd certainly use it .
Is is that Greenpeace ?
Yeah that 's what I think is it 's no
It 's a resources pack
Mm .
It 's his own is it ?
Well he 's obvious they 've obviously the group has bought it and he 's got it and he 's gonna say do you want to buy
Oh yeah .
Oh yeah .
for ten instead of twenty .
Originally cost twenty pounds and we could get it for ten it 's er
It 's Chris
it 's erm living forests resources pack .
Looks good doesn't it ? that I thought .
Erm with all sorts of po posters and teacher 's notes and things .
Well I firmly believe in building up a library .
So do I .
Good I'm glad
I I mean there 's
you said that because I w I want to buy a book !
no library because I think er if you are contacted for information and you are able to say okay we have a book or we have books .
Yeah .
That 's that 's one of the things I I I ke , I 've kept all my New Scientists .
I keep these .
Yeah .
I go through them gonna collate that cos there 's loads of stuff in there good .
Yeah .
But I do get quite a few people phone me as you know asking for information .
I just photocopy relevant bits
None of none of them has got in contact with me .
Really !
No .
aren't they funny .
I get the feeling
Well I should give you er
that they either phone in .
Phone me and then get it all given to them just like that .
That yeah .
And no further effort involved cos
Well I should , I could .
No it isn't .
This woman who , who keeps phoning me up about all this oil pollution on her land .
She she .
I sent , I wrote off to Friends of the Earth , I got a load of information all about the law and she still phones me up and say oh you know what the District Council 's they won't do anything and the N R A wasn't doing anything .
And I said well when did you last contact them ?
February !
Apparently she 's got a problem that the oil pollution is coming off this site where they 're refurbishing the boilers .
It 's gotten on to her land and off her land and into the ditch , which is you know the N R A
Where is that ?
Er Roydon some way ?
You know where all those nurseries are ?
And because the oil is coming to the ditch via her land they can't have a go at the primary source .
This is what she said and I , to me it doesn't sound right .
She said nobody 'll Nob they all say they haven't got the power to prosecute and I said well the N R A has .
They 've got more clout than anybody else .
Mm .
More clout than the District Council .
And then she keeps saying but you know what these councils are like .
And I said I'm not talking about the council , I'm talking about the N R A !
And now she wants me to find out how can er found out about a solicitor or somebody who specialises in this sort of thing .
To take the District Council to court .
So that she 's more expensive to them than this other lot will be .
Apparently they 're causing quite te dreadful pollution .
It 's all this oil from the boilers leaking on to her into her soil and out into the ditch .
Well
Certainly is .
But erm in the back of my mind there comes that she 's saying to me don't get involved , don't get involved .
You know who owns all that land , it 's the mafia .
And this could be why she 's getting nowhere .
You could give her er erm er wr , give her the address of Friends of the Earth , London .
Oh she 's already .
That 's how she got in contact with me !
You see they refer everybody on and then I
Well but they should give her a soli , the name of a solicitor .
There must be green solicitors about .
I have to write to them and ask them and about a month later they reply to me and I pass it on to her .
Because I don't know off hand .
I 've asked Jeffrey to ask a friend about it who 's a solicitor if he knows anybody but I c , I can't I haven't got the in information .
I don't
Does anybody of you remember where Friends of the Earth England erm analyze their expenditures .
Their income and their finance for the last year ?
I I saw it somewhere and I got lost track of it .
And I was appalled as to how much they spend on publicity .
But I can't do anything with it because I lost the numbers .
Mm .
I don't know I 'll have , have a look .
I don't remember seeing
The thing is this .
Does anybody of you seen that or remember ?
No .
No .
No .
So are we saying yes to that ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
Erm can I just ask you .
Does anybody wanna go on the energy campaign weekend ?
No thank you .
And there 's this book .
Which I think we might like to don't worry .
Erm energy without aids .
Which I think would be a good idea if we got it because I don't know about you but I'm always having arguments with people who say oh we can't have the whole country covered in windmills and
Mm .
things like that .
They all think nuclear powers okay .
So we really need to know our
What 's the energy thing weekend just out of curiosity ?
And
Good .
Right .
Go on
I don't .
I don't know these things .
No .
Well you don't get them .
I do and I feel obliged to pass it all on .
I can't just sort of
No .
But it , I , it 's only six ninety five and I thought if we had you know a few facts at our fingertips to say well that 's all rubbish you know .
So what is that ?
Is that er booklet or something ?
It 's a book .
Book .
Just talking about al you know alternative
On erm renewable yeah
energy really I think .
Yeah .
Because they keep saying oh what 's gonna happen when the whole population of China wants a fridge and
Mm god !
I haven't got an answer for things like that .
Mm .
There is no answer really .
Because want to catch up with us and we 're already using too much energy .
change your lifestyle .
I just thought the more facts you 've got at your fingertips the more easy it is to persuade people .
Yeah if we 've got some money we might as well spend it .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Okay .
Educate ourselves .
An and the next day of action as I said before is on tropical rainforests erm .
Connection with er tropical woods
Oh we did actually do
November the ninth .
for the architects .
Like Hertfordshire architects
Yeah .
for example .
Do something basically have a
Yes
mailshot or ring them up or .
They 're a pretty depressed lot at the moment
Yeah I bet they are .
They have nothing to do
Not much to look forward to so they 'll probably like a bit of excitement .
Nothing to do .
No I I don't know what it 's going to be about they haven't sent any information .
It 's just that er I 've got the date .
Right .
When when they say .
Is it an action day ?
It 's an action day .
It 's the next day of action and
What date ?
That 's a Saturday .
What date ?
November the ninth .
It 's only just after the one world week thing .
Well it 's October .
Well if I if I get
Well it 's only two week 's after .
Yeah .
and I don't know what it 's going to be
You know know which would recommend
Yeah .
This .
I mean I have been into this window frame business .
Mm
Because we have to have sash and sash soft wood .
So anyway various companies wrote .
Well they do use tropical rainforest wood but
Yeah .
it 's government er schemes .
Yeah it 's like some sort of erm okay .
Yeah .
And I mean I have , I I remember that on some T V programmes they they said it 's all bogus
Mm .
I mean that it is not really government run er .
They reforest it but what they reforest is eucalyptus or
Yeah palm erm they oil palm plantations
Mm .
Mm .
They just er .
Actually I 've got a , I 've got a brilliant picture that I took outside the train .
Erm we were travelling through Malaysia and erm it 's just one canopy tree standing on its own in the middle of nowhere .
And there 's all this sort of undergrowth .
And it 's obviously that one wasn't , just didn't want it or it was dead or something and they just left it .
Mhm .
And it 's just the one .
And then I 've got all the pictures of all the logs on the train wagons and er that was really it was a , it was a good picture actually cos I thought oh look at that poor old tree there it 's
Yeah .
all its friends and then it was just standing there on the ground .
But really it 's completely it 's completely wiped out Malaysia the whole of central Malaysia is just just gone .
And all the soil 's eroding cos it 's sort of sand and it 's red .
And it goes into dust .
So it goes everywhere so I mean there 's gonna be trouble with that in the future .
It 's where they get all the flooding isn't it ?
Oh yes .
Right .
Oh .
okay .
Thanks .
Thank you very much .

discussions with Richard
Robert .
Robert sorry here you go .
That 'll come out on there you see and I 'll get tell myself off .
That 's probably cos you know .
We 've got ta design redesign this cos everybody off .
Oh sorry apologize to the last guy he didn't .
Richard while I'm having oh
It 's that again .
That was a Richard .
Cut .
Robert while I'm having a look .
Yeah edit that .
While I'm having a look at this just a quick glance through erm there 's the er range of products that we print design publish , we don't sell them , for our clients .
Erm if you 'd like to have a quick glance through them .
Yep .
Just get your feel for it .
Yep .
I 'll have I 'll have hopefully described them as as much as I can over the erm over the phone but er and of course the brochure .
Did what did you glean for the erm company brochure ?
Very professional .
Mhm .
Er forward going .
Always looking to , how can I put this , upgrade things is it like you know .
Pardon ?
All these looking to upgrade things you know .
Er going forward .
Okay .
Oh sure .
Er you know and
Yeah yeah .
Four years ago the erm er two thirds of those products were n't in existence .
Yeah .
Erm the law has helped us .
Legislation helped us with the medical practice booklets .
Yeah .
The law also helped us allowing a lot of professional companies to advertise which they could n't .
You know like accountants solicitors doctors chemists .
None of those could advertise
So in so it 's broadened the number of er prospective advertisers that we can approach .
Yeah .
Totally new this industry so
Erm I have to say that most of the people that come to us have never been involved in advertising .
Yeah .
One of the things I am obviously gonna have to look at is the what you 've done in the last two or three years because traditionally erm we wouldn't ask van drivers to come along and see us .
Yeah well there 's there 's
But there 's there had to have been
there 's a good reason for that .
Yeah right .
Well I wouldn't
Well I I would well I 'd feel
I 'd feel more comfortable with people at least who have made an attempt to er to do something to earn a living .
Well I 've never signed on the dole so
You 're trying to avoid that .
Yeah .
I haven't although a lot of people would say I was silly for not having done .
Because I probably lost out on a lot of money .
Well I well I tell a lie I tried it once .
Mhm .
Er in between sales
Aha .
jobs .
Er and I was told that I wasn't entitled to any money anyway because I was self-employed and I only paid the stamp .
Yes well that 's exactly what they said to me .
And er you know I thought well
Thoroughly annoyed me because I 'd er every year when I 'd paid my tax I 'd pay my er national insurance and as far I'm concerned that should 've entitled me .
Yeah yeah .
Oh you can income support but it 's not why should I be any different .
I think it 's something that they probably have to look at fairly seriously because er I think you do the Government a a lot of favours by going self-employed .
Of course you do .
You take self take the employment figures down for a start .
Yeah .
Er yeah I mean that that 's never been discussed by anybody or know or
Mm .
anything or it 's never published that if you go self-employed
No er I I I have
er if you 're out of work you 're it takes small businesses of .
Erm and one of the things I could 've done was to em er become a salaried employee of my own company which was a limited company but I paid myself as a consultant .
Yeah rather than a director .
Yeah .
And nobody told me that .
And you 're supposed to know all about the bits of paper that they issue .
It does annoy me .
Anyway that 's got that 's put the world to rights has n't it ?
Yeah .
Okay er Robert .
There you are I got it right for
Yeah I 'll confuse now call me Paul
That 's right yeah .
Thank you .
Erm well first of all er I 'll I 'll come back to that .
First of all the company is very serious about taking up references .
Yep .
And they ask for four for a very good reason .
At least they want to get a cross-section .
If may be one doesn't respond at least we 've got a good er
Yeah .
And quite honestly if two give er a good references but I would I would have to address that once we decide
Right .
er what the outcome of this is going to be today .
Er now let 's go back over oh first of all let me explain what the idea is Hello .
It is indeed .
Hi Lynn .
Oh that 's fine okay .
Yeah very kind of you call because some people don't .
Lynn than thanks very much .
Bye bye .
Yes we get a lot of people who don't turn up at least a a phone call is er
Right .
Must make a note of that .
Yes I wanted to erm outline what the you know the purpose of these discussions today er so that we can get to the point where we can get into er get into more detail .
Erm first of
Er
Did I speak to you originally ?
You did yeah .
Okay .
So I would have heard enough on the phone er because I haven't got my original notes here , I would have heard enough on the phone er Robert to have suggested that it was a good idea to get face to face .
So there 's a lot of the discussions have taken place and also I would have briefed you a bit er
Yeah .
on on what it was .
Self employed commission only .
I would have said at forty one you know you er you 're still probably young enough to get a salaried job but we decided that it might be worth er you trying this avenue .
The brochure also would have outlined a number of other aspects in in more detail than I could give you on the phone .
And today really is er decision day that er first of all we 'll get one of the hurdles out of the way whether you and I think that this is a good
You think yeah .
er way for you to be er earning some money .
I know that a lot of money can be earned .
I 've experienced it myself and there are a plenty of top earners in our company who er arrive in a Porsche and er and er things like that .
So some big money earners .
Erm once that hurdle 's out of the way if it is a hurdle er once once we 've agreed on that er the next decision we 'll make is on er which company you and I think that you 're more be comfortable the environment in which you er we operate .
Because we all do the same thing .
A hundred and seventy five I think was the last count that we have around the U K all selling advertising .
And the only difference between them er one group and another is may be the pitch is slightly different and the benefits .
Otherwise , oh and the pricing is slightly different ,
Yeah .
otherwise it 's er er all the same .
We 're doing all the same .
Certainly the opportunities to earn all the same er er er are the same across all companies .
All right opportunities .
Yep .
Erm so that you know it 's it 's a luxury that I have .
I'm looking it 's not one job for one person in one company today .
It is I'm looking for five er may be for each of those companies so that 's thirty people I could be looking for .
I'm not but I you know could be .
Yeah could be .
But I want somebody in every one of those companies .
So there 's not a problem .
So you 're not in competition with anybody else .
Right .
Erm and the other aspect of course is when .
We do like people to give us a commitment on the spot on on all of those three counts .
Er when we have a training course for all of these companies .
There 's no way we 're going to send people out er to sell advertising er particularly as the majority of people have never done that before .
Yep .
Certainly it 's not in your background and it 's not in most people 's I have to say .
Erm and er er we don't hide behind reject letters .
If I don't think you 're suitable and if I don't think this is for you I 'll I 'll say
You 'll tell me yeah .
Straight up .
I 'll be up front with you .
Yep .
Erm I also want and because I
You 'll say
well I 'll give the commitment .
If you say if you don't think this is for you you 've got to tell me that .
Erm I don't go into big sales pitch you know to bring you into the company .
What I will do is emphasize what we you know where you can go in terms of money- wise .
And the other thing is is when .
Now accordingly to your application form here er you you 've no problem you can start
yeah .
All right .
And I will give you that commitment as well .
I 'll say , Fine you want to start with us you want to start in this company here 's your date for your course fully expensed .
Travel hotel bills everything .
Then out on to an assignment or with somebody in the field for a couple of days whichever company you go into .
All right ?
So
Yeah .
that 's if you like the the big picture .
I'm now going to put on the lights that 's better I thought it was a bit dull in here .
It was lovely and sunny when I first came in
You were nice when that light was on .
Aye ?
You were nice in the first light .
Yeah yeah now I can actually see what you look like .
Okay well you really want to with us don't you ?
don't go slanging the recruiter right .
You got ta you 'll get a flashback off the top of my head .
Okay Robert Bob
Yep .
Erm your background here .
That 's have a look through this .
First of all erm we 'll you you you 've obviously been round the construction industry a bit .
If I can interpret these .
Erm a roofing contractor for for twelve years there right ?
Yeah .
That was is was that the doing the selling er you 've got roofing foreman here but that was the doing of was it ?
That was the doing of yep .
Okay .
Erm that was for twelve years .
And then you make what a lot of people would be er consider er er a quantum leap .
Into sales .
Into sales from being what I would call an artisan and er I don't know what you would call yourself , but somebody who does things erm er on a er manual stroke artisan type work , over to sales .
Home security systems I have to say that home improvements is the most likely jeep er leap that people will take first time
Yeah .
and or merchandising for one of the confectionery companies whatever .
Explain why why what was behind your your leap into sales ?
At the time er well I 've always through the roofing right you you come up against site fore you know site foreman general foreman clerk of works and I I 've always got on well with I can always talk to people .
Okay .
Er when the building trade or that company moved out the north east .
I was with them in Glasgow as well they were a national company and I came down here from Glasgow .
This is what ?
H H .
Oh sorry oh the first one yeah
The first one yeah .
Okay .
I came down here because they were running out of work in Scotland initially .
And er then Mrs Thatcher if you like and cut back council er subsidies and things happened and the work just ran out .
Right it was mostly skilled
And this was why the company pulled out of the , it says out of the north , are they still in existence or were they in
I I don't know .
No in eighty four they they were n't going under they were
Oh no no no they just pulled away .
Er I went back down south again .
Er as I say they were a U K company .
Were you sort of left stranded then or did
Yes .
you have something in er is this when you
That 's when I went in with myself .
Okay .
It was it was somebody I knew er in the club .
So it was a contact ?
Yeah .
All right .
Er
Who told you you could sell probably .
That 's how I got into it that 's for sure .
Yeah well he said er I don't see any reason why you could n't you know .
Yes .
I 've always been a sort of I won't say outgoing personality let 's say right .
Er
Extrovert .
Yeah well .
It 's another posh word for it .
Yeah .
I always take people at face value and talk to people .
Okay right .
You know .
Er never had any fear of that .
Right .
I look at a person and if you like me you like me
Well that 's let 's face it
if you don't well you don't .
let 's face it that 's half the battle .
Er
Okay .
So I got into that .
Erm
And in Newcastle are are a local company obviously .
Well again er they were U K based you know nationwide .
Nation nationally .
Yeah national company .
Er but I unbeknownst to myself and near the end it was a sales manager that had a team of men under me and you know and things like that .
And then all of a sudden in a span of about three month a lot of deals started er going by the wayside let 's say right .
You know guys were bringing in deals I was going out and selling
Aha .
cos you can't let one alone
No .
as you probably know .
And they were going in the next morning , oh they 'd phoned up they 'd cancelled .
Er I 've talked them back in but it 's a house account so obviously there 's no money in for me you see ?
Oh that 's what you mean by erm
Right .
auth unauthorized deal .
Okay .
It was the nicest way I could have thought of put it .
What happened was they were actually starting
You probably wanted to use stronger language though did you R er Bob ?
Yeah and that sort of espionage .
You know but that 's .
What was happening was they were starting they were ready to start up their own company to hire managers .
Oh right .
And so and we were bringing in deals and they were phoning the clients back and saying , Look yeah great alarm systems blah blah we have an alternative one cheaper .
And they were fitting in their own until they got up and running .
Okay .
So you know .
Well you lasted there for a couple of years .
What what do what do you feel you gained most from er from this er this first two years in sales ?
In sales ?
Confidence in myself again .
Aha .
You know just getting well cos as you know you don't know who you 're gonna talk to .
Sure .
You knock a door and the door opens and that 's your first contact with the person .
So of course course these were by the title there , Home security , these were all domestic were they you didn't deal with businesses
didn't do commercial .
Okay right .
No .
Er it was all home security systems .
Er very high tech very expensive .
That 's another thing I found
The er infra red
the system wire free
Yeah okay .
was all transistorized .
Yeah .
Er
Totally wire free ?
Well there was two wires .
From the main
from the main box one to mains one to the outside
Yeah okay well that 's
signal box .
system I 've got yeah .
Yes one I 've got as well .
A good system .
Er and from then
You know again it was a professional company it start with we were doing in Manchester for a week 's training .
This is ?
Yeah .
Aha .
Er very professional course .
Very professional .
For somebody that had never been in sales before you remember a lot from the course
Ah that that was that was yes that was really what I was going to er behind my question or included in my question , is that what did you learn from that
Yeah .
is that er er you know you you certainly need some training and backup .
You need good training .
And it was a very intensive course .
All right .
Anyway the way a course should be run .
Er they take you up for twenty minutes intensive and then drop it
Yeah .
for ten and then take you know so you can absorb things .
I I haven't been on one of our courses for a little while but I think that 's very similar to er
That 's the way it should be .
You can't cram
You see you may have been in sales but in advertise this is erm
Well it 's
entirely different
totally different sell yep .
Erm
All right .
But I er what did you learn about people in those two years especially the er the people in the company you worked for .
You watched the watched the shysters watched out for the shysters .
Yeah oh a lot of back stabbing going on .
Well direct sales you you know I always tried to sort of stay away from companies that you know had a reputation for that .
Okay .
Right .
Always sold expensive
Right .
for the reason the product was worth it .
Okay .
You know I I I 've never I
Yeah we 're I 'll tell you right now we 're not the cheapest , sorry the least expensive I should say .
That 's right I I have
the least expensive .
I have deviated from that one as well I don't like the word .
But er if you get into that sort of squabble er price cutting and things like that
Aha .
I believe your credibility goes out the window for a start .
Mm .
If you sell product like that you get more hassle with it .
Well you 've just you 've just er allow you 've just said something that allows me er to bring in er the way in which we approach advertising sales er Robert because er all of us who 've been in tra traditional sales , and I'm I'm just er that was my background as well er in addition to recruitment , er we are not used to giving everything over the phone before we go to see the people .
We are literally only trying to get the appointments so that we can
That 's right break breaking the
ooze our personality show our lovely brochures and product range and say , not even mention the price until they say , I want that one .
Er well okay it 'll cost you this .
And they may have chosen the most expensive .
But because they 've you 've sold it to them .
In advertising sales we actually do all that on the phone and then , but all our our personality comes across .
Yeah .
And because we could chase our tail .
You can make a dozen appointments that were advertising and you may come out with one deal .
Whereas when we make appointments to see people we are there
It 's to sign up .
to sign up .
Yeah .
Okay .
Now there 's nothing wrong with that .
I 've discovered that because I I 've sold advertising .
I 've discovered that that is the only way , with one or two exceptions that might occur , the only way to stop yourself wasting an awful lot of time .
It saves you money .
You 've got a limited number of slots to sell so you don't need to go thrashing around the country
That 's right hard sell .
using your own petrol .
That 's it you must get a commitment on the phone .
Say well I'm only I'm gonna come to you to sign you up .
Yeah .
I 'll tell you everything you want to know on the telephone now .
Price size what it 's going to do for you .
Two years contract banker 's order deposit cheque .
Er I'm just listing out there
Yeah .
are plenty of others they 'll tell you on the course .
Yeah .
Because erm it 's gonna save you an awful lot of time and money .
And we know from twenty years experience of doing this
It works .
that it works very well .
Our top earners will tell you there 's no secret to earning twelve hundred quid a week .
Just except work .
Mhm .
And listening to the people who 've been doing it for years .
Okay well you you erm you cut your teeth on home security systems .
Found out there are some people you have to keep your eye on .
And cover your back .
N E H I , that 's close to being N E I which is a big company in N E I Parsons .
It 's .
Right okay thank you you 've just preempted my next question .
Based in er in Newcastle .
Home improvements what were they in ?
Double glazing .
Double glazing .
Yeah .
Okay .
Because there are quite a range of home improvements
Yeah .
You 've just hit on home improvement companies are legitimately go into all of our products if they want to .
Yeah .
There 's none none that can say , It 's no good me going in the schools one .
Because they have two thousand parents .
There 's no excuse for them not to go into the medical practice booklet because they 've got fifteen thousand patients or thereabouts .
There 's no excuse in fact they are very supportive of course of the estate agents .
Yeah .
Because they 're all prospective home buyers .
So you 've hit on an area that er make up a big advertising chunk that we have .
Okay now you you er what from your experience with home security systems were you able to take to er N E H I ?
Just er selling steps I suppose .
Okay .
What what you 'd learned from did they send you on a
No .
course ?
No .
So it was hands on
It was well there was an ongoing training every morning sort of thing .
You know you went in and you went out with the reps and
Massaging the shoulders and psych you up yeah I know .
Say yeah you can make you know the big bright lights and things like that .
Which again if you accept
What sort what sort of commissions can you get on double glazing ?
You can make a lot of money .
A lot of money .
It it must be on er ante social hours though is it ?
Oh yeah .
A lot of it done during the evenings and weekends ?
It 's all evening weekends you know .
This is the only nine to five sales job I 've ever been able to offer anybody .
Yeah .
Because you have to get out of the premises of the people when they lock up .
Well that 's right yeah .
And that in fact is one of the one of the areas or one of the elements that attracts people to this particular job .
You 're back to home life .
Oh yeah .
My wife used to say , Can you not get a proper job .
That 's right .
To me it was a proper job because that was
Yeah .
You know I 'd been
See money 's all right they probably love the money you can bring in but if they don't see you to spend it or to to share it .
But again there was some weeks when you know they 'd say , Oh how did you work ?
Aargh the areas were more targeting
Getting saturated .
you know er you 'd be out
Competition ?
priced .
Where was your main competition from , price ?
Yeah .
What the Everest of this world or Alpine or whatever ?
No the other end .
Your budgets and .
Oh that 's right .
How where did where did N H I er N E H I come in to that ?
The sort of middle road or
Er we always tried to put it over at er Everest product prices .
I can imagine I can imagine .
I can just imagine that .
Er oh you 've got you know every company 's the same .
Sure .
Er I was toying with the idea of getting out altogether out of the , I 'll be honest with double glazing .
Yeah sure .
The cake 's the same size
Yes .
But the slices are getting smaller and smaller
Yeah yeah
you know .
There seem to be an awful lot of local companies shove
There 's too many given you see they advertise falsely right ?
Should not get away with six windows and then the small word from two hundred
Oh yes from two hundred yeah .
Right .
So people oh I can get six windows for two hundred pound .
So you go in a tell them that six windows are gonna cost them four and a half thousand and they go
Well it it also allows me to once again break in here because er one of the things that you can't do in home improvement areas is talk to people about the final price on the phone .
You have to go and measure up .
You would never get across the door for a start .
You wouldn't get across the door .
No .
Erm here we do .
Once again it brings me in to the point where er double glazers have to go and measure up then do their , I know they 've got lovely lap tops I 've seen them now with their lap top comp their little samples there special catches here .
I 've bought double glazing you see .
I haven't had to in my this current house because they 're sealed units and I I bought the house new so .
Sealed units must have destroyed at lot of the or taken a chunk out of the market .
Well they 're easy to destroy as well but we won't we won't go into that .
We won't go into that because I 've got it and I make a joke .
That 's right you see I will not I will not tell you you 're daft for buying them .
No well in fact there are one or two hiccups we 've had with them .
Especially with the condensation a little nail
I found a nail had been hammered through and spoilt the seal .
Yep .
Okay so once again over four years erm you unfortunately the company went into liquidation .
Yeah .
Did they set up again under a different name ?
No .
Oh just okay .
Now the next part intrigues me .
Who is E E C ?
Oh
What product is that ?
Er well network marketing have you heard
I network market I 've got no problem with network marketing .
It 's going to be the future marketing
It will be if
It will be .
you get the product right okay .
Well there 's a lot
there 's a lot of companies out there
Toyota you can only buy a car in Toyota through network marketing
That 's correct yep .
But I mean the Japanese I think have got like sixty five seventy percent of their national growth .
Yeah .
isn't it ?
Well America 's forty odd .
As long as we as long as we can persuade people to forget the pyramid er years .
Well that 's the first thing I used get .
Oh it 's pyramid selling no I don't want to know .
It 's a meagre earn , no no it 's not that it 's a very good way to make money .
Well everybody can make their money that 's the important .
In pyramid there was only one guy gonna make the money .
That 's right yeah .
Whoever started it off .
E E C it 's European Enviro European Environmental Controls .
Lovely name for getting into the Common Market .
E E C you know I I 've work the E E C you know .
Er
What what what was this product meant to do ?
It was water and air filtration systems .
I thought N S well N S A .
N S A right okay .
N S A are the big boys in that aren't they ?
Yeah .
They 're the market leaders if you like and all your chaps at the top there will always be the top but anybody getting into N S A now
Well they 've got the electrical products now er sorry the security products is is their life saver I guess .
Well we the E E C started off with the water filtrations and air products and then they got tied up with an American outfit doing fuel savers , magnets for your car .
By the way I 've got them on my car the work .
Right okay .
Yeah okay .
I I must admit I hadn't heard that one .
Er great things .
Er and then they went on to them for your central heating
Mhm .
gas L P G oil central heating er and we were going fine .
Er and all of a sudden they brought out the catalogue right ?
With the jewellery and the cleaner products you know and
So it 's combining all the other network marketing companies in one catalogue were they ?
Yeah .
Oh what under their own banner ?
Yeah .
Er they just totally deviated from what we were doing .
Right okay .
Er and we were getting the impression then we were only , not wanting to decry them Bettaware salesmen or Bettaware people , you had to go round now and stick catalogues through people 's doors and go back and
Oh really .
collect collect orders .
That 's that 's away from network marketing that .
And the network just went and it just collapsed .
And I guess you must have lost erm some of those people would 've gone to N S A especially with their new security product .
Er I don't know where they went .
You don't know okay .
You know erm if
You didn't keep in touch with them .
No well I'm if people pull out they 've got their own reasons .
Per personal business whatever
Oh sure .
and next you know it 's it 's in the past .
Yes yeah .
You dwell in the past and you 'll never go forward .
No no .
Er
Oh no never in marketing as er I mean even the Institute of Directors and the Institute of er the C B I recognize now , in fact they put out papers on it , to say that network marketing is the way of the future .
It will be .
Erm providing you get the right products at the right price down and it 's and it 's er it 's been it 's done ethically .
Yeah .
See with the likes of the other company we mentioned right , they were been in the beginning er for order values stock they just wanted to sell you stock all right .
I 'll sell you fifteen hundred the first stock right .
Probably turn round say they had a five hundred million pound turnover last year right .
I would say
Probably about forty million last year .
Er sorry yeah
In the U K in the U K
Yeah .
Point I was going to say was about five million pounds of that probably hit the the public the rest is lying in garages and
Oh in the house
spare rooms and things like that .
Yeah I think yes yeah yeah .
And to me that was the wrong way to go .
I 'd rather sell you one for yourself and one to sell .
Yes .
And if you sold it come back for another one .
Yeah .
Er all the small people that 's how you build your network .
You don't go in and say
But that that would not
give me
be of course the people further up the line .
That 's right .
Give me five thousand pound I 'll fill your garage full of whatever .
Yeah .
Although they do they do I mean I 've been I 've been to the presentations
Oh yeah .
they they they do give you an option just to start off very low .
In fact they 've dropped their minimum now .
Yes it 's down to er six hundred or something isn't it ?
Or you 're not allowed
Below below that cos of the of the security the security
See the security systems the alarm erm is nineteen pound .
Well they 've never had a product that cheap before .
I think you know to the retail
Yeah .
not to the public .
There was a company come out with something similar like using er an E S P thing .
Yeah but they 've tak they 've taken they 've taken it a stage further and er prettied it up and given it another facility .
Right okay so that 's er that was the demise of E E C .
Yep .
Erm now
Now here we go .
Now here we go .
Right okay .
My wife 's a company secretary for the company in question all right ?
Right okay .
And I 've known well in between but in between times like Christmas time and
Yes .
the direct sales times it sort of died .
Which it did do .
I used to go in and help them out at Christmas because they would be three may be four or five thousand turkeys right .
When I left school at first I was er in meat wholesale in Glasgow right .
So I knew what I was doing .
I could cut and different things like that and be it fate or not his er suddenly lost his driving licence .
Okay .
Okay .
So he asked me if I 'd go in for a couple of weeks until he got something sorted out you know .
I said yeah fine I 'll go in .
Er and it turned out a year till he licence back .
Okay so you .
Well it was steady income I was in the house every night my wife was happy .
Robert I 've got no problem with that erm I 've put down here you wouldn't go on the dole and you got this through your , I think it would be fair enough and er I I I admire that .
Well it was money on the table .
And it was money on the table .
Okay my life 's still
Is that coming to a finish now .
Oh it 's fini finished at December there .
He 's his licence back in October
Aha .
but he kept me on to get me through Christmas you know things like that .
All right fine okay .
Let 's say I 've known the guy for
I mean he has n't kept you on now though ?
fifteen years or something like that .
Oh no no no .
Right well this is a big step a giant step for mankind , particularly if you 're Robert to go self-employed .
Oh you 've been self- employed yes
Oh I 've always been self-employed apart from that one .
Well
Oh really ?
So you were except for roofing foreman
well the the roofing er we did go into the seven one four forms you know
Okay fine .
in the early stages .
Yes .
They used to called it the hump didn't they ?
Yeah .
Is it still called that is it ?
Although they tight they tightened it up still goes on our bills .
Oh yes of course it does .
But that was the good old days .
You could walk on to your site and say is that the job how much ?
What ?
How much ?
No .
And you could walk fifty yards down the road and there 'd be somebody else building and you could walk on a say is that the job how much ?
Long gone .
Yeah okay that 's the job long gone .
Yeah everything 's written quotes and goodness knows what .
Yeah .
I 've got no I I 've got no problem with that Robert because there 's enough there to say you know that you 've got erm cut your teeth already on sales .
Okay well that 's interesting to get your background .
Robert this is a different type of sale .
Er it it is I can remove it from the rest of the the sales that er even from the direct sales that you 've been
Yeah pitch .
er and only because of what I different pitch it is on the phone .
A lot of people can't get used to that .
A lot of people who come to us I have to say .
I started out that way and not listening to the people you 've been doing it for years and say this is the way you do it .
And after a week of not earning I said , There something wrong here .
It 's you know and my pride was getting a little bit dented that I 'd been selling market for years suddenly I wasn't doing this .
And they said , Well okay I can tell you right now you 've , how many appointments have you told me this week , this is the guy back at camp .
Erm I said well yeah he said every day you been saying er I 've been asking you what appointments have you got and I said I 've got two this afternoon and two tomorrow morning .
And each time I 've ask you what have you got today , right .
Now remember they 're not they can't be counted as your boss
Your boss no .
they 're just the person there
That 's right yeah .
who they just need to know on a daily basis what deals you 've got .
So that they can see how you 're progressing .
And it 's not big brother certainly not a big brother attitude it 's just they 're there to help you .
And er he said , Well you haven't listened to me have you .
He said you 're making appointment still to go and talk about advertising .
He said what reasons have they told you that they 're bowing out ?
Well erm they didn't want to do banker 's order , so why did you go around ?
You 're wasting your time and your petrol because it 's my petrol
That 's right .
and my car .
The second week was entirely different .
I I did it their way
Mm .
and I 'll show you one of the commission sheets .
It started to pour in and it was compared with previous .
You know it does pour in if you have nought the week before anything you get is pouring in .
But it was a very good week after that .
That 's why I always persuade people they must listen .
If they listen they 'll love you if you listen I 'll tell you because you 'll do it .
Yeah .
And all of your performance all the performance of the sales consultants determines what other people are earning themselves .
So it 's to their interest to beef you up .
Having got the fact that I believe you can slot into this job Robert .
Because we do give a training course we don't send you know , are you happy to consider that that that there 's a two-way opportunity ?
Oh there 's got ta be yeah .
Okay .
That helps to actually get that out of the way .
The referees you were looking for you
Well I I yeah the only point is there that we do require four referees .
Now if you 're you 're you 're obviously that will not tell us very much about your selling .
No
The other people all have not aye ?
They 're all not there now .
They 're not oh that sometimes presents a problem but quite honestly er if you 've if you 've still got some contacts in sales we 're you know .
Nobody puts references down here if they 've got any sense that are gonna give bad references .
Yeah well I mean
As as a personnel manager once said to me , Reference are only worth the amount of work
You know I
you 've done on them .
I can put down a school teacher does that help ?
Yeah fine yeah put it under that .
Yeah .
It 's my next door neighbour .
School teacher yeah anybody ?
Next door neighbour .
The references I 've given , well I haven't had to give many over the years .
But
it 's been two next door neighbours , one a bank manager and one a chief executive of a company .
Mhm .
This is fir this is the first
My accountant no problem .
The first , well my wife done all my books you see .
In the company you know I 've never dealt with any
All I can say is I'm going to put down here , to be advised .
Because we 're very the reason
Right okay .
All right .
But please advise because we we will write to you .
The reason for that is that we 're putting tot total strangers on to our clients premises for three weeks .
Yeah .
And we 've already discovered in the last six months by discreet calls because of something we 've seen a bit funny in er er in er references that have come back or people have been down right honest and said , Sorry er this guy was last time I spoke with him .
He put a solicitor down , and last time I spoke with him I was defending him on a for fraud .
.
We had he 's already started an assignment .
We had to pull him off .
We could n't afford to have that guy in .
Yeah you know I I yeah I can see .
See that ?
Yeah .
Because they 'd want your office where you phone I I'm going with it .
So so please please take take it seriously on that .
Yeah .
Please please help me out on that one .
Yeah .
All right .
Robert that 's one hurdle out of the way .
I believe you could do this job .
You cos you I think you you you 've got pride and you 've got determination and you 've got some pzazz .
If I'm if I I am in luxurious position of saying that I can fit you in to some of these companies .
I 've got six companies there .
If you were to choose an environment that you think you might be happy to work within , cos remember you 're selling ads whichever one ,
Mm .
where do you think you 'd put yourself ?
You 've got schools golf clubs uni erm schools universities colleges er estate agents two products and medical areas two products .
Well it would have to be I wou looking at it it would be between two wouldn't it really ?
Estate agents cos they 're all over the country .
Aha .
And golf clubs cos I play golf and they 're all over the country .
Yeah .
Now they 're
I I
personal and er
I'm going to tell that with your
I don't know any
with your background in sales and in what you 've done er with your hands as well , I would put you in estate agents .
Mm .
I I think you 'd be er you 'd succeed a lot more in that .
I know you play golf it might be a danger putting you on the golf courses .
You 'd want to play the damn thing all the time .
with me .
I'm just turned forty and I .
Okay ?
Yeah .
I but we 've got two products there .
We 've got two products there postal wallets and folders .
Quite honestly I have no particular erm preference there for you except let 's have a look at the two products shall we ?
Yep .
This is what it 's all about products .
And they each do for the home buyer and the estate agent the same sort of thing .
It presents there the home buyer with a list of businesses that er er that 's er an estate agents newspaper that we print er publish every , er it is over here , every month .
So we have two products , let me show you these .
Okay .
These are given away to house buyers when they or prospective house buyers when they walk through the door .
Right .
All right ?
Er difference er is obvious .
These are much more erm you know retend er retention .
There 's all the information .
doesn't matter what estate agent you may be going into you will keep the information in this if the other esta other estate agent has n't got it .
Yeah .
So you 're more , first of all the estate agent 's name will be in front of you more than the others , and also the advertisers will be .
Right .
So an estate agent who has n't got one of these when you go into this one erm you 're likely to retain this .
It also has we have the largest independent producers of street maps in the country .
And I believe them to be the some of the nicest maps I 've ever seen .
But we don't sell them .
No they 're
Given away .
Given away .
That 's why er people who come to our company and then after a year or so think they can go away and do this on their own , can't do it .
They try they fail they 're they 're
Mhm .
another twenty years it 's littered with people who 've failed in this .
Yeah .
And that 's because of the map .
A lot to do with the map .
So there 's that product and the earning potentials are the same on on both of these products .
And then there is what what is a what is a spin-off from the other is a postal wallet .
The the estate agents were finding that they were using these up very quickly by sending them away , also they were rather expensive to send away in the post and we were not prepared to put , er we were n't getting the income to survive on that .
So we said what can we produce that they can send through the post .
And we produced this .
Four er six years ago I think it was .
The difference the difference the obvious difference perceptively between that and that is er the size but also the number we will print .
We will print three thousand of these may be per year
Yeah .
We 'll print thirty five thousand of these .
The difference the benefit to this er the advertising here is that it 's going to be repeat .
If you 're on the mailing list you 're gonna get a lot of these .
Yeah .
If you walk through the door you 're gonna get one of those .
But the benefit of that is it 's retained .
The benefit of this is repeat .
Yeah .
And then of course they 'll always retain the one that appeals .
I 'll keep this cos I need to keep that guy 's .
Yeah .
So the the crux of the job is right if I 've picked all right .
Yeah okay .
You go to an estate agents
Remember you don't have
This is this is
You 're selling this not this .
You 're selling this .
That that 's that 's what I was gonna get at .
That 's .
Yeah .
Right .
We 've taken we 've taken er some of the workload off .
Yep .
And you phone round local builders local whatever
Right .
er and ask if they 'd like to advertise .
Well I 'll give you an idea .
Yeah .
That list when marketing group go round to sign up the estate agent for one or the other or both .
Yeah .
Obviously they 're not sold together .
This might be sold another six or seven months after that
Yeah .
or vice versa .
Yeah .
They can have both but not together .
Erm they are left er a list of er a blank like this and say right you contracted to take the products now we want from , it 'll be this one say , now we want a list of advertisers who or prospec prospect businesses who you think you 're happy for us to approach for a start .
In other words you don't mind your name his name associated with you .
Yeah that 's right credibility
Secondly .
Credibility .
Yeah .
Erm and it 'll also help us to get the the out of your way , we 'll get out of your hair within five or six days if you give us all the businesses .
Yeah .
Now these represent , and this list is sent back to us and retained on the with the contract and all the details of this assignment for when it comes to the top of the pile as it were .
Right .
When it comes to the top of the pile whoever is the most geographically suitable and available , the consultant is told there 's there 's your new assignment .
Just coming up to finishing this one here here 's your new one .
That list is sent in the er assignment pack to the estate agent to wait for your arrival .
Right .
I think I told you this by the way , this I want to describe to you now is the same for all of them .
All of them yep .
And in fact we even er I'm not sure whether this is still in operation , but we even give them an idea of the categories .
Now I can
Yeah .
I can say to you right now with confidence that if I 'd asked you to start writing er a list of the categories that people er that you think might advertise in these you 'd probably get about twenty five .
Yeah .
We 've got about a hundred and fifty .
Fifty .
That 's just a
Yeah .
that 's just a slip .
Because one of the worse things you can do in this and it 's a it 's a it 's something everybody does I think , I understand anyway , is to prejudge who will or who will not advertise in
Yeah .
As far as I'm concerned anybody who wants to sign a contract with me gives me copy and a cheque is a legitimate .
Mhm .
And yet I 've been as guilty as anybody else in saying , Oh they won't wanna come in this medical practice booklet what will they gain from it ?
Let them decide .
That 's right .
We know what they will from advertising their business .
That 's waiting for you when the assignment comes up .
The important thing about that Bob is not to accept it just at face value .
Is to sit down with the estate agent and say , Right why have you got these business on .
Tell me a little bit about each one of them .
And then they say , Well the guy he 's next door I don't know him but I just thought I 'd put him on .
That 's not enough for you to pitch on .
Yeah .
You say well look I'm gonna approach this guy what sort of business are you gonna put his way or can you put his way .
Mhm .
Is it in your power to put a newsagent er any business .
He 'll say , Well I can make sure all the newspapers all the erm come in here .
And I 'll say fine .
I 've got ta be able to tell him that .
Yeah .
And you 'll have to know your local reputation as well .
Absolutely .
Well they would know that .
But you would only approach that business on the basis that well the estate agent has asked me to give you er you know he he feels that you would benefit and erm from this exposure and er has asked me to approach you first .
May be the third one you 've approached that day .
But they will tell you on the phone .
It 's
Okay ?
It 's that sort of pitch .
Okay .
Okay ?
Now
So there 's not really cold call well it 's cold
Oh
calling in a way but you 've got
It 's not as you want
Yeah .
Rob er Robert but but we really have warmed it up as much as we can .
The the lists that we get range from mediocre to pretty good to excellent .
Yeah .
But even the mediocre ones you know you have to say , Come on chaps there must be more businesses in this .
And of course we 've been doing these for twenty years , folders .
We 've been doing these for about six .
The majority of our assignment I would think now are getting to the resale position .
In other words we 're going back after three or four years .
So we 'll have repeats .
So when you go in and say I'm coming to resell er tell me first of all here 's the old here 's the current erm folder or postal wallet , who are these people are they still in existence .
What sort of business have you , before I approach them , have they do you think they 've gained anything from you .
What relationship have you got with these .
Because if you phone these guys up and say , What a waste of time .
Not get anything from them .
You may have to say , Well I 've just been talking to the estate agent about this and er you know on a number occasions he 's sent people along to you er may be you didn't realize that was happening .
Mm .
Because they don't ask everybody who comes through .
Oh when did you hear about this ?
Yeah .
All they want is
Small businesses now don't anyway do they ?
So we emphasize that when we 're signing them up make sure you ask when these people come through where they have seen or where how did they find out about us .
I 'd be interested I would .
Mhm .
Yeah .
So there 's all that on the table .
So that 's that product .
I won't go into the er the earnings yet because they 're exactly the same as this .
Yeah .
That 's a fol you can take that away that explains er what what and this is the this is the folder all right ?
Now you 'll see that there are almost the same number of slots in in each .
Okay now we 've had this for twenty years so a lot of these have been resold of course .
But we 've got a lot of new ones .
Asda for instance if you know the supermarket chain er now have er property services on their prem premises .
We 've just got the contract to do them .
Yeah ?
So how do you feel about these ?
Same pitch slightly different pitch of course er sorry slight difference is that you 're saying that these of course will be handed out to a targeted
Out to
audience .
These of course are repetitive .
Yeah .
Are these like erm mail shotted through somebody whose registered with the estate agent ?
Yes for instance if I
Or is it only to buyers ?
No .
If if if if you were wanting to buy erm buy a house if you were moving house , and I didn't realize until the other day that ninety percent of people who buy and sell houses are moving within their own area .
Yeah .
That 's surprised me .
Erm er you know if fact they could be just moving two streets away or five miles away but all within the same town .
Erm those are the people that are unlikely to get these .
Because they
Yeah .
But I received my first one of these from er from Lloyds er Black Knights er services because I was in I was about fifteen miles away .
I could still have easily called in if I 'd wanted to but I saw something advertised in a village saw the board took the number down and phoned them up .
So they sent me it .
Erm because I didn't find it convenient to go and call .
That 's the sort of so .
But you could be three or four hundred miles away moving from Penzance to Aberdeen .
That 's when you 're likely to get that .
You 'll still visit the area and get one of those .
But in the first instance you 'll get these .
Because that 's the quickest way they can get stuff to you .
Yeah .
And I suppose may be it 's may be if somebody got that , that 's why I say if you have to buy the property first .
But if you got it you might find it would be cheaper to do your house up using these clients rather than sell .
You never know do you .
So there there 's the two products .
Now what do you think ?
What do you , no difference .
Same same training course in effect .
Different weeks I mean we concentrate on wallets because of the pitch .
Any preference .
Looks more professional right ?
Mhm .
From a a layman 's point of view .
But I think you 'd get more business out of the smaller one .
So which is the easier pitch ?
Remember you 're going into this for the first time .
That one ?
I I would say so .
Shall we talk about these ?
Yeah .
Okay .
Different companies you see
Yeah .
in the same division .
I 'll let you take I 'll you take this as well all right ?
So that you can .
But what we 're talking about now is that we 've made up our mind A that you er I believe and you believe you can do this job .
Yeah .
So we 've got belief in each other .
Erm B we have now decided the company and because you 've decided this company will also determine how soon you can start .
Because this course is every two weeks that one 's every week .
Right ?
Right .
I 'll take that out of your way .
You get to take these products away .
Let me open up that one .
See the difference designs .
Yeah .
That 's actually the the front .
Who designs the
Right .
the adverts .
You 've asked the question .
It just preempts something I tell tell people anyway .
But let 's have a look at all the all of the design .
If it doesn't exist already
Sorry .
If it doesn't exist already
Yep .
You 're not going to get away with that .
Erm
Forgot it was there actually .
we we take what er they they want .
If if erm a lot of these will probably be lifted from Yellow Pages .
Yeah .
They 'll be lifted from local papers .
Ninety nine percent of the time they 've got copy that exists .
We will change anything they want .
We will add anything they want .
We will design the full ad for them if they want at no extra cost .
Yeah yeah .
When they come on and say , Yeah no I haven't advertised before that will cost me extra money .
You say , No it won't .
All I need for you to tell me right now is you 're going to commit yourself to this product and I will come round and we 'll sign the contract , all the stuff you told him , then we 'll talk about copy and it doesn't cost you anything .
We 'll do it for you .
You get a chance to see the proof and and er erm approve it .
Okay ?
Right okay .
But you will find particularly this size of ad , although it doesn't matter what size the copy is
Yeah .
we 'll reduce it erm and we 'll probably retype it .
And we 'll juggle it around and give them you know er one or two options .
Yeah .
Let 's have a look first all er just step back slightly to the time when the sales exec goes round to sign up the estate agent .
He will he will establish from certain facts how many they they think they 'll need for us to print .
Okay there 's a small estate agent will print ten thousand .
Now these are guaranteed we guarantee to print these .
They can have as many as they want really .
Yeah .
Cos all once it 's all set up we can just reprint .
But that that will be determined by the sales exec when they go round to sign the contract .
Not not by you but by the contact .
Okay ?
And if we 're gonna print that number , say thirty five , it automatically internally it will generate that target .
And that 's the sort of target we 're going to look for from that assignment .
But there is a cutoff point which we know internally , you won't get to know , where we know we 've got enough money to cover all of our costs in that first year .
We don't want any costs to come out of the second year cos that 's where we make our profit .
Profit .
Yeah .
All the commissions , and you only get paid I say only you get paid commission on the first year .
Second year you 're on another assignment anyway so it doesn't make no repeat .
There 's no point in having
So there 's no repeat business ?
No .
Erm so that 's a figure if you like you have have up here in your noodle and say I need to go for that anyway .
But you always have this figure certainly slapped in your mind .
At four and a half thousand pound of sales we start to pay extra fift in fact at four thousand pound we start but it 's only a small bonus so I home in on the bigger one .
We pay fifteen percent extra on to all all the business you bring in above that figure .
Okay ?
So you need to have that figure in your mind not necessarily that one .
Yeah .
Your money making figure .
Aha .
Now that 's just a notional one for us to to target internally make sure all our costs come within a certain Excuse me .
Hello .
Yes could you invite her to have a cup of tea and I 'll be er ten minutes or so .
Thank you very much .
Bye .
Erm okay so where are we up to .
Erm yes there 's the there 's the the er bonus er element .
We pay the bonuses at proof stage and I 'll explain why in a minute okay .
All your other commissions thirty percent on all your sales are paid the following week .
So there 's no waiting around .
Do the
of it there 's plenty in there .
you get paid next week .
Right okay .
Just to give you an idea of the prices .
If you compare the the positions one oh beg your pardon you 'll need that out .
I 'll need that one .
When you start the assignment er every assignment you get one of these all right ?
Right .
And you use this to mark off of course
Yeah .
where you have erm the ones you 've sold .
So now you can relate positions one to three to how much they cost and so on on the way down .
The flap is sold .
Even though it looks at first it 's a ridiculous thing to do .
Oh right .
Right .
When when when people receive that they tear that off and the flap drops down .
And er that You study that but that 's your work horse .
You get a brand new one of these every time .
You can have ten percent discount immediately if you need it .
But if if we find anybody 's a persistent discounter they 're causing trouble for the person who comes to resell .
That 's right .
Although it 's two years later they 've got to resell at the price that er it 's been discounted more or less .
Unless we can persuade them in two years costs have gone up and of course we will .
Typical example .
If you homed in on erm one to eight on the flap that would er create the average revenue which is the average across all of our products of six thousand pound .
That 's what we we find is the average sale .
And that 's your earning in two to three weeks .
Two weeks we hope .
Where it 's made up of thirty percent commission and the bonuses .
Now that 's good money in anybody 's er
Thousand pound a week yeah .
If you sold the whole you know it 's possible to sell you know it 's it 's done .
In fact I'm not far off there in fact .
This is one of ours .
I 'll explain that one in a minute .
If you sold the whole of this that 's the earning and you 've got to do this excuse me , in three weeks .
That 's nearly a thousand pound a week .
And that 's I think what everybody should be trying to aim for .
It 's there it 's available .
That 's the only freebie there in this particular product .
Every time there 's a special , it doesn't cost them anything , but anytime they put that in it means they can take this product this this in to that company and get some extra deal .
Mm get a discount .
Now as soon as anybody puts that in as you 'll notice they 've nearly all got them in , that 's another advantage of course that they will retain this .
If they know they can get special deals .
So every one of these has got that symbol .
As soon as one just one company decides to take that seal we 've got to put that ad in somewhere .
Now if we sold the whole lot we 're gonna struggle a bit .
Right .
But it will be there somewhere okay ?
Even if it 's er
But it wouldn't be from nine to twelve ?
Mm ?
It wouldn't be from nine to twelve .
It 'll be one of those two .
Okay right .
Okay .
I mean it it 'll go in certain into that 's a selling pitch too .
Because that means that the people have got to take this in .
Which means it 's it 's like a big business card .
When you go to er prospective clients .
Okay you 've talked to them the phone right and you 're gonna go and sign them up .
Mhm yeah .
Right ?
Do you write in Joe Bloggs
Er no .
this .
I would suggest you didn't .
You just say sold and may be have your own code .
Right yeah okay .
Just in case there was a Jonesy you know .
Whether that would work or not .
Yeah .
If you put if you put Jones the builder there and and er Wilson the builder
And you 're gonna see another builder .
and you 're gonna take another builder er they will tell you exactly how to approach that .
We do have a statement in our contract that they sign to acknowledge that they are not er don't have a dem right to sole
They 're they 're not exclusive .
Yeah .
They 're not exclusive to advertise in this
If it 's your last slot and you haven't got another builder you say , Absolutely guarantee there 's not gonna be another builder in .
I 'll give you that guarantee myself the company don't like me doing this but I will guarantee .
Because you know there 's no other builder if that 's your last one .
Oh yeah .
I thought you meant if there was a builder here and that was the last one you sell you .
Tell them lies .
No no .
Evil class admissible today even a lot better than them .
Yeah .
Right okay .
And if a builder gonna go down there you say , Well look I 've got one down here but I 've got a prime slot
Yeah they 're all prime slots .
they 're all prime slots but this one you know you gonna no you 're gonna pay a bit more you see .
That 's the point .
This guy 's taken this one down here .
Well I 'll tell you right now I have got another builder on but he 's taken one of the er the slots further down but I 've got one I 've got a prime er the the estate agent asked me to contact you because there is a prime slot left .
But I'm you know that that could go this afternoon when I go to a couple of other appointments .
And that 's basically that charges is it for
Yeah .
Six fifty for the top three then then down the scale to nine to twelve is four hundred and fifty .
On er er the flap in its entirety is twelve hundred pounds .
Right .
If if they take both sides .
Yeah which is
which is this .
Yeah .
And and all of that
If you do if you do that 's six hundred pound all right ?
And so is that six hundred pound if they want to buy both sides .
And that sticky comes off and so they open it yeah and that 's
You notice they will also sell it as individuals .
In in the inside so nothing goes on that .
Right okay .
Yeah yeah .
They 'll tell you all about that on the course .
Right .
Okay ?
Yep .
Right .
The outside is the estate agents and I 've never known anybody give that up .
No .
Cost cost the earth .
Okay that 's for you to take away .
As all this is .
Right .
So if I get that out the way I'm going to go through very quickly the administration that we look for .
And the reason why we make sure that when we go to see a prospective advertiser they 'll know all these sorts of details .
This contract is applicable across , no that 's that no that 's the one that 's the one that we use on .
So that you know see that they 're all different colours .
Yeah .
Six six contracts all the same print so that if ever we shifted you or wanted you wanted to shift you from estate into to golf or to schools we don't have to retrain you at all .
Except may be in the pitch .
Yep .
But these are the sorts of things and I'm not going to great detail because the training course does that , these are the things that they will blow you out on .
If you don't tell them that you 're going to pick up a thirty five percent deposit cheque .
Yeah yeah that 's
They don't know that cos that 's your commission cheque .
That covers you for us paying you in the next week .
That 's right yeah .
If you don't tell them that we want a banker 's order to take out the er annual payments .
Right these are the sorts of things if you spring those on them .
If you , ah now can I ask you to sign that and then the banker 's order
And by the way yeah .
there 's the banker , What 's with this banker 's order I don't deal with a banker 's order .
That 's right .
You didn't tell me anything about the cheque .
Yeah .
You didn't tell me that there may be two signatories on the cheque .
You 've got to establish that before you go round .
Is it just you who signs the cheque ?
Yeah okay yeah .
And the banker 's order .
They 'll say , Well no the financial director will need it .
I 'll say , Well we need the financial director there as well .
When I come round I need them both there .
If you left this anywhere you 'd never see it again .
No .
It 's another reason they 'll blow you out .
You just leave I 'll saying , put it in the post for you .
Forget it .
Yep .
So that 's generated two of the bits of information we want the other
Is it an annual charge or is it a twelve month payment thing on it , or just an annual charge ?
Yeah it it 's er when you quote a price it 's per year for two years minimum all right ?
Yeah .
But is there a facility for a twelve months payment order or
No .
You mean monthly over twelve months ?
Yeah .
No .
So it 's just
Really don't mess around with that .
Right okay .
Yeah cos you can print it and then two downs two months down the line they could pull out and you 've you 've
Oh absolutely yeah .
printed it for nought .
Yeah .
I mean we get some people that pull out er cancel or go under and then we don't get the second year 's payment .
That 's nothing to do with you .
Not
No .
even the first year 's payment 's anything to do with you .
Just that deposit cheque .
You 're not asked to chase any money after that .
Right okay .
The other er bits of information of course we need to know what co I 've already spoken about the copy .
What we will do for them .
Yeah .
This is the document they use in association with the with the copy .
So once we 've got that the contract and the cheque , yippee we can send off our commission form at the end of the week with all the deals in the envelope .
And that 's what we use .
Right .
There 's one written out so it looks at least .
You have your own number
Number .
the assignment has it 's unique number
Number
You just list out the advertisers , we list out the type of contract it is .
There are one or two exceptions on medical side that er we we call on the approved list
Yeah .
don't need cont er don't need banker 's orders and they don't need cheques but we have to have an order from the company .
Yeah .
attached .
Are these erm inclusive of VAT or is there no VAT on advertising any more ?
Yes there is yes .
Yeah there
So those places haven't ?
They 're exclusive of VAT .
When you quote six hundred and fifty pound plus VAT .
Right that 's okay right .
But the commission 's paid on net ?
Yes .
Yeah .
That 's that 's actually
That 's the cost of the ad exclusive of VAT .
If you are VAT registered yourself of course
Yeah .
and we hope most people would be because thirty six thousand pound , if they 're all earning thirty six thousand
I used to well I was VAT but pulled out .
I still am .
Yeah .
Erm that 's the amount of you commission and that 's probably the lowest er you know the lowest that er you 'd get well three hundred and fifty pounds .
So you 'd just be about a hundred and I think a hundred and ten is the lowest commission you get for any deal in our company .
Right .
And the highest is somewhere around seven hundred and fifty I think for one deal .
Same same contract they 're signing same contract .
The size of the ad is bigger .
Right .
I mentioned earlier on that you you get paid erm bonuses at proof stage .
That 's where you claim .
And they have to be claimed .
Every two months a list of numbers of the assignments that have been proofed , that means all the ads have been done across the products and all the proofs have been sent out , we 've also clai got the balance of the first year 's payment .
We are now prepared to pay you bonuses .
Right so we get paid the extra fifteen or whatever
If you 're entitled you will know exactly you will keep a record don't worry .
Oh I think so yeah .
When er when you spot that number on the list that comes out to you you can claim .
And that 's where you claim .
A lot of people leave it in there to accrue to pay tax or whatever .
It 's a good idea actually .
Yeah it 's
You won't forfeit it but you still have to remember you 've got ta claim for it all the time .
So claimed his after two years recently and got about six thousand pound .
Yeah .
New car or whatever holiday .
Yeah .
Okay .
But you you 're entitled to it so you can claim it any time you want .
You just keep a note of it and
I think this is for you Robert this this er this job not this job this opportunity .
Yeah yes .
Different exciting intriguing .
Super .
Yeah .
Right now I 've we 've got some new documentation for the wallets .
Erm what I need to do now is just so I'm gonna have to cross a few things out .
What I 'll try and do is to remember to send you the new documentation .
But for now I 'll and you 're happy to start with us any time yeah ?
Yeah .
Fully expensed course .
Got your own car haven't you I hope ?
Yeah .
Good .
I 've got to look a one of the notes here hang on .
Erm we 've got one going at the moment so week commencing the seventh of February .
Yeah .
All right ?
That 's only the week after next so give you an i er a chance to
Week Monday .
And are they at ?
And that 's at .
So what we do on wallets we send we have people for three days in house all right ?
We give them a three day intensive in in a in fully expensed by us .
We pay your travel costs there we pay your hotel bill and we then send individuals out er for two days with a top earner stroke trainer .
Yep .
Now I don't know where that is it could be anywhere .
But wherever possible if somebody 's working in your area right now we 'd send you there .
If they 're they 're in that top echelon .
Yep .
Otherwise we might have to
Is that a three day residential course ?
Three day residential and then two days out in the field
Two days out in the field .
It could mean you staying away from home but we pay your expenses then okay ?
Yeah that 's no problem .
Right so first of all that 's Monday .
Okay .
Erm and it 's I I just men mentioned here the company is Publications .
Yeah I noticed that on the top of the
Yes okay I make a note that
contract .
Now on F oh sorry on Monday the seventh er oh sorry on Friday the fourth I would like you to phone into this this er phone in to head office ask for Publications .
Right .
being .
Er I 've got I 've got ta just change these .
I'm gonna put figures here .
We 've got some new erm er stuff that 's Monday to Wednesday right ?
Yeah .
So on the following Thursday and Friday , I hope you 'll remember these will you .
Sorry it 's a bit messy .
The following Thursday and Friday .
Yeah .
So on the Monday you 'll be working on your own assignment .
So er take out that and put Sunday .
So you stay Sunday you Monday night with the Tuesday night and you don't need the Wednesday night .
You do need the .
You 're there for three days and and Sunday night .
So that 's Sunday Monday
Yes that 's what I was gonna ask you do you arrive early morning or do you move in the Sunday night .
Okay da de da I don't need that any more .
Three days now that 's you you 'll know what I mean here don't you ?
Yeah .
Sorry about this .
That is now Thursday to Friday otherwise all the stuff that 's the hotel you 'll be staying at okay ?
Oh actually no Sunday evening and that is that 's Wednesday .
All right ?
Yep .
If you read all this through and be just totally confused .
What did I say the Parkwater Hotel ?
Yep Parkwater which is there .
It 's got a swimming pool so .
Oh I 'll pack me trunks .
Pack your swimmies .
Pack me trunks .
Right now what I do now can I just have there 's there 's a form here
I will get a letter of confirmation through will I ?
Oh yeah this will all be in writing to you .
Yeah .
Okay .
We will pay the travel costs to and then out on your assign er sorry out on your two days out .
If you had to stay away on your two days you 're out with the trainer then we will pay you thirty pound a night subsistence .
Right okay .
Okay he will know exactly where
Yeah .
He or she the trainer will know exactly where you get some good deals okay ?
If I can ask you to sign to say you know that .
Any expenses reimbursed by .
All right .
But we pick up the hotel at
Printed signature that 's
I know .
This has all been changed I'm afraid this it 's it 's all in the process of being changed and then inserted into these er these are older packs I'm getting just using up .
Okay .
There 's a copy there for you .
Oh there 's one for me right .
So you know what you 've signed .
There you go .
Right okay .
Super .
I 've got that I 've got that I must make a note of this .
of the seven stroke two and all I need now is your photograph .
Oh boy you lucky person .
Do you normally wear your glasses all the time ?
Yeah all the time yeah .
Yeah fine .
They 're not cosmetic .
Unfortunately .
Right .
Now just relax and smile please .
Passport passport photo .
Good .
Now you need to bring four passport photographs with you by the way .
Yeah I was going to ask that .
But if you read all that documentation end to end twice three times however you need
Yeah .
to absorb it all I 'd be grateful .
Is there many from the north do you get many out of this area ?
Er well I come up here about every two to three weeks and then then I leave it for about two months and then er you know do it that way .
Er cos er my son-in-law I mean I put on the form right I 've got no children right .
Yeah .
I read that as the dependants .
Okay fine yes .
Right my youngest is nineteen and she 's at university so
No problem .
If you er if you 're gonna recommend somebody you thinking about doing that ?
Well I was just going to say that he 's in advertising .
Er
Oh I see okay .
er with the er the Evening Chronicle .
Right and that 's why I wanting to see whether .
Cos he goes out you know and calls into businesses and things like that right .
Er and I asked him if he 'd heard of you and he said no .
Well we different .
And I thought different type of advertising doesn't you know .
We will in fact be er I mean I advertise in the er I am a client of his and we will we will be looking at the same he will be a competitor of ours in some fields .
But they they will have
Yeah your local field agent out here would only be
And not only that er go into the Newcastle Evening Chronicle it 's dumped the next day .
Mm ?
And all of our products are er retained .
That 's right today 's days is just tomorrow 's fish and chips isn't it ?
Absolutely yeah .
Er
Okay well thanks very much Robert
And yourself .
Look forward to seeing you over in head office sometime .

Right .
Now when I spoke to Mrs on the telephone last night she told me about the work you 've been doing on and I have looked at it and I'm going to go over it again with you this afternoon because she thought it was very very good work .
And she 's marked it and I'm going to give it back to you and talk to you about it .
I was very very pleased to see that a lot of you have tried to do your join up handwriting after a bit of practice we 'd had and it had come out really really nicely , well done .
Josephine your work was on the top and I thought goodness that can't be Josephine 's writing .
It was very nice wasn't it ?
So good girl .
And some of the others I still have to look at .
So I want to look at them at dinner time and share them with you this afternoon .
But because Mrs did that work with you yesterday you did not do your history work , so I'm going to talk to you a bit and ask you some questions about the tiny bit we talked about to do with Roman Britain and how the Romans invaded Britain two thousand years ago .
So sorry just a moment .
If you could pop into five A , yes I would prefer to see music 's doing do you know what I mean ?
Just sit down and and sit still for a minute because you 'll be standing for a long time playing the recorder as well , if you want if you want to go to the toilet just take yourself all right .
Seems to be something else going on .
Let 's go back to the invasion of Britain two thousand years ago .
But it was less than two thousand years ago in actual fact that the first emperor Julius Caesar into Great Britain wasn't it ?
Can you remember how we talked about the Romans having a very strong army and how they captured land around Rome around it 's lake and before long they 'd captured land all around the Mediterranean Sea and they formed that into what we call the Roman Empire .
And Julius Caesar stood in France in because he was in , the place he captured in France , and he could see Britain across the water and he wondered what the land was like over there .
And he came over with .
Er let 's see if you can remember the year that was .
It was after Jesus was born so we call that B C , no sorry it wasn't after it was before Jesus was born we call it B C before Christ .
It was about two thousand years ago and it was how many years before Christ .
Jody perhaps you could like would like to think , if you want us to listen to your playing this afternoon I would like you to listen to what I have to say this morning please .
Can you tell us ?
Can you tell us ?
On the top of this sheet it told you .
Kieran .
Fifty five .
Good it was fifty five B C .
Fifty five years before Jesus was born .
And you know we 've had bible stories just before Christmas we know about the Romans being there in in erm Greece and Rome and all around that area at that time .
Because when Jesus was born the the Roman soldiers were there and the kind at that time Herod ordered that all babies were killed and the Romans went out to do that didn't they ?
All babies born
You tell us Kieran sorry ?
He killed the and heard that Jesus was born and he would be made king so he sent his men to go out and find every baby that was under two or three years old and kill them .
Can you speak up when you 're telling us .
And erm Joseph and Mary they went to Egypt or somewhere , yeah Egypt , and when they went erm and I think the angels called them to go cos they came to Egypt as well and then they went to .
Going to Bethlehem to get taxed didn't they ?
So we do know and we we do remember reading about bi er Romans in the bible at that time .
Yes Daisy ?
Can I go the toilet ?
If you 're very quick because you might miss out on what we 're going to talk about .
Was there anybody in here who plays a recorder and has some knowledge already of music and would be interested trying for the violin ?
I mean not just trying but if you if you get chosen to play the violin it means practising and practising and staying with it so that you become a good violin player .
I think I 'll do that for you Mr .
Shh .
Excuse me .
Okay put your hands down again .
Shh .
Stacey we were just talking I 've interrupted this talk on the Romans .
Talk about or Mr has , er to to ask about anybody interested in violins playing .
And I know you enjoy playing music .
Er put your hands down for the moment .
I 'll I promised Mr a list but I 've had a very busy week and haven't done him a list this week and I have promised and I 've broken a promise .
So I'm going to promise and you 've got to remind me about this promise that the next Tuesday , that 's when you 're or even Wednesday , but if I give it you Tuesday we can be organized for Wednesday can't we ?
The the next Tuesday I 'll give him a list of people who are interested and that means asking at home as well .
Because it 's no good saying you 're interested and then going to ask your mother or father if you could talk a violin home and they said no I don't want you practising at home I don't like the sound of it or whatever .
But sometimes mum and dads don't like you practising , so you need you need to ask and if you are chosen you need to commit yourself .
That means turn up to all the practices and stick with it and join the orchestra and play in concerts as you get better all right ?
So it is a commitment it 's not just for , oh I 'd like to have a go .
If you want to have a go I could bring my violin in and you can have a go at my violin any time .
That 's a different thing isn't it ?
Having a go and sticking with it ?
You may like you may have a try and find that you don't particularly en er like like it after all .
But if I give some names to Mr next week I think yes well I 've got them at the music later today so I can ask them then .
Okay then sorry I hadn't .
Right .
Yes yes .
Let 's stop talking , sorry about the interruptions .
So fifty five years before Jesus was born the Romans were already he was born I think but they had not come as far as Britain .
Who was the who was the emperor at the time who decided to send soldiers and the army to Britain ?
Jennifer .
Was it Julius Caesar ?
It was .
It was Julius Caesar he was a very famous Roman Emperor and a famous English writer called Shakespeare wrote a story about Julius Caesar .
Right he sent only a very small army and when they arrived on the shores .
Let 's talk about first of all the boat that they went in .
How did they get across the water ?
wasn't ?
You don't think it was .
What do you think Kieran ?
Erm they went on a ship that looked a little bit like dry bean .
Yes .
They had rows on the bottom all the and some of the men on the top .
Right a trireme a Greek warship had three layers didn't it ?
And I I do believe that the Roman boats had two .
They had the deck on the top where all the Roman soldiers stood in their uniform , I say their uniform I mean their armour don't I ?
Er and all their fighting gear and we 're we 're going to have a look at a Roman legionnaire .
That was their name a legionnaire because they belonged to a legion of erm the Roman army .
Er and we 'll have a look at all the things that they carried and erm fought with later on .
But they had all their equipment with them and they just stood on the deck and underneath below deck were the people who rowed the boats over .
Who were they ?
Yes ?
The slaves .
The slaves yes they had slaves to row .
And when they arrived Great Britain or Britain as it was called then and the people living there were Britons .
Also Celts .
And when they arrived some of the Celtic tribes were standing on the shore and they were very very fierce , bright red hair some of them had and beards .
I think a lot of these Roman people had never seen red hair before , people who looked quite so fierce .
And even though they were supposed to be the biggest and gravest army in the world they were frightened to get off the So what , who was the first person who stepped on land ?
See if you can remember because we did we did talk to you a very short time about this on Monday .
Now let 's have somebody else different because I I know there 's been listening hard obviously .
Katrina ?
Yes that that 's right it had a special name .
The person who held the
well what was he called ?
Standard bearer .
Do you remember he was called the standard bearer .
See if I can find you a picture of a of a , I 've got a picture of a Roman legionnaire here but not the standard bearer .
Standard bearer 's like a pole it was a pole they held , that 's what the Roman soldiers look like look the Roman legionnaires and the standard bearer had a pole with shields on it .
And he stepped forward first .
Now once he 'd stepped forward on to the on to the shore what happened ?
They , what 's the word you want ?
Stepped on
They followed didn't they .
They followed .
Phillip .
His tooth 's fell out .
Do you need to wash your mouth out Adam ?
Yes .
Go on then quickly .
We 're having a a lose a tooth week I think .
Erm right so it was it was supposed to be a disgrace to lose your standard in your legion in the Roman army .
So there was way they were going to let the standard bearer go on his own and face all these fierce fighters .
They had to go and give him some support and they put up quite a good fight .
They didn't have enough people with them , they didn't have a big enough army .
So they decided to retreat .
What does retreat mean ?
What does retreat mean ?
Do you do you know Phillip ?
Does it mean go back ?
Go back that 's right good .
So they got back on their boats and they went back .
They went back to France which was already part of the Roman Empire .
Perhaps back to Rome where they 'd come from to see their families .
Can we have dental inspection please .
Yes .
Is it is it absolutely necessary ?
Mrs has already asked for her class to be after one and we 've only got the two classes to do .
Erm right erm Jennifer .
I tell you what we could do cos Mr might have to stay .
Jennifer could you ask Mr if he could just pop in and see me a minute .
You can turn the tape off and we can carry on this
Oh wait a minute .
She seems to be
Oh erm
You can carry on this afternoon .
You 've got me first two lessons after dinner haven't you ?
So that would be all right I think .
Let me just have a word with
I was going to say can we take them in small groups ?
Is that any help ?
Not really cos it 's a sort of discussion with the whole class so I need the sort of feed back
Oh .
Okay ?
Have all the other classes been looked at ?
Yes .
They have to go for a dental inspection
That 's all .
And we 're the only ones that haven't been .
We do have a double lesson after dinner which we could continue this .
That 's perfectly okay .
If that 's all right with you .
Yes .
Okay .
Right then could you g you want all of them .
We want the girls first in registration order or alphabetical order .
Well I 'll tell you what we 'll do then because we don't want to sit here , just a moment , before you go , don't start talking .
I would like the boys to go and get out their topic folders and colour the map that shows all the things that the Romans are hoping to find in Great Britain .
That 's a simple task you can do while the girls are at the dentist .
And when the girls come back they can do that while you go to the dentist .
And girls I don't know whether you know your order in the registers .
If you can work it out and stand at at the door and I 'll get the register to check .

Good morning everyone , and welcome to Pearson 's first half results .
One way or another we 've had a pretty busy six months .
As you know we 've decided to concentrate our management and financial resources on our media interests , which cover the information , education and entertainment markets and in which our spread of businesses including books , newspapers , family attractions and television are well placed for future growth .
In June we acquired Thames Television , with its valuable programme rights , distribution business and production capability .
And we have a crack at Star T V .
The plans we announced on twenty seventh July to demerge Doulton and float Camco are already underway .
Until such time as they leave the group , figures from these two businesses obviously continue to form part of our accounts .
I'm pleased to say that in the course of the last six months we 've seen a strong recovery in profits .
So , let 's now look at the results .
Overall our nineteen ninety three first half pre-tax profits stand at forty six million for all our businesses including Doulton and Camco .
That 's nearly twelve million better than for nineteen ninety two and reflects its satisfying improvement in underlying performance .
Sales were up by nineteen percent and there 's also firm evidence in these results of margin improvements which reflect , for the first time , the full benefit of our cost cutting measures taken over the last three years .
We 've become better at making money in sluggish trading conditions and are making the most of the patchy recovery we 've seen in some of our markets .
Our overall operating profit has increased by some seventy percent over the same period last year .
The difference between operating profit and profit before tax is of course made up of interest on non-operating items .
James will cover er , this area in more detail later in the presentation .
Earnings per share are up er , more than forty percent over the same period last year and when the E P S is adjusted to take account of the non-operating items , the figure has increased by nearly ninety percent .
We said on twenty seventh July that we planned to pay an unchanged dividend for the full year .
Accordingly , the board has declared an unchanged interim dividend of five point three seven five P per share .
Altogether then er , an encouraging set of results and I 'll hand you over to Frank to take us through them in more detail .
Good morning everyone .
Well , as you can see from that slide , a much better first half with four of our , four out of six of our businesses getting brownie points , especially newspapers and the merchant banking .
And there are good reasons why the other two are as they are , and I 'll explain that in due course .
So , I 'll start with the book businesses .
Book sales show a , a nice increase in er , in sales revenue , especially in the U K , which is up seventeen percent overall .
Penguin U K is gaining sale and market share and in North America the sales are only slightly down on last year , which was a very exceptional year anyway .
Longman did particularly well in the U K , although coeternal markets were difficult and er , sales in the schools markets in er , North America was hard going for Addison Wesley , with U S physical problems restricting the , amou money that schools had to er , had to use .
But we did particularly well in colleges .
Moving to profits for the book companies , these are slightly down , but this isn't indicative of a full year and the general outlook is er , is good .
The Penguin profits pattern followed the sales pattern , that is to say an increase in the U K more than offsetting er , a decline in the U S .
Longman had a very , very er , very good increase in profits and the Addison Wesley loss , which is bigger in the first half than usual er , isn't something that bothers me particularly , I'm really quite relaxed about full year performance , but just to make sure they 're er , attacking erm , expenses , travel , administration , that kind but nothing in the erm , book investment programme .
Newspapers , apart from Les Echo erm , advertisement volumes were pretty flat .
Les Echo managed a nice increase in financial advertising , but elsewhere volumes were flat erm , and so the revenue increased has depended on er , rate increases , changes in the mix or circulation revenue , with a mixture of cover price increases and some increases in circulation .
Profits are well up , cost reduction obviously played a major part in this and the F T group is er , fifty five percent up on last year and this is against the background of a five percent drop in advertisement volume and we have an eleven percent drop in advertisement volume from the continent of Europe erm , which of course doesn't affect other national newspapers .
The Economist and Les Echo both recorded record circulations once again , and Recolleters that 's our partnership in Spain , as you will recall er , their profits continued to buck the trends in a very tough market .
The Westminster Press cost budget is now adjusted and they 're currently trading at a nine percent margin which would be ten percent if it wasn't for the er , expenditure on er , Yorkshire on Sunday er , the circulation of which is growing very nicely .
Er , and I expect that margin to continue rising and be much higher again next year , so the medicine is working there .
Entertainment , we divide our entertainment into two parts , television and attractions .
So starting with television , we said at the er , announcement of the Doulton , Camco demerger that we intended to develop further in the visual media , and so we are setting up a T D , T V division in which we 'll place all of our T V interests , at present just Thames , the investment in B Sky B and er , Yorkshire Tyne Tees , but watch this space , we e we intend to add to this er , division .
Now , obviously I'm not going to talk about profits from the T V division just now , because Thames only came in at the half year , and we 're not including any profits from B Sky B in the half year , but it 's likely that we 'll take some de-loan stock interest in at the year end .
Attractions they 've produced a very commendable rise in revenue and profits er , from the Tussaud group , although as you will recall most of the profits in the group come in July and August .
But despite the recession there was an exceptional increase in attendances .
Marylebone Road was up by eight point two percent , Rock Circus attendances were up by twenty eight percent and Chessington twenty one percent .
Even at White Castle and Alton Towers , both of which recorded record attendances last year , they were up by fourteen percent and sixteen percent respectively .
And we achieved an increase in the spend per head , so the Tussaud group is a real tale of success .
Let 's now turn to the non-media businesses .
Starting with Camco , the newly appointed Chief Executive er , has been very , very active and has made a great impact already .
Even the products division which has been a long time drag on profitability improved its performance , and was well up too .
The overall excellent improvement in first half performance is masked by a technical transfer last year , which of course isn't repeated this year and this year a provision of , formerly in pounds following the settlement of a civil anti-trust suit .
Er , I make a point of never saying I told you so , but we did expect the upturn to come , because fundamentally stru er , Camco is a strong business .
Fine china sales have improved but the profit has n't and this needs some explanation .
We 've been incurring costs on two fronts , redundancy and also reducing factory stocks , short time working and this has brought down margins and profits , but the cash flow 's improving and despite poor conditions in Europe and Japan er , volume and unit value of orders is er , increasing slowly .
That brings us to investment banking and I 'll leave you here since er , James our , James financial director 's the director of Lazzards and he 's gonna go through the Pearson financials .
He er , he will cope with Lazzards at the same time , so James , over to you .
Thank you Frank .
Well , it 's been a good half year for investment banking .
Just to remind you er , we have a fifty percent interest in Lazzard brothers and a ten percent interest in the New York and Paris partnerships .
In New York er , most of you will be well aware that the I P O and market remains extraordinarily healthy and there have been therefore er , excellent opportunities for securities , profits and erm , therefore New York had its best first half ever .
I i in London there 's been a good improvement across the board , a much healthier corporate finance climate and Lazzards has er , been pretty prominent in the rights issues in the first half of the year .
If we then go back to er , look at the profits as a whole , there are just three items I 'd like to comment on , the corporate expenses as other income er , has obviously had a dramatic improvement .
This reflects , effectively , the sale of another of our shares in Cedar Fayre The profit on sale of fixed assets comes right down , as you again er , I think all know , we 've had the benefit of our last of shares and we 're actually rather pleasantly surprised that we were able to er , sell some land at Lakeside to CostCo , which is why we have some profit of three million er , for the first half of ninety three .
Change in the interest charge reflects no more than the impact of the stronger dollar on our U S dollar interest costs .
Going on down er , the profit and loss account , the tax charge er , is lower as a percentage than it was this time last year .
This time last year we actually were a little too conservative .
We normally try and estimate the full year tax charge and then apply it to six months and we got it wrong .
Further point has helped er , keep the tax charge well down in ninety three , is that the , there is no tax on the non-operating items , they 're tax free effectively , whereas that wasn't true a year ago .
As a result , adjusted earnings are up very helpfully as you can see .
If I can turn to the balance sheet , it 's a little more complicated , we 're in a rather odd position at the thirtieth of June of incorporating the Thames er , balance sheet because our offer went unconditional .
We haven't paid for it and therefore er , we er , you see a rather large item for provisions and minorities , that includes the ninety nine million consideration that er , went out of the door in July , as well , of course , as the substantial provisions that Thames made , in their own accounts for their property leases and for er , potential losses on the disposal of Reeves their West Coast , U S production company .
They erm , the Thames investment in Astra is er , another reason for , in fact the principal reason for the increase in associates and investments , working capital is a simple , a seasonal outflow which has been , again by the stronger dollar and the reduction in shareholders funds compared with the thirty first of December er , reflects the eighty six million pound good will write off on Thames .
Net debt as you can see er , from the next slide and indeed it was in the balance sheet er , it was a hundred and seventy million against a hundred and eighty five on thirtieth of June .
Erm , that isn't an entirely accurate reflection on our performance er , there are two factors .
Er , we 've flattened the one hand by the inclusion of Thames ' own cash of twenty seven million , but on a year and year comparison the erm , the dollar , the sterling value of our dollar debt was fifty two million pounds higher , so in fact we have reduced net debt on , at an operating level year on year .
The other feature , I think , of the debt that 's worth drawing your attention to is a sharp shift towards variable debt compared to a year ago , a number of our swaps have matured , we 've put one new one in er , some of our medium term notes have matured in the , in the States and we 're at last in a position to take more advantage of er , lower , short term variable interest rates than we were .
With that I 'll hand you back to Michael .
We 'd now like to take questions .
Erm , I was wondering if you 'd perhaps like to tell us how you 're going to manage your er , your .
Well , I think Frank mentioned er , that we were forming a T V division and I think , Frank you might like to say more .
Well we 'll , we 'll set that up with a board of its own erm , as an operating board and each of our divisions has an operating board erm , and that means it will have a finance director , it will have , and it will have a Chief Executive er , and there 'll be one or two other people on that board , such as er , Mark , Development Director er , and er , we 'll go from there .
Can you give some idea as to what the er , can you give some idea as to what the underlying sales growth was in the first half ?
You 've got the nineteen percent and , as the statement says , there was some degree of benefit from currency .
What was the underlying ?
James , can you give that accurate ?
.
Absolutely .
Sales er , of their hundred and thirty million increase in sales erm , seventy seven million exchange , fifty two million er , underlying .
Yes ?
Could you break down the profit of the F T group between Les Echo and , and the F T in the U K ?
I don't think we normally do that .
I think in broad terms we can say that er , Les Echo comparatively did better than the F T .
But
Yes er , the F the F T er , did improve er , Les Echo improved , Recolleters improved , the Economist was slightly down on last year , but remember , the Economist were at record profits last year and erm , so even maintaining their , their profits or just dropping is a good performance .
And again , I wouldn't regard that as indicative of a full year .
Yes ?
Can you erm , quantify what costs were taken above the line in the first half in terms of redundancy costs , restructuring costs , in the presentation to some restructuring again in the fine china division and how that compared to last year ?
Redundancy costs for the first half of three point two million , nought point seven million less than ninety two .
Yep , for the group .
Is there expectations that there will be any more redundancy costs in the second half ?
Frank .
Erm , yes .
There could , there could well be more redundancy in the second half er , declining , but there could still be a little .
Er , overall you know , we 're constantly looking where , for reducing staffing levels and where we see opportunity of that , we do it .
Er , and that usually involves redundancy .
So we don't regard it as ever static , but er , the major push on redundancies is over .
You have in the past actually erm how much you think you 've lowered your cost basis by over , over a period
Hmm .
a period of two and a half , three years now .
Can you quantify that again ?
Erm , I could n't answer that off the top of my head but we 'll erm , I 'll let you have the information .
I 'll write to you and give you the information .
Yes ?
Just , just so that we can erm , make sure for the cabaret committee you haven't given yourself enormous pay rises in the first half can you , can you split out in the corporate expenses less other , what the er , er , profit on the sale of some of your Cedar Fayre investment was ?
Yes , that 's fine .
It 's , it 's effective of the whole of the increase .
Erm , let me just erm of the , of the change , the five million change it 's , it 's in accounts for over four and there is small odds and ends changes otherwise .
A very modest increase in underlying costs , I assure you .
How many shares have you got left in Cedar Fayre
David .
Erm , we have about four and a half percent to five percent of the company left .
Erm , could you give us some idea as to what the level of the accrue er , fees on loans guarantees and , and so forth on the erm ,
James .
So what we 're gonna be taking in and when ?
What you 're owed
Ya , well , I haven't got the , yes , the backlog is very substantial er , in terms of things like guaranteed fees and erm , non-stock interest but it 's a long way out er , I mean if we add it all up , you might be far too impressed by the figure but I think erm , we know that 's the right way of looking at it .
What we 've got is , as you know there 's a hierarchy of repayment er , starting with the de-loan stock interest which is the , the last funding and then there 's the maiden dividend and then there 's guarantee fees and then there 's erm , sorry , before that is senior loan stock interest from B S B H and then guarantee fees .
So , they kick in at different stages .
What we think as , as Frank said erm , our policy is to accrue erm , income , which we think we 'll get in cash terms the following year , ie , we 're not gonna accrue it as soon as B Sky B expenses it , which is one end of the spectrum of erm , imprudence you could say or , and the other end , extreme prudence is to account for nothing until it 's cleared er , in the bank balance .
We , we now think it 's appropriate to strike a medium balance , therefore we 'll get the de-loan stock interest up to ninety three , we 'll take in , in this year , which we expect to get next year .
And how much of the cash received ?
I mean there 's something you still owe to er , to Reed
To Reed Erm , right , who knows the terms of the Reed Mark , do we know that one ?
Not off the top of my head .
What we 're paying them on .
We 're certainly paying , I , I , I think it 's capital receipts , is it off , is it only the capital receipts on the interest .
They had a lot of capital payments also and we have as it were the erm , the P & O element er , with B Sky B which is the erm , the items I 've gone through .
Then you have a number of loan repayments , and you 're quite right , there is a , there is a ma an amount will be paid to Reed equivalent to , I E we 're not gonna pay them the interest for the capital receipts but when amount , we receive money we 're paying it on .
That means we will still refracting it in our P & O account but the cash flow terms will be neutral .
And I think a significant point is that for the first time in ninety three we were likely to take something in , in relation to B Sky B .
Yes , well actually Nigel was ha was first .
Same thing , right .
It follows on from that question , it comes , you 've got a line B Sky B er , you 've got a line B Sky B in the T V er , division so it presumably , that loan interest is coming in that division , is that right , rather than net if off against interest ?
I'm afraid we 're not allowed to er , Neil .
Er , I think for management purposes and for presentation purposes , we will erm , presentation but certainly in terms of our accounts erm , we have no option but to exempt the giving interest receivable but to erm , impress you with the modesty of our , of our interest and therefore how good our interest cover is .
Maybe that 's , that 's erm , that 's what the erm , that 's what Coopers and the accounted principles require .
That although it 's erm , in our mind and yours , identify with a specific investment .
Just following , following on from that .
The er , Thames er , investment , how is that doing and have you sold Reeves yet ?
Thanks , er well , Thames is doing rather well .
You , you , I'm sure you read about the twenty two million pound deal with er , B B C and er , and there are , there are other deals in the offing .
Er , Reeves has been sold er , and so erm , the cost of that has been er , crystallized now and so that 's no longer a problem .
And the pr we 're er , I would expect the profits of Thames to be in line with that that we expected when we acquired the business .
Yes ?
Can you tell us a bit more about Addison Wesley and why you feel relaxed with that ?
Addis er , Addison Wesley and why we 're relaxed .
Addison , well er , it 's a very well managed business , it 's a very good business er , there are only two businesses in the U S A have higher sales per head than Addison Wesley , and one of those is and it 's had a , that 's had a super time in maths and there 's only one business and that 's which earns more profit per employee then er , Addison Wesley and erm , again that 's and that reflects that one off maths programme .
Erm , and we 're doing very well in college .
So er , and the Chief Executive there would er , I think commit suicide if he , if he brought in less profits than the year before .
So I'm quite relaxed and they 're attacking the costs as well .
That is not a forecast .
When will , when will these constraints be relaxed ?
Well that 's , that 's an .
Mr Clinton or Mrs Clinton , I'm not sure .
Unpredictable .
Yes ?
Can you just say a little bit more about erm , the structure of the , the T V board , will you be looking to make any external appointments to fill those positions er , and secondly , following on from that erm , as you said you , you had a look at Star T V and came off empty handed .
Do you still have interests in , in that part of the world with regards to broadcast ?
Er , I 'll answer the second part of the , the question .
I 'll hand the first one over to Frank .
Er , yes we do er , our overall television strategy has been to establish er , a U K base , where we are restricted because of the newspaper ownership in most cases other than B Sky B to twenty percent , though the rules may change and our strategy is to develop er , overseas , both in erm , er , broadcasting and , and , and in programming .
Er , as we can make the opportunities available .
There are opportunities out there and people tend to think of , or sometimes think of deals as being unique deals and they 're unique in themselves , but there are always other unique deals that can be found .
Yes er , Richard will be on that board and er , and we also accept , expect erm , further outside appointments .
Appointment anyway , and possibly appointments .
Yes ?
I suppose one wonders whether the Financial Times feels un uneasy about the proposed reduction in the price of the er , of the Times , as , as no doubt the Independent , probably the , the Telegraph .
Well , I was discussing that with Frank last night and he actually pointed out that it might help the sales of the Financial Times because er , er the F T 's very often bought as a second newspaper and if you get your first newspaper cheap , you 've got more change in your pocket .
Actually , the Financial Times it comes in a completely different position to erm , the Independent and , and , and the Guardian and even the Telegraph .
To start with it 's a specialist newspaper and secondly erm , the , the F T is , is profitable and erm , even if , even in a great recession and erm , the other element is we every year increase our overseas sales , six percent .
Erm , specialist newspapers , I really don't expect the Times erm , to have any effect on the F T 's sale .
Could you just on that remind us what the current , what the cover price is as a percentage of revenues in the F T ?
Roughly eighty twenty .
I mean it , obviously it varies according to whether it 's , whether advertising 's booming , but in , in overall , over time it can work on twenty percent on the revenue coming from the cover price and about eighty percent coming from er , from advertisements and so , it 's , it 's , it 's not a major , major figure .
Incidentally , I'm not surprised the er , the Times is reducing its price .
I think it 's about right now .
I think that 's a re terrible comment .
Yes ?
Sir , can you give us an idea of the growth within the electronic business in the F T .
In er , terms , they er , they 're growing very well .
Erm , profitably , profitability isn't , isn't as good .
We , we 've been growing something like er , twenty five percent per annum .
I think this year speaking from memory it was something like fifteen , sixteen percent er , increase this year erm , but er , we 're getting to the stage now where it 's , it 's getting into profit and so we 're quite pleased with the growth there .
Are you still developing your presence in Japan ?
Yes , yes , we erm , we 're obviously in Japan and erm , and increasing the sales slowly there but it 's a very good market for us , very good advertisement market er , for us and er , I think I 've told you before , even before , before the recession , it started , it looked as if we would recoup the extra spending in the first year .
Sad to say the recession overtook that but it 's , it 's developing strongly again there now .
It 's not costing you money ?
It 's costing us a bit of money but er , you know , we don't do these things for the short term , er
What 's a bit , a million a year or ?
Er , well , the extra costs was two million a year er , and at the end of the first six months in the first year we 'd , we 'd , we 'd achieved a million extra revenue , so it looks as if we 've paid for it .
But it 's probably costing us about er , three quarters of a million to a million just now net .
You 've shown that you 've moved erm , substantially towards variable debt but there is obviously an outburst currency impact , you said in the first half .
How is your debt , your gross debt currently constituted and where is your cash held ?
Cash is overwhelmingly in sterling erm , can I just look up and remind my erm , refresh me on that .
The erm , the gross borrowings , the dollar is the overwhelming element in , in terms of we have about erm , two hundred and thirty five million of sterling debt , two bond issues and some old loan stocks and then the rest of it , that 's gross debt and , and some of that swaps , you know .
All the , almost all are sterling except a little bit of , of Camco cash , which is in U S dollars , is in sterling and then erm , we have really a similar amount of U S dollar debt and small amounts of Canadian and French franc , peseta and Ozzie dollar where we really gear simple finance , small investments in those countries , under a hundred percent .
We have offices , now we have erm , a genuine French franc exposure to Les Echo but apart from that we don't really bother .
Is it possible to tell us how your advertising revenue performed in the first half on your Westminster Press and F T and whether you 've experienced any improvements in sits vac advertising since the end of the first half ?
Yes it is and I 'll hand it to Frank .
Advertisement er , revenue at Westminster Press ended the six months at about the , advert revenue about the same level as last year but it was below last year 's level early on , so in other words erm , advertisement volume is growing , because there 's next to no , there 's , the yield is about the same overall .
Erm , so volume has been gradually growing as the year progresses and erm , and more so in the last erm , the last say six weeks of the er , of the half year .
So , I would expect that to continue and expect erm , revenue to get ahead of last year .
Erm , as I said F T volumes are flat but er , they , they , they did achieve an increase in the yield erm , but forward bookings are much better at the F T and October looks rather better , so I think advertisement volumes are , are on the increase .
Situations vacant , in Westminster Press there was an increase in the south er , in volume terms , in the southern divisions , not in the northern divisions but then the northern divisions didn't experience the same problems with sits vac and are much more profitable .
I mean Northern Echo at Darlington , Bradford , York , Kendal , they 're all very profitable businesses er , and so they 're , but they haven't had any increase in sits , in sits vac .
Where , and Financial Times has had some increase in , in sits vac too , which is a high yielding er , category of course .
The , the deal of Lazzards of New York erm , comes in the second half , I presume and does the B M P er , flotation commence also in the second half ?
I think that remains to be seen .
I mean ,
Just a bit more about Camco second half is , given these little plus and minuses you 've had in the first , first half , what 's coming in the second ?
Well , erm , it 's difficult to make forecasts , particularly with the S E C breathing down one 's neck but I think one can say that the industry conditions , if you were to read the reports of other companies and for us , is pretty much erm , status quo , in other words the domestic excuse me , domestic industry 's doing quite well , the rig , the rig count 's up , the Canadian rig count 's up , international markets remain rather soggy but some of them are qui you know on a , on a selective basis some are quite good .
For example the erm , Frank referred to doing quite well and some of that was due to sales into the former Soviet Union .
Erm , the erm , the erm , the erm , er , settlement of the anti tr civil anti trust law suit that was referred to in the statement was erm , costs of about six million dollars this year on a class action law suit which we have reached a tentative settlement on in the last few days and , in fact , there were some , there was about six to seven million dollars of additional provision made at the end of last year in the one time charges that we referred to at that time but could n't really identify with erm , lawyers breathing down your necks in the United States and er , this is a class action law suit , would have been in a Texas Court and erm , you know , the boiler plate language is that you want to get rid of the , you know , the expense and uncertainty of this type of litigation and if you think that what a Texas jury did to Texaco , it 's probably a prudent decision to close the matter off at this time .
Is it a recent provision order , that ?
Well , they 're making a new one .
It 's a combination of costs incurred this year plus provision to cover erm , the costs of the settlement , legal expenses and other allied , and other related items .
With , with regards to Camco 's Eastern European sales drive , does this have any er , implications in terms of er , working capital movements , in terms of helping them fund those acquisitions and what sort of er , provisions perhaps , are you taking on those sales ?
Erm , I'm not sure I quite understand the question .
Well , in terms of er , bad debt .
Erm , we gen gen generally speaking sales into places like the former Soviet Union and other parts of the world are done against letters of credit , so generally speaking there are not erm , bad debt problems .
You know , one or two inci one or two isolated incidents but overall erm , the erm , business in the oil service industry is done on , on erm , er , a letter of credit terms .
Er , how did the entertainment businesses do in July and August ?
Frank .
They , they did very well .
Good attendances and Alton Towers particularly is erm , is , is er , booming , doing very strong business and also has one or two promotionals , er promotional activities which should er , extend the se extend that er , later in the season .
So , it 's going well .
Erm , I seem to remember that when we met earlier in the year and you were looking forward to , to , to this year as a whole , I think you er , indicated that it was going to be a good year and I think you also suggested , if I remember right , that you thought the better part of that improvement would be seen in the second half rather than the first .
I wonder , if I got it right and I remember it correctly , whether that 's still the view ?
Well , I think that I bore people endlessly by saying that erm , the first half results are not an indication of the year as a whole because we make the bulk of our pro profits in the second half and you know , that remains , that remains true .
I think at the time of the er , of the A G M , I said we were pleased by the prospects and in the current statement I say the outlook continues promising , but I don't think at any point we 've made more of a forecast than that .
Are you gonna repeat the miracle of the first half and sen sell some more land in Thurrock in the second half ?
I 'll turn that to Mark , cos I'm not on the Thurrock committee .
I , I think I would be unwise too to make a forecast , so all , all I can say is there are some enquiries around of er , people who appear to be interested but erm , er , you know , the burden hangs quite a lot , you know the burden 's still , the is quite a long way away still , but it 's not impossible we could sell some more land .
You 've got , you 've got the cash from CostCo , haven't you ?
Yes , yeah , yes , yes .
Er , sorry , just to follow up on B Sky B again , are you gonna be accruing for any arrears in the interest er , in the second half , as well as the ongoing amount ?
Yes , yes , we 'll get , we 'll get the ninety two and ninety three erm interest for in ninety , in the second half .
So what you would have had for the whole of ninety two and the whole of ninety three will all come in , will all come in the second half of ninety three .
Right , thanks .
Yeah , on the , on the de on the de-loan stock .
Yes ?
Would it be helpful to give some order of magnitude here , James ?
Yes , Chairman .
Less , less than ten million .
Yes .
Brilliant management .
Well , one of the reasons it er , bucked the trend was because
Is this Les Echo ?
Yeah , one of the reasons it bucked the trend was because we 've erm , ground one of our competitors into the dust and he 's had to combine with another newspaper there and that too is struggling .
Incidently , it 's just had a change of ownership erm , a well-financed new owner but we 're , we 're still confident of our position there .
No , no , he actually got erm , erm , a nice increase in , in fin in financial advertising .
I don't want to give you the impression it 's buoyant there , it isn't .
Could you say anything about your extension plans , I mean have they changed much , or what might they do in Tokyo ?
Not much , well probably about sixty million for , for the year I 'd say .
Or a bit more .
They always , they always lag as you know , our , our , we always underspend capital in the first half against what our division think they 're gonna do and they always think they 're gonna catch it up in the second half , they never do but erm , it won't be , you know , it won't be materially different .
Well , I think the budget 's ninety , in the nineties but we don't expect to spend more than sixty million .
Yeah , , we won't spend that much .
Somewhere in between , let 's say .
Your Royal Doulton , you might have some idea of how the er , different brands are doing .
You mentioned in the annual report and accounts that Expressions was meant to be doing very well although its more up market brands were slightly more sluggish .
Er , can the future Chairman answer that ?
I haven't got the detailed figures er , er , with me but er , I believe that still is the case , that er , er , people 's eating habits are er , that dining habits as it were er , are changing somewhat and the er , the everyday china market is , is possibly more buoyant than the er , erm , the Royal Crown and Minton .
Would you make any conscious decision to move slightly down market or less up market ?
I myself wouldn't use that phrase .
I think that er , er , what I would say is that er , we would follow the markets erm , where they lead us .
And the answer 's yes .
The fine china 's er , doing er , quite well in , in Japan actually and that 's starting to pick up again .
Any , shall I say a couple more questions ?
If anybody 's got one .
No , no more questions .
Well , thank you very much indeed .

Er
Okay .
So We will wait for Andrew to come up with his amendments and therefore we may as well go through the rest of the agenda .
And slot Andrew 's in when he comes in .
So
please .
Can we roll that back as well then ?
Cos er
Roll what back ?
Ah .
Got
you don't need to roll it back .
Saved by the bell .
Have you got a spare agenda ?
didn't you get one Jim ?
You 'd better get a couple Nola .
Here you are .
I 'll get a couple .
Right .
We 've done an exercise on on s on comparing er bridge and works projects , and er a few Q S individual projects erm against er A C skills or I R C
Mhm .
skills Cs .
Erm
Thanks .
Just to sort of flag up jobs which were over a hundred thousand pounds and that had finished or are well on their way this year .
Erm it 's an exercise that you 've been asking for .
Morning .
Yeah .
Morning .
Morning .
This this isn't what was holding
No .
No .
No .
No .
Oh .
This is S
No .
This is the thing Ken done for us .
Right .
Erm
Right .
Well .
Would you like to take us through in summary then Trev ?
What I , my remit to Ken was to go through with Duncan er projects which were over a hundred thousand pounds .
Er that had gone to the Q S for documentation or
Mhm .
that we 'd completed the erm er the site work on .
And to extract from the DOPACS function codes , anything which wasn't within the scale of B .
Mm .
I E er railway liaison , er evaluation of multiple options .
The sort of things that we cover in the er er code of practice for charging to clients which are outside this .
So add in the quantity surveying element .
And if the job was only at say er tender let stage to only take seventy percent of the fee ,
Mhm .
in accordance with the A C E er method .
And then to calculate the scale B based on the erm tender total or the actual totals , with the class D reinforced concrete or structural steelwork element added to it .
Added on it .
Yeah .
Or for the Q S jobs just to compare straight I C S scale fee .
And then to compare our design fees with the scaled fees .
Indicate erm tt what the percentage was , because we 've always been sitting round this table patting ourselves on the back , saying that er
H er how well cost effective
how cost effective we are .
Now .
It 's obviously Th there are gonna be jobs in here that are flagged up as overspent , which aren't or which have got very very good reasons for
Mhm .
er and I 'll be the first to recognize that and this was just a sort of the ball park stats that you were looking for .
And it was quite worrying really when you look down here
Yeah .
just how many of er are in the right hand
Are negative .
column .
How many negative ones there are .
Bearing in mind that these represent the majority of the large jobs that we 've actually had on hand .
I 've taken out jobs that er like er St Pancreas roof which is erm a total of a large amount of money for scaffolding , but really it 's not a proper job .
Wi wi there 's no BES jobs in here because erm we
haven't got the mechanism for looking at the BES er scale in in the timescale we were looking at .
Mm .
Erm
Is th no no supervision involved ?
There 's no site super there 's no resident engineering involved and no
Mm .
workshop supervisors involved .
Right .
There 's no railway liaison , there 's no prices
Mm .
They would al they would a
they would always come at ti on a time basis anyhow all those operations .
These these are
That 's correct .
Yes .
We we 've subtracted
scaled fee scaled
Yeah .
fee costs against the equivalent cost of our design .
That 's right .
Right .
Accepting your qualifications , Trev , that erm there may well be good reasons for these , there is there is a very strong message there isn't there ?
I mean I 've just worked out there 's , there are twenty eight jobs there , of which er we 've we 've only really made a profit on eight .
That 's on the face
Yeah .
of it .
This is only a sample though isn't it ?
Well .
It 's it we we took about fifty or so jobs that that were over a hundred thousand pounds , and then we knocked off erm the BES jobs and and jobs which were outside party , jobs where we hadn't actually done the design work .
Erm we were just doing watching brief and that sort of thing .
Er a and basically this is
Mm .
this is a sort of the sample that that we were left with .
Er I'm not s erm er it doesn't include jobs that we 've done the design work on and sent to the areas for building .
Erm which
Even if they 're over a hundred thousand ?
Well .
W we the mechanism of finding out the jobs
You see I I
Could I just hold it there ?
What what ?
There 's something
what are we trying to gain from this ?
We 're trying to gain a feel as to whether we are being cost-effective
Yes .
or not in our design .
Mm .
Right ?
And what I don't wanna do , is is to get involved in looking at all these and saying , oh .
Bloody hell .
You know we l lost money on that but , an and trying to find excuses for that .
The th the snapshot is that we 've looked at twenty eight jobs , and out of those twenty eight jobs , if we have been working on scale fees , it would appear that we would have lost money on twenty of them .
In other
B but
words two thirds of them .
Yeah .
That must give us a message .
Cou could I ask , before we go too deep into the issue , that if we are gonna use this er er make proper use of it , that we have some time to analyze the
To analyze it .
figures ?
Oh .
Yeah .
Because
I mean I spoke to Ken before he started doing this exercise , and I'm worried
Yeah .
that although we 've taken supervisors out of it plus supervision ,
Mhm .
they won't have taken the R Es out .
Oh .
We have taken the R Es out .
Okay .
Well let us us have a look at the figures if we could .
Be because we can make some sense
Agreed .
after we 've looked at the figures .
Yes .
Are these done on final
But at the moment we 're stabbing in
costs ?
Agreed .
stab in the dark at the moment .
Or estimated costs ?
These are done on tendered tendered totals or actual costs .
Ah .
I would suspect that Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yes .
Yeah .
In other words what you would have got
No .
What ?
you would have got paid .
No .
No .
Lawrence was making the point that if if
Wh
there 's a hundred thousand pounds worth of claims th then there are more fees that we would be entitled to .
What
Er
should be on final ?
Sorry .
Th the other thing is
Yeah .
as well is there 's a big debate as to erm whether you do get paid on tender figures or whether you actually get paid on the estimated cost .
Certainly the way the documents are laid out it 's supposed to be estimated cost .
Yeah .
not the actual tender figures .
What the ?
Oi !
A C E documents .
No way .
You get paid on final costs .
Well .
It depends which clause
you look at .
No .
No doubt about it .
Well .
No .
Y you 're
talking about the way that the Department of Transport have dealt with
Yes .
British Rail over the last thirty years .
Mm .
Well .
Y need to look
You need to look at the document
Department of Transport jobs we do .
you need to look at the document
The agreements are based on the final cost of the work .
Ah !
The agreement the agreement .
Now Terry 's quoting
Is the
A C E condit
Terms of engagement .
terms of engagement .
Engagement .
Now .
Now .
That might be different .
Which uses estimated cost .
Right .
I I think Terry 's suggestion
Erm
is is the best one that we we now have this data .
And rather than
Make good use of it .
leap in without looking at the detail of it , I think now the function heads namely you ,
Yeah .
Roger , Terry and David , er need to take this away , have a look at it and at the next meeting we either then draw some conclusions and again what I'm looking for
Recommendations isn't it ?
are lessons learned .
I mean it may be that Ken has not drawn these up in the right way .
On the other hand it may be that we are not cost-effective .
And if if we 're not , then so be it .
At least we 'll be able to address that .
Er could I just ask the advice of the assembled expertise here ?
I 've only got one item on the list which is the Haverton Bank Slip .
Yes .
Cos that
Er now the bulk of the cost was in the s survey work .
Is that normally a legitimate part of
Yes .
scaled fees ?
Er the actual design work was relatively slight .
Yes .
The survey work would be part of the project .
Yes .
Cos
It comes in your first twenty percent , but for survey would be constituted into a survey
Mm .
up to four .
So the survey would be constituted as se er twenty percent of the fees .
Yeah .
I it
But that 's only for
Yeah .
I it
That 's all you 'd get .
Be very careful that y you don't actually have to use the split that Roger 's using .
No .
No .
Bu but yes .
It , that wouldn't be outside the scale fee .
The survey is part of i if someone commissioned a consulting engineer to do a project , then he would be expected to do the survey , the the the scheme design and the detail design , and the on-site er management type of element for the hundred percent of the scaled fee .
Okay .
It 's only if , but
But
after you 'd done the survey you were asked to multiple options you
Mm .
would get paid for those multiple options probably on a time basis until
Mm .
somebody homed in on one and then you would be back on your scaled fee for the
The the only
problem , the only problem that actually when you 're looking at this , is if in fact part of the feasibility involves you doing a survey ,
Mhm .
then it wouldn't be involved in the scaled fee .
It would be on a time basis .
So it depends when it occurs .
Oh .
Yeah .
Mm .
Yeah .
I mean
I think the only one to look at feasibility to start with you can actually get away charging all the survey to the time basis
To the feasibility
to feasibility stage .
In which case you c want
And then keep your fingers crossed that you 're gonna get the
the next
the development of the
Yeah .
of the options .
So it just depends .
Do each of you have a copy of this of of the A C terms of engagement ?
It was only me got a proper
Right .
Ca Trev ?
Can you get copies of the A C terms of engagement for each of the function heads and myself ?
Yeah .
Can I raise a a point on this ?
There 's I take it you 're in a position to total these up with each other ?
Cos you know to look at the bottom line of total design fees against what they would have been if we 'd gone in fixed price ?
Mm .
Yes .
Yeah .
Well .
That 's if we 'd gone in on fixed price on scaled fee
On scaled fees .
and of course and we would have been patting ourselves on the back saying we could go in under
Well .
under scaled fees with comfortably
What I what I what I would say is something I found in in BES has happened while I 've been here much less now than than earlier on , is engineers robbing Peter to pay Paul .
Mm .
And well I I I know I know on some of my schemes that can have a very dramatic effect .
You can , in other words you can hide jobs which are badly overrunning .
We don't want to do that .
That I
No .
Indeed .
We 've always said that we wouldn't do that .
A a and certainly the way that we are set up at the moment , there is no need for us to do that .
No .
I , that 's not what I'm saying Trevor .
I know I know we should n't
Right .
but what I'm saying is if it happens ,
Well .
Once it , yeah .
Once it happens we we , our credibility with our customers goes out the window doesn't it ?
But if we do that , all we do is we we delude ourselves .
Exactly .
Because what we what we want to know is is those jobs where we have done well , because we can learn the bollocking lessons from them .
Those jobs where we 've done badly because we can learn why they went badly and make sure that they don't happen again .
Aye the , many of the reasons for these being over are nothing to do with the efficiency of the design office , they 're due to the efficiency of the s
Of the client .
or or lack of it of our clients with the stop go attitude .
It 's on .
It 's off .
It 's on .
It 's off .
Roll it back .
Roll it forward .
Rush it .
I wasn't looking at the negative
I was looking at er an extremely large positive
Yeah .
and wondering how we can do a job for two thousand four hundred and fifty , when according to the experts in the field it was gonna cost fourteen and a half thousand pounds .
Which one was that ?
Near the bottom .
The one at Neville Hill .
The Neville
Oh .
Yeah .
Hill pits .
That 's the pits we did .
Yeah .
I'm very suspicious of these tender fig I think these are the original tender figures and not what what final costs were .
Poss possibly Roger that I I I'm sure you 're probab I'm sure you 're right Roger .
which
I'm sure you 're right but
.
That will come out in your detailed look at it won't it ?
but even so we would like to think that erm that we can do the design work surely for the original tender figures , er and hope that our erm our drawings and er specifications are such that erm , and our site investigations are such that we should n't have major claims appearing on on our jobs .
I I I know that that 's
In an ideal world
very true .
Anyway I'm delighted to to see we 've at last got round to this .
You might remember I 've been pressing for this for about eighteen bloody months .
To have a scaled fees figure .
Roger I'd 've given it you a lot quicker if you 'd given me a list of jobs to work on .
Yeah .
It 's
But anyway .
Well .
I wanted to on the report you know so always had it with easy reference but
Right .
Good .
Okay ?
Mm .
Excellent .
Thank you for that Trevor
are now going to look at these figures and come back to the next meeting er with some comments , with regards to their projects .
And Trevor will provide us all with copies of the terms of engagement .
The A C terms of engagement .
Good .
When when can we expect this as a standard feature on the database ?
We can expect it as a standard feature from the database , once we 've built the systems that hold the costs for the the estimated costs for value of the work .
Mm .
So that we then have got something to compare against something to calculate the fee on .
Because er in the past people haven't filled in the value of the erm of the work element in in the databases .
And I I don't criticize them for that , because the the fields that were in the databases in the past didn't d er w were sort of total cost of the
Mm .
job and y you were n't really knowing whether it included or excluded the A Cs anyway and that sort of thing .
tried to put them at our at the cost of our of the work for quite a while .
Yeah .
But not , any rate m
Does it include Q S fees ?
Yeah .
Oh yes .
Yes .
Y
Absolutely .
Yes .
It in it includes
It ought to
the Q S fees .
Certainly .
It should n't do really .
Anyway
Why ?
we can discuss that
Mm .
Well .
Look .
Q S fees are part of the seventy percent of the scaled fees .
Of course they are .
Mm .
They 're not extra .
They 're part of the hundred percent
They 're not .
of the scaled fees .
They are .
It depends if you go in-house or you go outside
Well we always go in-house .
Well .
That 's our fault .
No .
Ah .
Dave wouldn't you like to be sat here ?
No .
No .
Dave knows what I'm talking about .
No .
I think he 's making a valid point .
Well .
Only one
Going outside .
Look s s seriously the point the point I'm making is that for for most jobs of an average sort of size , what happens under A C E scale fees as I understand it , if I'm wrong I'm I stand corrected .
But what in re in practical terms if the consultant can do all the estimating in-house , with a very limited resource .
And sometimes that means sending a drawing out getting a contractor to price for it rather than him doing it , er using standard books and goodness knows else like Sponds .
He 'll come up with an estimated erm an estimated price and er and do most of the Q S-ing in house .
But if it 's a lousy job and he has to go out to someone like
Mm .
or somebody else , that m money is extra .
Look .
Sorry .
That 's what it says in the document
Roger .
Let 's let 's not
We need n't debate it here .
You 're gonna get copies of terms of
the terms of engagement , and I
Ah .
It 's still not clear I mean we 're
No .
Mike and and
That 's right .
Terry and I talked round this subject for
Some while .
for for some while .
Yeah .
Again .
Let 's let 's focus on
Yeah .
Right .
what our objective is .
Our objective is to see whether we would have made money on those or not .
isn't it ?
Yeah .
Mm .
And to establish I mean I think that as a g
Ca
group of twenty eight jobs if if , what we really need to know is overall
Mm .
because there will be jobs where we lose money .
But overall on those twenty eight jobs , would we have done well ?
Would we have done badly ?
Or would we have done okay ?
Of course the bigger the job the less excuse
there is for er not doing well .
It depends on the circumstances associated with the job .
As Trevor said in his opening remarks ,
Can
Please look at
can I just make these these four brief points ?
One a er scaled fees are based on tender figures but C D G Ps relate to actual final costs of project .
So that that 's Roger 's erm er Roger 's point .
Scaled fees are based on a very rough breakdown of the project into structural design and other works .
So .
I it th the detail of the class the content might be just a , an approximation .
Er there are many cases where it was difficult to tie up the appointment contract with the physical works contract .
Some of the major differences could be due to this .
And er an in-depth study would involve speaking to the relevant project engineers obviously .
I agree with that .
So i it is just a sore thumb exercise it it 's er
Yeah .
Erm
to plug up the
It is .
The immediate reaction is is one of disappointment , but let 's let 's get behind the figures first .
Right .
Nineteen ninety two ninety two ninety three annual report progress
Kim and I
met a chap called Darren from , and explained our design of this year to put an annual report together , which would be based on er a folder which woul could take individual A four
er sheets .
Erm so that we could actually produce about two hundred annual reports if we wanted , but we
Mm .
could use the same report cover by printing a s perhaps a thousand of those .
And have those erm f for specific projects and reports and things like that that could go out in er er i in the future .
Er we showed him one or two examples of similar sorts of presentations that we 'd had from other railway and outside organizations , er explained what we 'd done in the past , said that we were looking to get something more up-market and more erm professional , which was why we were looking to er er seek er quotes from er g graphics designers , linked in with printers .
And we talked to him about the Intercity erm presentation requirements , and sent him away to think about it .
He came back er ten days later er and produced a couple of er mock-ups .
Erm .
This was a sort of a suggestion of the of the layout
Mm .
based on er the type of stuff that we had last year .
Er if I can pass that round .
Er he he 'd just taken some photographs out of last year 's er annual report and put a heading up and stuck some text on it .
We had indicated when we asked him to quote that we would want one sheet like that to represent what each office was able to produce .
Mm..
And then we 'd asked him
Yeah .
about the folder and erm er suggested that he considered the Intercity silver , similar to the report cover .
Er a and he jazzed this up a little bit , and perhaps I think he 's gone a bit over the top on it .
Norman will quite like the er bit that P Way stuck on it .
Oh .
That 's that 's always there Norman .
It doesn't matter what we put into these erm
Quotes Kevin and Mick stood waiting on the platform .
And that was an alternative that he came up with for the erm er for the front cover .
What was the bottom Larry ?
I can't
Three thousand nine hundred .
Yeah .
We were looking about four thousand pounds for for s for a thousand copies of the
I think that 's quite nice actually .
Yeah .
How do I look ?
Ah .
Ah .
It 's just the it 's just the largened the
the the two white squares and
Yeah .
Ah .
Yeah .
. It 's different isn't it ?
Yeah .
Glorium ipsum dolor
six pound
Ha ha ha .
That 's ipsumdet
Ipsum ipsum detabla
Mm .
We don't need it in Latin that 's only added expense .
At least at least nobody 's gonna
disagree with her .
Erm
Yeah .
The f the four the four thousand pound quote was for
I don't like that one .
No .
Was for a thousand erm
No .
a thousand folders machine varnished and two hundred
Retail men
copies of
seven individual sheets to go in .
That 's based on the same number of colour photographs that we had in last year 's annual report .
Right .
which I think was about
What sort of difference is there if we if we put more pictures in or ?
Oh .
The the the pictures are where the money is it 's
Right .
that .
Erm well .
I think really what we want to do is to decide whether or not we are using the annual report as a a list of jobs that we did last year .
Or whether we 're using it as as a a mailshot reminding our customers of of how good we are and and what our improved facilities
Mm .
that we can offer are .
And then we 've got ta decide whether we keep it simple erm or whether we put loads of text in .
Cos my feeling is t they only look at the pictures ,
Yeah .
Sure they do .
a a and they 're only prepared to read one or two paragraphs of text .
Mhm .
I quite like the way that they 've used the Intercity claret for the
Mm .
text here because it does make it that little bit more interesting and people are likely to think , oh !
It 's not black and white .
I 'll read it .
Or I I 'll start to read it .
Mm .
Then what 's in there .
I mean at least you 've got a chance that they 're gonna stay with you and er a a a and read the odd paragraph .
Right .
There are a number things I think we need to debate .
Number one is , how much are we prepared to spend ?
Yes .
And and and the three thousand nine hundred doesn't seem out of this world as far as I'm concerned .
No .
No .
No .
It
erm I mean up , are we prepared to go up to five thousand ?
Or ?
Seven ?
Or ?
What did we spend last year ?
Erm
How much copies is that then ?
In simple terms ?
Well .
I if we talk about holding
Thousand thousand
About two .
Well .
No .
We 're talking about a thousand covers , cos the actual extra cost of print once once you start printing it the run on cost is is negligible .
Erm
We 're having a few extra of these if you want to send something else out
It cost five hundred and forty five to print two hundred of those , and cost eight hundred and fifty pounds to print
A thousand .
a thousand .
Now Jim wanted to have some of those to send out future mailshots
Mm .
on on specific technical erm
Yeah .
That 's what I thought we 'd agreed
Mm .
hadn't we ?
Yes .
Good idea .
We 're gonna have A four sheets
Yeah .
with a single , oh , that 's right with a single project on and we just
Ah .
No .
No .
No .
No .
Well .
I need to clear this
because I 've got totally confused on the last briefing , and I thought
What ?
we were doing two things .
We were producing an annual report
Mm .
which had probably one sheet of everybody 's in with a couple of small photographs .
Maybe double-sided .
A description
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
the talk .
And it didn't list jobs .
Why not ?
It said this is what we 're capable of doing .
Correct .
Yes .
And then we 're having another thing with the same sort of brochure as a mailshot type thing in loose-leaf format .
In which there 'd be a picture and a description with a few words .
Right .
Well .
Every time we do one
That 's that that 's fine .
it , yeah .
every time we do one of those if we have it printed on on glossy paper to this sort of style you 're looking at sort of erm
Couple of
Th the principle of having a large number to spare
t two or three hundred pounds .
seems to me to be good .
Oh .
Yes .
Yes .
Yes .
Yeah .
Yeah .
That 's what I was meaning .
Er er ca can can I digress a little bit beca I wo and then come back ?
Because I , there are a couple of things that are relevant ?
We 've got we 've got the the financial commentary now er an and the annual report to go out .
And that needs to go into that nee that needs to go into something like this to go out .
Or does it ?
Well .
The question i the question in my mind is this .
How is a presentation such as that gonna be received by our clients ?
In the present financial climate ?
I think we 'd get away with it .
But I put it on the table because it is a risk .
Yeah .
Well .
We all thought the Swindon one was over the top didn't we ?
Even when
We did .
we were n't in such a financial state we 're in now ?
Yeah .
And that was cos maybe it was too thick
And also
and too
it was too much of an ego trip for certain personalities as well .
Well yeah .
So I think si number of pages
Yes .
you know if you do something that 's twenty pages , they 'll think , bloody hell .
If you do something that 's only six pages
Mm .
Yeah .
That 's alright .
number of pages involved
Mm .
Agreed .
Yes .
I mean , ah .
My instruction was
Oh .
Erm
our estimates were based on one sheet per function
Plus a double-sided sheet
Yeah .
Yeah .
a double-sided A four sheet with
That 's fine .
with with two or three colour photographs .
That 's what
Yes .
I don't think anybody would say that 's over the top .
Right .
We 'll go for it .
We 'll go for it .
Plus a couple of pages of
That 's decided .
general policy
Yes .
written by Hugh .
That 's right .
Yes .
The sort of introduction
Yeah .
didn't we do well ?
I I mean last year
About the year
if if you remember we we kept the annual report bit , the financial bit just down to to one side .
Two four six
we could probably get it down to a a quarter of a side if
Yeah .
And we don't need to put anything in about our our scales of fees and that sort of thing .
That 's a separate issue .
Oh
That 's right .
Yes .
Right .
So .
We 'll go for it and we 'll and we 'll risk it .
Now then .
The next thing is er on the agenda we 've got the or I thought we had .
In in the any other business I'm gonna raise the question of us doing work for Irish Railways .
Oh .
That 's this afternoon .
Sorry
Now we 've been approached by Irish Railway with regard , they 've got something like thirty million pounds from the to upgrade line from Dublin to Belfast .
And they 've hopefully they 're gonna come and see us , to seek our advice on the design techniques that we 've used on East Coast Main Line , and the construction techniques with particular regard to bridges .
But I also felt that that we have something to offer in terms of works BES
Station design
and and and P Way .
So they 're gonna come and see us .
Now .
If we had this up and running , the sort of thing that we would do is put together a package
Yeah .
and hand it over .
So
Yes .
I'm very supportive .
If if you are ?
Yes .
Definitely .
In in terms of having that .
I'm sure a lot of , it it 'll not take as long to sort it out , because we 've broken .
We broke the back of it a lot on the work that we did for Rickmansworth .
Mm .
Erm It 's really only a case of each function sifting through the information that they 've pulled together from the annual report .
Erm I mean I I 've got from I think I 've certainly got Roger 's and and Norman 's erm stuff for
Mm .
you know er for the annual report .
Which is actually a
You 've got my text but not pictures .
Right .
which is actually a
You know it 's in in the form that we 've done them in the past .
Right .
Er obviously we will need to decide on rationalizing that down , to to highlight one or two of the larger jobs and
Mhm .
and and erm a and build up a little bit of er text on just how good we are , and what we can produce , and how well equipped we are .
Both in in e in equipment and in er
But , we 've still two I still see we 've got two documents though .
Mm .
The annual report and the loose-leaf thing that
Yeah .
The leaf .
we will hand over
.
Hand that to
to Irish Railways .
Now if we do the annual report properly , pages from the annual report can progressively be incorporated into this loose-leaf , and others taken out , and
Mm .
Right .
We 're talk
you know
This this loose-leaf
So you 've only got one bit .
You 're setting up and prin the setting that 's the expensive bit not the running off isn't it ?
No .
That that 's correct Roger .
The , what we 're talking about though forgetting the run-on costs which which really we can discount because they are negligible .
We 're talking about something in the region of four thousand pounds to do the the loose-leaf brochure and seven sheets .
What do we want to spend on top of that on printing an annual report ?
And who are we gonna send it to , if anybody ?
I mean we used to do the annual report because the R C E had to provide something to the General Manager
Correct .
and it was never anything
But any any
other than text was it ?
You
any business produces an annual report .
Mm .
Mm .
But they
they have to produce an annual report for
For their shareholders .
their shareholders .
That 's right .
No .
It 's not for their
No .
customers .
That 's a s th that 's a different sort of annual report
It is .
.
That 's a financial
Yeah .
s financial accountant statement for the year .
Yes , I mean it would include most of that .
Now we 've never done anything other than very very s briefly precis
Mm .
the the end of year results .
So you know
What are we trying achieve ?
What are we trying to do ?
Yeah .
saying do we need an annual report ?
If we
That 's right .
Mm .
put all our energy into our loose-leaf .
We have an annual report for er this end of year financial commentary .
There will be nothing to stop us taking that , erm binding it up , sending it to Peter a a and Chris if we wanted ,
Yeah .
a a and call it a day .
Er
It 's about as interesting as a financial report from anybody .
It 's a promotional document .
That 's right .
way even less interesting than .
Really really what has it got to do with our clients ?
That 's right .
Absolutely .
Really all you need i I mean this is a marketing medium we 're trying to
Shh .
Yeah .
Mm .
cos as far as annual reports are concerned you just want a statement from Hugh , and a rough idea of how we 've performed financially .
Mm .
There 's no detail .
Could I could I say this ?
That 's right .
Yes .
The there 's there 's there 's an interesting way involved in my mind when I started writing this in this changed format from last year .
And th and and what I did is , all Roger 's got so far is about one sheet of A four typed up or something like
Trevor .
that .
Trevor .
Sorry .
Erm which basically says what the main issues throughout the year were .
Problems with staff ,
Mhm .
erm certain types of design we concentrated on .
Possibly something about clients .
I can't quite remember what all that 's in it now .
Erm and then I thought , now , what I can't do is I I can't do what we did last year a and really put a photograph and a des and a description of it .
And that 's why , then in my mind I thought , yes .
Well .
It , we 'll we 'll put those in this loose-leaf format where we can sli whip out all the BES ones etcetera if we don't want them
Right .
and just send our own thing off erm separately .
So .
It seems to me that that there 's some manoeuvrability .
That if we want an internal report we don't have to include photographs .
If we wanted an internal report er to go to a few selected clients that report would mainly be text .
Cos
Mm .
it 's telling people including the staff what the main issues were and how we fought through them .
So that the only one
That 's right .
you actually need to be t send outside externally or to clients , is the one which has the loose-leaf format showing , here 's a mega- project .
Picture at the top , short description
Yeah .
at the bottom .
So .
I mean that that 's another alternative is that we don't bother with pictures .
Mhm .
We put we put I m I mean we don't actually bind the report up in the er how we would do professionally .
It depends how we want to tackle it .
C can I ?
You just slide that into a loose-leaf
Yeah .
Great .
Thanks a lot Terry .
That 's that 's cleared my mind a bit .
Erm I I still feel , as as a a business , we need for our own purposes an internal report .
Mm .
Are we agreed on that ?
Yeah .
Yes .
I think
That 's fine because
We don't need that to go out to clients .
we select
Yeah .
What issues
What I would like to think , and I would like to keep that formalized , because if we don't it 's just gonna drift and and
Right .
and and I mean I I often refer back to the annual reports .
What I would like to think is is that we put together an annual report for our own purposes , and that goes out to a very limited distribution , as Trevor was suggesting .
Right , we could bind that ourselves .
We could bind that ourselves
Plus our own staff .
You see there were complaints
Yes .
last year that there were n't enough , and that a lot didn't get one , and they were all disappointed .
We could bind that ourselves at next to no cost .
You know .
And and we bind it in th n in the way that we
Normal
bind up our normal
reports .
C E D G reports .
Mm .
Right .
Right .
So that 's what w w are we agreed we 'll do that ?
Yeah .
I'm surprised at that Rog cos we 've
Mm .
still got some left .
Ah .
Right .
Lots of them .
Yeah ?
Well .
Not lots I mean we 've probably
got about twenty or so .
I mean it 's surprising how
how often they get used through the year
And we use them
by people people who come are coming for interviews
That 's right .
or people
Mm .
who want to er
Well .
Yeah .
They 're very useful .
That 's it .
I 'll have some of them , and I 'll find out how many .
But that 's
Right .
but that 's the annual report that we bind up
For our own purposes and and and
Right .
the only people
help
are
mind doing that .
John Peter and our own staff .
I think it 's important that our own staff see our financial
Oh .
Yeah .
figures .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Mm ?
I think the interesting , yeah .
And I think those charts are very interesting about where the client base is
Yeah .
for each individual office .
Good .
That 's very good .
The problem with that is of course that
Go on .
if you 're wanting to produce two hundred of those I mean if we colour photocopy and you 're talking about forty five pence each
We don't have to colour photocopy them just s
try it in black and white and see what it comes out like .
Yeah .
But they 're they 're
awful in black and white .
I 've not seen them .
How muc
how much does it cost for a printer to w to whip off two hundred then ?
Year before last
A lot .
Well .
That 's th that 's where the money comes .
Colour is
very expensive .
I mean that 's the same as a colour photograph .
Yeah .
But what 's the ?
I mean the only other thing we could do would be to
downstairs ?
That 's forty five pence
Forty five P
forty five pence a sheet .
Mm .
The the only other thing we could do would be to put would be to make colour acetates and then team brief them .
On the overhead projector .
No .
No .
People want to be able to take it away and study it .
If it 's in brief it 's up
Mm .
and it 's gone and you 're
Well you can put in on the wall afterwards .
It 'll save money .
Yeah .
You s you see
can't ?
two hundred of our staff won't be interested in that .
Do
Right .
do they want individual copies ?
Could we not just put
No .
I don't think they do .
could we not just circulate them ?
The pie one is the interesting one as as Terry said .
Yes .
So people know where our work is coming from .
can't that pie one be done so it would erm
Oh .
Yes .
We can do it we can do it in
do black and white ?
we can do it in black and white Roger .
Yes .
I mean you can get the different hashing
and what not .
That come
That 's erm
out in black and white .
Yes .
Yes .
That 's enough .
I think that would come out in black and white .
That 's enough
You can see where the arrows are .
Ah .
A
Most people
Okay .
We 'll we 'll we 'll try and plot it then produce
say twenty odd of them and circulate them ?
Yeah .
Or you could have a visual mounted display on the boards outside for
No .
People just wouldn't .
they keep coming down .
I I I think if we produce twe say twenty odd and we circulated them through the sections .
Those people who were interested would read them
Right .
and those who wouldn't were n't interested
For twenty odd you might as well run through the printer Trevor .
True .
Mm .
Let the printer do it .
Oh yes .
Yeah .
We 'd just set it going and just
Let them .
There 's no point in
No .
paying
No .
forty five pence a copy when you 've got a printer there .
Jus just just set it going and go go and have your dinner .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yes .
It 's just you know
And certainly we 're not trying to impress we 're trying to get information over aren't we ?
Yes .
That 's right .
So there 's no need to go to great expense of printed what have you .
That 's right .
It 's externally where the money needs to be spent .
It is .
Yes .
Correct .
Which is why the other package which wants doing in
Mm .
this format with
That 's right .
single sheets .
So .
How many copies of the annual report ?
I mean every every one of us should have a copy .
Are we talking about this
Yeah .
financial , the whole of this financial commentary plus
Plus plus a commentary from each function head .
plus a commentary from each function head .
Right .
Yeah .
Three copies for BES .
Shall we send one to the people who are going to Scarborough conference ?
Yeah .
Probably .
Yes .
So we 're talking about twenty
Twenty four
twenty five say .
Twenty five copies ?
Mm .
Right .
When you send the erm the text through for your erm annual reports ca can you let me know where where it is on the network ?
Mm .
If you just tell me which directory it is and what file name it is then we put it all together and erm get at it .
I'm slightly confused now .
We 're gonna do an annual report and I I 've no problem with that .
And doing the write up .
But what about the write up for the
Right .
Glossy .
other ?
Yes .
Well .
We 're gonna have to collaborate on that aren't
Yeah .
we ?
Cos we 're gonna have to decide on a style and then
I mean what I 'll do is I 'll come and sit down with each of you and and we 'll
I 've got one drafted out already .
Great .
It 's very limite it 's about , it 's it 's one picture , about
Mm .
half an A four and then it has something like , no more than six or eight lines .
It says who the client is , what the approximate value of the job was , who the contractor was , and the main issues .
That 's about jobs you 're talking , individual projects ?
Mm .
Mm yes .
Right .
That 's what you were talking about
I thought we were
No .
We 're not .
I'm
Ah .
I'm talking I'm talking about
Oh .
Right .
Well .
Let 's let 's get straight what we are talking about then .
Well .
No .
Jim 's talking about what 's going on
That double sided
on that double sided
Oh .
Sorry .
Right .
Cos I 've finished with
annual report haven't we ?
Yeah .
Now .
Wi with the other , the other exercise is a marketing exercise isn't it ?
Mm .
And basically , again can we just talk about what we 're trying to achieve ?
My understanding is what we 're trying to achieve is , to have a a a double-sided A four sheet , which is intended to demonstrate to our clients , what good lads we are and what good work we do for each in each function .
Mm .
And that 's it basically isn't it ?
No .
Ter Terry 's going on one stage
No .
further with the the project which is
I didn't think we were doing that because that that that
becomes very difficult then .
And I can see why Jim possibly is confused now because I'm confused
No he 's not .
as well .
Oh , you 're not confused .
Right .
There 's only one person confused round here Terry .
But we but we but we will have
to to me
No .
To me I thought we were doing , individual projects which we 'd be able to be update in a loose-leaf format
Yeah .
as new pro as old projects went we threw the old one away and we put a new leaf , loose-leaf sheet in .
And I'm ha
but that means if you only actually fi it , to do it professionally you want enough room to do one project on one side of one sheet .
No .
That wasn't about , it wasn't about projects .
The marketing exercise for me wasn't about projects .
You might wish to put a project in to make a point
Fine .
but
It was about numbers of staff .
It was about
It was it it it it was about for example
Yeah .
this is
this is BESs
Expertise .
staff complement .
This is what BES can do , and have you heard the latest about fire security ?
Are you aware that your lighting might not be appropriate for your V D Us ?
You know marketing in other
Mhm .
words , getting in at a a a particular point on a particular subject .
Right .
We do need to discuss it further then don't we ?
We do .
Yeah .
Can I suggest that we talk about the four thousand pound job as a sort of practice profile if we like ?
Yeah .
Or or or f for
want of a better name at this stage .
A and the annual report is , the financial summary plus the text that you would normally have provided
Yeah .
For previous
years ago about about successes and failures and problems and
Yeah .
er al and and future aspirations .
Yeah .
Now that 's good because it does , it gives us a record which we can refer
Yes .
back to and
Mm .
and see how we 've gone over the year .
.
And that will be circulated to internal erm
Staff .
We 're gonna need more than twenty five cos we 're also gonna to send it off to one or two major er er certainly Peter and people like that I think .
Yeah .
And that we publish ourselves ?
That 's right .
Yes .
Yes .
Yes .
Well .
Aim for fifty .
We 'll have enough for fifty won't we ?
don't
like to hit the clients do you ?
No .
No .
We don't want it to hit the clients .
Otherwise they 're gonna be getting two
No .
different horses .
No .
We don't
It 's in it 's it 's internal
Internal .
It 's internal .
We look at that
the annual report
We .
We agreed to twenty five didn't we ?
Now
Yeah .
if if you think that 's too few
I I I don't think it needs to go to anybody other than Peter really .
Do you ?
I think it 's Peter
It 's Peter
and John .
I think twenty five is too few really .
Thirty .
Well .
I for you
And we can always print a few more up Terry there 's no
To you my boy .
We 're doing it ourselves yeah .
I need seven .
Seven .
Seven I need .
Three .
Seven .
One .
Three .
Six .
One .
Nine .
Erm nine .
Four .
Shall we go for fifty ?
As Terry says ?
Let 's go for fifty .
Okay .
Right .
Let 's get back to the
Right .
I'm printing that .
Yeah .
Let 's get back to this
this other document .
This , we 're all agreed that it 's a marketing exercise and what we 're trying to do is to get across to our clients , what we have to offer to them .
Yes .
And how are we gonna do that ?
We 're gonna use this one or two sheets of A four .
Yeah .
Jim 's got a fairly clear idea of what he wants to do for BES .
Er
I think Terry just wants to expand on it .
don't you ?
I mean y you want what Jim wants but you want another one
That 's right .
And I'm happy to general background like I 've got so many staff .
Some are professionally qualified , some are technically qualified .
We 're experts in surveying work .
We 've got Auto-Canon , that general sort of build up .
Yes .
Erm but then I think we need er I I was hoping we were going that step further
Yes .
in producing
Yes .
individual project sheets .
Ah .
But every project sheet that we produce you 're looking at two or three hundred pounds for each sheet .
That that that 's the only drawback .
And if Jim 's got some some new form of escalator that he wants to er sell to the customers , or or or whatever , th then
Mm .
we will produce those for that purpose .
You see if you 're selling in a magazine or on television or anywhere , you don't talk about what you 've done , other than to if you like exaggerate the point .
What y you 're selling something different to them aren't you ?
Mm .
If some new technology
comes on line for BES , then I can scare clients into having t to give us work like under the Health and Safety legislation .
Then that 's what I want to do .
That 's what I want to use it for .
Why are you looking at York
But surely
and not somewhere else ?
Yeah .
Absolutely .
but sure but but but surely there is also a lot to be said for I I mean you don't go and buy a V W Golf G T I just because somebody says they make one and wouldn't it be good to have one ?
You go there because you 've seen somebody else has got one .
And how good the quality is .
The what ?
So you 're looking at
The car .
the car .
So you 're actually looking at the quality of the product that this particular
Mm .
erm department is offering you .
That 's why that you can't get I I appreciate exactly what Jim 's saying .
Yes .
We can do this and nobody else can .
That 's great .
But you 've also got ta say , and by the way this is one we did earlier .
Oh .
That 's what I mean
you you use those as examples
Yeah .
to back up the main point you 're making which is
I mean that 's not a
w
Sorry .
The the sort of thing that that I would be if I were in running your function Terry , would be to say , look at this package that we 've developed for P T E stations .
That 's right .
Yeah .
And here are some examples of what we 've done .
Yeah .
We can give you the following .
That 's right .
Standard timber platforms .
Standard platforms .
.
Yes .
Your
Exactly .
standard
Yeah .
And have a sheet on that ,
Absolutely .
with estimated costs of the an and an exact
Costs .
And how cost-effective it is .
How how
Yeah .
speedy it is to .
I'm only talking about having something like four sheets for the , in total .
I I I appreciate your point about cost but I'm
four or six sheets at any one time
Yeah .
forming part of
Yeah .
But the i
Can I make just a suggestion ?
the idea was to launch this wasn't it ?
Under you know some sort of little bit of bullshit if you like saying
Yeah .
th this is the first of many updates ,
Yes .
Right .
that you 'll receive from the various functions .
Now
Okay .
I would like , sort of have mine headed , Building Engineering Services Update
Yeah .
so that the client can see that you 're keeping it up to date .
Well .
I think that I'm happy to do that .
But the only query that Trevor 's put in my mind is the fact that he 's saying that the cost is gonna be extortionate .
No .
No .
No .
No .
What I was saying was
don't
Very very careful what you say it because it 's very expensive .
What I'm saying Terry is ,
It is .
if we 've given ourselves a budget of four thousand pounds and we 've ear
No .
That 's
and we 've earmarked that at the moment .
No .
And we 're going to print
Mhm .
an annual report internally at virtually no cost
Mm .
let 's decide if we 're going to produce a glossy sheet for each job , or a glossy sheet for each erm future update
Or package .
Yes .
to custom whatever .
Then we 've got to decide how much we 're prepared to spend on that an and when we 're gonna spend it .
That 's all .
Right .
A a and there is a real cost , a proper cost not just a erm an internal cost for preparing these .
But you 're not talking about every job are you ?
No .
No .
No .
Prestigious jobs
Mm .
Right .
which might not be at year end for example .
I'm I'm supportive of what Trevor says .
If if we do a special works job or a special bridges job that we feel we 've done particularly well , then we can produce for that job
The loose sheet .
the sheet .
Yeah .
And I think it 'll be wonderful .
And on a major project like that it might be sensible to bill that sort of thing into the fees at the at the outset .
Indeed .
because the client 's gonna get the kudos of it .
So we might as well er er
Get paid for it .
get paid for it .
Yeah .
Yeah .
I mean a classic is
Then it costs you to say
Knot Knottingley steelwork .
Is a definite there .
Yeah .
We 're gonna do one on that .
But at we 're gonna also add , on the sort of general description amount we give structural advice on any sort of project .
That
Like Leeds City Station .
Great .
Waiting shelters .
If if you chose Knottingley
Bradford Foster Square ?
the sensible thing would be
Mm .
To have a combined one .
for me for the C E D G to have a combined BES Works
There may be some
presentation .
that can be combined .
There may be some that can be combined to save money .
That 's right .
I mean Knottingley is perfect .
Oh .
Yeah .
An and I mean what are we trying to say ?
We 're trying to say , we can provide you
A package .
with a comprehensive package .
Mm .
Yeah .
And lose money at the same time .
And they don't need to know that .
Not necessarily .
It was a laugh .
It was an exercise
But these this is a
Not
Yeah .
Right .
Right .
Lie it down .
I'm happy with that .
I take it that we 're not , that that 's gonna be the second phase then ?
Mm .
We get this bit out first
Well
and and then we come back with this second phase .
Well .
Yes .
But I possibly the point I mean
we can't afford it to look to drag on too long .
We need to set a timescale on it .
Ri w with Terry and Jim and
the first ones
and a a and and and agree them and say , yeah .
That 's ex that is exactly what
That 's right .
we want .
And then Terry and er sorry Roger and Norman and erm David
can
Now
work from that .
what it would be interesting to would be to using the
What do you mean ?
using the
Mm .
cross rail tender type of document would be to have a standard three or four sheets that were relative to the whole group .
I I know you you know you have a specific BES one when it goes
Mm .
out
got ta be
A group one .
er in case you didn't know
That 's right .
Yeah .
this is who we are .
Yeah .
Yeah .
the key items
Absolutely .
a a a sorry .
Th th
Sorry Trevor .
the skills and facilities that we
Yeah .
that we have .
I E the C V type of stuff .
And you 'd want one to tell them about
CAD
for example .
Yes .
That we 've got X machines and systems interactive
You know you didn't know before but now we have we have if you like .
We know can do anything on CAD for you .
Intergraph , Autocad , MOSS
I mean they didn't know that do they ?
Superstress
Mm .
P G D , C B D .
And then there are subjects like that which are non project specific but which are
That 's right .
Yes .
important .
Yeah .
Exactly
So .
This is useful .
Erm so what are our main messages in this document ?
To help
Comprehensive service is surely number one ?
Right .
The fact we can offer
Yeah .
comprehensive engineering service
Expertise .
Comprehensive service .
High quality finished product .
Look at these photos .
Experience of working in r er er a railway environment and minimizing
disruption to the
A wide rang a wide range of clients .
Safety .
Safety .
S
We must tell them something about our staff as well .
Yeah .
That was e I thought that was in expertise
Mhm .
but perhaps that 's not quite
Yeah .
CAD .
Yeah .
Er professionalism of staff .
I'm gonna have to pop out for a moment .
That 's a point .
That 's that 's enough to start isn't it ?
Mm .
Yeah .
too
Yeah .
long-winded .
Excuse me for a moment .
Well yeah .
And you want , well I mean , each A four sheet needs to be on a particular subject .
Mm .
doesn't it ?
I mean you know some people will be particularly interested to read about what we 're doing with CAD .
Well the same message
one side .
Yeah .
You know .
Up to date with CONDAM regs
Condom regs
think of him he 's a world expert on CONDAM everything
CONDAM regs .
Oh CONDAM regs .
I thought you were gonna
say
It 's like this set of golf clubs he wants .
You know that he buys because everybody else does .
No .
The ones I 've got very hot .
Mm .
His golf cl He , he 's I thought he was
Taking
A whole hour off .
Did you hear that Norman ?
Yes .
Jim too .
We wer we were n't gonna mention that .
Ah .
No .
No .
Only at one hole .
Only at one hole .
Mm .
Tt .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Normally we 'd be talking about him but because the tape recorder 's on
Yeah .
Switch it o switch it in on again now .
Let 's hope you know er Hughie doesn't listen to that bit .
That 's all is it ?
Right .
Thank you .
Whoopee .
Right ?
First of June we talked about didn't we , to get
Yes .
We did .
?
Yeah .
Right ?
That 's for this ?
That 's for this , yes .
Not for the annual report .
No .
No .
No .
Who 's in the initiative ?
Goodness me..
Yeah .
Well Jim and I are to start with to get the er
track .
Are we ?
Are we gonna
Mm .
W Can we ?
firm up on partner 's design ?
Do you want us to go to other graphics firms for alternative quotes ?
Alternative designs ?
I mean at the end of the day it becomes subjective , like choosing wallpaper .
Mm .
It looks
I I I think what they 've produced is pretty good .
I would say that to we should give you a bit of freedom in terms of price , therefore I think we should er allow you to spend up to say five thousand pounds ?
Right .
Erm it it doesn't er er a from what I know of the the Swindon one , five thousand pounds seems very fair .
Yes .
They paid a lot more
than .
Mm .
return them .
Yeah .
It is quite out of
It is five
date now .
It is five percent of our expenditure budget for this year of course .
For our you know
Mm .
Sorry .
It 's five Ks less lighting improvement , carpeting
Mm .
But you work on you work on the principle that you 'll only get that back and more .
If you don't the whole thing
Yes .
Is a waste of time ?
is a waste of time isn't it ?
Yes .
Yes I agree .
Mm .
I agree .
Any advertising 's got ta cover itself .
Yeah .
Mm .
Is it part of the Intercity trademark that the silver swallow has to go to to right-hand up to
Mm .
the
Er
a wire which is ?
It has to be a certain size it has be flying
Yeah .
at a certain speed
Cos that 's important .
That swallow while it 's not
We haven't discussed that in great detail .
By the way
.
Yeah .
But we we will make sure it 's in the right place .
The slight sna the slight snag is it says Intercity .
Well .
Yeah .
We 've had this argument before .
Well unfortu sorry .
A a and if it says Intercity it then it then it really ought to be maroon or the
that 's corporate .
You can have the
No .
. That 's corporate .
You can have the
Yeah .
that corporate standards would apply there .
Look .
Whether we like it
or not
You can have the choice you
we we are
can have
we are owned by Intercity
and and and that is what we 're selling at the moment .
Okay ?
Not for long though .
Well for two years .
But we 're we 're that 's the most prestigious subsidiary of British Rail that 's what
It is indeed .
we 're selling .
Right .
Okay .
I wouldn't like to have the British Railways
I 'd go along with that .
Mm .
But don't tell them .
Or Railfreight Distribution .
So I suppose you 're fairly happy with your
fif fifteen point nine
I 'll tell you what I 'd rather be Intercity than Central Services in terms of the market we 've got .
.
No problem .
Have you seen the civil engineer of Railfreight Distribution ?
No .
Oh yes !
John
Ah no .
No .
No .
He 's
I can't .
I just could n't believe it .
?
Yeah .
Oh god .
Right .
Ah .
Very good .
So you 've got five thousand pounds
I mean whether
Right .
he takes his friend to work I don't know .
Nigel 's going to be turning in his grave .
Yeah .
Five thousand pounds to spend
I'm lost .
an and we 're gonna get it out by the first of June .
You know that ?
Do you remember ?
Right .
Really ?
Mm .
Out by the first of June ?
That 's our target date .
Right .
Good
Trevor and Jim are gonna produce the first
How ?
the first sheets er and in the meantime , I mean I'm hoping that Roger and Norman and Dave are at least putting something together ,
Mm .
so that when the first sheets are produced it 's just a matter of saying , oh , yeah , I 'll edit this now in that sort of format .
I mean if you could You know what we 're looking for now .
We 're looking for about two big paragraphs or so plus some photographs , to go onto one of these .
So if you could precis or select from the text that you 've already prepared for the annual report , something that will go in there that says why your functions are
Brilliant .
the best thing on B R for that particular discipline .
Then er it it 's only gonna be a case then of knocking it into the same style for all
Mm .
seven sheets .
Great .
If we say fifty
percent
Good .
no more than fifty percent photos in those two sides ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
You can have the
the the
the general ?
A
Have a two , two or three photographs .
Up up up up to three photographs .
Er two on one side one on the other one
Well you you said one A four sheet now you 're saying it 's double-sided .
Oh it 's certainly double-sided .
Double-sided glossy
That 's
Mm .
two .
No .
It 's one double-sided .
It 's the one double-sided .
It 's an A four
sheet doubled-sided
Mm .
up to three colour photographs per function .
Yeah .
But
And I and I would also say that if if
for example Roger felt that he could n't get all of the message that he wanted on there that we would consider two .
Selling him some space from your space David .
Mm .
Oh but why ?
colour photos .
Alright .
If Terry does .
I'm happy with that
Not BES though .
I know that 's gonna push the the the cost up
No .
I'm I'm I'm I'm easy .
Yeah .
If you , all I don't want us to do is to start drifting into the second exercise as part of this first exercise which sounds very much
Alright .
you 're starting to talk projects rather than
Yeah .
I
er rather than function .
I just I I just feel at this stage
I just don't wanna constrain people so much that
Alright .
we that we don't get any value out of it .
I mean maybe if Roger came up and said , well , I want five , then clearly we would say , come off it Roger .
Let 's have a look .
But I 'd rather I 'd rather he presented us with five that we could then reduce to two ,
Yeah .
than
Mm .
than have to constrain himself to one and and and there 's just no m content there .
Are you with me ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
Because then we could make a conscious decision as as a management team , as to whether we were gonna increase the price to five thousand five hundred or six thousand
Yeah .
and get so much more value out of it .
And then of course there needs to be a a budget for the rest of the year doesn't there ?
Yes there
does .
Yes .
For for presenting projects .
Good .
Right .
Next item .
Project safety training for project engineers .
Now then .
This has come about as a result of , well no .
It it had been on the agenda before .
And if you remember in the past , we agreed that we would send either one or two people on the project management safety courses that were being run by Vic .
Or had been organized by Vic .
And somebody was gonna go and review the relevance to this organization , so that we could determine what we did about it .
Mm .
And our feeling , if if my memory serves me right , was that we felt that our site safety courses were adequate and gave
Correct .
a reasonable training .
Right .
So that was
Plus all our other courses .
Yes .
That 's right .
We thought we had enough expertise with our our in-house training , without having to go on a separate one thousand five hundred pounds project management course .
Right .
Since then Jim who manages the project engineer course , has spoken to Trevor , and also since then we 've had er contact from Regional Railways our major client , who have actually said that they require us to have this expertise .
With regard to
Leeds North West .
No .
projects which they will select .
Over to Trevor .
Jim is coming to see me on the fourth of May .
Is that Tuesday ?
Yes .
Mm .
Erm and Hugh has changed his diary so that erm he can see Jim as well .
And it would be helpful , I know it 's short notice , but if erm those of you from the erm tt er design function groups who will interface with the project engineers , I E bridge works , BES and and P Way , if you could also attend it i if if it would be possible .
I mean we 're only talking about half an hour or so er at some time around about eleven o'clock on Tuesday morning .
Jim 's very convincing about the th the difference between this course and the sort of courses that erm er that we have actually run , and and erm automatically include in our training for our our staff .
I mean Jim 's a civil engineer himself and he knows the skills and disciplines that that that we work to .
He points out that this safety exercise is about assessing risk where one set of circumstances might be alright within that particular discipline , but when you actually put that along the side of a similar sort of marginal safe systems , that are in other disciplines , er th that you might end up with a conflict or or or highlighting some form of erm er permutation , that could end up in in what satisfies all the codes and regulations and blue books and whatever , but at the end of can do this and nobody else can .
That 's great .
But you 've also got that that that you notice well down the erm the expenditure on a project , that you 're gonna have to have to go back and change something that should have been sorted out at the start .
Does he give examples ?
Yeah .
But they 're not very good .
He does but they 're not very good as far as we 're concerned .
He he gives examples of level crossings that might be perfectly alright as erm automatic half barriers in their own right , as far as er signalling constraint , and as far as siting constraint .
But when you actually put them all together , and and recognize the traffic flows , and the location of the nearby school and the shopping centre and on one or two other things , that at the end of the day this perhaps is a site where tt er full barriers and and C C T V might be more appropriate .
Other cent o o other jobs where
what you 're doing .
What you 're
Mm .
I I don't
Yes .
It 's project engineering Roger but it 's actually saying that the project manager needs to be trained to to ferret out certain information .
The project manager ?
Yes .
Yeah .
I'm happy with that .
And that the people that are s
that the people that are supporting the project manager also ought to be encouraged not to just to keep their blinkers on , and work within their own discipline , and say , I 've nothing to worry about , I work to the blue book , I work to the code of practice , I work to the British Standard .
But they ought to be encouraged to look over the fence at at er
Well I hope they do because you end up with the wrong bloody solution if you just go at it like that .
You put the wrong bloody bridge in if you forget the implications on track or
everything else .
So what what they 're actually saying is that here is a formal training that will make sure that everybody at the , who goes on this course , comes away with a measure of having achieved those skills because th the course itself is formed of two parts .
Two days on the Health and Safety at Work Act , which we can probably do without , because if we can pass the exam before we go on the course then we don't need to do those first two days .
The other three days are on this erm lateral thinking risk assessment type of erm
Project safety
project safety plans .
Mm .
And
Cos we 're already producing those .
Mm .
We are but we 've never been formally trained in them .
And Jim genuinely feels , oh and again that element is examinable .
Then at the end of the day you 've actually something to say , yes .
This person has got these skills to carry out this .
And that would sit quite well with our quality systems .
True .
So it depends on at what level we decide to train this down to .
Mm .
From the client
We 'd certainly be s
Sorry .
We don't s we don't see the a a vast number of our staff being trained in this way .
At fifteen hundred pounds a time .
From the client 's point of view Regional Railways were quite adamant that erm if we didn't do it then they would find somebody who was prepared to .
Provide that service .
What about
So
my arguments ?
One of my arguments for doing it
Come off it .
Pull the other one .
one of my arguments for
Hang on .
doing it Roger is that we sit here and we say to our clients , ah but you really ought to be coming to us because we 're railway experts .
Yeah .
You should n't go to other consultants because they 're not as good as us .
They don't have the special skills and training that you need to carry out working within the railway environment .
And then once some specialist railway training comes along , we 're arguing that we don't need it .
.
Right .
No .
We 're only arguing
Can I
we don't need it because w we we 're confused A , as to how this suddenly gets
Mm .
er slung on us from another department .
Er and B , that surely a lot of it is covered in our training already .
That we 're not saying ,
Yeah .
you know , we should n't be training
railway safety we 're wondering
You actually ?
how this clashes with everything else that we 've been doing .
Yes .
Well we 'll not , we 'll not know that until we 've actually sent somebody on it , which is what we what
Well could I just something ?
we agreed to do something like six months ago .
Because you can't get the course .
Well I 've spoken to Keith and Kim from B-TEC about some of this and er things are not as clear-cut as people are perhaps making out .
Right .
I can understand some of the exclusivity it would give us by our undertaking
Mm .
this course .
But it 's a hell of a lot of money .
It is .
And are talking about I think more than just a few people erm therefore the s
It 's non it 's non fee earning work .
There 's a loss of the work whilst they go on the course fifteen thousand
That 's that 's
quid and
Mm .
at the moment the only source it 's come from is directed projects .
Correct .
Yes .
It 's not come from anywhere else it 's not a group standard
Yeah .
directed and
The only , the only thing is Terry that that the directed
projects has done a bloody good selling exercise because he 's convinced these people
that everybody should do it .
Well remember though but the problem is with project managers didn't have any
Training at all .
training .
Yeah .
True .
That 's where you started from .
Can I just say that I
I 've not quite finished Trevor .
The other thing is under the CONDAM regulations , the responsibility for arranging the right quality of staff in terms of providing resources , in terms of time and finance , lies with the client .
Therefore if Regional Railways wants us to do it , I think we have , there is some merit in us going back to them and saying , yes , we 'll do it .
If it 's Leeds North West project , we 'll charge it to that project .
No .
Well I'm I'm sorry but that is what
the CONDAM regulations say .
That 's like employing a bricklayer and then going down to Barnitts and buying his tools for him .
I think that 's absolutely ridiculous
Hear hear .
No .
But I'm sorry but the CONDAM regulations lay the health and safety plans and risk assessment out in exactly that format .
The client can't li s stand back and say , it 's all up to you to do it .
There 's a
acceptable .
there 's a lovely paragraph in Aiden er covering note to the submission for Leeds North West .
And this paragraph 's is something to the effect that your , here is the erm tt the estimate of our work and we 're seeking authority .
If other safety er implications or safety requirements er impinge on this project then these will be funded by me .
Correct .
And that 's regulations say
they must fund
Right .
them .
Can I can I just focus your mind on two things gents ?
If you w u unfortunately we didn't look at the financial commentary as the first item .
If we had done , you would see that s s still something like forty five percent of our work is for Regional Railways .
Oh aye .
You would see that something like thirty percent of our work is at Leeds North West electrification .
From the meeting that m that Trevor and I had with Keith the other day , erm Keith is actually working in support of us to try and m maintain us working for them in the future .
Against great adversity .
Mm .
The point I'm gon I'm I'm coming to is this , that we have with regard to Regional Railways work , forty five percent of our workload which I see is at
extreme risk .
Now there 's no way I'm gonna talk to tha he they are our major client .
It 's extremely risky that we could lose all of that work over the next four months .
In my humble opinion if we can find a formula round this table for satisfying them , and that 's , I mean that 's who we 're trying to satisfy .
They 're the ones who are saying , Look .
These courses are on o o on the go .
We want your people to be trained in them .
There 's no way I'm gonna turn round to them and say , Get stuffed .
I want to retain that work .
For us to retain that work we are gonna have to bend over backwards to do what Regional Railways want .
So I think what we should
be doing , us at the management team here , is saying , look , we know we 're gonna have trou we want to please the client .
How do we please the client ?
And do we do it within the financial
.
How do you recover your money ?
constraints that we have ?
Well how do you recover
your money ?
Can we just
Well
look at the money for a moment because if you look , when we come to look at the financial commentary , we will be going down the erm er what we spent our training budget on
Mm .
last year .
A and perhaps instead of employing Mr last year er as we did last year to do management development , this year we could have er safety development as being
Mm .
the focus for our training .
We spent a lot of money on MOSS training last year because
it was necessary .
We will be s spending more money on MOSS
S say s
training and more money
Certainly .
on CAD training .
But why is it fifteen hundred pounds ?
Quite .
Erm
And how do we know Intercity aren't gonna come along and demand a different course ?
Roger th that that 's
one of the reasons
Yeah .
for me meeting with Jim was to say , yes , that 's fine but if at the end of the day we have to train down to a certain level within our group , there 's no way can we afford five man-days of lost fees and fifteen hundred pounds .
Mm .
How could we get it down ?
Could we have it in York ?
Could we have it non-residential ?
Could we have it
We 've got so many people could you come up here and do
Mm .
a three day training course .
And we will sort out the health and safety elements with in-house training , and we 'll run the erm er the examinations ourselves type of thing .
And all those sort of things are available to us if we want to develop it .
But what we 've got to decide first is , whether we 're gonna do it and if so at what level ?
If we were gonna say , right , this only is gonna apply to mega- projects , tt and therefore it would be appropriate for the project coordinator to be the person to sit down at the start of the job , when he 's agreeing the remit with the client , when he 's developing the erm tt er who 's doing what within the functions .
If it 's appropriate for him to sit down there with the project manager , then we haven't got a problem .
Because we will only have erm less than a dozen project coordinators at
No .
It 's not it 's not on that level .
The project quality plan is produced by the project engineer looking after the job , and that is not the project coordinator .
It 's a much lower level ?
Er I might also say , on open access which is something that I was at a meeting for yesterday in London .
Is that you you must give in our tender documents , we must tell the contractor what he has to allow for in his price .
And that will be , attending P T S training courses and at and having medicals .
Cos that allows him to the cost ?
And that fits
Mm .
quite well within
Mm .
CONDAM regulations .
Now in some respects what I think should happen , is we should , yeah we should not be negative about going on the course , but in terms of the financial implications I'm very worried about that and I think there is a erm , there is some need for the client to say , that if he wants us to go on this course we 're happy to go on it , but that he should look seriously at financing and he plus it should have been in the tender document .
In thi in a normal contractual situation , if the client
Yeah .
turns round to you half way through the job and says by the way you must do this .
It 's a V O situation .
Mm .
Now
Yeah .
Right .
I I'm not trying to be a I'm not trying to be obstructive I'm just trying to get
No .
No .
the responsibility where it
Terry .
I I
rests as a shared one it 's not just ours .
I I don't dispute anything
that say there , but what I would suggest is that if we do this , if we actually train up , pay for a number of our staff to be trained , we have a unique selling point .
Yeah .
I could n't agree more .
And it
down our vision aims doesn't it ?
It does indeed .
It gives it gives it gives us a strength
Well I
over I mean let us let us let us
Why have we changed our minds though ?
We said we said at the start of this that we did enough training .
I don't think we do .
Well how does this fit in to C stage ?
Well how do you know ?
How do you know ?
We the I R S E ?
How does
it fit into that ?
This
is what puzzles me .
did
Can I can I give you a scenario ?
say it would start ju just re recap
Mm .
We did say at the discussion , that we did a four and a half day or a five day construction site safety
Yeah .
course .
We train our people in C S S
Well that 's construction safety isn't it ?
That 's nothing
to do with whether
Yeah .
or not w w we should be having a bridge or a
I'm sorry because
or or a er er a level crossing
or a s a a erm a .
But Trevor I thought the consensus at the start
Mm .
of this discussion was the fact that we had , and it was , certainly was the last time we talked about it because that 's why we only sent one person on it .
To find out to find out
Well we haven't sent anybody yet as far as I know .
I thought it was Steve been on it ?
No .
Oh right .
Well I thought we we had decided that unless there was any added benefit to it , we were n't actually gonna attend .
There was no point in sending your staff .
Yeah but we 're talking round this .
We are .
Can I sug can I ask if
But we 're doing project safety now and it 's working .
the four the four people at this end of the table would be prepar five people at this end of the table would be available
To talk to Jim .
to talk to Jim on Monday er
By all means .
on Tuesday ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
By all means .
Well I'm not here but I 'll
If he 's in .
Fourteenth ?
You see I I , can I just ?
I
Mm .
agree with that .
I I would like as many of the front line people as possible
to meet with Jim so that we can a a the objective of which will be for Jim to tell us what the content of his course is , so we can assess where whether there are gaps in our training .
Two , to see whether we can knock down the price and whether we can get him to come up here in the same way as Doctor does and do it that way to reduce the costs .
Erm and I think that 's basically it isn't it ?
That 's it .
Er and I'm sure that
h he 's quite happy to do that that second item .
Erm he does say in the course that residential is better because i it does tend to be a very intensive erm course .
You 're working up till midnight on a couple of days .
They 're not good courses .
If we make it
non-residential
the money that we save on on on the residential bit we could perhaps say , right then we 'll do that bit in four days .
We 'll we 'll we 'll do a potted health and safety ourselves .
Er er and we 'll run the other bit non-residential over four days
Mm .
perhaps finishing at six
But
o'clock or whatever .
Right .
So Roger , Jim , Terry , Trev , Norman and myself 'll meet Jim on
Well I'm not here
so I 'll have to send down
So you 're saying it 's Tuesday afternoon
Fourteenth ?
What time is it ?
at four .
No .
It 's at four
Fourteenth ?
It 's at four .
No .
The fourth .
Oh .
The fourth .
At what time ?
A about eleven o'clock .
He 's coming
In my office .
He 's coming
Here ?
Yes .
Yes .
He 's coming from
Edinburgh .
Hugh and I have got a meeting at ten which will be clear by eleven .
Erm
h he 's got a , he 's coming down from Edinburgh and he wants to call in and see me about something and I don't know what because I 've only spoken to his secretary .
But I think that if we can grab him just for half and hour
Great .
and let him er e explain .
You see gents what we 've got to be aware of is , if Glasgow and Birmingham for example
buy into this and we don't
And they will .
I think so .
Well Birmingham certainly will cos it 's the sort of thing they like doing .
Where does that leave us ?
Because
I I be under
work .
be under no illusions gentlemen that er Keith is under a lot of pressure to put his work to Birmingham and Glasgow , and not to York .
Mm .
But we know why they 're
not gonna do it don't they ?
It doesn't make financial sense .
Yeah .
But I mean Keith Keith is actually sticking his neck out on our behalf .
Mm .
Yes .
I'm aware of that .
And and as I said the work is at risk and and don't kid yourself it ai n't .
No .
Because it is .
Yeah .
Ah .
But Peter Peter
Peter
Mm .
and and
Yeah .
and erm Richard are determined that the work will be done in-house by Regional Railways .
Mm .
Mm .
if that happens we 've got to market Intercity a lot harder than they are and take and take the work
off Birmingham , that they 're doing that they should n't be doing .
Cos they 're still doing a hell of a lot of our
Yes .
work .
Yeah .
We we 've
the subject .
Yeah .
The point I was making was that that we we need every
We don't want to
unique selling point we can
to be able to convince c er our clients that they should come to us rather than somebody else .
And if you actually remove a unique selling point and hand it over to one of your competitors
that to me is not good business .
No .
And for the future i it is useful to have qualified staff so that whether they be technically qualified
It 's essential .
it ?
academically
Yeah .
qualified .
Safety
I I I can
qualified .
I can believe they won't complement our
I can't believe
our site safety er
Cos I can't see that
they 'll have the expertise that we have in our site construction safety courses .
And I'm sure they 'll have a different expertise .
Another example you see
Sorry Trevor .
I 've just chap , one of my chaps has just come back off a three days , confined spaces , responsible person course .
Yeah .
So it 's
I mean I 've I 've debriefed him and there is a heck of a lot more to confined spaces
Yeah .
than he ever thought .
Yes .
And
Mm .
indeed he he now is a tremendous asset to us .
Yes .
And yet and yet
Aha so is he
legally
good enough for the whole group ?
Well he is that 's why we
We don't need everybody to go on that
We 've got
and Steve .
Granville and Steve .
We 've got three .
Mm .
We agreed that .
You should have somebody
in your office
Mm .
I think Roger .
But actually the first part of it
is just the same as the confined space
Very rare .
authorized .
Very rare if Roger goes in .
any of us to go into confined spaces .
.
No .
Hugh 's people go
Not there
Yeah .
Wait a minute , you see that 's the problem .
Yeah .
Yeah .
the chap that I sent he thought he knew what a confined space was .
He came back and he said , nearly everywhere we work we 're working in confined spaces .
Yeah .
Places where we never
thought were confined spaces .
I should have my office bigger .
But you 're still working on it aren't you ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
I'm working on it .
All you need is an accident .
Yeah .
and then the law would tell you where you 're going wrong .
And that 's the problem with safety isn't it ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
The traffic lights syndrome .
Yeah .
And the more qualified you are on safety the more prepared you are
I think
the only thing to bear in mind is that we a little bit careful w with the changing environment we 're working in that it , with it only being pushed forward by direct projects if if nobody else wants it we could be wasting some of our money .
I
Yeah .
Terry the way this came about is that one of our clients is saying he wants us to do it .
Yeah .
That that was how
it 's come about .
I mean we have the
Well ju but at the moment just for Leeds North West as far as I'm aware .
No .
No .
He said for any project
No .
in the future .
Any project .
B but the fact the pro the safety strategy for Leeds North West is not yet written , is rather ironical .
Mm .
For the project 's you know
Mm .
Okay .
Tt right .
Not issued anyway .
So we 'll see Jim and then we will decide on a strategy for
Presume we we should also write to Peter and ask him if he 's got any spare safety money to er
Well our o our is three stage pron proje
Yeah .
process .
We we see Jim , we decide amongst ourselves whether we have the need , and I think I mean I I believe we do anyhow .
Er we evaluate the need and how many people want to go on it , we evaluate what it 's gonna cost and then we see if we can get money through the the safety budget that director safety holds .
Yes .
And then away we go .
Right .
Mm .
Good .
Reasonable ?
Mm .
C D G Scarborough conference update .
Trevor again .
We 've fixed the dates for erm Scarborough er er as we 'd previously er talked about .
It 's er
You 've forgotten haven't you ?
nineteenth , twentieth , twenty first of
Correct .
Yeah .
Nineteenth , twentieth ,
Er we 've fixed the hotel and Nola 's got a
N no I haven't .
Ah .
Well I forgot the name of it er the Nichol St Nicholas ?
Nicholas .
Nicholas
St Nicholas .
St Nicholas it 's got a
massive
It 's
Swimming pool has it ?
It 's got a nice little swimming pool although evidently it looks really nice on the photograph because it looks like a big rectangular one .
It 's actually
Three foot square ?
it 's actually a triangular
Clever .
and and the photographer 's just sort of chopped it up along the along the
er hypotenuse , which I think is a bit sneaky really .
?
No .
No .
No .
I sent Rachel to Scarborough to er
to look at all the accommodation to make sure of th that it was er suitable .
wish you were here
Yes .
It 's four-poster beds .
It 's been on Wish You Were Here .
It 's er
There 's a gym as well
We 've booked
.
We should have bou should have bought .
Accommodation will be erm
?
No ?
single or double rooms booked single occ occupancy in double rooms .
Er all the
But Mr
Presupposes
so it should keep him in order
Erm the , there is an annex to the hotel , so some of us will be sleeping in the annex but taking all our meals in the , and it 's just round the corner
Mm .
so there 's there 's really no problem there , no .
It is ?
Er and we will be
we will be having dinner there on the Wednesday evening before we go on the dodgems .
Good .
Er and then full day erm
Good .
a full day programme on the Thursday and working up until erm mid-afternoon on the Friday .
Er and Jane has sent us in some proposals , which erm she 's s since modified and is now working on and she 's calling in to see us for half a day in the near future to
Just to firm up on final
just to on on various bits and pieces .
Mm .
What we do need to know is er who is coming from each function .
Yo you know the numbers that were allocated to you last time .
C can we just r recap
What ?
on those cos I .
Alright .
No .
I I 've got them written down .
I 'll I 'll let you have them .
If you would .
Yeah .
Thank you .
Er we do need to know w we did I did actually a ask Lawrence , who is one of the two management staff reps , whether or not he was available , cos I know Lawrence as i as er a local councillor has a fairly busy diary .
Erm we suggested Lawrence rather than Tony because he 's younger and and
Got a future with us .
Aye .
Tony did express an interest in going last time so we felt that
Mm .
Lawrence perhaps is younger and more
That 's fine .
er so I invited Lawrence , but he was concerned about his workload , and felt that because of the staffing within the bridge office , it might not be convenient
Mm .
for Roger to release him .
So I said that I would raise that a and er er
What 's he working on Rog ?
Oh he 's off work and you see he has all the time off for councils and you know it isn't as if he 's there fulltime .
And er you know
Right .
more time off .
Mm .
Up to you Roger .
Well I 'd prefer him not to go but
Right .
you know it is di
Mm .
it 's a very difficult decision to to take you know .
I can go Bill can go but he can't .
Erm
I I I would like I would like a sta
We 're talking two managers aren't we ?
I would like a staff rep to be there and I think it should be a management staff rep .
I mean we debated this at the last meeting didn't we ?
Yes .
And we concluded that it was a bloody good idea .
Mm .
Erm and out of the two I mean there 's no doubt in my mind , that Lawrence should be the one to go .
Tony is as Trevor said is has has has got aspirations
to leave if if the voluntary severance comes up again and the whole purpose of the exercise is to look to our future .
I think it 's one of the most important things that we 're gonna do this year .
And you know the objective for us is to see where we 're going , to be able to encourage our staff to realize that as a , that we have a future .
Er w which in turn is is intended to minimize the loss of staff over the next two years .
Er a and for one guy to attend for two days , the guy might go off for for two days .
Er if we could find a way of getting him there , I think it would be worthwhile .
That 's my opinion .
Anybody disagree ?
It 's not us who 'll have to sit in front
of the er client and explain why things are
I understand that .
back on er o on a project .
Yeah .
Well that 's where we 've got to prioritize isn't it ?
Rog knows best .
I agree with what you say erm it 's just unfortunate that it 's Lawrence .
Erm we 're you know having enough trouble
Mm .
with his council work and everything and erm whether
How many people have you got in the council in your office ?
At least two .
Dave Dave
Dave and Lawrence at the moment that 's all but others with aspirations .
But David 's only part-time anyway isn't he ?
What at work ?
Oh at work .
I mean
the council .
A a at work he he he 's
Why ?
Get fifty percent of Dave now , we only used to get like twenty five before
Yeah .
But you only pay him fifty percent of his salary .
That 's right .
Yeah .
Cos I mean get a good deal
with
Yeah .
Mm .
you know we don't get a good deal with Dave because we 're paying hundred percent overheads on the seat he 's sitting
Yes .
in and that sort of thing .
I 'll see what we can do .
Erm
I 'll tell you what R I mean Roger I 'll leave it entirely with you .
If if if you can't afford it so be it .
It was a good it was a good thought and I mean I I personally
We 'll see if there are ways round it
See .
Yeah .
it by slaving away
Yeah .
with .
I mean if you can't
that 's that 's another option isn't it ?
If he if you would
Yeah .
be prepared to erm
To work on a Sa on a Saturday say .
Yes .
Yeah .
Right .
I 'll see what we can do about that .
Okay .
Erm Right .
So that that looks as though it 's going well .
I was .
Are you gonna get an agenda out for it Trevor before
Oh yes .
Yes .
Erm
Good .
well I'm not but Jane 'll Jane will be giving us erm
Got two Rs
a package
to sort of set out what we 're gonna do and er
how we 're gonna achieve it .
Bloody hell .
I just don't see them as being
Yeah .
I I think it 's
we would spending quite a lot of money
with her and er she 's doing a lot of preparation work .
I mean w
Yeah .
Yeah .
If if that 's what people think it 's about then then we haven't got across haven't we ?
No .
Erm
Yes .
How do we get across to the staff the purpose of this exercise ?
Cos the purpose of the exercise is for us to see how far we 've come , but the most important purpose of the exercise is to determine where we wanna go .
I need to receive a staff
Well
release er a press release w w before we go .
W w
The press release th the the letter I sent to erm Chris
Yeah .
or or to Peter to pass on to Chris didn't that sum it up
Yes it did .
reasonably well ?
I thought
distributed
Can we ?
Can we team brief ?
team brief
I know we
I know we team briefed last time round but su
Did we ?
That that we were gonna have this .
told
Have you got my letter ?
.
But but I
Yes .
But what worries me my friend is that that erm
I have been talking to one or two members of s staff at a fairly low level over the last week .
And they haven't the faintest idea what we 're doing .
So the team
briefing was certainly ineffective .
Have a look and see if that sums it up .
I can't believe it .
No .
Seriously .
The the staff don't know what we 're up to .
Er a a and the
Although we could n't tell them that we 're trying to achieve because we haven't we haven't discussed
Right .
that yet .
We know we 're looking
Mm .
at how we 're to go forward in the future an and improve the service
Mm .
to the client .
It was a sim mine was a simple team brief I don't know
Mm .
I I I spoke to two two people from two different organizations .
Two people who are planning to leave our organization , and the purpose of talking to them was to say , oh , what 's the problem ?
Why are you wanting to leave ?
Er and in both cases it was er a feeling of insecurity , and that they felt they would be more secure going to a different part of the organization .
Great I'm
And and and quite honestly the parts of the organization they were going to I don't perceive as being any more secure .
There 's no more security anywhere at the moment is there ?
I mean there 's none .
No .
So
er
the whole purpose of our exercise was to give the staff a better feeling of security .
Mm .
And and a and if you like an affirmation that they 've got a future with us .
So that we could keep the bloody team together over the next few years .
It 's gonna be even more difficult another three or four posts I believe are now appointed with Aiden that will create vacancies .
Alan 's gone .
was a project manager .
Right .
So I I'm gonna suggest that we we re-team brief it this time round
What with that letter or something similar ?
Som yeah .
We can use that
as the basis for it .
Mm .
these people can't say then w what our , that they don't know what our intentions are .
No .
That 's right .
What we 're aiming to achieve and
Yeah .
how we 're gonna do it .
Yeah .
Good .
What might be useful Trev is , Jane put together this proposal ,
Yeah .
an and inside that proposal were objectives .
Erm
Which yes .
and if we get a photoc I 've changed our
Yes but she 's , yeah .
You you scribbled on
That 's right on her on the copy of that .
on that copy .
Yeah .
We haven't had time to look at that either have we ?
No .
No .
Obviously don't , a bit naughty if you 've agreed objectives and we haven't seen them .
copies still got .
Pardon ?
If you want to use the original if you 'd
Oh I 've
feel happier
I 've still got it .
Yes .
But bef before we start issuing that we ought to get the members of this this group here to agree what the objectives are .
If if we 're gonna accept those
Mm .
Right .
before the conference .
Er ?
I thought we did that last time .
I thought we 'd done that , because that that was the remit that we agreed at this table round this table .
I 'll tell you what they are anyway .
And then we we actually put those to to Jane , Hugh , Jim , myself .
And she went away and produced that document after we 'd given her the brief .
They they 're summarized here and what I 'll do is we 'll get photocopies off these before team brief .
To recognize the successes achieved by the group over the last two to three years .
To understand the future we face , in terms of who our customers will be , suppliers and competitors .
To agree what the overall aspirations of the group are , what what is our current vision and values for future .
To identify current and potential customers explore their needs and expectations now and in the future .
To agree key business developments .
Where do we need to improve our competitive edge .
What would be our business strategy , our project development and market development .
Er for us to identify current problems and improvement opportunities , so that we can deliver our product and services .
And the one that I added in was to identify the options available to the group regarding future ownership .
Er to work on the key issues which are common to all options for the future , er such that th we can put ourselves in the best position to secure future business success .
I think those are broad enough headings such that
To cover anything
none of us are likely to fall out about it .
The whole idea of this is to go in there with an ope with a with a a a clean canvas and see what we 're
What comes out .
producing .
But erm o one of the things that I asked Jane to look at was we want , it 's quite an expensive operation is this just in our salaries and the loss of fees from us from twenty four people
We don't get
and
any fees usually .
No .
But
So that 's not too bad .
Okay .
Ou well our salaries then .
Yes .
Certainly , that 's a lot of brass .
And and what I wanted was a means of identifying whether we 'd achieved any anything over the two days .
And and that was one of the prime things that I asked
That 's gonna be tricky .
Jane to do .
Just to say , look ,
Mm .
how do we measure i whether the two days have been successful ?
And er she 's working on that .
So it had to have a structure .
So shall I get copies of that ?
Mm .
And and we can team
Yeah .
brief that .
?
Not now .
This afternoon .
Right .
Right .
Anyway I think we 've covered that fairly comprehensively .
Meeting with Regional Railways , future services and clients ' reports .
Right .
Erm David , Trevor and I met Keith , Roy and ?
Mark .
Mark , a couple of days ago .
Who are the other two people ?
Mark 's a contractor
Contract .
and Roy 's the planning .
Regional Railways .
Contracts clerk or something isn't he ?
Yeah .
He , yeah .
He 's he 's what
Duncan is .
Was .
Yeah .
Was .
Yeah .
Mm .
Yeah .
Okay .
The meeting was at their request and what they wanted to do was discuss with us , how we should report er financial data to them in the future
Mm .
because they are not , not only us but all A S U s that are working for Regional Railways .
They did make the point that we 're better than most of their er
Mm .
So we 're a bit
suppliers .
ahead in fact we 're ahead of them .
And they are they are very grateful for the service that we provide , which comes about because of our use of DOPACS and the quality systems that we 're introducing .
And it will they made it quite clear that we are way ahead particularly of people like the S and T
Mm .
but also of the other CEDGs .
Now then .
What came out of it was erm a number of things .
We 've talked about the project safety training that was one thing that came out of it .
But the main thing that came out of it is that they need from us er the client reports .
And they 're not getting them at the moment .
Now they want from us a prediction of the fee expenditure that they will incur on a period by period basis , and we 're not sure how we can provide that .
And Trevor 's gon

tell them that , at the end of next month , for a week , to mark Australia Day , this programme will be coming to you live from Sydney .
Now , we 're looking for two couples to accompany us down under , to find out how you can perhaps qualify , stay tuned for the Dougie Down Under competition , thanks to QUANTAS , Australia 's national airline .
Ten to eight is the time , Anna from Chigwell is on the line to me .
Anna , good morning .
Good morning , Doug , I'm a first time caller .
Welcome , what would you like to talk about ?
Well , I 'd just like to say , about the lady who kept her hat on in the house all the time , and if someone called that she didn't like , she would say I'm just going out .
If someone called that she liked , she 'd say , I 've just come in .
You 've alre you 're , you 're , you 're erm , er referring to the story that we were discussing
Yes , yes .
earlier , we 've had a lot of calls on this on er , the best way to deal with house guests who inflict themselves on you over Christmas , have you ever had any horror stories yourself ?
I guess well not really , I erm , I try to make people welcome , and they usually let me know if they 're coming and then I'm prepared .
Well , that 's true , but there are some people whom you 'd rather not have in your house , that you really can't do much to avoid coming , can you really ?
, well you can say you 're going away can't you ?
I suppose you can really .
I mean there 're always excuses these days .
People do go away for Christmas .
Yes , that 's , it 's a lovely , er , lovely story , Anna , er had a hat on and if she didn't want to see anybody , she was just going out
Yes .
and if she did , she was just coming in .
That 's lovely well , yes
Well , listen , can I say something else ?
Please do .
About the television licence
That 's right , this er , this proposal by the Commons ' Heritage Committee , that if you actually want another telly in your house , you have to pay twenty quid extra .
well , I have one , and I think that 's expensive enough , but regarding the licence extra money , I think that we should n't have to pay any television licence at all with some of the programmes that we 're getting on , they 're all repeated
Well , er , Anna , and it is er , er a complaint that is er , often , er put up on this programme when we discuss television , they 're repeated , and I do agree .
There are an awful lot of repeats , especially through the summer , on the B B C especially .
But , you know , a lot of those repeats get huge audiences , and th they must have repeated Dad 's Army , and 'Ello , 'Ello about fourteen hundred times , but they still get enormous ratings , those programmes .
Erm , I suppose it 's the sort of humour that er , one looks at again and again , and still laughs .
I know it is with me , er , with Dad 's Army , so er , if they 're getting huge ratings with those repeats , well , they 're obviously gonna put them on aren't they ?
David from Stratford , good morning .
Good morning , Douglas .
Erm , this is story a that goes back about twenty , twenty one years ago .
Er , I , I was only about twelve , thirteen at the time .
Erm , we had a erm , I had an aunt and uncle , they lived in Southend , and they used to like to come up and perform em , he had a violin and she used to play the piano , and my erm , father didn't really care for the music , but they liked sort of opera and stuff like that
so we saw them , er saw them actually because we live in a flat , and we saw them coming from the station , er one , one Saturday morning
Yes .
so , we decided to pretend we were n't in .
Now , at the time we had my grandmother living with us , so we had to tell her shut up , erm , and when they rang , er on the door , she , she wasn't to sort of , call out and you know , to tell us that the door was ringing ,
Yes .
so , erm , they rang and they rang , and they rang for a good twenty to twenty five minutes and we just erm , we , we all huddled together in the living room , and erm , anyway about half an hour went past , and then they finally went , we saw them , we live in a flat , and we saw them from the window , we saw them going back to the station you see .
So , my dad says oh , thank goodness for that , anyway , erm , we , we sort of relaxed after that .
About two , three hours later , after lunch , there was another ring on the doorbell , I went to answer it , and of course you can guess .
There they were , they , they 'd gone for a walk round London , and er come back .
They 'd come all the way from er , Southend , as I said , , and erm ,
Oh .
I didn't know what to say , and they said , well where were you , well er , I said we were all standing on the balcony and we , we didn't hear you , erm , it was ab I mean looking back now , it 's funny , but it was ludicrous at the time .
Well indeed , and er , having got in , I suppose they proceeded to entertain your father with the music he didn't particularly want to hear in the first place ?
That 's lovely .
I feel a bit sorry for them , having come all the way from Southend , to your place , and er , being left ringing the doorbell for half an hour .
I suppose a lot of people would say he got his just desserts , they did in that family , because they all came back for , three hours later , and er , gained entry .
Doris from Ilford , good morning to you .
Oh , hello Doug , yeah I wonder why you 're so jolly in the morning .
I mean , when I get up in the morning , it takes me four hours before I come to , you 're always so jolly .
Well , I think you know , I'm a naturally optimistic sort of person , and I , I'm not er , sort of blowing my own trumpet here , I , I , I erm , look on life with a great deal of optimism , er touch wood , I 've been fairly lucky in my life .
I 've got a job that I love doing , and er , I also take the view that if I came and did this programme and moaned away at everybody , and er , moaned away about everything , nobody would ring me up , and nobody would listen .
So , you know , I , I don't want to be too jolly , because er , er that , that , that 's er , as bad as being morbid , isn't it and miserable , but I try and strike er , a happy balance .
Okay , can I talk to you about the televisions ?
Yeah
Well , I 've got one in my bedroom in c cos , when I was in , ill , you know , erm , it 's er , nice to , but I 've got one downstairs , that 's two , that 's two .
Now , for a long time , because my children have grown up , and I don't see them being , being young men , when the young men get married , you , mothers don't see them , so I'm on my own , and it 's , erm , I can't rely on that for company at all .
L B C is on day and all night but
Wonderful .
the thing is , erm , I don't think that the , the standard is good enough to warrant paying eighty two pounds for a licence .
Oh , so far from paying any extra for a another television set , you are not happy at paying what we 're paying at the moment ?
I'm going a step further , Doug .
And I 've got some friends , who are very affluent , I'm not affluent at all .
Mhm .
Er , you go in their home , it 's black and white , because they refuse , they don't think it warrants the eighty two pound licence , and I'm gonna get , er black and white , and er , that 's what I'm gonna do .
Okay Doris , well , far from paying another twenty quid for her extra television set , Doris is very annoyed she 's got to pay eighty three quid for a colour licence , and she 's gonna now go to black and white .
I forget what black and white is , it 's considerably cheaper , isn't it really ?
But , erm , a lot a people are now saying that the quality of er , the programmes on the telly isn't very good .
Er , if you want to er , develop that part of the argument , then by all means , let 's do so , after the eight o'clock news .
It 's now three minutes to .
Right , exactly sixty seconds to go , then I 'll bring you the eight o'clock news , then after that , we 'll continue our conversation on the main topics of the morning , according to you .
Families with more than one telly , could soon be paying twenty pounds extra for their licence .
It 's to lessen the burden on hard-up viewers , but most of you this morning , feel that to pay the existing licence fee is far too much , so I 'd like to hear more views on that please , and also I 'd like to hear from Spurs fans especially , and football fans in general , your memories , your tributes to the late , great Danny Blanchflower .
Right the eight o'clock news coming up , on this radio station .
Right , I'm sure that er , many people will know by now , but I'm gonna say it anyway that at the end of January , we will be on the Breakfast Call , broadcasting to you live from Sydney , to celebrate Australia Day .
Now here 's the interesting bit , in the next few minutes , I 'll be telling you how you can win the chance to travel with me on an all expenses paid trip .
Stay tuned for the Dougie Down Under competition , thanks to QUANTAS , Australia 's national airline .
The time now is nine and a half minutes past eight .
If you 've just joined us for the eight o'clock news , as many people do , welcome .
We 're discussing this morning , and I 'll run briefly through the subjects that we have been discussing this morning for the er , new listeners .
Families with two tellies could soon be paying twenty pounds extra for their licences , to lessen the burden on hard-up viewers .
That is the proposal from MPs on the Commons ' Heritage Committee , do you think it 's fair ?
That if you have a second telly in the house , you should pay twenty pounds extra in licence money for it .
And it may be , that if you have three tellies in the house , you 'll have to pay forty pounds extra .
I wonder if that is fair , even if it is going to ease the burden on hard-up viewers ?
A lot of people are saying this morning , that er , the existing licence fee of eighty three quid is far too high , given that we er get repeats from the B B C for most of the summer .
Well , a lot of er talkers there , and er , if you 'd like to give me a ring , it 's .
We 've been discussing the release of the three British hostages .
Saddam Hussein has made the most of it , has n't he really ?
Getting himself photographed shaking the hands of our mediator , and negotiator , Sir Edward Heath .
I wonder if that erm , really did revile you seeing a leading British politician shaking Saddam 's hand ?
Do you feel a deal has been done there ?
And , er if indeed a deal has been done , is it worth it , to get those three British people out ?
. We 've been discussing guests coming to stay at your place over Christmas .
And there 's a fascinating article in this , the current edition , the January edition it is now , because they go so far in advance , of She magazine , which says that er , it 's a desperate plight sometimes , when you have people coming for Christmas who fall into several categories like lazy slobs , who do absolutely nothing , and misers , who turn up with a stale box of chocolates , and never take you out for a meal in return for your hospitality , and the amorous couples who er , embarrass you by er , er , noisily retiring to their bedroom , if I may put it that way , and then the guests who turn up in mid-row , and bicker systematically over the whole of the festive period .
So , how do you get rid of or avoid coming , of the unwanted guest ?
And I 'd like to hear your tribute , perhaps your memory of the great Danny Blanchflower , who so sadly left us yesterday .
One of the great footballers of er , his age , or perhaps any other age , and it 's sad isn't it , that in the same year , we 've lost two , Bobby Moore and then Danny .
There 's also another story , I 'd like to er , throw into the conversation , if I may ?
The residents of Tunbridge Wells in Kent , are , th the dismay , of British Telecom at the moment , because , about thirty five percent of B T 's sixty thousand customers in Tunbridge Wells , are not in the book .
Well that may surprise you .
Keeping out of the book , in fact , has become increasingly popular , with the national average of twenty five percent , being one of the highest in the world .
In London , believe it or not , B T tell us , that forty three percent of their customers are not listed , while in south west Essex , the average is forty percent , and in west Middlesex and north west Kent it 's thirty five percent .
Now , er , I don't know er why you might want to be unlisted , ex-directory , not in the book .
If you are , then give me a ring and tell me why .
Melvin from Hendon .
Good morning Melvin .
Good morning , Douglas .
I 'd like to pay my tribute to Danny Blanchflower .
Yes ?
Er , he in my view , was a rare spirit .
A spirit , that it seems to me , has virtually gone from em , certainly English football nowadays , and I think , in many ways , English sport in general .
He was not only a fine footballer , he was also a gentleman to the Nth degree , and he told the story , I remember , he started his erm , professional football career in this country , with Barnsley , and he was transferred from Barnsley to Aston Villa , and at the time there was some haggling over the fee , and er , he was taken by the chairman of Barnsley , to meet the chairman of Aston Villa in the chairman 's Rolls Royce .
They went down to Birmingham , and while the er , two chairmen negotiated in the dining room , over a , an extremely affluent lunch , Danny Blanchflower was em , pushed into the kitchen to sit with the servants , if you like .
That was the way of things in those days .
Yes it was , yes .
He was erm , unusually for that time , indeed , unusually for now , a university graduate .
He graduated from St Andrew 's University , and to , in many ways , he was infinitely better educated and more intelligent than those who ran football around him , but nevertheless , erm , he never showed that , in erm , a sense of being superior .
Never , he was a remarkable footballer .
He gave Tottenham Hotspur the title , I think , of the greatest club side ever in erm , British football , and they won erm , the double as everyone knows , in nineteen sixty one , the first English team to have won it this century .
He led them to the er , first British title for a European trophy , and erm , eventually er , he also was a member of the Northern Ireland team that actually reached the quarter-finals in the nineteen fifty eight World Cup .
And Northern Ireland 's a very small country against all of the others .
Yes .
I d I know that , there 's that phrase you know , we will never see his like again , I think we probably will , but it will be a very long time , and I can not tell you the infinite feeling of sadness erm , that I felt when I heard of his passing .
It seemed to me , an age had gone .
Melvin , thank you very much indeed for your reminiscences .
Jeff of Streatham .
Good morning .
Good morning , Douglas .
First of all , all the best next week .
Oh , thank you .
Er , secondly , the hostages .
Yes ?
You know , the ones being released today .
Mhm .
Erm , I er , like everybody else , are very glad to see they 're gonna get their release , but do you know Dougie , erm , I for the life of me , can not understand , and we don't know the full circumstances , how these people wander into a country like Iraq , which has a terrible reputation , and they don't like us very much , you know , how does this happen ?
wouldn't you stay about five mil at least five miles away from the place if you were , if , if you were , if you er , wandering out there
I certainly would Jeff , I could n't agree more
I mean I can't understand , yes yes
I 'd stay about five hundred miles away from the border if I was them yes
That 's right , yes , me too .
Erm , you know , this is what I can't understand , we haven't heard this .
An interesting point .
Thank you for raising it , and er , we might get some er comeback on that one .
Er , it 's all very well saying er , these people were apprehended , what a bit of bad luck , but what in God 's name were they doing , straying around the border of a country like Iraq ?
Cos I say , I 'd steer well clear of that place .
There are many other places I 'd like to visit , Sydney is one of them .
I 'll be telling you more about that in mo .
Do you know , I'm getting quite attached to that tune .
In five minutes it 'll be the Dougie Down Under Competition , thanks to QUANTAS , Australia 's national airline .
We 'll be bringing the show to you live from Sydney , Australia , at the end of January , to mark Australia Day , and we 're looking for two couples , they can be husband and wife , mother and daughter , father and son , any combination you like , even a couple of friends , we 're looking for two couples to come to Australia with the show , and to act as roving reporters .
We want you to travel round the country at our expense , all expenses paid , needless to say , and we want you to tell us , by phone , live on the programme , in Sydney , what you 're seeing and what you 're doing .
Sounds an exciting trip , really fabulous trip , and it will mean of course , seeing you will be li live on air , that we have to give you a little audition , so the finalists , have to be prepared to do an audition with me , live on air , just before Christmas .
Okay .
You must also , of course , have a valid passport , and you must be free to travel in the last two weeks of January .
Okay .
So I 'll ask you a question in about er , three or four minutes ' time , which could result in you 're going out next month with Dougie Down Under , thanks to QUANTAS , Australia 's national airline .
Beverley of Hampstead .
Hello .
Good morning .
Good morning .
What would you like to talk about ?
Well , it 's about why I 've been ex-directory for the last , er , twenty years .
Oh , right , why then ?
Well because I'm a single parent ,
Mhm .
a single mum , an you know , started off with two small babies , living very , very fast , and er , it 's sort of safer .
I think , you know , a woman living alone ,
Mhm .
in this day and age , erm , is sort of erm , not a good thing , to sort of , advertise your name in a phone directory .
Mhm , and you don't find that that gives you any difficulty at all , er with people who genuinely want to find your number ?
Er , well , erm , they could sort of do it , erm , I mean , when I leave er , a place that , house that I used to live in , I leave a forwarding address but no , I make sure , with the people that erm , take over the house , but they don't actually give out my phone number .
Mm .
But they can , if they 're serious , they can do it by writing , you know .
Mhm , so you 're ex-directory , Beverley , and you 've found that it 's er , a great benefit as a single mum ?
For security reasons , yes .
Beverley , thank you for your call .
Larry from Chalk Farm .
Good morning Larry .
Hello Doug , how are you ?
I'm very well , and I know , er , that it 's your birthday today , and said
No .
That 's right isn't it , are we right ?
No , you 're not .
My birthday is February the tenth .
Oh .
And in fact you 're probably going to be invited because everybody seems to want to give me an eightieth birthday party .
An eightieth birthday party ?
Is it , are you eighty in February ?
Yes , February the tenth .
Oh right , I thought
Now th
it was December the tenth .
We got er , the wrong dates , we 've got you down in our list as December the tenth
that 's very odd no , I'm going to give you a list of parties , you can choose your party .
I would , if I were you , I 'd take the one in George studio .
Alright , that 's , you 're on then , in February .
Right , okay , well a happy birthday when it comes , and er , welcome to the show .
Now , the reason I called was , that I have always been out of the phone directory ever since my name got well known in showbiz .
You get
Sure .
an awful lot of pressure if your name is in it , but I got a special pleasure when I organized the reading from Salman Rushdie 's book .
Oh yes , well I suppose it would be
I organized that at Conway Hall now , in most reference books my agent 's name is listed , and my agent got a call saying the minute I began to read from that book I would die .
Oh .
Well , my agent got terrified , and she closed up her office that day , and they all went home .
You 're still here .
I'm still here .
They , they , they did get me , and I don't know how they got my number .
They called me , and they said again , if I read the book I would be killed .
And I said , look why don't you meet me in front of Conway Hall and kill me then , it would save so much time .
Larry of course , with er , w w being a famous personality as you are , I mean er , if you were in the book , it would be awful wouldn't it , cos people would just have to , to er look up Adler , L and they
Yes .
they 'd get you wouldn't they , really ?
Well , you , you see you get of every kind of , of a charity application , begging letters and so forth and it sounds cruel rather
Yes , I can understand that .
to say that you don't want to read all those letters .
You can not get interested in so many things .
Larry thank you very much indeed , and erm , well have an extra birthday on us .
Happy birthday for December the tenth as well .
Eight twenty five .
Right time for the Dougie Down Under competition , thanks to QUANTAS , Australia 's national airline .
Two couples must win an all expenses paid trip to Australia with me , when the show comes live from Sydney at the end of January .
Hope I'm back for Larry 's party .
We 've had four questions already this week , if you missed any of them , we will be repeating them next week , but now here is the final question .
I think it 's the most difficult actually that we 've er , brought you this week .
What is a baby kangaroo called ?
What 's a baby kangaroo called ?
Now as soon as you have the five answers , and if you haven't heard the other four questions , then there will be a chance , as I said , to hear them again next week , when you 've got the five answers , I 'd like you to send me them on a Christmas card please , this is very , very important send them on a Christmas card please , to the following address .
. Answers on a Christmas card , to and the Christmas cards please , with your answers , to be in by first post , next Friday , the seventeenth .
Then , we 'll keep you posted as to what happens next .
Eight twenty seven .
Right , the search is on for the person in the team who told me that Larry Adler 's birthday was today , and not February the tenth .
Anyway , er that apart , for your views on the news .
The news coming up .
and when I talked to Derek Thompson an hour ago , he 's been in good form has Tommo .
He 's er , three winners out of four days , and a second , and er , he 's going for a couple at Cheltenham today , in the twelve thirty five , number four , Book of Music , and in the two fifty five , number two , Flashing Steel .
Twelve thirty five , Cheltenham , number four , Book of Music , two fifty five , number two , Flashing Steel .
Pam , most of the morning papers of course , have had er , glowing tributes , quite rightly so , to Danny Blanchflower , we 've had a lot of people on this morning saying that we 'll never see his like again .
Er , er , it 's dreadful isn't it , that we 've lost two of the outstanding footballers of this or any other age in one year .
Bobby Moore and now Danny ?
Mm .
Bobby Moore , yes , and of course , er , you know , it , it has been a , a very sad year , you know if you couple it together with , with Arthur Ashe , the Wimbledon champion and
Of course , mm .
of course , erm , James Hunt , but er , yes , it 's rather sad as well that , you know , the last few years of erm , Danny 's life were , were , were , he was so crippled with Alzheimer 's and , and really not er , er shade of the sort of happy , er person , that , that he had been .
But I think that 's how we will remember him of course , when , when , you know , the sadness er passes away .
Well , one of the great gentlemen of football , wasn't he ?
Now maybe there 's no place for gentlemen in football now , I don't know , but er
Absolutely well it does seem , it does seem a , a football of a , of another era certainly , but erm , I mean , I think he brought a breath of fresh air into football at the time .
I mean even , even myself as a young girl , I'm not , I'm not th you know , that , that erm , that young yet , but I can remember him the er , you know , streak of er , lightning across the old black and white screen .
But erm ,
Mm , yes .
indeed , he , he 's been revered as an intellectual player , erm , he , a thinking player , a shining example , and of course , that , that shows up in , in statistics when you read about what he 's achieved , and you think , you know , fifty six caps for Northern Ireland .
Mm .
He got Northern Ireland into the quarter-finals of the World Cup in fifty eight , and again at club level .
Cup double , cup and league double in sixty one , F A Cup the following year , and erm , the first British club , Spurs in nineteen sixty three , to win er , to win the European Trophy , the Cup Winner 's Cup , a five one er , victory against Athletic Madrid , I mean , that is tremendous , that all speaks for himself , and , and I gather he 's a very great rac raconteur , and a much , much loved er man , sadly missed
Mhm , mm oh yes indeed , yes , indeed , indeed , a great after dinner speaker too , tremendous er , tremendous Irish wit .
Well , he graced Northern Ireland , the Republic of Ireland , of course , well placed for the World Cup draw , aren't they ?
Yes , quite interesting because er , they 've been named er , in group two er , of the seedings , which have been er , released today .
The draw will er , be er , a glitzy affair in Las Vegas , with er various Hollywood stars , and rock stars , next week Elton John and Rod Stewart will be turning out , and Julio
Mhm , I can imagine well they know a bit about they know , oh , the , well , Julio of course used to keep goal didn't he ?
For er , a club side in Spain wasn't it ?
Yes , I can't imagine it , and again of course Rod Steward , and Elton John , we all know , how er , well connected they are , er with the game , absolutely , so
And they 're very good footballers , or they were , mm .
there 's gonna , so we 'll need quite er , quite a turn up there , but erm , Republic of Ireland are seeded er , in group two , and in fact above Holland who are in group three , and Norway , in group four .
If you think they were , they were two who did better than England .
Sure .
But I mean , poor old England , erm , it 's R I P I'm afraid .
Yes , poor
Er , group one seedings , just to let you know , United States who 're in that seeding group as hosts anyway , Germany as the holders , and then former winners , Argentina , Italy , Brazil , and Belgium and it 's all , all based on their , their results of the last three competitions .
So .
Right , Rugby Union , more concern about er rough play , Bath accused of foul play .
Yes .
Getting a bit much , isn't it ?
It is a bit much when you think , you know , hot on the heels of Will Carling 's erm , you know , accusations about the All Blacks , and , and what they 're er , er , alleged to have got up to on their tour of England and Scotland .
Er , now , erm , Harlequins have complained to Bath , there 've been allegations er , during last weekend 's er Courage League match , which Bath won incidentally , of gouging and biting , er and Bath officials now have agreed that they will look at a video recording and take appropriate action , in quotes , if anything erm , needs to be done .
I mean Harlequins actually , erm , alleged that it wasn't just an , an indiscriminate boot or a punch , this was quite er , yeah
Calculated stuff , yeah and er , talking of fracas , a lucky escape for Ayrton Senna , in his disciplinary hearing in Paris .
Yes , he , he 's erm , escaped with a two race suspended ban , this was for erm , his fist meeting the face of er , Irish driver Eddie .
Er , at er so
Nice way of putting it .
This was er , the , the er , Japanese Grand Prix in October .
Erm , he didn't actually admit at the hearing that he had hit , erm , but erm , the disciplinary panel agreed that he had perhaps been provoked er rather more than er , had been necessary .
So the , the upshot of it all , is he 's banned for two races , but this is a susp suspended erm , ban over two months , er er , over six months rather , so it means that if he 's a good boy over the next six months he won't miss any races at all , so he has had a lucky escape .
He has , he has .
Well known for his temper .
Yes , indeed so I believe .
Pam thank you very much indeed .
Er , Pam Dixon er , step stepping in for er , Dominic , is the er , bearded man back on Monday ?
No , I , I gather he has taken a long weekend , I don't know where he 's whisked himself off to , but I'm afraid I won't be here , er next week , I don't know , quite know who will be , but er , Dominic 's taking er , a well needed rest .
Right , yes , I might say that , right , Pam , thanks very much indeed , it 's twenty minutes to nine .
Seventeen minutes to nine .
Gerald has rung me from East Sheen .
Good morning Gerald .
Good morning Mr Cameron , and er , many happy birthday returns for er , Larry Adler .
Yes in February .
No doubt he will , er , re reciprocate , because it 's mine on Monday .
Oh , is it ?
Twenty s I'm not sure whether it 's twenty six or twenty seven .
No comment please .
Never mind , happy returns , many happy returns er , for Monday .
Anyway , th thank you very much , and , and , I hope you do well when you go into hospital on Monday .
Oh thanks , nothing , nothing to , very minor thing , on Monday .
Well it is it 's still , it always causes some concern though , for those around you .
Anyway , it er , this business of erm , twenty pound increase on the T V .
Yes .
Quite , my goodness me , we er , surely the people must be sick and tired of this lot .
All they seem to do is target the ones at the hospitals , the police , the fire brigade , everything .
Even the heating , and now they 're targeting invalidity benefit yes mm
Well , when you say this lot , actually , it , it 's not er , actually a government body , this , in fact er , the Commons ' Heritage Committee , er these are the people who are announcing this price rise , in the proposals yesterday , they 're , they 're actually led by Gerald Kaufman , who 's never been a Conservative in his life .
I know he has n't , I know he has n't .
But even so , the government are still the people in charge , and they 're the people who should er , make a final decision or not , er , er , isn't it ?
I mean , it 's , it 's t
Oh they will yes , indeed er , it will be up to the government .
I mean , I mean they are , they 're , they really are you know , we 're so complacent in this country , Mr Cameron , I , I don't know , do you know , they 're just hitting us in every direction , my goodness me , you , you know , you 'll be afraid to breathe without they 'll want to target that .
Okay Gerald , thank you very much indeed .
Gerald obviously feeling er , very , very bad about er , this scheme to make us all pay twenty pounds extra , if we have a second T V set in the house .
It 's a proposal , nothing more than that at the moment , Derek from Barnet , good morning .
Mr. Cameron , I 'd like to pay tri tribute to Danny Blanchflower
Yes .
er , because I saw him play actually in the nineteen sixty two final against Burnley .
Oh yes .
And , er , and my father actually looked up the year before and found he knew the S H M , an old school chum , and he sent us a ticket .
So I 've only been the once ,
Yes .
and he really was a marvellous player .
Er , he never any , you know against him , and his skill and his performance was absolutely immaculate .
I wonder how he would have done in today 's game , do you think there would have been room for him today ?
Yes , absolutely I think so Mr Cameron .
You see , he 's got such skill , his footwork , and he 's always in the right position , and he really was , I can't pay a higher tribute .
It 's very sad , the news , of course .
Mind you , he 'd of probably been hacked down , wouldn't he today , before , that 's the problem nowadays ?
Er , well , that 's the point what a marvellous draw Barnet 's got Mr Cameron , against Chelsea in the Cup ?
Oh yes , that 's right , of course , you 're a great Barnet supporter just an ex
Absolutely , I went to see at , we had to trouble at , not of our supporters
Well the way Chelsea are playing at the moment , you 've got a very good chance of winning .
Well , we 've got this runner you see , younger brother Carl , he does a lovely job at and of , there 's a bit of spice added to , to it .
Derek thank you very much indeed for your call .
Thank you Mr. Cameron , bye-bye
We must move on , because we 've got to have a commercial break , and then we want to check on the traffic .
It 's fourteen minutes to nine .
Countdown to the stars , here he is , Mr Murray .
Good morning .
Good morning , how are you Douglas ?
Not bad at all sir , thank you and you ?
Has it stopped raining ?
Not yet , just a , well that 's it , I don't know , it 's pretty dismal .
Horrible isn't it , but I hear it 's gonna be a bit better this afternoon .
Yes , I think it , a little bit better , but much colder at the weekend , with a touch of sleet , by Sunday evening , we 're told mm .
Oh , sleet on Sunday , oh dear .
Never mind , you can all warm us up with your , your programme this morning .
Well , we start with the morning talkback , and the hour between ten and eleven , er , it 's erm , , and the Vocational Guidance Association , helping people to find the job they really want .
Er , between eleven and eleven thirty , Mike and Mark will be joining me , they 're the authors of the official politically incorrect handbook .
And between eleven thirty and twelve , Eddis who 's the author of London , Under London .
We 'll be talking .
Some fascinating things happen under
Yes , I'm sure .
And then between twelve and one , it 's sport back on talkback with Tony .
Mm , right .
That 's it .
Right , right , I think you 'll get a lot of calls on er , Danny Blanchflower this morning , a lot of people ringing up , remembering him with er great fondness .
Yes , I'm sure we will .
A terrible thing that he , he had Alzheimer 's Disease for so long I mean , he was only , you know , sixty seven when he died , terrible .
Mhm , yes , yes , yes , yeah , but a wonderful , wonderful player ,
And one of the most intelligent , er , footballers , I 've ever met , right
yes , mm , yes , yeah .
Well , I think we 'll get a lot of calls , and people remember him with great fondness .
Pete thank you very much indeed .
Pete Murray , between nine and one .
Nine minutes to nine is the time now .
On we go to the birthdays .
Saw Dennis Law on T V , and he says that when he first played against Danny , he kicked him all round , all , all over the park .
Dennis did ?
Dennis said that , yeah he said that
Dennis was a fairly , let 's put it er , as mildly as we can , a fairly competitive player wasn't he ?
I think he was .
I think that 's er , perhaps , er , enough to be said about Dennis Law 's game .
A brilliant player , played many great games , but erm , very competitive .
I must say , he said that he regretted it now .
But he was young probably .
It was the first game he played against .
But erm , and the other thing is , er , going back before er , Danny Blanchflower we had a goalkeeper
Yes , Ted .
You remember him ?
I do , the cat they used to call him , mm .
That 's right and I believe , well I think he was the first goalkeeper to throw the ball out .
I never saw a goalkeeper before him throw a ball out to erm , you know , a player .
No , I don't know Alf , I can't remember if he was the first goalkeeper ever to throw a ball out to a player but , er if you want to ring up , tell you what you want to do , you want to ring up if you 're around , between twelve and one , and discuss that with Pete Murray , and Tony Lockwood , for , when they have the sport back on Talkback , and er , that of course , is the specialist sportsperson 's hour , and er , they may be able to throw a bit of light on that .
But I can remember Ted very well indeed .
The cat , yeah , he was one of the er , first goalkeepers to er , make a habit of catching the ball , rather than punching it .
Anyway , Alf , thank you very much indeed , er , for your call .
Rebecca of Poplar .
Sadly the last call , I think we 'll be able to squeeze in this morning on our programme .
Rebecca , good morning .
Good morning , Doug .
It 's in regards about the television licences .
Yes ?
Well , I'm eighty four years old ,
Mhm .
and I pay full price , eighty three .
I heard a while ago on the radio , that they were gonna put it up to eighty four fifty .
Now , in regards about that , what I don't understand , people who live in sheltered accommodation , some pay five pound a year , some pay nothing .
So I say , if it 's good for one pensioner to that , why don't they allow other pensioners to pay it ?
Yes .
Or , even make it a little cheaper ?
Well , I would have thought so , and I think that 's what the
I don't mind paying for it , if they could even reduce it a bit
Yes , I think perhaps that is what may happen .
I don't want to raise your hopes too much , Rebecca , but I think what , er the idea behind this , I er , thing is , families with two tellies , paying twenty pounds extra for the second set , and perhaps for the third set , another twenty pounds , it 's to try and lessen the burden on viewers who genuinely can't afford the existing licence fee as it is now , and Rebecca , I would have thought that you would 've fallen into that category .
So , er , help may be at hand in the future .
And er , on that message , er , it seems , er good enough time to say that 's er , all we have time for as far as the phone calls are concerned on the Breakfast Call this morning .
It 's three minutes to nine , we 'll have a break , then we 'll have Rob back with the latest traffic .

Are you er who have you got then ?
Okay who is it ?
Get real
Okay .
Cos I 've got one tonight haven't I ?
Anywhere you wanna sit lads .
Next to each other ideally should
moving around now .
Right
Where you gonna go ? my seat .
So who 's gonna go first out of you two ?
Yeah I 'll go first .
Right .
Give us your form then er and in your own time and your own pace .
Just gonna get a quick little refresher .
Just a quick refresher , I dunno what page it 's on .
?
That would be a good refresher for you .
No it 's alright I 've got that in my head , okay I 'll , it 's alright Hi Mike .
Hiya .
How you doing ?
Very well thank you .
Okay .
All we 've been through this evening
Yes .
are you quite happy with it ?
Yes , quite interesting , yes .
Quite interesting ?
And you 're happy , ah right .
Yes .
Okay right that 's good .
Do you remember when I said er as we were going through I said there were one or two things that you perhaps could help me with ?
Yes you did mention that , yes .
Yeah ?
Well I'm , as a matter of fact before that I actually said that er this , all this that I am doing on your behalf is completely free of charge
You did .
I did didn't I ?
Yes .
Well it 's a bit of a lie actually er there 's a fee involved in all the preparation and all the work I 've done er and what do you think the fee 's worth ?
How much do you think it 's worth ?
Well I don't know you didn't mention this earlier did you ?
Er that 's true , as I said I , I lied a little bit , I , I failed to tell you the cost of the fee .
How much do you think it 's worth ?
Well I don't know .
You don't know ?
Alright let me tell you it 's not actual money , the help will come in the form of er recommendations .
ah yes .
Yeah ?
Er I would appreciate it very very much indeed Mike if er you know you could recommend me to one or two people you know , open minded like yourself who I can sit with , take a couple of er half an hour of their time like I 've done with you , show them what the services are .
Well I don't think I know anybody that would be interested really .
Yeah ?
Erm as we were going through and we talked about a will , you said there there 's somebody you knew who would be able to , you know , who you 'd like to carry out your wishes if you were not here to carry them out yourself er I think it was , was it er John ?
Oh yes , yes .
Yeah ?
You know have you got his phone number ?
Er yes okay I can give you that , yes .
Great that 's okay right , and is your , is your brother-in-law ?
Yes my brother-in-law yes .
Right right right right and does he live locally ?
Yes but I'm not sure , I think I 'd rather phone him first if
Ah in fact I 'd appreciate that very very much indeed Mike , I , in fact
I 'll tell you give him a ring , tell him that you 've given me his , the telephone number and he should expect that I 'll give him a call in the next week
Okay then , yes okay then .
That 's terrific .
Okay .
Erm is there anyone else er as open minded as your brother-in-law ?
No I can't think of anybody at the moment .
You can't think .
You play cricket don't you ?
I 've been known to have the odd game , yes .
Right and er ?
Er there 's about twelve other guys .
Right .
Course naturally as in the service this , this cost , this for yourself ?
Perhaps er they could take up services .
the guys you play cricket with , what are their names ?
You want all twelve do you ?
I wouldn't mind !
I'm a greedy person as you can see , look at the size of me .
I , I 'll speak to them first and I 'll , I 'll er when , when , when you come back with some details I , I 'll let you know then .
Sure so at least you 'll know when I come back I'm gonna ask you , thank you very much indeed .
Okay .
Okay ?
I thought you were a bit pushy
So did I !
prospect erm and also at the beginning there y I you , you did it in your own way , not , not , not following the script er that may be , well be previous experience you know , that
Yeah .
you , you , you 're relying on , but you didn't really sort of go back and say , I mean I , I would use a phrase like erm you know , regards to planning your future I'm sure you found that of benefit to you tonight and get re and actually dig a bit deeper in that and say what was it in the , in , in that actual form that , that
interest in your eyes .
that was the one that interested you most .
Yeah I was just looking for a memory jogger here , I just could n't remember what it was
Erm I didn't get anywhere that you actually reminded the prospect erm or pe potential client here why you 're actually asking for referrals .
Yeah .
If , if he if he was open minded , I think he 's happy with
open minded
he 's happy , er said are you happy with all the preparation that we 've done
You didn't remind him t by not using the script you didn't
Yeah .
get into the point that like earlier on in the conversation
I actually found it I know me and you have discussed this earlier on and I , I , I didn't find it I found it confusing to be honest with you .
You did ?
Yeah , I , I found that you suddenly put
you suddenly put me on the spot asking me for money .
Yeah .
That , that threw me completely .
I don't know where you got , I mean is that previous , where you worked previously ?
No that 's it I mean , look er the scenario 's this
Yeah ?
you get , it 's that er in a normal conversational piece , yeah , I open my , okay it 's not an Abbey Life
Right .
set piece
Yeah the only thing
no it 's it 's
Right .
so I walked in his house or her house or their house , you know , and I 've said to them blah blah blah blah blah but this is what it 's all about
Yeah .
Yeah ?
There 's no fee involved , it 's a completely free service , all I'm here to really do today is to have a chat with you , find out what you 're interested in and see if we can situation , is that alright ?
Pursue all that pursue all that Sunday , yeah ?
Right .
Yeah , but is that alright so he 'll say yeah it 's alright .
I mean I thought you felt uncomfortable Mike .
I thought you felt uncomfortable .
I did .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Okay fair enough that 's the feeling but you the first bit , I'm justifying the
Yeah yeah I mean I'm trying to give you a score here
He 's trying to justify it
Yeah , so yeah ah you 're alright so you 'll say yeah course I'm alright , there 's no fee , so eventually I get to the point where I said look I did say there 's no fee involved but I 'd , I , that 's a bit of a lie because there is a fee for all the work I'm er but it comes in the form of referrals , in the form of recommendation , not actual money .
No .
You know I asked you to commit yourself , how much do you think it 's worth for me to do all this kind of work and he 's , you 're confused because you think I'm actually talking about money and I take the weight off your shoulders by saying no it 's not actually money , it 's in the form of two or three names , people open minded like yourself , who I can sit down and discuss the whole situation with
Yes , yeah all that all that part was okay erm but from the point of view of the script th th that we 'd asked you to learn last night y you didn't do that now that may well work for you , the way you 're actually doing it , but from a training point of view we , we 're trying to look that you 're actually following the , the script there .
Erm so on that one that 's , that 's you didn't use any slang , the belief in the way you asked I think that came out , I was trying to be a prospective client rather than be the trainer cos I could see that Mike was uncomfortable and I was trying to , well okay , how , how would I well I think yeah there was a belief that you had there , I think he was er reasonably attentive , Mike , to your response ?
Yes .
All be it wasn't , well th th th the , the response , and you didn't actually , you mentioned his brother didn't you ?
Yeah .
At the time .
He gave me his phone number
But again , see again cos we 're not following the actual script , the picking up and pinpointing people mentioned in earlier conversations , which you would 've done if you'd 've gone back to the planning the future .
Yeah if I
Mm .
one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirteen fourteen you 've got fourteen which actually still gives you , would still actually give you an A in the real world .
Right where 's Okay that 's gonna be a a C. Stick that in your locker when you go back in .
Alright boss .
Okay Mike it 's over to you now then to
Right .
to your situation now , so imagine you 've done the old planning of the future like we said , yeah ?
When I said to you earlier erm there 's several ways in which you can help me now the main way you can help me is erm is er the way I do , the way I prefer to do business is by personal recommendations and you 've seen the service that I can give you , you 've seen , we 've been through your , your personal situation , your financial situation , have you found that of benefit ?
Mhm .
You have ?
Yeah .
And , and that 's you found it of interest to you ?
Yeah .
Right , now what I 'd like to do now is ask you for some of your , some names of friends of yours who , who I could go through the same process with them and , and establish their financial security for them too .
Can you think of anybody offhand ?
You mentioned earlier you , you , you work with , is it you work with ?
Er yeah yeah .
Yeah ?
Could you , would you like to give me his number ?
Well I don't actually have his er telephone number .
Okay , can I contact him your place of work ?
Yeah you can
Yeah .
cos you 've got the telephone number .
We also was discussing earlier on that er you play squash .
Er I don't actually it 's er cricket .
It 's cricket is it ?
Yeah .
Right .
Erm have you got any , any er people there from the cricket team that I could er contact ?
Yeah I know er one or two persons .
Yeah ?
You , you mentioned one was , was Steve was it ?
Yes .
It was Steve , yeah ?
Steve .
Yeah , Steve ?
Mm .
Good .
And his , his phone number ?
Er yeah he 's a good mate actually .
I does he , is he a batsman or a or what ?
He 's a bit of an all-rounder
He 's a bit of an all-rounder .
Is he any good , is he better than you ?
He 's a bit of a
Quite good is he ?
Yeah that 's good , good .
You also mentioned that you 're erm you 're involved in scouting , is this right ?
No I'm not .
Yes you are .
Okay then er right , fine .
That 's it .
Oh !
That 's it .
Well you didn't actually revisit planning the future properly
No .
right ?
Erm remind er er and again your phraseology Mike like , well can you think of anybody ,
Yes I re I said that and I realized that I 'd said it and I should n't have done .
Th that , that
Yeah .
you know , you
Yeah I
er whereas if you had said positively that I'm sure you can think of a number of
I asked him a question and he could answer no .
Yes .
But I realized I 'd said it so I tried to dig myself out the hole
Right well you didn't actually get any objections so you couldn't 've handled them , you didn't mention about the prospect contacting the referrals prior to the being made er at the end you did actually bring up didn't you about the , the cricketer , is , is he a batsman then said he was a erm said he was a er all-rounder so you know I 'll , I 'll give you that
You , you did actually say that I only work on , yeah
Alright okay .
The idea of finding out about the , the batsman was what he did in the cricket team , so that when I mentioned that I could say
I don't , I don't think there was a lot of belief in the way you were actually asking Mike .
I 've got scripts , no
enthusiastic well because of above , no .
Alright , not use slang , show belief in the way he or she asks for recommendations
going first which is probably not the best thing to do , be attentive you , you were reasonably attentive .
Pick up and pinpoint names mentioned earlier well you did it cos you , you
when asking for name and telephone number eye contact , alright there .
You , I mean you were n't pushy enough I didn't think .
No probably not .
Yeah but again I think it all goes back to the script doesn't it ?
That 's right , but I 've also got a thing about being pushy you see .
Well sorry , pushy , I mean we got push not what 's the , what 's the , the , the , not pushy 's not the right word I'm looking for erm asking in a confident manner
Yeah .
that was missing , right ?
But the confidence comes with practice .
With practice , yeah .
Practice , practice , practice .
ten which would actually give you a B in , in , in normal circumstances but as you know we 're only allowed to give you a C. Right and there 's a few notes in there as well , did I 'll tick your box on your one .
Do what ?
Er I dunno , which box is that ?
At the front on the front .
At the top .
Requires further on the job training ?
What C ?
I 've ticked C have I ?
At , in , in the four boxes at the top
Yeah .
I 've ticked ?
Yeah , yeah , yeah .
Right , okay then .
Alright , okay lads erm first is always the most difficult as I think you 'd appreciate
Yeah .
if you wanna sit in on another couple of guys
There 's a queue formed , there 's a queue , right okay .
Now don't forget because these boys have forgotten it , you 've got ta make sure you mention the planning your future document
Yeah .
gonna revisit it and , and it 's standard cos it all hinges , if you look at that script , what happens next all hinges on what you 've actually got on there , right ?
Who wants to go first then ?
I 'll go first .
Alright give us your , give us your seat then and I 'll
Cheers .
Fine , now just imagine I'm not here now for a moment .
Okay .
Erm so you can see actually from this fact find , from the planning the future document , there are , there was , there is a particular interest to you erm are you , are you quite happy with the figures er sorry was it erm was it that you were more or less interested in ?
Was that the er particular interest
Yeah er cover was the one that , after we 'd been through the document , I did find of be of particular interest
Yeah .
because er it 's obviously gonna fill a gap in my financial planning that I 'd not thought about in the past so I did find it particularly helpful .
Y you 're quite happy how we achieved those figures ?
Yeah .
You , you 're quite happy
Yes I thought the explanation was er was pretty good and clear and I was happy with the way the er the premium 's worked out .
That 's good , I'm , I'm pleased about that .
Erm yeah I did mention earlier actually there was one or two ways that you could perhaps help me er one was erm I hope , I 'd like to think that obviously my service has been of value to you erm I 'd also like to think that you can perhaps recommend me to people you know er you did actually mention earlier erm was it Peter you work with , was it
Peter who works , yeah I don't know whether
yeah Peter yeah .
I'm too happy about sort of passing on er you know friends ' names and addresses er I don't think it 's really appropriate .
Yeah that 's , that 's okay it 's just er I mean I would like to feel you would introduce me if they actually knocked on the door and came in this evening otherwise they 'd think wouldn't you , I mean
Well I s yeah I suppose I , I suppose I would when you put it like that , yes .
And so it 's Peter from ?
That 's right , Peter he 's er he , he just started work in my department about three or four weeks ago , yes .
And was it Peter ?
Peter , Peter
That 's right .
Peter .
Peter that 's
and does he actually have a home telephone number or so can I
Er I'm not too sure where he lives cos he just , I think he 's just new to the town but if you give him a ring erm on the 's phone number and use the
Right .
same extension you used to contact me originally that would find him .
Okay that , that 's great .
I would like to think you could perhaps mention to Peter if you see him in the next couple of days , I don't know whether he pops into the office but we , it would be nice if you could if you could mention
our meeting and
I 'll probably see him er back at the office tomorrow , I , I will mention it to him when I see him .
Yeah , yeah you could certainly point out the areas that have been of interest to you and perhaps I could follow up with a phone call to er to Peter in the
Oh certainly .
next couple of days .
Yeah .
Er Jim across , across the road , is it Jim you play on a Thursday so
That 's right .
Yes .
Yes certainly give you his er
Right .
phone number , yes .
Thanks that 's great .
It 's er I 'll just , I 'll just get my little book out and I 'll tell you what it is .
Right .
It 's er Darlington three four five six seven .
Great that 's smashing .
Also the same if you 're playing football with Jim on Thursday you could also just mention to , I 'll leave you a couple of these er these leaflets which do explain a lot of the areas we 've covered tonight , erm perhaps you could give one to Peter or
Yes I 'll er
try
I 'll do that if I remember .
Yeah that 's okay .
Erm
does erm does Judy , I know your wife , she goes to yoga class doesn't she ?
She , she goes to the
She does , yeah .
classes , yeah .
Do you think she knows er do you think she er I know she did mention the girl Kate she , she goes to yoga with , does she pick her up
She did didn't she ?
that 's right she picks her up cos you 're out on Wednesday night
so yeah do you think I could er perhaps get erm the number for Kate ?
Yeah well
I'm sure she 'd be interested , I think she has children I think doesn't she ?
Certainly when my wife comes back in I 'll er I 'll mention it to her and I 'll get her to give you a ring .
That 's great , well you 've , you 've got my number and you can always contact me that would
Yes .
would be great .
Okay that 's , that 's very kind of you , thanks very much .
That 's , that 's good so thanks very much John , I 'll leave you now
Thank you John , it 's been a pleasure
thanks very much for
thanks very much .
Terrific except for one think , you didn't actually ask for the client to contact the referrals prior to the approach being made , number five
I did .
I said could you mention it to him .
You didn't .
Yes he did , asked er I said er I 'll be
I 'll be seeing him when I go back to work in the morning
That 's right
said perhaps can you mention it to him , mention
Yeah , sorry , you 're right , you 're right .
Okay .
Erm number one asking for the completion had been worthwhile , very good there , reminded er John why , yeah that was excellent , thought you handled the objection well , you know , about if the person walked through , that was good , everything else was tick tick tick erm sound pretty enthusiastic there , that little extra note , excellent voice , quite enthusiasm again controlled but not appear too pushy , it was very controlled
I think so , yes .
erm you know , I put down here that you 're a natural ,
Very fair .
I can only give you a C .
Tell me John I'm pleased that we 've er we 've managed to get business completed this evening , I think it 's gone very well , I'm sure you agree , er do you think that er did you find the , the exercise of completing that planning the future document was of benefit to you ?
Yes er I did er I think my wife and I both agreed that er the , the was , was quite
Was that the ar was that the area that you felt was of the most of er benefit to you ?
Yeah certainly .
Why was that specifically do you think ?
Well that just er to be honest with you I mean after , after looking at it we , we could n't believe it really that , that amount of people could be affected by that , we obviously thought it wouldn't happen to us but after seeing that , at the age we are , I really think it 's a super plan and I'm sure we 'll feel a lot better
It is quite surprising how many of my particular clients do take out that particular plan and they do tend to mention the same type of er of benefits that y that er that you just mentioned there , it is er I think it is a good plan , universally appreciated .
Tell me when , when we when we s started our discussion of the planning the future document I did say that er there was one or two things you could do for me and er one of those of course was to ask you if you could , during the course of our discussion , if any names came to , to mind , anybody who you would find that you could er you could recommend me to or can refer to me to if in fact you found our discussions were of benefit
Mm .
and in fact you did mention erm erm
I can't think of yeah well I can't really think of any at the moment , yeah .
Well actually you did mention er Chris at er at where you work I think you said
That 's right , Chris yeah .
I think you said he 'd just moved into the area recently .
He has yeah he lives in er now I believe , yeah
Does he ?
Is that in Darlington ?
It is , yeah .
Have you , do you have
Er
have his phone number handy ?
I , I don't think I 've got his home phone number but you can certainly ring him at work , er
If I contacted him on the same number that I contacted you
Yeah you could , you could perhaps get him on that , yes .
and that was ?
Yes that was , that was Darlington .
Great , thanks very much .
I think you also mentioned that you play , you play a fair bit of football as well John
I do actually yeah , I play for on a , on a Thursday night , yeah .
Yeah I used to play a lot of football when I was a young guy like you
Yeah .
it 's a good sport isn't it ?
Oh it 's great , I love it I like keeping fit you know .
And you did mention that you were particularly pally with the goalkeeper , Alan , I can't recall his
Yeah
his , his surname , what was that ?
Oh yeah it was er
I think it was Alan
Alan yeah ,
is that ?
It is , yeah
Any idea what his phone number is ?
Er I can certainly get it for you cos I 've got most of the lads ' phone numbers er in case any of the games are cancelled , yes it 's er
Great , smashing .
Those people whose names you 've just , you 've given me their details from , could I ask you er if the next time you see them if it 's within the next few days or certainly erm if , if you could over the next day or two give them a ring just to let them know that I do intend to contact them , I 'll probably contact them within the next week or so .
Yeah sure , I
Is that okay ?
Yeah no problem I 'll see Peter at work , I 'll , I 'll , I 'll pr er I will mention to him about it cos I was very impressed with , yes certainly I 'll mention it to him and er Alan , if he 's , if there 's a game on Saturday yes I 'll , I 'll I could mention it to him .
Oh that 's great .
And if you 're er with you intending to ring them you know it 's er
Yes cos what I mean obviously in , in the , in the type of business that , that I do , you can see yourself a very personal business
Yeah .
and I do prefer to work on the er on a personal recommendations or referrals basis because that actually allows me to , to devote most of my time to my current clients without having to go out cold calling and looking for people .
Yes , yes .
It is a , a sort of a , a beneficial way of doing business both for myself and for my clients so is that okay ?
Yeah that 's , that 's great , yeah .
Erm when you see erm Alan John erm if you see them over the next day or two if I can just give you this er these , these little leaflets
Yeah .
that do explain a little bit about Abbey Life products and also have a copy of as well erm they might find that of help before I give them a call .
Yeah , oh certainly yeah that 's no problem .
Okay , good , erm I think that 's probably gonna be sufficient for tonight John
Yes .
I think er well I think we 've managed to er to complete our business er very nicely , I hope you 're very satisfied
That 'll do you , that 'll do you that 'll do you .
Right okay good , very good the objections cos you tried to whizz one in there very early on but John actually overcome it quite , quite good .
Erm everything as I say okay yeah g er on knowing your script yeah good , didn't erm waver at all and also very good John at the old active listening , sales type people , we tend to rabbit rabbit rabbit and not listen and it 's a fault
Yeah .
because you can actually learn more by listening than you can
I know .
by actually talking .
Er all very good , stay in control , excellent , very polished erm yeah y you 'd be worth an A but you 've only got C .
Great .
I felt that to be er truthful now , I mean , how excited can they be about
With this , well erm I was er after the first two years when I didn't get a referred lead or recommendation cos I , I had this fear in my mind that if I asked for names , they 'd actually not give them and that they would actually then cancel the policy they 'd taken out with me , I actually thought that
Mm .
but if you think about it , if you 've done a good job , you 've done a good presentation , done a good fact find and they buy , then they should be very happy at that moment in time and er it was stupid because that is the right time to actually ask
I would say it 's perfect because
that 's the perfect time and I had this sort of doubt in my mind erm then I was fortunate I learnt a co a very good scripted presentation for getting referred leads and once I started to actually ask , cos that 's all it comes down to , erm then I was getting three , four , in the end I was being quite clever and saying look if you just restrict them to three then I 'll give them the same good service I reckon I 've given you this service
Mm .
by saying restrict them to three you get the best three they can think of
Mm .
you usually get the fourth and the fifth as well but I did actually only say three but alright
as it 's you I will take another one
Mm .
erm and , and it actually came out like that , quite sincere
Yeah .
it wasn't but it came out quite sincere erm no i it 's the only way to work er but y you know it 's here it 's your attitude , I mean
You 've got ta think
you 've got ta think er think , it was like erm one of the guys was saying oh I 've got a real problem getting the names , I said well how do you ask and he said well look I'm in the people business John but I don't suppose you know anybody do you
no , and he wasn't er he said see they say it all the time I said well of course they do , it 's the phraseology you 're using
Mm .
I'm in the people business but I don't suppose you know anybody do you , you 're bound to get a no-no .
Mm .
What would you say is a fair fair percentage of referrals and actual cold calling would you say for an associate ?
You know
Well probably in your early days you 'll probably do a mix , but if y the quicker you can get to only work , and even to the extent I mean I went out and bought my own book that had personal recommendations on the front and I would actually show that and say look John the only way I actually work , while I get everything ready you might like to look through because it 's the only way I work , I purely work on a personal recommendation basis and that enables me to get quality clients like yourself erm and I can devote time to you rather than have to go out looking for people to tell my story to
Mm .
I use my clients to actually me expand my business which I means I can give you more of my time .
Mhm .
And this shows if you give the book out at the end and then what 'll the guy say you wanna give it out at the beginning , sow the seed that this is the only way you work , you 're now thinking well this guy 's gonna be asking me for recommendations at some stage during the hour together
Yeah it seems a nice little idea , there 's a nice black bag with
Yeah .
personal recommendations
Well I 've got a red I got a red book out of Smiths and I had , one of my clients was a printer so I got him to put it in in the gold
Yeah .
inlay my name and
Yeah for the sake of what , it cost me a fiver , probably a tenner these days , speculate to accumulate
Mm .
so , yeah .
Does this go in with erm
Yeah that goes in your locker now .
same place as the other one ?
Yeah .
Cheers .
Yeah just imagine I'm not here .
Got your forms ?
Yeah .
Who wants to go first ?
Who 's going first ?
I do .
Alright well in that case you keep
I'm , I'm the client am I ?
so you 've got a guideline as to what you are if you need it .
don't forget the old planning the future , revisit it
Right .
make the point you know I'm sure you found this useful , what particular area was the one that excited you the most , yeah ?
Aha , aha .
erm do you think that the erm planning your future that we 've gone through this evening was er was of value to you ?
I'm sorry
Right start again .
do you think the er the planning your future that we 've gone through this evening was of er particular value to you ?
Yeah I th yeah , yeah I think it was I was a bit hesitant before came round to , to er be pleasantly surprised .
A lot of my best clients say that actually .
Er which area do you think you found the most interesting ?
Er well the pension planning
Why was that ?
Well I thought I was adequately , adequately provided for the er future but obviously I'm not , I 'll have to bump that up a little bit .
I want to enjoy life when I retire .
Indeed .
Keep up the golf
well you remember er when we sat down this evening I said there was a couple of ways that you could help me , one of these ways was that er you might be able to introduce me to one or two of your friends and I can run through the same ideas with them .
Er tell me you work with a chap called Chris
Yeah .
er would you mind introducing me to him ?
Do you have his phone number ?
Er well yeah I don't know I don't really know whether he 'd er like me to be handing it out .
Mhm .
Mhm .
Well look
too happy with that er
I can understand you saying that .
I think erm what , what we , what I 'd really like to do is if I could get in touch with him and give him the chance to make up his own mind er then he could decide whether or not he would like to have a chat with me and I 'd just run a few ideas by him , just as you 've done , without any pressure er and he can make his own decisions .
Erm
Whereabouts is he ?
Do you have his phone number ?
Er yeah go on then , it 's er .
Great , well thanks for that .
Now what 's , what 's erm what , what sort of age is Chris ?
He 's about thirty three I think .
Aha , aha .
And he does the same job as you ?
Yeah same department in fact .
Is he married ?
No he 's living with someone .
Has he er got any family ?
No .
No ?
Right okay I 'll get in touch with him , thank you .
You also said you played squash regularly erm there was a chap David you mentioned that er you play quite regularly er I 'd like to get in touch with him as well if I could .
Er well yeah I suppose so why not
Great
it 's er
Okay , thanks for that .
Maybe erm
You have to be careful with Dave , he 's a little bit er touchy at times
Is he ?
yeah .
And I don't
I 'll only
want him coming back to me
Well I tell you what
if he says no you , you know , I don't want you pushing him .
Yeah , right , right .
Well maybe you could have a quick word with him first and I could give you a call and then erm
I won't be playing squash with him for about another what , four or five days so it 's next Wednesday
Mhm , okay well
and so if you leave it till after that and
So you 'll give me a call on Thursday then ?
Yeah .
Yeah okay give me a call and er if he 's quite happy I 'll give him a call .
Well thanks very much for that Dave I 'll look forward to seeing you in the near future .
Okay , thanks er thanks
Okay you covered all that okay yeah erm I think the objection bit you could 've been a bit better on that one erm cos that was quite a sort of bad one , well you 're not too sure about sort of giving his name or his telephone number out
Mm .
you might 've er I mean you did it right , it could 've been a bit stronger though , a bit more punch to it , er punch isn't the right word erm , you know , well okay look what I'm really asking for Dave is your help , you know , when people ask you to help what would you normally do , you 'd help wouldn't you ?
Yeah .
I mean for example if they walked in the room right now I'm sure you 'd introduce me so I'm really saying is look can you give me a telephone number , I 'll give them a chat and in fact , by the way , if you do see him within the next couple of days or so please give him a shout , let me know that you 've been quite excited about some of the ideas that I 've shown you this evening , I wanna do the same thing for him , you know , nothing gained nothing ventured nothing lost .
Yeah .
Right ?
Yeah .
Okay good .
With me ?
Mm .
See it 's difficult but then that 's , but it 's only practice
Mm .
and don't forget all next week you 'll be doing the planning the future bit as well .
Mm .
Okay , do you wanna get yours back then and then we 'll do
Right Jim we 've gone through the er planning the future form there this evening , erm what do you think of it ?
Any , any benefit there for you ?
Yeah sure
Interest ?
Mhm .
Well any particular area that we 've looked at , the five key areas we looked at there if you remember .
Erm definitely savings , that 's something that er I never really thought about , it 's shown me a way to get some , some money together to buy , buy a boat which would be nice .
Your boat , yes , you 're a bit of a sailing man .
Er you remember earlier this evening I said there was two ways you could help me
Aha .
one of them you already have , you 've er given me some good information for this fact find , you 've helped me fill it in
aha .
the second one was that er if you found er my service helpful , to be of benefit to you , you 'd feel free to recommend me to some of your friends and colleagues .
Now earlier this evening you mentioned Chris who you er play squash with and what I 'd
Yeah .
you to do is er give me his telephone number so that I er contact him , offer the same service to him as I have to you .
Yeah certainly I would do but I must admit I don't really like er giving people 's phone numbers out , I don't know how he 'd react to , you know , somebody ringing him up and
Well how did you react when I called you ?
You know .
I'm here , I 've provided that service .
It 's just an opportunity to meet and that 's all I'm asking for .
You know he 'll , he 'll decide for himself whether he
Yeah fair enough
services
I thought it would be er
I mean if he called round here now you 'd introduce me wouldn't you ?
Mhm .
just throw a blanket over my head and pretend I was a budgie .
Absolutely by all means , okay his number his .
and do you have his address at all as well ?
Yeah it 's erm
Okay .
Is Chris married or children ?
Yeah he 's married and he 's got one little boy who 's about three I think .
Yeah .
Mhm .
Does his wife work as well do you know ?
Erm
Also there 's Dave that er you work with
Yeah .
erm
Well I suppose
I 'd like to see him as well if possible so do you have his number ?
Well erm but er I , I don't actually , probably the best thing is just to er call at the office .
Okay that 's er the same number as yourself ?
Yeah .
And same extension ?
Erm no he 's erm
right .
You don't have his home address at all by any chance do you ?
No I don't really know him outside of work to be honest
Okay that 's fair enough .
we have a few beers occasionally but
That was erm what was his surname ?
It 's erm er
open minded type of character
He certainly is
Have to keep our fingers crossed .
er who else do you know that er may be interested in this service ?
Well any other friends , family , brothers , sisters ?
Well I can't really think of anybody .
Neighbours ?
No .
Do you know anybody who 's got married lately ?
Had a child ?
Erm
It 's er just offering a service er I really think it 's a class act , to use an expression
Mhm .
you know you cover all the areas , five areas there
Mhm .
plan your future ,
Er well
there 's people that , you know , people take it up with me .
There 's the girl next door , she 's just had a baby .
I believe everybody should be given this opportunity , whether they take it or not is up to them .
The girl next door ?
Yeah .
What do they call her ?
Er Yvonne .
Yvonne and er she 's married I presume
No she 's single actually , she lives her parents ' house
Oh I see .
Does she work then or ?
Er I think she does a bit of part time I'm not really sure what she does she comes and goes , she probably works in an old folks ' home or something , she has a uniform .
Right I 'll , I 'll give her a call .
Do you know her telephone number ?
No I don't , you probably , I don't , sh she , I know she 's a bit hard up , she 's not on the phone you 'd probably be better off just
Do you think she 'll object if I er just give a knock on the door on my way out there ?
Would you object ?
No not at all , no .
Okay I 'll do that if you don't mind .
Mhm .
Er anybody else ?
Er no can't think of anybody .
I 'll tell you what anyway Jim I'm coming back next week to er give you a few answers coming out of this fact find so
Mhm .
if you wouldn't mind in the meantime if you could think of a few names you know as you 're going about your daily business .
No well I 'll think about it yeah .
pleased to have those .
And that 's it for this evening so I 'll look forward to seeing you next week then , okay ?
Okay .
Thanks a lot Jim .
Well you 've been very helpful er
Smashing .
Right Doug erm there 's a couple of points there really erm like you , you got the , the , the guy and you said who else do you know why not paint a picture , you know , erm like for example Jim the people I do business with are between twenty five and thirty five , they 're usually married buying their own home
probably got , possibly got children , you know ,
Mm .
who do you know who actually fits that description ?
Whereas who else do you know and a little bit later it 's well anybody else it 's er vague isn't it ?
Yeah .
And they c er and you won't get a response , apart from that
I mean I think I mentioned like friends , family er brothers , sisters
Yeah but it wasn't done in a , in an enthusiastic manner it was like a sort of well who do you know like friend , family that sort of thing and at the beginning I thought you was a bit more positive but I thought when you were revisiting the , the planning the future that might have been nerves right at the beginning of the session , you then relaxed and your pace all slowed down , excellent at reminding er Jim picked up referrals mentioned earlier , handled the objection okay , don't remember you asking Jim to contact them beforehand don't think you did , Jim did he ?
Er
Mm .
I don't think he did so it 's the only one you missed out , probably find the the video that 's not , not applicable but yeah .
Erm you yeah you did actually you were good and it was a nice pace you know it was a relaxed , you know
Mm yeah .
er that , that was good .
Friendly enthusiastic , yeah , didn't use any slang erm the link was there , the attention to the client 's responses that was good , I was saying to erm th th that , that sales people tend to be a bit sort of more rabbit than Watership Down , you know that they 're
Yeah .
but you 've got a very nice way of actually listening and you 'll actually learn far more about people by listening than actually talking so erm I found that quite picked up and pinpoint areas contact er eye contact , that was good , stayed in control , not too pushy yeah .
You 're worth an A mate but you 're only gonna get a C .
Okay we 'll have our next two in
are we free to er run away now ?
Well I think we 'll actually do a bit of a debrief , yeah ? we should be finished .
Right .
I , I think some of the lads have gone .
Have they ?
Well one one definitely has er
Oh er J David has , he
football
Oh that 's right yeah .
Hallo Brian .
Thanks for seeing me this evening er
You haven't got ta do it on me
Oh sorry
I'm I'm well I'm the fly on the wall .
don't forget , yeah , give us , whoever 's gonna go first
Oh right .
Er who 's going first ?
I don't mind .
Ian ?
I don't mind .
Shall I go first ?
Yeah you go first .
Oh right I'm I'm
In that case you give me your form , keep hold of it
Right .
?
I don't mind , I'm not here I'm just a fly on the wall like .
Erm but don't forget to like if you look at the beginning , number one , you 've got ta make a big thing on planning the future
Yeah .
I mean I'm gonna try and give , the first two guys and er Mike who came in , they didn't do very well cos they didn't actually mention that bit and it didn't flow from then on , you 've got ta make the point , you know , did you find that er well not did you , that 's bad phraseology , I'm sure you found this beneficial which of the areas of the five tonight actually interest you the most do that bit and then go in with the fact that you actually mentioned earlier on that you do work on a recommendation basis .
When you , when you say that Brian I mean you you 're , you 're talking about at the end of the planning the future after you prioritize ?
Is that correct or , or
Yes , yes yes .
well you don't want us to prioritize
No don't do it just assume all that stuff , that 's been done
Yeah .
so you just wanna revisit it and say oh I'm sure you found this document has been really useful this evening and out of those five areas we discussed , you might wanna consolidate it a bit , which was the one that excited you the most and that 's your retirement savings you know
Right .
not been for anything else yet
Yeah .
and then you can pick it up from there .
Right , okay .
Alright ?
Right .
Well Ian we 've , we 've finished the completion of the document erm the planning your future document , now which of those five areas did you find interesting ?
I thought helping to er increase me pension and was very good .
Right .
Okay well as I said previously what I'm gonna do is go away and then I 'll prepare some figures for you and perhaps I 'll come and see you next week , okay ?
Erm what , what I said to you earlier was that er at the very beginning where you could help me was if , if you found this of value to you , this service that I 've just provided , erm perhaps you could erm th there might be er some friends of yours that er you might find that this might be of beneficial to .
Now you
mentioned Chris earlier I believe
Oh aye yeah .
erm the fella that you work with
Yes .
erm erm y have you his
I don't
er have , have , have , wou I believe this Chris might be interested in this er have you got his telephone number where I can contact him ?
Yeah why do you think that ?
Well I , I what I I would like to er erm sorry I 've got ta stop
Go on , go on go on
Erm
cos you were doing great up until that point and then you left yourself
Yeah I know but
wide open and that 's where you got
I , I'm
the response you got .
That 's right , yeah .
Er well er the reason is I believe that I think you mentioned earlier that Chris is er in the same line of trade as you
and as you mentioned about the pension side which you was interested in on the planning the future I feel
Oh yeah
that Chris might be this might help Chris
Yeah .
erm
Yeah have his number , yeah .
like to say er if you 'd like to ring you could ring him , I 'll ring him next week
Mhm .
and if you 'd like to ring him first and
Oh I 'll see him at work and I 'll obviously we 'll talk about
Okay .
yeah .
So er
Yeah his number 's whatever
Right okay erm is there anyone that , members of the family that erm that might like , appreciate the service ?
Erm
Perhaps your m mum and dad or brothers and sisters
Yeah me me brother might be of interest now , he 's
Okay .
yeah I mean I 'll , I 'll , I 'll give you his number .
Yeah .
And your your brother 's
right .
and his telephone number 's whatever
Right okay .
And is there anyone you know that has just recently got married cos these are areas that obviously
Yeah erm
really help people .
no at the moment all my friends have , have been married a few years erm next time you come and er
Right that 's , that 's , that 's lovely Ian anyway thanks very much for seeing me this evening erm well as I say I 'll go away and prepare some figures and then I 'll , I 'll see you what , what say Wednesday next week ?
Yeah .
Er in the meantime I may ring Chris up er and
Yes no problem .
see if I can be of help to him .
Mm .
Okay , thanks very much .
Thanks .
You may ring Chris up ?
You will ring Chris up .
I will ring Chris up right er I lost track of it halfway erm you know it was but er
so I , I just
and you got your points in , I mean you asked whether it was worthwhile , you did that very well actually er and you were good on reminding the prospect why you were actually asking for recommendations , probably a little bit weak after that point although you did , you , you picked up again , there were , there were points we 're looking for you did pick up referrals mentioned earlier .
The objections , we didn't re didn't really get the i you were doing that first of all and then you paused and started again
Yeah that 's right .
and it flowed quite nicely and you didn't actually give any objections or any
He wasn't supposed to give me any objections
I wasn't
Well you
No er er we just done it naturally actually , it was just er
Yeah I mean you coped be er you , you came across as very natural , you knew your script er friendly enthusiastic , yeah , no slang , belief was there , attentive to Ian 's responses , yeah , picked up the names mentioned earlier , eye contact when yeah er that .
Qui
quietly confident I would say
Yeah I , I feel Brian I mean , you know , you said we 'd got ta be natural , it 's all very well reading from a script but at the end of the day it 's natural that comes across .
That 's the guideline , you put your own phraseology and
Yes .
your own mannerisms on it .
Yeah .
Right ?
Okay that 's , you 'd better hang on to that one and I 'll
Yeah
Oh can I put a C on the front .
Tick C for me tick C
I 'll tick C
Yeah .
er requires further on the job training
Yeah .
that 's what
We can't give you more than that .
Yeah do I , do I throw in objections or
Well I mean if he 's very good you probably won't be able to .
Right , okay .
Erm David we 've just obviously completed a , a plan of your future , we just looked at areas which we
Yeah .
we both felt you need to highlight erm can I ask you which of the areas you felt particular interest in ?
Yeah I , I was very interested in the savings plan actually , I , I I , I'm not very good at saving and I believe that could be a help .
I , I'm not looking to put a l put a large amount of money away but that 's I'm interested in that .
Yeah ?
Ah right that 's good .
Earlier we mentioned that erm there were a couple of areas which if I was helpful to you you could possibly help me and one was obviously
best advice I could give to you
Right .
the other point was obviously people that you may know which may be able to help me in my business , people you feel this information obviously it was of interest to you
Yeah I , I found it very interesting
erm
yeah .
but would obviously be beneficial to them and
Yeah .
you mentioned er John erm
Yeah John
bit of golf with
that 's right , yeah .
erm
Yeah right what I 'll do I'm I can a I 'll see , I'm seeing John Saturday and I 'll , I 'll mention to him .
Right .
Could I have his telephone number and give him a ring ?
him a ring ?
Right .
John , and what 's his surname ?
Er it 's John
Right .
erm
Telephone number , whatever
address yeah
right and you mentioned your brother as well cos he 's a guy
Right yeah my brother , he could be interested
Aha .
erm yeah I 'll , I 'll certainly
Right .
And obviously people
yeah
you feel would
yeah I , I'm not sure at this stage but they might , they might be able to benefit yeah .
Great .
Erm anybody else ?
Erm well there 's some other guys I play golf with er Fred perhaps I 'll mention it to him as well .
Right .
Do you have his
Give him
number at all ?
I don't know his number offhand but I
Well I 'll see you next , I 'll see you next week
Yeah .
cos I 'll , I 'll come back and see you so
Right yeah okay .
erm er if there 's anybody who you feel erm next door or who have recently been married cos it 's obviously a great help to people who have just recently been married .
Er actually my cousin 's just recently been married er then again I don't know her phone number at this present time but I 'll , I 'll perhaps , I 'll perhaps er
Well , well what I 'll do is next week I 'll
Yeah .
erm
Right .
Watch the dog round me cousin 's
Ah right I like dogs so that 'll be alright .
because she 's got a big alsatian .
And erm good , thank you very much indeed and I look forward to seeing you next week .
Yeah , okay , thanks very much .
Good Ian
I was I was a good client wasn't I ?
Yeah
Yeah but the way he was asking , again it was , it was a natural flow
Yeah , that 's right .
there was no , there was no pressure there at all was there ?
Yeah that 's right .
And he 'd actually confirmed that you , you found it useful and he had mentioned earlier on there were one or two ways that you could actually help him
Yeah .
it was a na if you do it , if you follow those two first parts right the rest of it almost slots into place .
Very very good Ian erm excellent voice , remind the prospect as to why you were gonna be asking and I thought you were very good there erm i in fact you were that good that you were actually offered to contact before you even asked
Yeah .
you had the offer to , to contact these people for him erm the video doesn't apply ,
at the end of the day
Yeah .
He 's very enthusiastic er superb on that I thought erm kept on asking I 've put here , you actually ended up with five names
I didn't !
Mm .
I had , I had five names here , that would give you sixteen , you 're worth an A but I'm afraid
You 've only got a C .
you 've only got a C .
Alright Ian , good .
I , I should imagine when you go out and do it it 's er it 's a lot easier in a sense cos you
This is the toughest one .
yeah ,
But as long as you follow the guidelines that are there
Yeah .
you 're there .
Yeah .
Has everybody else been done ?
Oh right .
Yeah fine , give us your form .
Now I'm not here , alright ?
Yeah okay .
But don't forget to revisit planning the future .
To re ?
Revisit the planning the fu the fact finder okay so that the sort of phraseology will be well I'm sure you , you found this a very worthwhile exercise
Yeah .
incidentally er Jim which of the areas was of particular you know interest to you .
Mm .
Paint us a picture yeah ?
Alright .
Okay Jim well we 've , we 've been through the erm the planning your future exercise
Mhm .
and er erm and we discussed it fully and I 've been noting the points down you know but what , what in particular was of interest to you on that er er on that on those discussions ?
Er I think it was the er the pension really .
The pension ?
Mhm .
Why in particular the pension ?
Well it was something that you hear a lot about it and er I 've never done anything about it and it 's cos I'm starting to think towards the future and it 's gonna be nice to know that I'm gonna have a pound or two to go and do what I want when I retire .
Fine .
Right we 'll do something on that for you and erm
Mhm .
see what we can do and we can arrange that , that 's no problem
Yeah good .
Do you remember earlier this evening when we was erm talking of going through erm I said there were ways that perhaps you might be able to help me erm
Mm .
help you , er you mentioned your , your brother John and his family
Yeah .
erm I'm sure that I could be of some help to them
Aha .
I 'd like to contact them , have you , can you give me their number ?
Erm yeah I can give you their number , it 's erm
Yeah let me just write that down .
Okay it 's erm I dunno , I dunno how they 'll feel about you phoning them up though to be honest with you .
Well would you perhaps like to give them a , a ring to , to say what I spoke about today then I 'll give them a ring , say if you could ring them tomorrow then I 'll ring them er er tomorrow evening a as well and then perhaps I can , you know , they , you 've given them the ground work to actually er for me to ring as well and then I can discuss with him and arrange an appointment to go and see him is that okay ?
Yeah I should think so .
Oh good , okay .
Oh talking about th that sort of thing er I think you mentioned the ph photographic club is that right ?
Yeah that 's right I go every Tuesday night .
Oh do you ?
Oh that 's good .
Er is it erm a large club , many members ?
Erm I think there 's probably about twenty odd members with ten people who are there every week .
Oh they 're there every week ?
Mm .
Oh erm I'm sure er who do you think will perhaps be of benefit erm for me to talk to them as well you know to discuss this with them ?
I don't really know
Erm well perhaps you , you wou would you er let me perhaps er well not let me but perhaps I could ring a few of erm those people just to have a chat with them and perhaps put , you know , talk about the er planning your future exercise with them as well , could you , would you give me some numbers please ?
Yes sure I 've actually got erm a list here of erm all , all the members of the club .
A list ?
Oh that 's fine .
Oh that will be splendid er well thanks for that , that 's er that 's great obviously
Mhm .
erm er going on from there erm who else would you think would be interested , there 's obviously relatives , friends , anybody like that with a wedding erm soon or
Er
can you think of anybody like that perhaps who might be interested I mean because you know we cover for weddings and er
Actually Sue , this friend er er Sue she 's getting married .
Is she ?
Yeah .
Mm .
Yeah .
Er Sue , Sue
Super mhm , telephone number ?
Erm er er er I can't remember but if you ring , ring Sedgewicks , you know
Oh Sedgewicks in Norwich yeah
she works there .
ask for Sue yeah that 'll be great .
If you see her in the meantime obviously mention
Sure we , we 're going over there at the weekend actually , give them a ring next week .
Yeah well I 'll give them a ring say early next week
Mm .
and if you can have a word with them I 'd be grateful that just lays the foundation for me to talk to them and er and to go and see them .
Well that 's splendid
you know we 've got mortgage and everything like that
Mhm .
thanks for that information anyway .
That 's okay .
Well thanks for the names erm and er what I 'll do is I 've , I 've got this video , I 'll leave that with you , you and your wife
Mhm .
have a look at that
Aha .
and er I would like to make an appointment to come and see you er again next week to talk over this mortgage and to go into it a bit more
Right .
Okay ?
Fine .
Yeah .
So then perhaps if you 'd like to take a look at the video in that , in the meantime
Mhm .
erm then erm what I 'll do I 'll pick it up next week and that will obviously show you a bit more about Abbey Life and any , any of your friends or anybody you think might , might like to look at the video erm you know just to give them an insight , people you mentioned erm to me that you perhaps know you 'd like to pass the video on to them to have a look erm and if er er you 've got my number and if you want to ring me then I can get some more videos if you think other people might be interested I'm quite happy to pass them on , on to you as well , okay ?
Yeah okay Bill .
Yeah well thanks Jim , it 's been lovely meeting you and I , I 've enjoyed the evening erm and enjoyed , thanks for the tea and we 've been through
That 's alright .
we 've been through everything erm everything possible on the fact find er on , sorry , planning your future and I think er , you know , you , you 've helped me
Alright Bill exc excellent , excellent .
Apart from a little wobble half way through when er when you threw in a bit of an objection you wobbled a bit , no very good excellent
erm you know I liked the way you actually confirmed the pension as a number one priority , I thought that was good .
Yes you reminded erm er Jim about the , the er asking why you asked for recommendations , pinpointed handled the objections excellently erm I 'd actually put video not available but you brought it in so you 've got a cross here and it 's got yes you , yes it was
I 'll give you that erm but a very nice quiet sort of controlled enthusiasm Bill .
Very good with searching questions
Mm .
you know you sort of , you were there , I am as a trainer you were sort of digging away there getting a bit more information out about people .
Excellent voice I mean worth an A Bill , brilliant if you do that , but I mean I'm not , I know speaking to sort of Charles and Tom and Alan , they say that sort of recommendation referrals in Norwich are very difficult but I think if you do it the right way
Mm .
Mm .
I don't see why it should be .
Yeah .
Right do you wanna grab another couple of guys and send them in and I 'll er
Thanks Brian .
Will do .
sort them out .
Is that all ?
I think that 's it Brian .
That 's it is it ?
Oh well we 'll go back in the other room .
I think exercise completed Brian .
Is it ?
Oh good
Yeah .
good , good .
Well we 'll just arrange for the er

On this subject that we ought to carry on and and and
No I 'll come to it .
Do you want to come to it alright .
I 'll come to it .
Sorry .
Ray would you care to start the meeting .
Okay yes , okay meeting commenced with the production shortages of which there are no production shortages today .
There are also no packaging shortages .
Er yesterday on non-conformances most of my non-conformances I think there are about five outstanding .
Er with the exception of one that from er which is relative to er grit sand where
the computer .
Oh that one 's been
sand in the bags instead of sharp sand .
What 's happened ?
Have they been scrapped ?
Is is that the er super five litre standard ?
That 's correct yeah .
No
No p what Peter said was , if it has n't been picked up by the lab and it 's an internal problem , it can be dealt with internally .
So as far as reducing stocks are concerned , am I to reduce my figures by
No no because the bags have already been you know on the back of the compost plant time sheet , you 've already got that those bags have actually been wasted .
So that has already been done .
So really the non conformance was no need to be
There was no need cos it didn't turn
Issued or raised
erm the stocks came off , the bag stocks off .
So according to Peter we 've no need to do a non-conformance for such as this .
When it can be dealt with internally within a couple of days .
It 's nice to see that it was action anyway and the rest of the
I agree with that .
gone through despite .
But there is actually some production shortage cos we want four hundred twenty five kilos .
Well according to Cindy this morning , that 's where I got my information from , she said there were no production shortages .
From yesterday .
But there 's one today .
we need four hundred er S H M load samples for but it 's in S H M bags .
we 've only got two pallets .
And they can't produce them
They can't produce some more tomorrow cos they 're on tomorrow .
Check with Rob .
Loaded today , delivered tomorrow .
.
So it 's that doesn't Cindy 's now see if we can put the lorry back or see if the
How long does it need to get it done ?
It won't be ready while tomorrow afternoon .
be on stock duty did you say ?
Well there 's eighty on stock .
We know it 's eighty from the stock count but I don't know what the computer says .
Well we 'll have a look , that 's the simple answer
So we 're we 're trying to rearrange the load like .
Cos it 's ten tonne short on the lorry .
Did erm was mentioned yesterday because we didn't have any of this erm
Seaweed .
Seaweed .
In and that 's coming in on Friday and I asked Jackie yesterday whether she could come in and talk to you , she was trying to Monday .
No she 's sorted it out .
What she decided to do was produce Monday which we agreed to put it in for Monday and she would ask them midweek delivery .
I was just wondering put that back to the same delivery .
Well this isn't going direct to er .
So and it 's part of the three drop load so .
No Jackie 'd agreed that midweek the turf hardener goes out .
Is that lorry going out ten tonne short today then ?
Yes ten tonne short .
Well I don't know yet , we 're trying to sort that one out , we 're trying to either put the load back or get another order to go with it .
As I say w plus they 're not gonna want that t today are they they 're not gonna s they 're not gonna use it in
No no they 're not gonna use it today .
Well they 're not gonna be using it tomorrow when it gets there .
But the other one of the is a nine o'clock delivery in the morning you see so the rest of the load must be there you see .
The other two drops .
Yeah .
There 's obviously a ten tonne drop and two t five tonne drops on the lorry .
But we tried this get round that .
.
So do we know why we 've got the shortage , is it because th
It has n't been picked up you see has it ?
production well no
It has n't been picked up on Unless the computer says there 's a suff It may be
Yeah there 's sufficient stock And that 's why it has n't been picked up .
The computer 's telling them it 's in stock .
Which suggests we 've got a stock problem again then .
Well when the from Saturday 's stock-take anyhow I don't think .
Well they 've been put in now .
They 've put in now .
Who 's doing production planning at the moment .
Peter from home apparently .
Okay..
That 's it from me .
Okay .
Lines one and two well lines one we 're having a problem erm with some of the bags .
Alan come to me yesterday afternoon , er and they said the rubber suckers was missing of the end of the sucker spouts that picks the bag up .
We put them on and apparently it 's making no difference .
Er I haven't Alan this morning to discuss it with him but I will see him .
Alan 's just gone out there actually Bryn to have a look .
Has he ?
Yeah yeah .
Right .
Erm tomorrow at nine o'clock I 've got coming in to do this interceptor drain .
I arranged with Dick that w Bill would be with him for two two and a half hours .
But having seen Bill this morning , Jack is gonna
No no no no no .
It 's all been rearranged .
no we 've rearranged that one .
Right one 's going .
Oh
No problem you can have him .
Bill doesn't know yet
We haven't even told Brian and Bill yet .
Well that 's what I'm saying
But he 's arranged
Bill Bill 's coming to me and saying he can't do that .
No .
It was arranged yesterday and we haven't got round to telling everybody yet .
We I agreed with Dick well we both agreed that Bill would be with you and we 'd sort out Jack .
So we haven't seen anybody yet .
We 'd previous arranged this for Bill to go .
Then when you asked me if you could have Bill for Thursday morning .
We rearranged it .
Then we had to rearrange it .
Yeah well it was supposed to be done yesterday wasn't it , then Jack could n't .
No the car wasn't running .
That 's right .
Well yes , see so Jack we didn't know that 's right ,
No it 's all been done .
still got Bill as previously arranged but we had to find somebody else for Jack .
Cos Jack rearranged the day , we didn't .
Right .
Is this the oil out of the drain .
Yeah .
Did they they did a test on that and they can
Yeah they 're gonna clean it all out and bring the erm er water erm they 're gonna flush .
Is that gonna be is that gonna be a recurring problem ?
Or has it been a build up over a ye number of years
This is the first time we 've had to do this interceptor cos I didn't even know it was in and I don't think Dick did .
I never knew it was there anyway .
been here ten years so .
This is the first time this problem 's arisen ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
But we we still always get problems with drains because of the the state of the yard and what materials we 've got in the yard .
Yeah .
You know
On on the state of the yard did did you speak to er Lynne
Yeah yeah yeah and they they 're coming back with the three separate quotes .
Okay .
So erm we should well Mick said he 'll give me this week anyway .
So as soon as I get I 'll I 'll let you know .
Erm that 's as much as I 've got this morning .
are you happy with are you ?
Well I am .
Up to a point , because now we 've got the the go ahead for the new chiller , which is ordered , erm that 's only getting rid of part of the problem .
Erm because the old plates and the water inlets and outlets in the machine and the pipework 'll still let stuff in .
So we don't when he was here last week doing some er alterations on it , to go through what he 'll actually want to make it all new all the way through .
So done it , that 's got rid of that problem .
Er and I 'll price it all up so another two hundred and sixty quid .
Sorry what 's two what 's two hundred and sixty quid ?
These parts to go on the machine .
There 's there 's a waterways , where the water flows through to cool the bars .
Yeah .
Now .
They 're all furred up are they or something .
They 're all furred up .
Er you clean 'em out but then again you you get it back so
Is it lime scale or something ?
Well it is and it it 's it 's like sludge and that that 's coming out the bottom of the erm tank , the water tank .
It 's dust it 's dust .
But saying we 've got that problem now , we 've got the problem with that so we 're gonna change one part which is the chiller
Yes .
So alright , we 're gonna filter the water that goes into that , but the stuff inside the pipes and inside the little waterways that through the cooling bars , are still got stuff in .
Well is isn't there isn't there erm c
And the gaskets are in there there 's a s there 's gasket sets in there , they 've all got it all in .
can't you close it through or something or can't you put anything in it that would
Well .
de-scale it .
I don't know how you do sludge and that there and it 's it 's everything it 's a con you know we ought to have kept some and shown you because it is it is I 've never seen anything like it myself .
It sludges everything up .
Anyway s to cut a long story short , I had a word with Stuart to see what it 'd cost .
He said , well we ought to do it .
Is the two hundred and sixty quid ?
Yeah .
And does that resolve the problem ?
That 's that 's new new chiller all where your waterways and everything 'll be clear .
Does that resolve the problem though ?
Well yes .
Or are you saying it 's resolving the problem today and next month it 's gonna be as bad again .
No because what we 're what we 're gonna do now which we haven't got now , we 're gonna have a sealed tank where no dust can get into it
Right .
The chiller 's a sealed unit isn't it ?
Yeah yeah .
And it 's got the tank in the bottom .
And the outlet to that into the machine is gonna have a a charcoal filter in .
So you 're filtering it before it goes in the machine and still we 're saying , why don't we filter it as it comes out the machine , before it goes back in the tank .
Yes .
Cos you 're circulating the water round .
Right .
And it chills it .
And this is what I'm going into .
But I mean
It 's only say two hundred and sixty quid , add it on to the chiller thing .
Yeah but the the point is this .
I said , that 's alright , but when you find out what wanted to er to to do , he said it 'd take two days .
And I said well we can't two days .
So I 've been in touch with Brian again erm and I said , can't you make sure that your blokes can do it in a day .
Cos I 've had a word with with them
There 's nothing we can do ourselves then , it 's got to be done by
Well we can we can but as I said , the two lads who know about it , who could do it , they said well it might take us two days .
Then they says anything technical that they don't know about , you 've got to bring back in .
Have you got the labour costs on top of that at as well ?
Yeah yeah that 's that 's what I'm saying , it 's gonna take that 's that the it 's gonna take two days .
Plus the lost production time .
Yeah , plus lost production .
But I said to Brian , if we can have it say for a Saturday , and make sure you do it in one day .
So coming back to me on that .
But you don't I mean you 're gonna production anyway by putting the chiller in presumably aren't you ?
No .
No .
Well you are , ten minutes .
Oh .
That 's what er
Is it because of our hard water in this area do you think , or would that machine have been the same anywhere in the country .
Well if you
No at the moment it 's getti the tank the water tank isn't sealed , it 's drawing a lot of dust in , er we 've tried putting a cover over it and everything else and that 's what 's causing the sludging .
As well as the scaling .
It 's sludging and scaling at the same time .
But if you 're putting a ch if you 're putting this chiller in , and don't do the other part
Hello ?
where it all sludges .
isn't the sludge gonna go through your new chiller ?
Ah no no no no no .
The the actual sludge that 's in there is in the chiller , it 's in the bottom of the water tank where we 're drawing the water from that goes through the cooling system .
But that that goes through that goes to chiller won't it .
That water will go through the chiller .
Yeah .
won't it be pulling up some of that sludge through the chiller and if we don't
That is what 's happening now but what I'm saying is put a new chiller in
Yeah .
That 's got rid of the sludge in the tank and everything , you put in a complete sealed unit on .
Okay .
But we 're not saying is the pipe-work and the little waterways if you see the machine you 'll understand more .
Okay .
But there is little er flows in in the in this pipe-work and everything .
See you 've got to get rid of all that because at the back of your mind you 're still saying , Well I 've spent a lot of money still only done part of the job .
What is is this come to light after the event as it were or did you know that was there when we were redoing the machine ?
They 've known they 've known about this for a fair while .
Well why wasn't this why wasn't this done when we were redoing the machine for goodness sake .
It it should have been because I put in .
It was giving the back .
I mean it could have been done if we 'd got a go-ahead .
But nobody come back and give us the go-ahead to do it .
So you 're saying that er this additional two hundred and sixty quid for d replacing those pipes was a separate ?
No no no but we 're saying that the chiller should have been put on wh
But you 've got your chiller but y did you know those pipes were a problem before when you
No no y No nobody 's thought of it until I stood there and watched it and I says to George the operator , I says , Right we 're gonna put a new chiller on here .
Now we should get rid of the problem , but what about the waterways in there .
He says , Well really , he says , you it could do to be changed .
So .
And then we had because we got problem on the waterway again .
Yeah .
Last week .
We got man in and he started clearing it all again .
I said when we get a new er new chiller on there , that will cut that out .
He says , Yeah , but he says , you 'll still have stuff in these pipes somewhere , he said , you can blow them out , you can do what you like , but he said , you 'll find out you 'll get some in .
So what 's cost of ?
What 's today 's cost ?
Today 's cost for for a fitter ?
I don't know I don't know this is why I'm waiting for Brian to come back .
I know what I Know what it 's cost us for that weekend .
Yeah what was it costing us for that weekend ?
It 's cost us three and a half thousand pound .
Of labour .
Yeah .
For for one man ?
Two men .
Hello ?
Some people over charge don't they ?
Three and a half thousand pound for two men for a weekend ?
Yeah .
I 'll give you a ring .
Yeah it was all time and a half , double time .
Three and a half thousand pound !
For two men for two days .
Yes .
And the chiller and the waterways and everything should all have been done all at the same time .
can we send somebody away to and do a course .
And then hire him out at weekends ?
Yeah sure .
I 've got Arthur on for you Bryn..
took out
Good morning .
it used to get in .
.
Yeah .
How long have we had that machine ?
Three years .
Three years .
And want to buy one .
can't we sell them ours and put in a new one
Yeah can't we have a .
They 're here tomorrow , we 're gonna treat them and we 're gonna suggest .
Well I certainly am .
With a weight filler next time , not a volumetric .
Exactly .
That 's what we 're saying , whoever 's
Yeah .
if you have a volumetric you 've also got to have some sort of weight checks with it haven't you .
you can't tell the weight through the volume can you ?
Yeah .
It was there there could be
Yeah .
er a weight
Yeah .
thing added onto it .
But it was something like could n't afford two thousand pounds .
That much .
And all the hassle .
Well we laughed at the time didn't we .
Yeah yeah .
not just this place is there .
Not just this place to look after really .
So that 's gonna cost another grand then isn't it .
It 's gonna be eight hundred odd quid for nine hundred pounds for
I can't remember what I can't remember what they charge , it is on that bill what they charge for a Saturday .
It is on that bill and I think it 's something like thirty pounds .
I 've got it down on my desk somewhere .
The bill .
Well I mean it 's going to sort of s start shooting up to round about a thousand pound then you 'll have to have a word with Tom .
Well that 's I was intending to have a word with Tom about it .
well do that .
Because it is it 's a lot of money .
It 's a lot of money .
Okay .
But what I say to do is buy a new chiller and get it on and then all Summer we 'll get this damn problem again .
Well yes , you 're just throwing money away aren't you .
That 's right .
Yeah .
Yeah .
But I say , it should 've been it should 've been all d I mean everybody 's known about this chiller for a long while and it 's as I say , I mean when was here it was costing a thousand pound a time .
Mm .
To clear all the waterways and that out .
You see and it 's alright to buy a new chiller , it 's only half the problem .
But I mean , if it was costing this sort of money to clear the pipes and so forth out , what I fail to understand is if we 're having a full overhaul of the machine , why this wasn't incorporated within it .
Well yeah .
I agree with you .
I mean .
But it should have it should have been brought
Paul introduced a total system there for er maintenance on that machine on a daily weekly and monthly basis .
Because the machine was so busy , just after the time he introduced it , the line was never available to do all the checks that were on that and it and Roland 's got them in a file there
I 've got them as well .
You 've got a file of them .
Of everything they had to check .
And the cooler was one
Yeah .
and cleaning the cooler was one of the checks .
Yeah it 's Yeah .
Yeah .
Sorry but it was .
But you see this is not the first chiller is it .
We 've had another chi You see it 's always been the same kind of chiller .
Yeah but they 've been open chillers as opposed to closed chillers before haven't they .
The wh the whole point is Steve , when it comes down to basic facts , it should have had a proper sealed unit chiller on it when it was new .
Where you wouldn't have had any of this problem .
This is a case of hindsight 's a wonderful thing .
But it was so costly so they said they 'd get a second hand one .
But I mean the the the chi how much was the chiller ?
Two two thousand something ?
Two thousand a hundred and fifty pounds .
Well relative to the price of the machine , it 's hardly costly is it .
Yeah but it 's been in what ?
Two and a half years now ?
I mean they knew they knew about the chiller at time cos I think said
Anyway , you 've got your chiller , let 's price the pipes and let 's go on Alright
Well I 've got the price of the pipes it 's just the labour .
the labour because erm I can't see any point in doing half a job .
No .
Okay .
Anything else Bryn ?
No th that 's that 's all .
Eric ?
We 've talked .
Hello ?
Yeah , morning .
Just to remind everyone that er it is the er property insurance inspector 's visit today .
Alright Stuart cheers .
Do we know what time , Eric ?
I 've no idea at all .
I I 'll go in I the only information I 've got is Stuart came into the meeting , Monday and give us half an hour talk on it .
It 's the only information I 've got ,
Insurance .
Stuart will ring and let you know he said , this morning .
He 'll let you know when coming round .
coming round today isn't he .
Yes .
He 's got he 's got about two or three visitors today .
Yes yes he 's he 's ta taking round some Japanese investors .
Is the er is the yard in a good state ?
The yard 's quite good .
Yeah we did did we organize a sweeper for today .
No .
No .
You what ?
No sweepers today ?
No never said owt to me about .
No no we didn't know there was a visit there w only this
I only found out about the Japanese this morning .
Oh I didn't know about it but I mean the
we we 've had guys out and we 've cleaned up some
Yeah it 's just a little bit muddy that 's all .
Unfortunately .
It 's a working yard I mean
Yeah Yeah I mean
Yeah I mean we we we haven't done anything extra special but it is neat .
It is neat .
And it 's tidy .
It 's tidy .
Yeah .
It 's tidy .
And people are aware of the insurance inspector coming round .
Yeah .
And you 're working on that shrink wrap er areas aren't you saw them there yesterday .
Yeah yeah yeah .
The only other thing is that er I was .
We are due for another service and it 's this month , the yearly service .
That they are all up to date and er I 'll just do a final check up after the meeting .
Make sure nobody 's let one off and I don't know about it which often happens .
And can you ring Stuart please when you 've finished in this meeting .
Yeah .
Mm .
Er yeah just just one other thing , Pete going through the accident book , there 's one or two that are coming up with people on the liquids line getting splashes of liquid in their eyes .
And one of them has had a day off .
Which was smarting in the eye and she went to hospital to have her eye rinsed and all that .
And there was another one as well .
Is there any possibility they could wear glasses on that line .
I I know I 've asked before .
The glasses are in number four , they 've all been provided but they just Whether they don't know that they 're there .
I will ensure that everyone who 's working on that line is issued with a pair of safety glasses .
I don't mean goggles I mean just the glasses with the side pieces .
Yeah yeah we got them .
We got twenty didn't we ?
I will make sure that everybody 's issued with them .
Thank you very much .
That 's all from me .
Dick .
Twenty seven lorries today then , Pete and I went down to two o'clock on Monday .
s to see what had been done over there .
And really had a good clean up .
It was really good .
Was it ?
it was four pallets which had fell over near the door which we 're gonna get tidied up , we 'll get those tidied up in time .
There 's a lot of there in bulk which we 're gonna get out on Friday .
So you can
Bulk ?
Bulk .
So are
We 've got one load of bulk .
Yeah and
That they 're gonna load it , the lorries arranged .
I 've talked to Arthur about it , he 's agreed we can put it on pallets .
Because at the
Has he ?
end of the day , we
You 're palletizing and the containers .
We 're gonna palletize containers .
isn't that gonna is that gonna slow up the unloading of the containers considerably ?
It it is No it isn't now because w Pete said they could have seven people out there so if they get seven people out there ,
Yeah .
you 've got two elevators , so we can have
It it does it makes far more sense
We we can actually I mean if if
these twen these twenty foots come , we can actually discharge from either end .
Yeah .
Straight onto a pallet , palletize it , wrap it , forklift it , put it in , stack it three high .
Well I I have to pose the question then do we want the
Well I'm not sure about the three high yet .
Well
the conveyor that Stuart 's got ordered .
Well that 's alright , we need it we shall need it for the
We need it anyway .
for the forty foots anyway .
We shall need it for the forty foots .
Okay .
but we can unload , three men on each and one fork lift driver .
Right .
B We 're going out at ten to have a look at it again to test see how high that fork lift
Will reach ?
will reach .
Cos I don't think it 'll reach three pallets high .
Well Mark can operate that thing anyway .
Yeah yeah that 's fine .
Yeah yeah well that 's why I asked his .
So we 're going out well after the meeting to to sort that one out , we 'll try it in there .
Er
Oh it would it would make life so much easier for getting that stuff out later won't it palletize it .
Yes .
well it will .
But you don't do you hav wil will have you got to shrink wrap it at all or will it hold will it will it just sit right on the pallets without falling off ?
shrink wrap it .
You 'll have to shrink wrap it won't you .
Yeah yeah .
I mean you won't want much but I mean just to hold it .
Just to hold it on .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
So it 's now we 've got seven people , it 's gonna make it a lot easier for the first twenty containers which is forty containers in actual fact isn't it .
But
We need
back to back .
Yeah .
So we that 's going to sort that problem , co s we can
Forty containers back to back .
There 's twenty containers .
Yes .
But there 's forty boxes isn't there there 's forty actual container 's isn't there ?
Cos there 's
There 's twenty trailers , forty containers isn't it .
twenty back to back .
There 's twenty trailers forty .
No there 's not , there 's twenty containers .
There 's twenty twenty foot containers .
So it 's only ten .
It 's ten lorries , twenty twenty foot containers .
Oh well that 's alright .
Oh well that 's fine that 's even better .
Yeah , that 's even better , but then we 're on to the forty foots so that 's even better .
Yeah .
Yeah .
with you saying twenty , I thought there 'd be twenty lorries with
So so it 's only No no it 's twenty twenty foot containers .
Oh well that 's even better still .
Erm we 'll need to isolate separately the wages on that cost Lynne because we 'll need to add it to the
No problem .
stock value .
Yeah .
Otherwise Arthur 'll jump up and down like a demented rabbit .
And can we erm hire a minibus ?
If you need to hire a minibus
We we need to hire a minibus it 's about a hundred and seventy quid for the week .
For the week ?
Yeah okay .
That okay , can I go ahead .
Yeah make sure that 's added to the stockpile to the stock value
But it it 'll actually reduce costs later because later on it 's just a matter of
Calling it in .
Calling it in .
Yeah .
Yeah that 's good .
seven thousand cubic metres of the damn stuff up at er area..
How much .
Seven thousand , one hundred and sixty three cubic metres .
Can it be mixed with half peat so that it goes to er
So this has all been arranged for Friday .
Have you any idea when the containers are coming in yet ?
Erm
Cos the chap Norman says he 's he 's given a contact there
Yeah .
for the chap to ring me but he has n't rung me yet .
Well you ring him then if you like
Yeah .
it 's erm George
Oh I 've got his name
Yeah .
I 've got a I 've got his name and
Yeah .
Lawrence anyway .
That 's right , yeah .
Er
I mean the the stuff 's due to come in on Friday , he reckons it 'll get it 's the fourth on Friday isn't it ?
the docks on Friday .
They 're due into the docks on into the docks on Friday , they 're due to get customs clearance sort of pretty well immediately apparently and the the speed at which they 're gonna load these containers is quite phenomenal .
They don't really expect any er any delay erm and they 're expecting to start shipping up here on the Monday .
What I don't know is when on the Monday .
So you know , really you want to tie that up with Lawrence
Yeah .
because you don't want guys out there from eight o'clock in the morning
No .
standing around at three o'clock in the afternoon
That 's right .
waiting for a blasted lorry to turn up .
Well Yeah I don't want to send them .
I think we 're gonna struggle with the three in a day on the twenty foot .
We maybe okay .
Three lorries a day ?
Yes .
Mm well it 's six containers .
Yes .
Norman doesn't think we 're gonna do three a day .
We
Well as long as you as long as you 've got the twenty cleared in the week .
five days , I don't mind .
.
You see wh Ideally I 'd like to try one to see how gonna take like you know .
Well why don't you get two for the first day , and then and then then they 're not
Well we can get we 'll have two .
Well h we 'll have two a day I think that 's if you say we can great I mean
Oh yeah I mean I'm saying two a day , but erm if you can get three a day , I 'd prefer it because
Oh yeah yeah .
obviously it 's gonna reduce the time of the er
But if I order two
of the of the cost of the guys
That 's right .
seven guys .
Yeah .
I mean I don't want to enhance the cost of that any more than I have to .
No .
No .
Well no no but I mean , if we limit it to two for the first day , and a I mean I shall know by eleven o'clock
It makes far more sense to to do two for the first day , then you can judge how many you can get through in a day from those two .
Because .
If you have three
charging on you gonna cost an arm and a leg like that 's why I was saying that you know , we don't want too much to start with .
No .
Er will the forty foots can they is there a time between 'em or can we just carry straight on with it .
No you can't the forty foots haven't even The we 've got a huge problem in Sri Lanka .
The are playing silly buggers .
We 've paid them for fifty percent of the F O B costs , er because they said , Unless you pay us , we won't load .
So we paid them , it cleared our bank last week and they 're still refusing to move the product , we don't know why .
So it 's still sitting in a
I see .
still sitting in a
So be quite a time before
It 's still sitting in bales in Sri Lanka .
Mm .
So .
I mean it 's gonna I think it 's gonna be quite a time delay .
Well at least we can plan it for the week then .
I least we know we 're gonna clear the first lot in a week then now don't we .
Yes yeah
On Friday w would it be a good idea Cos I don't know what time the generator 's but I mean it would be really best if we could set things up .
wouldn't it on Friday .
you 'll have to talk to Stuart because you 've got the hire on a week by week basis .
Now whether they 'll deliver on a Friday and not count that as a delivery day I don't know .
Aye it 's yeah it 's well I don't know but I think it 's it is definitely coming on Friday .
Is it .
Yeah cos I
I I left it with Stuart to to arrange all that but maybe he 's got the hire from Friday to Friday .
people generator was on to me the other day cos we I insisted that it 's got two three phase outlets on .
But the point is what I'm saying is if we could get that stuff there on Friday afternoon and get the the conveyor set to where you want 'em , because I don't know what leads you want the lorry got there on Monday morning , wants unloading , and we 're flying about for damn leads , we we 're gonna be in trouble .
Well yeah but the beauty is now Arthur 's agreed to let us put it on pallets , we can start unloading the containers without the elevator .
Ah .
can't we
These are whites you 're putting on aren't they ?
White forty forty eights yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah , he says but he didn't want to buy er five by fours .
And the thing is we were buying forty forty eights we that we were u reusable for the plant when we need 'em .
Yeah that 's okay .
Er
Right .
But e So the conveyor 's going on on the line on Friday afternoon
Yeah .
At two o'clock .
Yeah is that one from here .
That one from here .
Yeah .
The bulker 's going in at two o'clock .
Yeah .
So 's he he can the bulker to get rid of .
Yeah yeah .
If we take some diesel down when we go ,
Yeah .
Providing we can find some twenty five litre drums .
Yeah .
So that 's the diesel .
Yeah .
Well you see the the generator will come on a lorry with .
So really when he well it obviously wants to be in the place where you want it .
Yeah yeah .
You know .
That 's what I'm saying you you know you 've really got to say well , the generator can be there .
Cos once he drops it .
Yeah .
Is
well it 'd be better really for Friday afternoon .
Mm .
I mean really I mean I can't see that before Monday
Yeah I 'll have a word with Stu but i mean he 's gonna be that busy today .
if he 's setting it up if they 're not bringing while Friday and they set it up give you time to set it up
Mm .
Mm .
But we can start working out there on on Monday morning
Without the elevator .
without the elevator without the
The generator .
generator .
Can I ask a question ?
Erm this is two isn't it ?
one .
one .
two is is is er
.
manufacture , .
They 're storage of diesel , do they have storage of diesel there ?
Well they 've got lorries haven't they I don't know why they they have got lorries
Hang on that 's that 's not .
We 'd better have gas-oil
to take containers from here and leave the containers there .
I think that you should have a small amount , just what you 're using on the day
Hello ?
and and fetch it from if al if we 're allowed to do that .
No just a sec who is it , Vernon ?
Just a sec .
It 's Vernon .
I 'll look at the safety aspect .
well it 's not all that inflammable , gas oil isn't is it ?
Hello .
No
Not diesel .
be nice to get it from rather than take it from here that 's what I was thinking .
what I don't see any difference in it actually .
Cos we 've still got to put it in drums to take it from from to one .
Mm well yeah What is it is it on this turntable ?
I 'll make a note that you mentioned it anyway .
Er the
I did work for a petrol company .
Is is the er is the space that 's gonna be taken up by palletizing
Yeah .
much greater than it would otherwise be if you
Yeah .
free free stacked it ?
Well it all depen if we can get it three high
Yeah I mean there 's no comeback on us is there ?
This lifter three pallets high lifting
Er well if it 's if it 's possible yeah , but if if it 's on your you 'll have to disconnect your battery .
That 's why 's going up today
something about the space availability .
As long as there 's no comeback .
Erm you 'll be surprised .
Okay okay .
There 's a lot of space there is there ?
There is a lot of space .
all the packaging and the gateway stuff and all that ?
The gateway we 're still in the far left hand corner cos he 's said he 'll move that over the other side .
Okay .
He knows it 's got to be kept separate from the other .
Okay .
And then what about the remainder of the old because there 's about four thousand cubic metres of that .
Is the intention to palletize that or to leave it as it is .
Well erm we 'll leave that as it is .
Leave it as it is .
Now
But what we could do of course , is is we put in a time between containers , we could always use them to re-palletize it .
Palletize it .
Yes you could that 's that 's a good idea .
Yeah I mean so as they 're not stood there doing nothing .
Yeah that 's an excellent idea .
This is the idea wh asked Peter Mark cos you know and he can can control people you know .
One of the main concerns that Vernon had was the mess that was caused by throwing , his words , the bales down , and they were breaking open .
Mhm .
Erm has that how are we going to address that problem in the future ?
Well we can't because they 're that high .
You can't
So it 's still going to create a mess .
It 's still gonna create a mess
The pile that 's there there 's gonna be a certain amount of mess that comes of it .
So if he 's got that place in a good state , it 's beholden on us
To keep it
to keep it that way .
Yes .
The area where he 's cleared .
Yes .
Yes .
Yeah .
I got this clear but you 've messed it up again .
No I mean we 're we 're we 're actually getting the area just inside the door where there 's some quite unstable amount .
Alright we 're actually getting that sorted out straight away and we 're gonna sort of step it back if you like .
Okay .
Initially .
We 're gonna make it safe cos when you 're the door you can actually walk in the door and and get clobbered with a lot of bales I feel so we 're gonna make that safe .
But by starting at the other end ,
Mm .
we 're gonna leave it nice nice and tidy pallets .
Okay .
but it doesn't solve the problem at the other end .
No no .
So anything we 're doing now
Is for the future .
I rang yesterday I said , well look we 've got the okay to palletize it now and he 's quite happy about that .
Okay .
And it solves the problem once and for all .
It does yeah .
Okay .
So everything 's going really according to plan .
Er racking damage , Carrie 's who in bay one and two , came to me this morning and said the the racking that he checks it every morning when he comes at six or wh Six seven , whenever he starts .
He said one of the beams had been hit and dented .
of the new racking .
One of the new racking .
Now it 's pretty obvious one side the fo A forklift has tried to put a pallet in between two and nudged the pallet next to it and it 's the pallet 's dropped down into the racking .
Right .
Then he 's tried from the other side and he 's done the same from the other side .
That by putting it in the middle of the other side , he clipped the pallet again the opposite side and that also went down in between the racks and dropped on the pallet below it .
Fortunately they 're both part pallets so they .
But when he 's put the pallets in the centre of the beam one either side , he 's hit the racking beam and it 's dented .
Now nobody 's done it , now we 've got two people in our area and one packing line , so I suggest we get them three together now and sort it out as to who done it and if they haven't done it and then wait while the three o'clock mane comes on , see if he 's done it .
Mm .
Cos there 's only four people working there .
This this is er carelessness is it ?
It 's
Pardon ?
That is carelessness that 's caused this ?
I mean c can that sort of thing happen by accident or is it just carelessness
I could happen by accident pure accident
Certainly
but what I'm saying , nobody 's a
Nobody 's owned up to it .
Nobody 's owned up to it .
So we we well all I suggest is we get the three together after the meeting , John and our two men and say , well look , who 's done it and if they haven't , see the other man when he comes on .
as far as the racking itself 's concerned has it erm affected the stability of the racking or has it just dented it I mean is do we need to do anything about it ?
The beam 'll have to come out .
The beam 'll have to be changed without a doubt .
And what we don't know yet if the back beam 's alright .
I I think the back beam 'll be alright .
He must 've whacked it fairly hard to caused that sort of damage .
It wouldn't take a very big hit with the mass of a forklift to dent it in actual fact .
wouldn't it ?
No no .
Is that sort of thing , presumably we 've got to get the racking people back in to do that have we ?
Well we can change it
We can change it ?
No we we can change them .
we
Do we have spare racking beams ?
No we 've got five spare uprights though , by changing the design , the layout , we 've got five spare uprights out of the
But it 's a horizontal beam you want .
But it 's the horizontal beam we want .
Sod 's Law innit .
Sod 's Law .
the horizontal beam cost so much
swap for one of your spare uprights .
No but
I though of ringing Paul today to ask him about what he was gonna do with this other racking .
Er there 's a chap coming to see me tomorrow
Oh fine .
er a local chap was rung me up yesterday Well rang me up
Mm .
I said , no no we haven't got any scrap racking .
But he put me in touch with a chap who was interested in buying it .
So I rang Paul and er he 's coming up tomorrow , he would have come in today had to go to but he 's coming in the morning to look at it .
Fine .
It 's the same chap as put the racking in the room .
Oh from er
Yeah yeah
knows you quite well .
Well apparently Peter
Yeah , Pete .
Pete .
And he says , I understand you 've put some new racking in .
Why didn't Steve ring me and tell me he was putting some
I said , I don't suppose Steve knew at the time .
So he said .
I don't want to know that he says .
Eh ?
I don't want to know that .
But he 's interested in buying the old racking
Is he ?
but he 's not
I thought Pete had retired actually mind you sons isn't it .
Anyway .
Yes .
Nothing to do with me .
Yeah , that was all I had to report thank you .
Thank you Peter ?
We have had a problem for a long period of time now on high conductivity .
Yeah .
Now contrary to what we 'd been informed erm the problem occurred over the last couple of days and having spoken to the ladies in the laboratory , the problem has n't been purely on line five machine .
It has been occurring on lines one , two and the machine .
And it is an ongoing problem .
Now in the absence of Dr and anybody else , yesterday , er myself , Ian , Nick er and one of the lab girls got together , we trialled all sorts of different er ways and means of getting round the high conductivity that was occurring er vis a vis a multi-purpose mix .
That was the one that you had the problem with last week wasn't it ?
Yes .
It 's always appears to be that 's the one that 's brought to our attention .
Now whether it 's a h because it 's a er a home name brand erm and it 's not a standard , it is brought to our attention , there may be something there .
We went round various different avenues and to I asked Ian and Nick to actually change the formulation and decrease the amount of nutrients that were put in a mix .
We did that mixed it up
Sorry did you get did you get Chris 's approval ?
No I didn't no I didn't .
I did a two metre batch .
Oh okay .
Okay .
A minimal amount .
Because I could n't er i mean Chris was one minute he was on the phone , the next minute you could n't get hold of him .
Yeah .
But we had to do something .
I did this and the actual conductivity reading come out at one thousand .
Now the minimum is supposed to be eight hundred , the maximum is supposed to be twelve hundred .
And I thought a thousand was a good mean average between them .
Erm but obviously that was only a two metre mix .
I then asked rather than erm wait for er Dr to come back , er we changed onto a different product which didn't involve conductivity but before doing that , I asked for ten pallets of to be run off with the nutrient mix reduced from two K Gs per metre to one point five K Gs per metre .
And see how that panned out .
And I 've had the lab results this morning , and they 're still high .
The conductivity is still high .
Not as high as they have been but they range from thirteen eighty five to fourteen forty .
isn't something to do with the with the the way it 's mixed isn't isn't Chris talking about No ?
Erm if we knew the answer and this problem has been going on for for nine months .
Er but it was
an area that we hadn't attempted before .
Okay we hadn't attempted reducing the nutrient
thin ground I think you 're on dangerous grounds adjusting the formulations aren't you without
Yes yes of co of course I was , but i could n't get hold of Dr and I thought well we 're gonna have to try it this way anyway at some stage .
So
So you 've done ten pallets , what 's happening with that ten pallet ?
Well as soon as we get hold of Dr I am sure he will he will clear it as being okay on the conductivity readings .
Okay there 's no problem there .
Or there is a problem because they 're slightly high .
But not as high as some we have .
By the sa at the same time , I obtained the lab analyses for the last year .
Now just going on products , off the compost plant for the last six months , I 've gone through , I 've taken I 've noted down the number of samples taken , each month by month .
The total conductivity readings for those samples for that month .
And divided it by the number of samples taken to give us a mean average .
Erm and it it it there 's actually a pattern emerging er from October whereby the the conductivity reading is going higher and higher and higher .
Erm and then averaging it out over that six seven months .
Now I'm gonna discuss it with Dr who I spoke to y when I spoke to him yesterday , assured me he would be in today .
Er and also Tom .
So what was the mean average of the conductivity from October ?
October was one thousand one hundred and forty six which is quite near
Yeah .
to the border line .
November was one thousand one hundred and two , December was one thousand and eighty seven and January was one thousand two hundred and eighty two .
Now if we go back to July , it was nine hundred and nine .
August was nine hundred and ninety one , September was nine hundred and seventy six .
So it appears that it 's increased .
Is there anything that 's fundamental changed with I mean we 're using exactly the same formulation .
We 're using the same formulation .
Same process
Well as far as I'm aware we 're using the formulation , yes .
Same process ?
Same process .
Same raw material suppliers ?
Yes .
Yes .
In in erm December in fact , we went on to what had happened was early last year , the nutrients were changed .
Yeah .
Now we 'd never had a problem before with high conductivity .
Erm so we we asked and asked and asked could we change back to the old nutrients which we did do in the early part of December , and lo and behold , suddenly there wasn't a problem .
Everything was being passed .
Have we gone back to
But it 's now going ba No we 're still on the trial nutrients .
The the or
The original old ones .
The original nutrients .
The original old ones .
Yes .
The original old ones we 're still on those but it 's
you 're still using those , but your conductivity 's still going up .
Yeah .
it 's still going up again .
So that really
Have you got any readings from January last year ?
Yes .
What what was January last year like ?
Er I I could n't tell you off the top of me head I because I was working on it till half past midnight .
It 's nothing to do Nothing to do with the the atmospheric conditions is it .
It could be .
it seems funny because we reckon when it rains , it 's it makes a difference
But when I spoke to Dr last week I mean he just held his hands up and said i don't know .
Okay .
What do you want Brian .
.
You don't want any white rolls do you ?
No I want to plug something in there .
Anyway seeing about that Steve .
I'm seeing Chris about that today but in the absence I I did clear it with Arthur , what i was going to do .
Oh okay .
Alright ?
I I explained to him exactly what I was going to do and he said , okay .
Yeah .
Alright but just this once .
Okay .
Erm Yes i know I was treading on dodgy ground but we 've got to do something
But it 's been so long .
okay just that I think if you 'd done it on your own
Oh no .
then I think that might have been
No but it I mean it 's just been so long , it I I said to him , can I do this trial and he said , and i explained everything about it and he said , yes try it .
What do we do with all this stuff that 's got excessively high conductivity , I mean is it being what 's happening to it ?
Well nine times out of ten we re re-sample it and it 's allowed to go out .
But there are occasions when we 've had to rip and tip but it 's causing a problem
Most of it has been
cos we 've got thirty five pallets down at street which then has to be
re-stacked and it has to be rewrapped and
But if it 's rubbish it 's storage for Dick it 's taking up .
Once you start pulling pallets to pieces and then you 've got to replace the pack what you 've t taken off and rewrap it again and
Hopefully today we 'll get an answer because the first eleven samples it said that the conductivity up and down up and down
because you you 've got something else that 's erm each pack is six by five litres .
how many packs there are on there .
Forty two .
Forty two , yeah .
Forty two packs of six by five litres , you go across , you take a a sample out of a bag and if it 's low it 's okay , if it 's high they scrap the pallet .
What surprises me is I went into the lab and I said to Sharon you know , er I said we 've still got
Well I thought what we wous what we would have done four fi four , five years ago like , I mean that would have been stopped and and and scrapped .
Okay .
He 's letting all sorts go through at the moment .
Erm .
Mainly because when we recheck it again you see , through whatever reason you see , it 's
A lot of times a lot of times it it it goes back to normal .
Goes okay .
The conductivity doesn't stay at a certain level then ?
Well
Well it appears to fluctuate .
Yeah but Eric Eric took one bag and took how many four different samples and got four different readings out of one bag .
How can you do that ?
It 's got absolutely nothing to do with the with the erm with the peat .
Let me say that because we 've done a trial with wet peat we did a trial with dry peat .
wet and dry exactly the same Yeah identical .
Okay , seeing Dr .
Okay and just one th I don't know who 's responsible for the area by the the washing hose .
Outside the packing store .
Just there a in the packing store .
The the hose is is well I mean i somebody could fall over it , it 's by a fire exit door .
Somebody could fall over it .
Er I don't know who 's responsible for the area , if nobody is , I 'll get somebody to tidy it up .
Well yeah it 's a it is a yard area .
Well it 's actually inside and
But it 's a by a fire exit so and i would assume they 're gonna be looking at it anyway .
Just need to get it sorted .
Lynne brought it to my attention .
Well it is It 's actually inside that door .
I was checking the walkway the insurance man and the fire door 's there and the hose is on the floor like that .
it 's not outside .
No it 's inside .
It 's inside .
It 's inside the packing door .
So this is this is
Yeah .
We better get it cleared before this lot
We need a reel or a hook on the wall for them to put the
Yeah but at the minute it just comes out the way of the door .
The reason why it 's inside , cos of frost , that 's why it 's inside .
Yes .
But you see the people they just drag it down , they don't put it back .
Mad .
And now we 've made it a fire door it 's made it worse .
That 's that 's all from me .
Thank you Steve .
No .
Erm Dick I I walked round the site on Friday with er Paul and S Paul and Stuart because Paul has been I don't necessarily think this for you I don't know why I said Dick then .
To everybody , I walked round the site with Paul and and Stuart last Friday because Paul had been whingeing to me about erm twenty five K G palletizing and the fact that they were n't they were n't properly packed as it were .
And I said , Okay look , if I'm gonna say something to anybody , I want to have a look show me what you 're talking about .
So we went to the sixty six shop and I said what 's wrong with that , pristine beautiful .
And we actually then went down and we looked all over the place and there are quite a number of pallets that in fact are not properly stacked .
Now er they 're all Hand I take it those twenty fives are they ?
Twenty five K Gs .
Yeah when they 're patting the when they 're patting the mixtures yeah .
Erm
And then we pick from them .
You pick from them .
The the problem would appear to be on people like D K who are the main complainers , that unless it 's dead square , they 're complaining about it .
That 's right .
And they 're saying They are saying that we 're only ones they get pallets like that from .
Now if you do walk around you 'll see that there are quite a number of pallets that you could argue are not well not well packaged on the on the pallet .
Mm .
Do is there is there anything we can do about this .
Yeah well what we do i All D K is double wrapped .
We select the pallets then
Do you ?
they must be uniform .
They must n't be out of the perimeters of the pallet .
We go to no end of trouble to
D K I mean the fee
And it 's all all the loads have to be signed by Chand and or to say
Okay so you do bend over backwards for D K .
We do bend over backwards for D K .
And what 's concerning me about the D K , I think we brought it up yesterd yesterday it was .
Yeah .
About when they get a load of in ,
Yes .
I always insisted it went from
Yes .
now it 's going from er .
Yes .
They 're stacking isn't as good as what was .
And the wrapping certainly isn't which Ray 's taken up with them anyway .
Well we 're gonna get complaints from D K again if that 's the case aren't we .
We are .
But er we don't send the out of there .
You don't send it out of .
I think a lot of our problems is caused by outside satellite locations cos we never have any control over what
I think if we if we if we did actually look around long and hard rather than superficially at what we 've got out in the yard , then it 's ever so easy to criticize .
I mean it 's the world
Oh well yes it is .
I do think if er if we it strikes me I forgotten what the new guy 's name is you 've got in charge of the yard , what 's his name ?
Brian .
Brian , he strikes me as being a guy that that will look will do things and will probably get that yard in a good state .
We will but it 'll it 'll take him another probably another three weeks but it 's he 's getting there .
He knows which way he 's going .
Alright all I all I 'd ask is that would you erm just mention to him what I 've said and that if he believes after discussion with you that there are some pallets which are not in a fit state to send out , and they are gonna tip over on a lorry and dislodge , then they are rejected and Pete Pete knows about it and they are they are actually isolated and rewrapped .
I 'd rather spend money doing that before they go out than send them out and the bloody things to have to come back again .
In in fact it wasn't long before it wasn't long before Christmas was it we we actually got together and I wrote a memo that if there is anything erm before it leaves the plant , if the tractor driver or whatever e doesn't like it and it 's not acceptable then it goes back to the plant .
And a and a memo did go out .
re-palleted though .
Yes they will .
Well you you 're not gonna accept it out in the yard .
Do you remember the memo I sent round .
Well yeah yeah .
I do think we 've just got to be self critical about .
Well that th this is why I put the memo that if it 's rejected by the tractor driver who takes that trailer out ,
Yes .
then it 's you know , the plant will do it .
Oh no I we understand that .
I'm saying we have to be self critical
Oh of course we do yeah .
and er er walking round with Paul and Stuart , I saw what they were talking about .
You know , I could n't hand on heart say , Paul , Stuart you 're wrong .
Now here it i this is what we do this is what it 's like , it 's fine , you 've got nothing to complain about .
I could n't say that .
I had to come back to a degree agreeing with them .
There was only a small percentage but it 's that small percentage which gives our problem .
That 's right yes .
And so I say , for heaven sakes , let 's all be self critical and and not send stuff out because Ah it 'll be alright , that 'll probably be accepted .
I 'd rather not take that risk because
Yeah .
One of the main concerns with Dick is twenty five
Hello .
Yeah .
And that was bagged at
We 're in a meeting who is it ?
Now I know Alan and Ray
I 'll get then to ring Alright .
but it 's got so much of a slip factor on it .
Bone meal and it 's like bloody walking on ice .
Yeah .
You know .
But it has improved now .
The ones that come in now are a lot better .
Okay .
But we are conscious of D K .
Right .
we have to do that as well .
Right just quickly whip through because I'm a bit out of touch with what 's go Erm Nick ?
He 's he 's .
Nick is diabetic .
Yeah .
And he he was ill
I don't .
Sorry ?
I don't want this minuting .
Fine .
He was ill back November , December , over Christmas , through to January .
He was cleared by the doctor to come back because he had basically renal failure .
Yes .
Erm I am concerned about his eyesight .
He 's undergoing laser treatment at the minute isn't he ?
Yeah .
Hello Yeah .
He 's undergoing laser treatment but as everybody will point out to you , when he 's in the Tardis and he 's operating the computer , even with his glasses on , he 's reading it like this .
I am concerned about his eyesight .
The chap is very very experienced , he knows what he 's doing and he 's he you you could n't ask for a better worker really but yes d I I do believe he 's got a problem with his eyesight .
Okay .
Er
affecting the way job ?
I 'll get back to you in a minute then .
Just give me a couple of minutes Cindy .
Should he be should he be
Yes .
re re reassigned reassigned to something else ?
Does he ?
I'm certainly looking at that trying to f find a hole , I mean unfortunately he 's a very experienced charge-hand .
Oh I know he is
Erm yes er and and
Okay I 'll I 'll get back to you in a couple of minutes .
Thank you..
I think we 've we 've certainly got to look at him seriously
Yeah .
And say erm where he would be best used but there have been a couple of errors caused by his bad eyesight .
What sort of errors ?
Erm
Bulk loads .
Bulk load a wrong formulation or a not a wrong formulation
No no .
erm the wrong amount being put onto a bulk order .
He could n't read , he assumed it said twenty cubic metres which it usually does .
And it said thirty five .
Yeah so instead of doing thirty five metres , he actually only did twenty .
I mean as you as you say , Nick 's a long serving and well experienced reliable
And loyal employee .
and a loyal employee
Yeah .
so it 's not a case of er ditching the guy no no no
No definitely not no .
I mean that 's that 's not in question I just want to know you know try and get a bit of background , I had heard there was a possible problem erm and er how bad it was .
I it 's his eyesight .
anything else I mean he 's he 's fine .
Is it condition ?
Well he 's actually having treatment for it now in fact he 's gone today .
Apparently they 're giving him laser treatment for it .
Is this likely to improve his eyesight ?
To It 's supposed to do yes .
It 's supposed to do but I think once his treatment has finished we w then w I we need to get an independent assessment
reassess reassess his
of it yeah .
What other sort of job could he do erm that
Could he cope as the assistant ?
Rather than the charge-hand ?
I mean we 're asking Kevin to help him now .
I mean Kevin is is helping him and he 's he 's checking a certain amount of his work but obviously he can't be there all the time .
No .
Erm I mean I'm concerned again through his eyesight that i were we to put him as the assistant and put him on a machine , that he might just put his hand somewhere and get his hand bloody trapped or whatever with his eyesight .
Er which concerns me .
When 's this treatment likely to be finished ?
I don't know when
I don't know we we haven't spoken to his doctor I mean
He 's also Professor ai n't he as well ?
Who ?
Sorry .
Professor gentleman I was under .
And that 's for protein as well .
Oh that 's right , he 's not getting rid of his protein .
That 's right , he 's the same as what I was .
But it 's his eyesight
It 's his eyesight that concerns me .
This is on is he er on injections for diabetes or is he er
I think he 's
Oh yeah he does , yeah yeah
And everything 's alright as I say until this problem with his eyesight .
And it 's recently .
Well again we we don't know
We we don't know because he has n't said anything .
Alright but now it is starting it is starting to deteriorate quite badly because people are now noticing .
The fact he 's brought a magnifying glass in .
He 's brought a magnifying glass in and he 's he 's also wearing glasses now .
Okay .
Right to be discussed .
Right I 've nothing else .
Okay , got anything else ?
No thank you .
No right , thank you gentlemen , ladies .

born in Church Street I , I was only one , there were no brothers or sisters which for the record , I regret because all around me I had cousins , dozens of them and erm the families round me was big families and it was the , there was er times when it was bad weather or something like that and you could n't congregate outside , you 'd go to somebody 's house , are you coming ?
No I'm stopping in with our kid , you know , and you could n't impose on , on so er if there was fisticuffs , fights , falling out , I 'll fetch our kid , I 'll fetch our wench , I mean there we you used to , honestly and truthfully , you , you used to feel it , you know erm because when there was any trouble , problems or like that there was always somebody to share it well it had the advantages in some ways , perhaps you was er had a little bit more luxuries than the f bigger family , but i in my mind that didn't make up for the companionship of brothers and sisters , no b b b b that , that 's w how I put it anyway .
Where did you go to school ?
Well I started school at the erm national school in the High Street by the fountain .
Erm nineteen twenty one .
Erm I remem erm y you used to erm erm take , have to take exams and if you passed the exams you could go to Alma Green Secondary School .
Well I was t taking piano lessons , studying for the exams I went over the top , I had to give it up and I didn't go to school then for another eighteen months .
Well when I started to school I went to , back to school er I was eleven or er ten or eleven then , and I went to Field Road School that er what er Thomas 's , is it , was it school ?
What 's the name now ?
But anyway , Field Road Schools and that 's
that 's where er that 's where I finished with school .
I finished school when I was fourteen there erm then
What work did you do when you left school ?
When I left school , which was in nineteen thirty , it was a bad time for employment , there was a lot of unemploy unemployed people and I tried and tried and eventually I was offered a job at the Bloxwich Lock and Stamping Company in Bell Lane Alexander works , it was er er Squires 's were , er it 's a family er er concern , and erm it was the first offer I 'd had for employment so I took it .
Me mother wasn't very pleased with me going to work there but I said well it 's a start so I stopped
And why wasn't she pleased ?
Anyway to finish that story about stopping and starting , I stopped there for fifty years and me mother was still alive when er when I at ninety three and when I retired in nineteen seventy nine , nineteen eighty I told me mum that I was finishing and she looked at me I told you that job wouldn't last and I , I , I mean I 'd done fifty years all but a few months .
Why didn't she want you to work there ?
Well er er it hadn't , well I dunno whether I should record this , it hadn't very good reputation for pay and employment , but anyway
She thought you could do better than that .
Yeah .
Anyway I , that 's what happened , I was there , I , I started .
Mind you er I started and finished there but erm
we was engaged , oh I have talked to other people but we was engaged in making locks but most of the locks , well they did do a , er wardrobe locks , small cabinet locks , lever locks but one of the biggest kind of locks we di er made was the locks for car cars and vans which , in them days , was was fantastic because most of the car bodies was of wood , the , the , the , the framework was wood , so erm the locks er were three or four , four by five er seven by eight and selvedges on them fourteen inches long , er bolts er the , the bolt mechanism would be anything from five eighths to an inch in di er er square with a radius on the end erm th there was er there was the sidecar locks which were smaller erm that was the sort of locks they made .
Now in the lock museum I 've taken some locks th that I collected and took them over there they used to do speed locks butted locks sidecar locks er then , as the motor trade changed from all wood frames to metal frames , other types of locks , I took there but this is what is amazing me , they , at the lock museum they highlight all the Willinghall locks which are the padlocks , which are locks er wardrobe locks , cabinet locks and all the smaller type of locks but there was the biggest industry , I mean Walsall locks are still in existence now , they made er er locks for , for , for cars , the Bloxwich lock , that was their biggest trade was er , was er the bigger locks .
There , there d they don't seem to be no mention of th this side of the lock industry .
Were there any other lock manufacturers in Bloxwich itself ?
Pardon ?
Were there any other lock manufacturers in Bloxwich itself ?
Not as er er er erm Wilks 's er well I don't think they er Wilks 's that 's i in , where works
By the gardens ?
By the gardens , in the corner , they made er parts but I mean I 've never been in , in the factory , in their factory , but I do know that they made erm things for the motor industry .
One of their products was erm you , when you see in the cars th th that they can er make them open top and they close the backs down , there 's a bracket on the side that er hinges up and well they used to special you know , it had come from the landaus of the horse drawn vehicle , the same sort of thing , well they used to specialize in that and they used to make some kind of locks but I'm I have never talked to anybody that worked there so I , I don't know , but that 's the only other one as I , as I'm aware of er was the , was Wilks 's and er Bloxwich Lock .
Mm .
So you were at Bloxwich Lock in nineteen thirty nine when the second world war broke out then ?
That 's right , yes .
What impact did that have on what impact did that have on the factory ?
Did they
Well we cha er
move over to war work ?
Yes we changed to war work and er one of the , something , we made a , a lock which was a very very heavy duty , was the lock for the tanks .
Oh it was er it was about six pound in weight when you put it together anyway , and erm used to make parts for aircraft and parts for the dropping of the bombs which we called drop bars .
This was a bar that er went under the bomb like that when they fastened them up , and then when they dropped the bombs this bar was in a clip , like where me finger is , i in a clip so when they released them it dropped out of this clip the bar went as well of course , down that went down went the bomb drop bars with it used to be make them day and night and things like that and er of course there was er Bloxwich Lock and Stamping we used to do odd stamping , odd forgings and things li and er that was other part of the war work .
But it was then , it was from er shop floor that I that the , when the call went out for volunteers for , for the armed forces which initially was called Land Defence Volunteers , L D V , which eventually was broken down to look , duck and vanish army .
That was before it was nominated as the , the Home Guard , that 's what it originally was , the Land Defence Volunteers .
Well when it was started up , the first unit that I was with was from the shop floor at Bloxwich Lock and Stamping and erm it took the nucleus of people off the shop floor and then after we 'd finished our ten hour shift during the summer or when we could , we started foot drill training in the yard of the factory .
That 's when Major , who was on the photo , he was Major in the army of nineteen fourteen eighteen M C Major M C , military cross well he took charge and er a chap off the shop floor , well he was an old contemptible of the nineteen fourteen to eighteen war , name of Bert he was made Sergeant because he was only one who had got any military experience , and he started with us on the shop floor in doing foot drill .
Unfortunately one day when it was earlier on he , he got his commands mixed up and we was m marching down the yard and the drive , and we was marching towards the factory up and down and right wheel and about turn , left wheel , basic foot drill you know it had been going for about ten minutes and all and we was going down towards the factory and erm we kept on going , we was getting close to the factory and he , he he forgot his words forgot what er command he wanted to give and he shouted stop you 'll be in the bloody factory in a minute instead of sa shouting halt , you know , he , he got flummoxed .
Oh
Were you issued with any uniforms ?
The first er things we had was arm bands which had , had L D V on , that was the first uni type of anything we had for recognition was them .
And then we had the er the battledress was issued , the khaki , and erm we was had our head headquarters were started , the headquarters were started in an office at , one of the office rooms at the at the Bloxwich Lock and Stamping Company by the , the top offices we used to call them , by the gates , we had one of the rooms there for and it eventually became the armoury when we got some equipment because rifles etcetera was in very short supply after Dun Dunkirk So eventually we had a few rifles and er when the er we got a few rifles and er the sirens went it was the practice at the beginning when the sirens went in this area for everything to stop and everyone down the shelter but it happened four or five times , everybody realized how non-productive this was , that the time that was lost and there was nothing happening in this area so it was decided by the R T B that we , the , the people off the shop floor wouldn't stop work until the attack was really imminent or it had started because if this , this was happening all over the Midlands area and of course if you , if you multiply that by the number of people at work you can imagine how much production was lost erm and also when the sirens went Major at the factory used to get the chappies out from off the shop floor , get the few rifles we 'd got , take we in to King George 's playing fields there was a , a brook running across King George 's playing fields then , it hadn't and a trench which was extended to stop er aircraft from landing in King George 's cos it was just a big open space .
Well when the sirens went at the beginning , what few rifles we 'd got , he 'd er take us out and string we out along this brook , a rifle every so often and and facing one way and looking round to see when anything goes up and in case anybody come over or anything come over and er that was the initial start .
But afterwards , as things got , there was erm a look out post built on the flat roof of one of the buildings at the factory and then er there used to be , when the sirens went , there 'd be look outs in this er observation post on top of the factory .
Well
So how did that work then if , if if the look out could spot some aircraft
Er they they could er we er ring a buzzer in the factory , ring the buzzer in the factory then , the factory buzzer would go then .
And then production stopped did it ?
And they went down the shelter .
Was the factory camouflaged in any way ?
No it wasn't .
No .
I mean it stuck out like a sore thumb , I mean er by King George 's playing fields erm cos of the , they hadn't the , th the , the s other story for that was as I said was we they sent er some of us to a class in Walsall for er aircraft recognition and er the days I went to this class , cos I went as er , er both for the factory and for the Home Guard , so that I could cover both the factory and when I were on duty , Home Guard and we was at a building on the corner of Corporation Street and west , and we was taking classes in there .
Then we was taken out of there into the Corporation Street where the fair used to be held and we had silhouettes of different aircraft on poles and holding them up and we er so as we could recognize them .
We came back from there back into the rooms that we having instructions in and continued with our lessons .
Then when we finished and come out we er there was such a commotion in the street while we were in there taking aircraft spotting a , a German aircraft had come over and it had dropped a bomb on the gasworks had the plane , and we had known nothing about it .
Fortunately though this bomb didn't explode else i i we should of known about it .
But when I got back to work the people that was in the observation post on the factory , they saw this aircraft , it came down low over the King George 's playing fields and they could see the markings on it and they 'd sounded the alarm but but course the aircraft went straight over .
But that was , well I was at aircraft spotting class when that happened .
Did you have any special instruction in first aid or fire fighting ?
No .
No , none at all .
We had a basic training for , for the , for the arms for weapons drill and erm , course none of us had ever er had a rifle in our hands until this , never mind fired one .
Well after er we , things be begin to get more organized , people from outside the factory was drafted into the unit so i it began to be build up on that .
Chappies off the shop floor were called up so they gradually less from the factory cos er er er there was less male employees in the factory , they went in the servi so outside uni outside people as had volunteered and got their names down that things got organized , the unit was from all over Bloxwich then .
But that w that was how it was started was at , at the Lock at Bloxwich Lock .
So the whole of Bloxwich Home Guard really started
Yeah
at the Bloxwich Lock
Yeah that 's right
and then it
that was the first
it gradually became Bloxwich Home
first unit yeah .
Guard .
Course eventually the , I mean , there was er there was Sergeant who was a butcher out the High Street there was Alf was a barber out of the High Street there was er Frank , Frank he was another butcher out of the High Street there was er miners er teachers , I mean there was quite a mixture of occupations in , in the , in the Home Guard .
How did you get on together , alright ?
Yes , yes .
We we was I can't recall any falling out , you know what I mean ?
Er there was good companionship , good comradeship amongst everybody .
Erm course the first guard duties , guard unit was at the Bloxwich Lock in the office that was allow er allocated to us .
It became the armoury then and er we used to do guard duty on the armoury every night there was someone on guard duty .
One night Major , Deekie as he was known , came down to inspect and the young chappy who was on guard , he challenged him properly er before he allowed him to advance towards him but after he 'd advanced toward him and he 'd been recognized Major says is the rifle alright ?
And he says yes , he said can I have a look ?
And he gives it to him !
Anyway that , that I mean lack of experience , lack of knowledge and , put that down to , probably but that 's just another story .
Well then as the unit got bigger , as I said , the room at the offices in the Lock wasn't big enough so we moved from there to Alma Green Infant School , that 's the school now they used for all kinds of social activities during the day and th on that side by the car park .
Well we had a r a sch classroom in the infants school there for our headquarters and er storing cos we used to make use , we had a palliasse on the floor for when we was on night duty erm but I can never understand why we had our he headquarters over there but we had to do guard duties over in the elementary school on th school on the other side because that was the only one that had got a telephone and we had to man the telephones from the Brigade Headquarters or the to be able to phone to should they want us to be called out and so we had to do the guard duty over there but we slept in the , when we was off duty we was in er Alma Green School and that was there and then the we moved from there eventually and th th the longest part of our life of the Home Guard , the headquarters was at the cottage , I 've been trying to think what the name of the cottage is , it ha it , it has a name it 's the cottage next door to the Sir Robert Peel public house in Bell Lane .
It 's the er cottage that 's still , the other buildings all around it have gone , it 's the cottage that er next to the Sir Robert Peel , that was the that became the , that house became the headquarters , er
How many men would be in the Home Guard after you moved your head
Eh ?
How many men were there actually in the Bloxwich Home Guard ?
Well I mean that photo
When you
that I 've got , that was the complete unit for the Company .
I 've been trying to think what we what the n whether it was D Company or C Company but I can't recall , that was the Company , that was , I just D Company of the er South Staffs of the whole Walsall area you see , that was D Company .
I er
Did you ever join forces with any other Companies for training ?
Oh yes yes , I can yes .
Well er I was saying er we , we went to the the cottage by the Sir Robert Peel and that , that was our final headquarters , that was where we was until the Home Guard was stood down .
Because they , they they 'd got cellars in that cottage so that the cellars became the ar armoury and there was erm ammunition and everything in there and the back of there , which was the garden , we could use as , as parade area so it was it was very central and that 's where we finished up as headquarters for I 'll say D Company , for Bloxwich .
Yes we was , we got out with others .
I remember once we was called out on the actual called out for actual sighting of s there was supposed to have been some activity over er Bentley so we was all called out and the assembly point was at Tolbertstead 's works in Green Lane and we assembled er in the , at Tolberstead 's and then we was sent out as search groups er from there right across Bentley .
Now when you say right across , I mean you you 've ta seen the photos of , of er shell pitted ground with the nineteen fourteen eighteen war , well that 's how Bentley was then cos it had been rooted for coal and nineteen twenty six strike everybody got it all out cos there was a lot of top surface coal , course it was just left there was a lot of mole holes , stuff from the furnaces when they tip tipped the slag , it was up and down and there was Buttons Brook , wasn't it Buttons Brook across there , called Buttons Brook there was a pool across there called Leg of Lamb but I mean it , it er you can imagine what I'm trying to say , what the ground was like to go over in pitch black night , to go over there and we went out and course we was issued with er ammunition which was one of the o only times I can remember when we went really out prepared with live ammunition , and er we scouted and scouted till daybreak and we didn't find nothing .
Then when we come back to stand down , we came back to Tolbertstead well we was in Tolbertstead so the Tolbertstead canteen staff got some hot prepared some hot drinks and so when we come back we was able to have a hot drink and erm it was the duty of er the sergeants to see that the rifles were empty free , no am no , there wasn't er there wasn't one up the spout , one bullet left in the , in the rifle and er Sergeant , the barber , was checking our rifles anyway he , he was check , check , check , check and er alright he mischecked one and pulled the trigger and there was a bullet through the roof in the , in the he was holding it up or otherwise there 'd have been somebody on the floor but er he , he missed this one bullet through the canteen roof .
And then we used to do erm exercises with er from different areas , they 'd come and attack our area or we 'd come and try and in il infiltrate in their area and er we had , we had a night exercise and we was erm went out Saturday afternoon , we was out all Saturday night and Sunday and on the Sunday mid day we was still er out and we was in the farmyard at the farm at end of Brierley 's Lane by Bell Lane , off Bell Lane , Brierley 's Lane right at other end , we was in their farmyard and their outer buildings and we was str put out on guard duty from the Stafford Road to Broad Lane , and we was protecting that area , they were supposed to be coming from the Cannock area towards us and er we was in the , in the farmyard and course the m muck and stuff and all that out of the farmyard was there and the ducks was wallowing in it .
Anyhow we was supposed to , they set a field kitchen up in the farmyard to , as part of the exercise , to feed us er and er they handed out some meat pies , you know , we just had one ta oh taste and well
you never tasted anything like it in all Anyway nobody would eat them , the ducks
well they were they was rolling in all the muck in the farmyard but they , they went to the pies just put their noses round them and turned them over and then they s and true as god made little apples they started walking round these pies and they left them and they were still there when we went away .
But they wouldn't , they wouldn't eat them .
That was our first attempt at a field kitchen We erm when we got back to s be stood down we was told by the er umpires that was stationed there that our headquarters had been wiped out .
They 'd come from the other way from er Snade Lane not Broad Lane , they 'd come up from they 'd come farther round , round and come in th in round the back sort of thing and we we 'd got no headquarters any more .
So we 'd had a we 'd been out all night and all day and achieved nothing but it was , course it was exercises .
But erm
Tell me something of the hours you used to work at that time .
Pardon ?
How many hours a week did you use to work at your job ?
Oh we used to work er f er six days a week , er all day Saturdays erm eight to eight and er eight till eight at n at er eight till seven at night or er or eight till eight at erm most shifts was early , they used to have a a an hour er an hour break of a dinner time er sometimes they only used to have half an hour at night because , I mean well once you 've got er y y you was there , once you get you shift done it was no good sitting there doing for an hour and er it , it varies on what production what was wanted and how far advanced you was or how far behind you was , you know , but er the average hours was as I say was ten hours a shift that was working shift , you worked ten hours and then a break in between , ten minutes , half an hour
And what hours did you have to put in for your Home Guard duty ?
You used to have to do er all night from seven till seven erm you was on , called out for er on weekends you had to parade every Sunday morning .
See th this is what I'm saying , you 'd done all them hours and then you was at it again on the weekend .
You 'd g had to parade on the Sunday erm for weapon training , and one Sunday we earlier on , we hadn't fired a rifle , so it was arranged for us to fire a rifle at a rifle range .
So we was er called out at nine o'clock on the Sunday morning transport was laid on and we was taken over to , to fire in woods at Fradley , the other side of Lichfield .
We was there till six o'clock in the afternoon and it took us from the er ten o'clock in the morning , say about ten when we got there , it took us from ten till six to fire five rounds of ammunition because there was that many there and you had to wait your turn .
While they went into the firing blackboards to fire your rounds and you , all you was allowed to fire was five five and then you had to wait , take your turn course everybody had got to go in , they 'd got to check them as everybody got had fired their five there were n't one left up the spout like there was before , course it took time see , and it took us a day , I would say a day , to fire five rounds of ammunition .
And that was the only time that I 've fired a rifle cos , well actually I went got , rose to a corporal I was a corporal when they finished and erm I was in er made cor lance corporal and then I was er with a heavy Vickers machine gun , that 's the one with the has water cooled casing on it the big heavy one you see , and I was with that , that team .
Then when I took er you 'd you could take a proficiency test which was held at , at your Company Headquarters by a visiting officer and erm I then , we 'd , by then we 'd had some American weapons come , one was the Browning automatic which is a very very good good er weapon , you could r fire single shots or rapid shots .
It was the American equivalent to the Bren gun only it , it was more like a rifle , it hadn't got a stand , you know , more like a rifle butt , you know .
And I , I was issued with that and er I took lessons on it up at head at headquarters and then when I took me proficiency test , I was asked questions on the Browning automatic and other ap things appertaining to the army and I passed me proficiency test .
That 's the certificate which I regret now is with South Staffs museum at Lichfield .
Also a photo of all the officers of Walsall that I saw in a second hand shop and I went and bought it for a few pence .
And I 'd got them here and I thought well I don't know what to do with them and I b b interested in I'm interested in going back in time , I 'll go anywhere where I can see something and I 'd been over there and they 'd got some Home Guard stuff in a case , only a small show , and I asked them if they 'd like it and they said yes .
Well I 've took that , I took that some years ago but I 've never seen it on show you know ?
And I , I , I mean I 've r now that we , Walsall 's got their own department I wish I 'd of kept on to it , it 'd of been interesting .
But that 's
where it is .
And me proficiency c certificate , I took that as well and they had that as well .
And so you , you , you I had stepped up a bit in , in in rank , I'm a but erm there was being , on the social side course being next to the Sir Robert Peel , when we went down there , it was quite handy although I'm not a drinking man , I never have been , I 'll go and socialize and I 'll have half a pint or two halves but I 'd never I 've never been one to go out drinking .
And of course when you was er wasn't on guard duty at the f early evening , course there used to be used to pop into the Peel and have a couple of halves or some would have a pint and there was a chap in , in the Home , Home Guard he , he used to be able to play the piano so we used to have a singsong in there for a social , you know .
But erm the comradeship there , I mean you very often see chappies now I d know them from the Home Guard , but otherwise I should n't have known them .
You were telling me erm a little while back that erm you were made to go and work at Bilston .
Yeah .
Can you tell me about that ?
Well this was a Manpower Board that came round and they was inspecting erm what people were doing in the particular factory at and if they thought you 'd be more useful somewhere else then they 'd direct you to another factory .
So this is what they did , directed me to Bradley 's at Bilston which I er stayed at until the war finished .
Er it was ooh all female labour .
There 's some of them was Irish .
Some of the labourers , the male labourers , was Italian prisoners of war And the things that they used to make in their spare time , well some of them was very very clever , you know .
Such as ?
They used to make like ornaments out of scrap things , you know oh they was alright , they , they used to bring them in a a lorry used to bring them er in a morning then collect them at night you know .
And they used to , not make anything , but they used to do the labouring , movement of work and all like that .
They didn't make things but they was responsible for moving things about .
Where did they come from ?
Where were they kept ?
I don't know where they was actually , somewhere on The Chase I think but I'm not sure where I'm not sure where they come from .
What did they actually make at Bradley 's during the war years ?
During the war they made er mortar bomb fins .
Erm fifty pound , bigger bomb fins the er the , the fins .
You 've seen the er round , say th looking fro on the top of the bomb i it 's round and then there 's fins down to the bomb itself er you follow me ?
Well we used to make those rings and put the fins on , rivet them on , and the bombs , the , the , the the rings was erm seamlessly weld on a a welder that you two w wheels which were electrically driven and the power was put through them and , and you overlap the two seams like that , and it , as the wheels went round it 'd weld them straight along , they was about eight inches deep seam weld them right down .
Er mortar bombs , they used to weld the fins on that , do those on stitch welders , they 'd go up and down similar to these things you see now .
It was the beginning of these automatics , you 've seen these photos on the , on the television where these welders come down and they go in like this , well these was the beginning of that sort of thing because it was worked with a motor and a cam which er er the cam went round and it 'd lift the arm up and when it was went past the , the knuckle it 'd drop down and the speed you them out or the speed you sent them out how fast the arm would go up and down , and that was stitch welding .
Another was spot welding and they used to make er different containers for the , the army .
We still made a certain amount of buckets and bins and things like that which was their stock in trade , but mostly it was erm was erm bomb fins and mortar bombs aerial bombs erm er and er things like er fins for bombs like that .
But they still did do a certain amount of er the stock in trade course the bins for g for transporting stuff in and all like that .
They had , there , there was a small section still made kettles during the war cos I mean kettles wore out , wear out just the same , you 've still got to have a kettle or a bucket , but erm that 's like everything else there was only , only a small section so they was in short supply .
But erm I stopped there till the war was finished and then er I went back to the Lock and as asked them if th there was any chance of coming back to work there , you know , cos and er they said oh yes , as long as you like .
So the first opportunity I had I left Bradley 's and went back to the Lock so it 'd been war direction , war service we asked and it counted as me service with the Lock , that I hadn't interrupted me service being as I was directed so that 's how I say I had fifty years at the Lock .
I 've got the watch upstairs for twenty six years , when I did twenty six years .
Erm but er when the war finished , when the war finished and the Home Guard stood down , I can't remember who was the mayor of Walsall at the time , but they had a reception in the town hall for the Home Guard and everyone that was in the Home Guard was invited before we hand before we st handed our uniforms in , was invited to attend and I must say with great pride that I was can still remember it now , that the wife and I went to the reception and I was in the uniform and it 'd be the mace bearer I presume that was at the door and he asked your name and er rank and he shouted out your name and rank when you went in and you was greeted by the mayor and mayoress inside the ves the hall of the town hall , and erm I mean er quite proud to be Corporal and Mrs you know and it I mean everyone that went , I mean their rank and name and who was with them , you know , was it was quite quite a er er quite a something of to look back to of interest that was , you know , when we stood down .
Was there a ceremonial parade to mark the standing down of the Home Guard ?
Yes we m yes there was .
This was be this was er er there was a ceremonial parade when we stood down but this was er erm something that like that the town in recognition of the Home Guard Cos when the Home Guard was stood down it was a national er a national standing down so everybody all over the country er everybody in the country there 'd be a er a parade of some sort but this was for the Walsall detachment of the South Staffs Home Guard that was invited to , to the town hall for er a reception , it was quite it stood in re er I still can remember about it quite quite something to look back on that was really .
Did , did they parade through Bloxwich ?
No .
Well the parade was er a er er in Walsall erm in front of the town hall where they normally when they have a military parade or a parade of that sort , you know , is at the front of the town hall .
It was there , Lichfield Street isn't it ?
Yeah .
Yes , no we , we er er all the , see , it was all the units .
We did once ha er have er exhibition i er for the Bloxwich people erm one , one Saturday .
We put on a display of marching or and er weaponry we 'd got in King George 's playing fields and er talk about the weapons er er er br brings to mind we had a , a weapon that was a anti-tank weapon and it was a Robin Robinson Heath er contraption made up of a tube , cast iron tube on a three legged tripod with er a hinge ring on the one end which had a recess for a cap and a trigger to , to fire this cap .
Now it was a anti-tank weapon only you put a bottle in the tube , or a , a container that had got a i a liquid , I 've been trying to think what it is , can you tell me a liquid that bursts into fl flame when it 's exposed ?
Er er it was like a Molotov co bo cocktail , a thing like that and you put it in the , in the tube and you put a wad of cotton , gun cotton behind it closed the flap at the back onto er just a latch , like a , a door a gate latch which locked it , then fired the cap which fired the gun cotton which sent the well then we we 're trying this out on the waste ground where the , that was then , where the waterworks ' offices are now in Green Lane , well there that was , at that time , that was a glue factory that was the glue factory there ooh .
Well we was in that area trying this gun out in one of the mole holes that was over there and we 'd fired one , that was alright .
We fired another one but the container broke and the vaporized stuff , it was vaporized er with the explosion , blowed on to us and it burnt .
Fortunately w the canal was close to , we all er rushed to the canal and wash our hands in the canal and wash our face cos the vapour had gone on to us .
That was the Roberts that that was another Robinson .
Also when we was giving this demonstration for the people in Bloxwich for the , our unit in King George 's playing fields , we 'd got all our weaponry on , on , on show what we 'd got Vickers machine gun , the Brownings rifles this anti-tank bomb anti-tank tube , whatever you li gun , whatever you like to call it , but also we 'd got what , what was termed a bucket bomb .
It was a big contraption on a cross with er girders like , cross , like a cross .
And inside was what tha in the middle was like a bucket container , like er it was a , a , a , a kind of a mortar and you fired this mortar with a er a charge and it fired .
This was a anti-tank and it fired a bomb and of course we put a demonstration on firing this and then we was up the Bell Lane end and right at the top by Bailey 's farm there was a row of seats , benches , along the walk there and of course the demonstration was we 'd show them imagine those seats are tanks course we never thought in the world we should ever even get near one anyway we hit one and broke it Cos they , they , I mean they was only dummies , they were n't , I mean there was no explosive just the dummy shell you know and we , we was quite pleased with ourselves being as we 'd got an audience .
Yeah .
Were there any searchlight batteries or anything of that nature in Bloxwich ?
There were searchlights but not attached to us .
We , we had them about that .
Before I left the Lock and I was on nights the sirens went one night and this was before they stopped going down the shelter we went down the air raid shelter that is , now , is the cellar to the club at Bloxwich Lock 's club !
It was the air raid shelter then and we went down there and we was in the shelter and er we 'd been down there ten minutes to quarter of an hour oh there was such a bang outside we thought this is it , you know , all the bits and stones and rubbish and er that was stuck on the ceiling was disturbed you know and it down it on top of us , you know , all bits and plaster and water th it was er shi close .
Course creeps out up to the steps , look out the shelter oh the factory 's still here anyway .
Wonder wh well what 's that , you know , be a bang so close well it wasn't till , till some time after we found out that they 'd stationed a naval gun somewhere Newtown way and they 'd f fired this gun to , as a practice .
Course that was only time it was ever fired because it was , it had caused that much disturbance and disruption with the gun .
I don't know what size gun it was , you know , or any details but that 's what we found out what the bang was and it , it moved on to somewhere else , they didn't fire it again .
It was while the air raid sirens was o air raid was alert was still on .
But there was no aircraft but it was just a practice fire , you know .
Course everybody was , was er in , looking fin wondering where the what had happened .
But the funniest part about it was in King George 's playing fields where the cricket club is at the beginning of the war that was a A R P assembly point for the A R P wardens .
When we eventually came out , when the sirens er all clear went we came out look at that there in the A R P warden 's er in the A R P 's pavilion , the cricket pavilion there was a skylight there was no blackout to it was there beacon of light the A R P had caught us
Where was the searchlight battery in Bloxwich then ?
You say it wasn't by the Lock .
I really don't know , I can't say as er er as I ever , ever seen a unit in , in this area at all .
Course though they had the bombs drop down the road here , they had a bomb drop just down the road here .
There was a bomb
Where was that ?
Eh ?
Where was that then ?
When ?
Where ?
Just down the road here it was just down in , in Howard Street .
In Mm mm ?
Yeah .
Yes they had one down there .
I mean they were n't badly Me father at th er at the beginning of the war he worked he worked at the Grove pit , down the mine at the Grove and he used to be on afternoons .
And of course when he was coming home in the middle of the night from afternoons , biking it and the one night they came he was coming home you know the finger post at Pelsall ?
Norton Road is it ?
From there to the Watling Street where the Grove pit used to be , straight the way along go over the railway bridge , you know , it 's the turn , well Grove pit was right in there .
Well he was well he was coming from the Grove to the finger post to come along Wolverhampton Road , Lichfield Road , to come home to Church Street .
The cornfields on each side of the road was on fire from incendiaries .
Yeah .
And for soon after that me father had to give up the mine be because of his health and he went to work at the depot er were the bus depot and he worked in the battery house where they made all the batteries up , charged the batteries for the buses , looked after the electrical side there was electrician , he were n't , me father were n't electrician but he was working with electrician but his main job was charging the batteries , putting them on in groups in the , in the er battery house and charging house , to keep all the batteries charged up for all the buses petrol buses tr and trolley buses .
And er th they used to make some of the batteries up , the cells , the , the used to er I don't know if you 've ever seen a cell in a battery , it 's usually made up of er wood er lead and wood .
Well they used to , if a battery could n't be , you can charge it up but if it breaks through from one cell to the other a a across with sediment in the bottom , so it gaps that cell and that cell so you can charge it forever because the one 's discharging the other with the sediment that 's arrested in the bottom cos i it 's like putting a connection across , so it never actually charges .
So things like , you know and erm he worked there from , till he was sixty seven , you know , in er erm so that 's where he finished up were there .
But do you only deal with history or have you had anything to do with this exhibition as to the trams and , and trolley buses here ?
Er
Er where the bus depot

Thank you .
Hello .
What can we do for you today ?
Er well , I 've had a sore throat .
It 's about three weeks now .
The er not a sore throat th you know , it 's there for a couple of days and then it kind of eases off , I think it 's getting better and then
the next day it 's as bad as ever .
As bad as ever .
This morning I can kind of feel it , but last night it was as if I was when I swallowed there was a big lump .
Like a lump at the back ?
Erm
Mm .
. Stick your tongue out .
Oh , aye , a way down , see just in through there ?
Aha .
Down the sides there , not up beside your tonsils .
It 's a way down the back .
Right .
And see that wee thing that hangs down the back ?
That 's what
Aha .
And it 's rubbing up against your tongue .
Aye .
That 's what you 're feeling .
But I didn't feel it as bad this morning
No .
That 's right .
Oh no .
Aye..
up here and I , I 've been keeping putting it off and putting it off .
It , it comes back into it , some , some nights it 's quite good and then other nights it feels all
Aye .
It 's
dry and it feels like
Ah , aye , I'm not
in the morning .
I 've a right cough as well and a tickle and
That 's .
what I'm bringing up .
It 's
Aye .
filthy .
You have trouble with your sinuses at all ?
Erm aye , I can do .
Choke .
Kind of choke down
Kind of choke down .
again .
It might well be coming
I 've
from there .
See I 've had a couple of colds the past few months and then you think , well that 's me , I'm getting better .
And then the next morning I'm up I feel as I was going to take it again .
It feels all choked up again .
Aye .
Right .
Er it sounds as though it might well be stuck in your sinuses here and this stuff 's running down the back
Mhm .
and ca la landing in the back of your throat here .
Er you 're what , ?
Aye .
Three .
Now , I 've given you some antibiotics .
They 're to take during the day .
And I 've given you special stuff for nighttime to keep the back of your throat clear at night .
Because that 's half the battle if you can keep
nights , I didn't have a decent night 's sleep just for the tickle you know , the .
That 's right , the continual it 's this continual stuff running down the back that goes for it .
Mhm .
Oops !
There we are .
Right ,
Thanks Doctor .
Mrs .
I wonder if I could show you a mole ?
I 've got , I feel as if it 's getting and I don't know if it 's erm to be
I 've had it for years and never bothered .
Aye , I know but they change .
Let 's look .
Yeah .
It 's starting to get black at one side alright
You see I can not not see it
No .
but I just felt it
Right .
something 's up .
I'm not scratching it because I can't scratch it but
No .
I'm worried about it .
Yeah .
Well I think you better get this seen to .
It 's , there 's a tiny wee corner at the top there where the colour 's changing .
Is it ?
And there 's another wee bit there .
Aye .
Get it off .
Right .
Get it off .
I 've been going to come up about it and g
Aye .
It 's , och aye , it 's one of these things .
Do you think it
I 've had it for all this time , I hope .
Yeah .
Well it wouldn't make
any difference .
Now , all I need for you to go and see the skin specialist and get it in the bucket and then there 's
Right .
no worry about it .
Okay then .
Right .
Okay Alison .
Thanks a lot .
Right .
Cheerio now .
Bye .
Are you alright yourself ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
It 's no no problem .
it 's just typical isn't it ?
That 's it .
Right .
Thanks .
Cheerio now .
Cheerio .
Letter to District Hospital , thirty two .
Dear Doctor , this woman has a mole on her right upper arm .
She tells me that this has recently become quite itchy , and when there appear to be one or two areas that have er become discoloured darker than , than the main part of the mole .
I appointment to removal and would be grateful for your advice .
Yours sincerely .
And could you mark that one very urgent , please .

Good morning , good morning .
Good morrow .
How are you today ?
I'm fine .
How are you ?
I'm alive .
Causing trouble .
I suppose you 're ahead of the game if you 're alive .
Yes .
That 's it .
Now then young man , what can we do for you today ?
Well .
You 're alright , check that .
You know the young man er
Yes .
Yes .
Trouble ?
No problems .
Mm ?
No problem .
No problems , good .
No problem there at all .
Good .
And how 're yo how 've you been doing ?
Er , I'm er the last er f five days or so , I 've been getting up less .
Good .
Three times .
I 've been getting up three times .
And , and one day I got u up once .
So it must be making a difference .
Good .
That 's great .
Keep on with it for another
Ma maybe , maybe another once or twice er and I 'll h have the job done .
I hope .
It 's , I mean it 's going anyway , it 's working .
It 's making a difference to life .
Yeah .
Good .
Good .
Oh it is .
And er I want some pills for circulation , I 've only got two left .
Right .
Three a day , they don't last long .
No , you go through them .
four How 's May getting on ?
How 's May ?
Brighter now .
She 's er having trouble walking now , she 's not walking very well .
She not ?
No .
Er and the poor girl can't tell you what 's the trouble .
No .
Otherwise she 's as cheery as ever .
She 's happy as ever ?
Aye .
Oh that 's good .
Well that 's a good sign .
Yeah .
There we are , that 'll keep you going for a wee while longer James .
Thank you very much .
Right .
Okay , right Jim .
We 'll see you in
Aye , bye bye .
five or six weeks again .
Thanks .
Right .
Cheerio now .

So tell me about when you first moved in , Mr isn't it ?
Yes .
Erm , in nineteen fifty one to can you remember what it was like when you first moved in ?
Yes , there were er , I think there was one , two , three , four houses , four or five houses that were occupied before we came in , they were still building The Chantry incidently and er you know it was a it was quite a shock to us and the wife was a bit upset you know when having to , we came from Plymouth actually , Devon , and er the wife was a bit er down you know all the night travelling all night with the children
Oh
with three of them
I remember that
You remember it ?
Yeah
Yeah
yeah , cos didn't you
and of course we arrived in Harlow on the train and we could n't see any new buildings anywhere , you know near Harlow Mill
Yes
and er , they were coming up and went across to get a drink of lemonade and it was a bloody hot day , really , you know a midsummer day and erm , we went across to this kind of cafe place that 's opposite the station and I saw two men with rubber boots on
so I went over and ask them where the New Town was , and they told us where , walk up the road till you come to the lights , turn right , follow the lane and you 'll come to the New Town erm
And that was the old Netteswell Lane wasn't it ?
Did you come by car ?
No by train
We never had a car had we ?
So you walked ?
We walked from the station yeah it 's Harlow
Yeah we walked as far as the lights
Harlow Mill as it was then
on the what was then the A eleven
Oh that was Harlow Town Station then wasn't it ?
It 's called Harlow Town
Called Harlow Town and Burnt Mill but now it 's the other way round
Yes
and erm , we 'd got there and a young lady came along delivering milk you know with a big milk float and she put the , the twins Brenda and
No I thought , no
er no mother , you and
mum , I didn't
mum sat next to you in the front , this , she sat you two on top of the
On the float ?
Yeah , cos we had
and Keith and I walked
and mum could n't walk any further could she ?
So you had three children ?
Yes , mhm
And your age 's what nine , and you have a twin ?
Yeah I have a twin brother and erm
Another nine and a brother fourteen
and Katie was five years old
well he was fourteen the following August
yeah he was five years old he was
that August we arrived , mm and er when we got here of course it was just , we went down this lane
Eh
of course which is now Netteswell Lane and
But didn't you come up a few days before us ?
You were here before us were n't you ?
No , no , no you 've got it the wrong way round , I went , I brought you here and then I had to go back cos I was in the Royal Marine Police
Yeah , but , but didn't you when you got here they 'd given you , don't you remember ?
Ah , no
and you went to and somebody was living in there
no , no love , because wasn't built then
It was dad , that bit was built
Oh well , no what happen was
don't you remember you had to go to the housing office
just before we left Plymouth they altered it to , I knew it was the
Oh
It was
A hundred and eleven
A hundred and eleven
That 's right
it was right opposite the pub now , but that was all fields then were n't it ?
That was all fields , yeah
So your wife hadn't seen the house
Oh no
before you actually moved in ?
no we didn't know what we were going to
No it was a long way to come from Plymouth you know so we didn't know .
We came on a , I think it was on a Friday or Saturday morning and I had to go back Sunday night , cos I was on duty on the Monday back in Plymouth , and I did a month in Plymouth , er , a month or five weeks no longer , and I came up each weekend to see them , my wife was left there then .
didn't
It must of been , it must of been very difficult for her ?
She had everything to do really
Yeah , I think , I think she 's
exhilarating shop hours
marvellous really , you know , to do it
and all our shopping was down at the Old Town , you had to go down this lane to the Old Town if you wanted a stamp
Yeah , the nearest shops was the Old Town
or anything
but we got
The nearest shops and that of course were Epping or Bishop 's Stortford
Yeah but with Bob and I , Bob and I went to
erm Mark Hall House
That 's right
it isn't there any more , beautiful old house like Moot House , similar to Moot House wasn't it ?
Mm
And they converted that into a school infant 's school
remember the old servants quarters for er
Yeah they made a , built a playground that 's all they did , just had a playground
for the original Mark Hall
the rest of it was just the original house , you know , it was a beautiful place , why they pulled it down
Yeah , yeah
I suppose , I suppose it was falling down
Yeah
but , it seems such a shame cos er big double gates you went in , you know , it was lovely , erm where did Keith go to school then ?
Newport Grammar school
Oh yeah , yeah , he didn't go to school in Harlow
he passed his eleven plus as it was then and er he went to a school called Regent Street Grammar school in Plymouth and when we moved in here I had to go to Holly House , I think they call it
Yeah at Loughton
to the Council Education Offices to see what school I could get him in , you see I wanted a good school for him because he was showing the ability , you know , er , and er eventually I went to Harlow Grammar school that 's what it was called then
Yeah
and it was er a kind of public school
A boys ' school
a boys ' school and the headmaster there advised me not to put him there , he said send him to Newport Grammar school it 's the best school in Essex , best grammar school in Essex and he said that my two boys go there
Poor Keith had to go to this , he had to go the station every day on his bike
Yeah
and go all the way to Newport didn't he ?
Yeah
To school every day
It sounds like a long way ?
Well it 's , it is quite a long way
Well he had a , Newport was on the line , er Cambridge line so it wasn't too bad
He didn't have to change , no , but , how , how far 's Newport then ?
Move to Harlow ?
Well I mo moved because promotion was in the line for me , I was in the Royal Marine Police in island depot in Plymouth and er I 'd been put on plain clothes work and I 'd been doing acting sergeant you know when the sergeant was off sick and all that business and er I 'd put , been put in for this to move because we had a two bedroom bungalow but the twins were getting big and I realized that we 'd have to have another bedroom you know , very soon and er , this seemed an opportunity to get a house and also in Plymouth , that Plymouth was a naval town , you see , there was still those days there was still kind of a , a lower deck of sons , what they call lower deckers , in other words you know people in the lower deck of the navy , their sons didn't really have much , ever have much chance of getting into places like Dartmouth College or Cramwell to do as cadets , well the headmaster at Regent Street School had said to me that Keith was very keen on flying , he was aeroplane mad you see , and , he wanted to go in the Royal Air Force , well he said to me he said oh no put him in the Navy and as a chief art as an artificer , so I said oh no , I said if he goes in the Navy or the service I want him to go in the front door not like me the back door , I had ambition for him
anyhow that made me feel there was no future in Plymouth for that , so this opportunity came , I came and when I got here they didn't carry any sergeants so I would of had to move again if I wanted promotion , which I wasn't prepared to do for this , mainly for his education , unfortunately the
didn't get much thought then like
cos they were n't showing any exceptional
Life always good enough for us
abilities at school
and er
So you can , so you got a promotion and you were working in the Navy when you came
I 'd left the Navy
Oh I see
I 'd left my pension from the Navy , but I 'd gone into what was then known as the police , er familiarly dockyard police .
So you didn't actually work in Harlow ?
Yes , you , you came with the Admiralty didn't you ?
I came with the Admiralty here but , they , they had a factory here
There was an Admiralty factory in Harlow
Oh
a research laboratory in West Road and
Cos everybody who moved into Harlow moved because there was a job here
Oh that 's right
oh yes , yes you got your job really through the
you got the house through the job
you got the house through the your job I should say
Yeah
And you were allocated this house in The Chantry ?
Pardon ?
You were allocated the house in The Chantry
That 's right
you didn't choose
Before we came here , no
Oh no , no , no , but we moved , how long we , were we at a hundred and eleven dad ?
Cos we moved to ninety five , wasn't built when we moved into a hundred and eleven
That 's it
a hundred and eleven was a three bedroom house , then we moved into a four bedroom house didn't we
That 's right
at ninety five , but I don't know how long we were , how long were we at hundred and eleven ?
Oh a matter of months four , six months
So it wasn't long , no it could n't of been very long
Oh it could n't be much longer than that , my father , my father retired he was a publican in the village
Oh that 's right yeah
in the North Riding of Yorkshire and he retired and he went and er lived in a bungalow belonging to er it was then Sir Ever Everard
retired , retired
who had an estate and there were St Trinian 's incidentally er , inciden that 's where the name came from for the books and friend of theirs and relation of his wrote the book I don't know , something like that , and anyhow eventually I got
They came
worried about them being so far as they 've the only child , and talked them into come down and live with us , so then I applied and got a move to just after it was built , which was a four bedroom house .
So that your father could come to live with you ?
So that my father could come down and live with me .
Yeah , and we lived there for a long time didn't you , you stayed in that house for a long , long time
Oh yes
till after I was married
mm I think you were all married from that house
Before we 'd all , we were all married , yeah
yeah in ninety five and er
We 've been in this house for about twelve years
We moved into a two bedroom house , but it 's only up the road at you know , you 're really not very far away are you ?
No , well we had a four bedroomed house and they were all married , mother and father had gone back to Yorkshire
Yes , yeah
my father was dead , died in the
Yorkshireman and er , he missed his cricket and what have you .
Well tell me what it was like for you , from your point of view , erm , erm coming to a New Town with a teenage son because most of the couples who came either didn't have any children or were just about to have baby
That 's right
so what was it like , you know , from your point of view and , and first , yes
Well to tell you the truth I wasn't very keen , I er , I felt that we made a mistake
Yeah
Neither of them did want that did you ?
You felt it ought to be because the feeling I had nobody for at least another generation would really have the roots in Harlow , that was looking at my children
Mm
you see , and I felt myself well they 're , they 're Plymouth , they were all born in Devonport and Plymouth
Mm
the oldest boy Devonport
and that 's where their roots were
Mm
do you follow ?
Yes , of course
So coming here it felt as though we 'd uprooted and , they would never get their roots down because they were n't really
Yeah but I 've always felt , I really feel as if
Oh you 've always
Harlow is
Yeah
you know , where I belong , I , I don't quite honestly don't really like Harlow New Town any more , I al I did up until about oh eight or nine years ago I thought it was a great place and all , all the cockneys that said , you know , oh I 'd love to be back in London , I thought they were barmy , you know to live in London the di the difference is , I mean my husband 's a cockney and he wouldn't , would never , well now he would never go back to London you know , it 's a dump , he , he likes Harlow , but er I think I don't like it now because it 's expanded so much , you know when we , when we were first here , mind you when we first moved in it was ever so difficult for us kids because , there , there was the Old Town kids versus the New Town kids and they hated us , they really
Really
didn't like us , oh no , no , no matter where we went there was always , there wasn't trouble like there is now , I mean there was no violence as such you know , but we thought it was at the time , you know , they were n't very nice to us at all
Mm
and of course we was , I suppose we were n't very nice to them .
Did you mix in the school or was it just
Erm
er New Town children in the school ?
no it was really New Town school children , because there was Forbert and Barnard 's school down the Old Town and that 's where the Old Town , all the Old Town people went , children went , so really Mark Hall was just New Town children you know , and then when , when we were eleven and had to go to another school we , er there was no comprehensive school in Harlow then , er we had to get on a bus and go to Chingford that was , didn't we ?
Yeah
We used to have to catch the bus every morning and go to Chingford to school until Mark Hall was built and , erm and there was only one part of Mark Hall school built when we went there , there was only a few classrooms and er , it 's all grew up , the school grew up around us you know it 's a bit
How did you feel , cos , you said that you can remember the first day that you arrived
Yeah I know
can you recall that ?
Yeah , oh yeah I remember it quite well I , I can remember that I , the only parts of Harlow I liked were the country lanes , I didn't like all the new houses , but then I 'd been brought up in the country
Mm
you know
Mm
Excuse me
This came from the parents of the children in the Old Town , because of far as I can gather from talking to the people in the Old Town
that er , oh course , like everywhere else , like the building of Stansted Airport or the , you know , there was people who were against , I mean the beautiful countryside spoilt by a New Town , so they had these committees and brigadier
and these people , you know , er had a deputation and all this business and I think some of that rubbed off on the children and , and you 've
Yes
got this er , not , not hate , it was just a kind of
Resentment ?
There was , there was a resentment
resentment to the new children , that I should of
I suppose I can understand it now , I mean it must of been a lovely place , and then to have all these new houses going up you know , but erm , I mean there was some lovely , lovely lanes
Oh yeah often used to get up in the morning and look out of the bedroom window and see a pheasant in the back garden
Yeah , which you don't see now
and rabbits you know .
So you 've still got a feeling of the countryside then ?
Oh it was yeah , yeah it was nice , I mean
yeah I mean you had to go across fields to move house didn't you ?
Pardon ?
You used to have to go across fields
Oh yes
to Moot House
Yeah
and yet you know now it 's just up the road
First Avenue was , First Avenue was built
it seemed a long way away
er , all of this side , er you know First Avenue do you ?
Yeah
Well all this side of First Avenue of course was all country all this was fields and corn fields and what have you
Most of the other side was as well
and woods , copse , odd copse here and there
Yeah there was just the church there
beautiful , we used to go for some lovely walks didn't we ?
Yeah
Walk down to the river , it was all countryside
Yeah
from where we lived from there apart from the fact they were building a few factories then
A few factories yeah
the other side of the factories was all country
but you
down to the river you know
you could walk down Netteswell Lane to Burnt Mill Station , it was lovely down there
Little Burnt Mill Station
Burnt Mill Station
of course , yeah
all the lanes around it , you know , of course they , cos Mrs next door to you lived in
She lived in those
one of those houses
Yes , oh yes she
by the station , her husband worked on the railway there .
He was the signal man at Dartmoor was
Yeah
Alf , yeah .
If you can go back to the first day that you arrived
Mhm
when you first saw the house for the very , very first time and when your wife saw the house , what was the reaction ?
Well it wasn't er the wife it was a bit of a setback , we had a bungalow you see , a small bungalow which was in a very , very nice part of Plymouth , well on the outskirts of Plymouth actually , almost in the country and er , to come and find this , well to her it 'd be like a , a terraced house , her mind went back to the old days in Manchester where she came from with the old terraced houses and I think she visualized that then to go in a house that had a , a square room , do you follow ?
And that , er it was kind of and the garden was small cos we had it , a quite big garden and you know things like that , I think , and the travelling and everything I think got her down a bit , I know she sat down and had a cry , yeah .
And how long did it take before you felt settled in ?
Oh a long time , er , matter of years really before I could settle down at , as I say to me it was roots
Yes
that 's what it amounted to
Yes
and you see then I started thinking what I should of done when I , like everyone else , thinking what I should of done
Mm
which is ridiculous really , you don't live for the past , but you did think , I think everybody did
Yeah
you know , thought back to , if I 'd of only gone to Yorkshire , gone back to Manchester , I 'd of felt my roots , see I was born in Manchester , and
Yes
Yorkshire prairie on a Yorkshire farm and you know what I mean , and now I go to Manchester and say thank god I didn't come here
Yeah
er , because to me it 's a filthy city
Mm
and , even the village , Farnham village , it 's all new houses around it now you , it , it , it 's all altered , it 's , everything 's altered .
Do you feel different , did you , do you feel differently about Harlow now in retrospect ?
Oh yes I can put up with Harlow now , I'm not er , I'm not over the world , over the , you know
That 's probably cos we were brought
you like it
we were always brought up in the country , you know
Yes
I mean it 's , it 's , it 's expanded so much innit ?
I mean erm Sumners and all that over there , Staple Tye
Mm .
What was the accommodation like in The Chantry and in the four bedroom house in which you spent most of your life , what , what was that , what was that like ?
Well it was nice
Biggish house innit ?
a big house
There 's four bedrooms
an end house
it was quite a good
but
family house , but I mean for space and that sort of
Yeah
thing , but to me it always looked like a barracks
Some of the neighbours are still there , Mr and Mrs is still next door
Next door people who
you know that were in it when they were still brand new
who moved in and
just about the same time as we did
Yeah they did when it was new
and they 're still there , their family , mm
It 's got , it 's got a block of flats at the side hadn't it ?
And a maisonette
It was an in-house , but it wasn't
Yeah they were building them when we got there were n't they ?
Yeah
Was the block of flats , erm , what was that called ?
Er well I don't know , isn't that , they 're maisonettes , they 've got that big eye on the front I don't I don't know if you , I don't know if it 's still there , I mean
I don't know
it 's a dead end road so
it 's called night and day isn't it ?
The eye is it ?
Yeah
Is it , it 's like a big eye , and it was black one side and white the other side and the black side had a white pupil and the white the other side had a black one
Night and day
Yes
that was
Mm
the idea
And it was sort of quite a thing when that was , went up , and ooh it was so awful they had some terrible things in this town didn't they ?
the statues and things you know , but something , they 've got some nice things now , they had that big statue outside the church
That was
that was moved were n't it ?
In it in the , in the , in a museum or something now isn't it ?
They vandalized it
it 's up the town centre somewhere I think
No it 's , I think it was taken away to a museum wasn't it ?
I know the one you mean I can't think of the name
Yeah
It 's the
a Greek name
Yeah , but I don't know what it was called
child , man or a woman holding a child
Oh yes , that 's the one
Oh that one 's just outside the library
Oh is it ?
I thought it was
Mhm
Getting mixed up
Mm
but to me all
all that was there was Mark Hall House , wasn't there , the , the church and the vicarage
and erm Moot House , you know there was , there was nothing else , it was just fields everywhere else
It was all fields
it was really lovely , but then
The , the house that you come from had a bathroom and had all the conveniences
Yeah , yeah
so really you were n't coming into accommodation which was a step
Oh no , well
up for you like a lot of them here ?
well , no , probably mum and dad didn't think so , but
No , no you see that
but Bob and I did , I could , I could remember the day we moved in to a hundred and eleven er we 'd never , never been upstairs in a house before you see we 'd been brought up in a bungalow and we 'd never ever been upstairs and the thoughts of going upstairs to bed , you know , was fantastic
Mm
and , all , all we kept saying on the train coming down Bob and I oh I hope we can slide down the bannisters
Bannisters
And could you ?
No cos they bent round and we had a tie , we did but it was only a little bannister you know , we tried it
What do you think was so particular about having stairs ?
I don't know , it was just a novelty , we 'd never ever , I remember an , an aunt of ours that lived in Plymouth near us , she had a house with an upstairs , but she had a downstairs toilet , so we never got to go upstairs you know it 's just one of those stupid things I suppose , I , I thought it was great and another attraction was I think one of the main reasons you got us to really want to come to Harlow was the fact that we 'd have a television
Yeah
we 'd never , like I mean , I can remember in Plymouth dad saying when we get there , erm we 'll buy a television , we 'll have a television and we didn't know what he was talking about and he said it 's a wireless with pictures , you know , and our minds were boggling we just could n't understand it , and then of course that was another bit of bribery got us to come .
Anything you remember when you first saw a television ?
Yes , yeah , when you had one delivered , that 's the first time we 'd ever seen one wasn't it ?
Oh yes we 'd sat there
and didn't mum have a new cooker ?
Mum had a new cooker yeah
Yeah , yeah
Was it gas or electric ?
Gas
Gas it was
Yeah , she was over the moon with it though , wasn't she ?
What ?
She was over the moon with it
Oh yes , aye
she 'd never seen anything like it , but I think we had quite a lot of new furniture didn't we ?
Yeah quite a bit
We 'd brought some with us
odd things , well of course bed linen , a lot of bedrooms and that to furnish and
Well tell me about the furniture that you brought
Oh we 've got
You 've still got your suite haven't you ?
Pardon ?
Still got your three piece suite
We 've still got the same and the dining one
and the dining one and the sideboard , yeah
When did you buy it ?
Nineteen thirty seven , thirty , thirty seven , bought it in Plymouth and our dining room suite , I 'll always remember this , cost twenty eight guineas , not the dining , I'm sorry the three piece suite
Three piece suite
twenty eight guineas , and when we got to Harlow I had it recovered by firm in Sawbridgeworth , twenty eight guineas
To have it recovered , mm
yes the same price
But it
and we still use the same dining table , sideboard , chairs , dining chairs , mind you they , they that kind to of thrown out , reluctant to do it
They wouldn't , no they
we had a lot of affection for it really and , I mean we 've had it so long and it was the first furniture we had when we married
You wouldn't do that now , would you ?
And er what else
Do you remember when we
we 've got a bedroom suite as well apart from the gentleman 's wardrobe cos we had them
during the blitz and that , burnt all my wardrobe
Mm
and side of the bed , but we get
In Harlow ?
No
No , no this was in Plymouth
Oh
and during the , I was away actually I wasn't there , but er , it was all burnt so I did away with that and we managed to do the bed up somehow
Mm
it 's still going , we 've still got the dressing table the big wardrobe
Can you remember what the make of the furniture was ?
Well I don't know what make it was but it came from the house , the furnishing company of Union Street , Plymouth I can't remember the shop .
Do you remember when you got rid of one of your armchairs last year or the year before , they bought two new fireside chairs and one of the armchairs nearly had it
We had to get rid of them they were nearly collapsing
and the men came , delivered the new ones and erm , one of them , er oh you said would you take the old one and they said , yeah , fine you know , dad said well it 'll take both of you , oh no , no , I can do that , he could n't even lift it you know cos they were so solid and two of them had a heck of a job didn't they ?
Yeah
Getting it out and that was just an armchair don't know what they 'd do if they had to move the settee , but erm , that 's the difference in
Well we had to higher , higher seats really , well these , these are alright but when you get to my age
can't get in and out of them so easily
have a job getting out of them and er you know more or less the higher chair 's
Mm
better for us
And the dining room suite is it oak ?
Oh it 's veneered , veneered oak
Mm
it 's not er solid oak , it 's veneered , mm , it 's oak yeah
And when you came to Harlow you said that you bought some new furniture
Yeah we bought a new bedroom suite I think that 's about the first thing
I had a new bedroom suite didn't I ?
Oh yes
and that cos when I got married I took it with me didn't I ?
That 's right
Do you still have it ?
And then my mother and father came down in the four bed when we moved to ninety five in the four bedroom yes , they brought their bedroom suite down with them .
And did you buy the bedroom suite in Harlow ?
Erm , just trying to think where we bought it
Sheratons ?
Er what Sheratons in the Stow ?
No I bought my dining room suite , this Ercol dining room suite in there , I 've still got it , yeah that was a long Oh yeah the shops have changed quite a lot in the The Stow haven't they ?
Yes when we came of course the Stow was er
you know
Yeah it was just a little
had a little
trees were n't there to make The Stow .
We thought it was quite something when we got the shops were n't it ?
I remember it happening , but I can't remember somebody came to open it , did somebody come to open The Stow you know
Forget now somebody came to open
I remember there were invitations given out to go to it , sherry party , I had an invitation but I didn't go for some reason
Mm
I was working or something , but erm , two of Mr went , you know that neighbour of mine
Mm
So when you bought the bedroom suite , erm , can you remember if erm , what the purchase tax was on it then ?
Oh I could n't , I'm sorry
Can you remember , it , obviously it wasn't rationing any more , there wasn't utility
No , no
any more at that time was there ?
No I think utility had more or less finished then
It finished at the end of fifty two
Yeah , I remember , I remember having a ration book for sweets
That went on for quite a long time
Oh yes , oh yeah , oh yeah
but the actual rationing on furniture ended , at the end of nineteen fifty two but they brought in something called schedule T
We must of bought that suite before then
Before then , yes , we must of bought it when we moved in cos I , I mean I wasn't without a bed
We did , we bought it as soon as we moved in because er
You must of had
Must of had one straight away , yeah
Yeah
you , I 'd of told you mum should of come up , she wouldn't come would she ?
She 'd probably remember
She 'd remember things like that
I tell you
yes
I'm very interested in that particular period just before , just , when you get the after maturity of when they had this strange very schedule D and er the tax , the purchase tax
Mm
Mm
and all that sort of thing and how it affected people buying furniture because there was a very high luxury tax
That 's right
highly expensive furniture
Mm
sixty six and two thirds
Yeah but the single bedroom suite I remember that
I wouldn't know that
And you can't remember where you bought it ?
It must of been fifty one , June
I bet mum 's still got the bill somewhere
it must of been at the end in the autumn at , at least of fifty one
I wouldn't be a bit surprised , I 'll try and find out for you
I wonder if I know
sixty one were n't they ?
Mm , mm
You know and the stuff we had that , cos we 've changed it all .
Can you tell me about the light fittings that you bought when you first got married .
I'm trying to think I got , oh god , that was Pennymead cos we lived with mum and dad for three months until we got a maisonette in Pennymead
Mm , mm
erm , I can remember the three piece suite it was that uncut moquette stuff , you don't see it now do you ?
It was grey and , and mustard , it sounds revolting but we , we were a bit , I suppose it was the time we had a purple carpet , we had an orange wall , do you remember that living room ?
Yeah
You needed sunglasses to go in it , erm oh you didn't really actually it looked , it looked alright but it was very modern , my mum and dad didn't think it was up to much you know we thought it was great .
Why did you cho why did you want to have modern ?
Well I don't know it 's just what we liked at the time you know , we liked anything that was considered a bit way out then , you know
Mm
and we had er , I mean we had a bright orange swivel chair and when that came out it was called the Orbit or something , something really weird and it had a big back on it and we thought it was great I mean , I think it 's awful now , some of the things we had , I 'll have to try and find some photographs cos I 've got a case full of photographs upstairs
Yeah I 've got a lot of
I 've got lots of them inside that maisonette you know when
That would interest me very much
with my er eldest son 's nearly nineteen
Oh yes , you 've got those
cos when he was a baby we took loads of photographs inside .
And you said that you had an orange wall , only one orange wall ?
On one orange wall , yeah
Which wall was it ?
I can't remember what was on , it was a plain , well , we , we had er french windows with a balcony , it was an upstairs maisonette and the wall that end was orange and my father-in- law made us the cocktail bar , do you remember that cocktail bar
That 's right , yeah
you made us with white quilting on the front , oh it sounds awful now , but
did , got rid of that about a year , twelve , eighteen months ago
Oh and I had sort of marble on the , formica marble contact , that contact stuff on top , purple carpet , er mustard and grey suite , that was an odd shape that suite wasn't it ?
It had sort of round chairs
Yeah
you know those round chairs with , everything had those legs , those screw on legs , everything the coffee table didn't it ?
The suite , everything had screw on legs and we bought erm a radiogram , that was a Pye , beautiful thing it was , it was ever so expensive then , I might even have the bill for that somewhere , we bought that at the town centre in Laytoners was it ?
Erm
Yeah , Laytoners
that was my twenty first birthday we bought that on , so that was before Gary was born and er , that had black screw on legs as well , the televisions had black screw , oh we didn't have a television we had a second hand television about a year after we were married and I remember Coronation Street starting , that started about when we got married .
What year did you get married in ?
Nineteen sixty one , er , our anniversary was a few weeks ago , twenty one years we 've been married , but er
Have you er
we were , we were furniture made , you know , all we thought about was the home and in fact once we could n't afford any wall paper we were decorating so George painted the wall white and we got saucepan lids , and even the dustbin lid and with er , er , a black pen , felt type pen I suppose although felt pens were n't out then
I don't know that
I don't think but that sort of thing , but he drew black circles and triangles all over this white wall it looked , I 've got a photograph of that
Was that
that looked fantastic and everyone said oh god he 's so artistic you know and he 's a butcher he wasn't really but we just used to sit down and think of all these ideas you know
Where did you get these ideas from ?
Well they , er nowhere , we didn't get them from anywhere we just used to think them up and everyone thought we were potty didn't they ?
I bet John liked it
John , George 's brother
George 's brother , yeah ,
he 's quite a bit artistic ai n't he ?
Yeah , well I think George is actually
George is
I mean when he does his window displays you 've never seen anything like it , you know , so , I think he 's got quite er , he 's quite good at things like that , but erm , we 've tamed down a bit now .
So you were considered daring were you ?
Oh yeah , yeah , where the furniture was concerned yeah , we only liked it if people came in and said oh my god what have you done now , you know .
What kind of curtains did you have ?
Oh , I , I can remember when fibreglass curtains first came out we bought some of those terrible things they just went in holes , you know if you touched them too much they just went in holes .
They were brittle ?
Yeah
Mm
and if you washed them you must n't put clothes pegs in them cos the pegs would make holes in them
Mm
fancy having stuff like that
Was it a sheer or a solid material this fibreglass ?
I don't know what you mean
Was it like a see through , like a net kind of curtain , no
Oh no , no , no it 's the big curtains , I think one we had great big green leaves on
Mm
do you remember those ?
Terrible
Well I liked them when we bought them
Mum and I used to go in and say why it looks alright and when we got outside
Ai n't it awful
ai n't it awful
living with that and then when we got rid of that purple carpet
We got
we brought a bright orange carpet , do you remember that bright orange er , when that first came out ?
With the , with the erm that big white cat on it , what make was that ?
They used to advertise it with a big white fluffy cat
Not Sue and Lord
Oh it might of been
Mm
don't know , but we had this bright orange carpet , mind you even we could n't live with that for too long .
So that was after the purple carpet ?
Yeah oh we loved all the gold furniture and , that 's all we used to do was walk round looking at furniture and things
Where did you buy the furniture ?
Oh mainly in Harlow
Mm , mm
I can remember we went to erm , oh cos we moved out of Harlow didn't we when Nick was eleven months old so that 's about fifteen years ago and lived in Hatfield for three years , so , and we used to go to Welwyn Department Store then and , and look at stuff .
I can remember one standard lamp we had , it was really weird and people used to say that 'll be alright if you were landing a plane cos it had spotlights , I mean now , they , erm , in fact you can still buy the same sort of thing , but then it was so way out
Yeah
it had sort of round shade with a bulb and the bu but it looked like an eye you know because the bulb came out and you moved these three things around , you can still buy them now , but er , then they were a bit way out .
And this was when you were living in Hatfield ?
Yes
So that would of been
that would be about fifteen years ago
Yes , nineteen sixty eight or so
Mm
A very nice house in Hatfield were n't it ?
Yeah , it was a lovely house yeah but we wanted to come back to Harlow you see , so we did like , well we always liked Harlow , really the only reason we went to erm er Hatfield was the fact that Harlow Council no way would move us out of that maisonette , we had two boys and we lived upstairs and Gary had all sorts of accidents on those stairs , in fact we all had because they were outside , erm so in the winter they iced up
Mm
concrete stairs and , George nearly killed himself on them one morning , but er , and we tried everything to get out of there you know , no one would exchange a two bedroom maisonette for a house and of course I longed for a garden , but , and er George got a job in Hatfield and they offered this three bedroom house The Commission for The New Town , rent was cheaper than here , so we moved over there , but er , as I say we were only there two , three years and we came back again , we were over here , we used to come over here three times a week , when we lived there didn't we ?
Mm , mm
So we got back to Harlow again That wallpaper but erm what was it called again Francis Henry 's in this style
Yeah
erm , cos Mary that still works in there she , her husband worked for either Mr Henry , I can't remember his name , the man that owned it , and I think , I think perhaps they were brothers or something , she , her husband owns it now it 's Freyers or something now
Yeah , do it yourself there 's new
yeah , but we used to buy all our wallpaper
At The Stow ?
in there , yeah
They use to sell all the paper and all that business then
to do erm wallpaper and we , we loved and wallpaper and you , is there , you could n't see the book anywhere , er probably in London you could , but erm round here you could n't , but they had the book down here .
Er how did you know about it ?
Well only because we 'd seen it in the shop
From the shop
Yeah
And it was only in
Well Dave worked in there , George 's friend worked in there as well , yes it was , it was expensive wallpaper for then , it was so way out I mean we had red tartan wallpaper in the bathroom , you know you just don't see , er actually they 'd be really nice designs now , you just don't see them now and we had er , a bright blue wallpaper that had big circles on it , do you remember that one ?
Mm
That cost us a fortune well we thought so then
At that time
Yeah
Was that in the living room ?
Yeah , I 'd have to try and er see if I 've got any of those bills anywhere , I know that that book 's upstairs cos erm , we did that cupboard out the other day and I found all the photographs all our old photographs in a box , but the box had fallen to bits , so
Mm
I 'd put them all in an old suitcase and erm , cos I could n't just put them in there I had to have a look , they 're sentimental and that book was in there so I can definitely get you that , but I wouldn't go up in the loft I'm afraid , I'm so scared of creepy crawlies so er , you know , if you , if you want to come back some time when my husband 's here I mean he can tell you more about the wallpaper and decorating , and I 'll get him to get that out .
Can you remember what kind of paint you used ?
Oh no , he 'll tell you that
Yeah
I wasn't allowed to touch
But did you , did
a paint brush I tried
No
painting the kitchen once and I got into so much trouble it took him so long to rub it all off and start again , he made me promise I 'd never touch a paint brush again but he I mean , he would definitely be able to tell you what paint he used and
Mm , mm because there was a change over
to the emulsion wasn't there ?
Yeah , yeah

Four legs good !
Two legs bad !
Unless you 're a chicken , or to put it boldly , animals have rights too !
But exactly what rights do they have ?
And does supporting animal rights justify violence ?
The animal rights lobby is a forceful one by various means , some legal , some not , some specific , some violent .
Campaigners seek to convince the unconverted that animals deserve a better deal !
Which animals ?
And what 's the better deal ?
Let 's find out .
And let 's start with a basic question , here in this nation of animal lovers , do you think animals deserve a better deal ?
Some animals ?
All animals ?
Any animals ?
Do they deserve a better deal ?
Button one for yes , and button two for no .
This is a descriptive vote because this hundred er women are not a representative cross section of the whole of Scotland they 're invited to come from various places and ninety six of them think that animals deserve a better deal .
When you said yes to that which animals did you mean ?
And what were you talking about ?
Yes ?
I think , a lot of people see the stray dogs problem as a big problem , certainly if people have decided to partake of pets , they have a responsibility to look after them and not throw them out on the streets .
Okay so
And I think problems like that are due to human irresponsibility !
So those animals do have a raw deal !
Okay , that 's one area .
Who else said yes , and why ?
Up , yes ?
I think animals that are used for human entertainment definitely deserve a better deal , for example , large wi wild animals that are used in circuses , we haven't got the right , as people , to say that they 're here for our entertainment .
What would that better deal be in that case ?
The better deal would be , not being transported up and down the country , and not being made to perform tricks that are un unnatural to their own behaviour patterns .
Aha .
Aha .
Any other views ?
Yes ?
I think that er concern should also spread to animals that are hunted pleasure as well , i.e. the stags , deer , foxes , hares , I mean , there 's there 's quite a considerable list that 's all done for entertainment .
Mhm .
Now the better deal there presumably would involve
Not chasing them at all !
not hunting them at all ?
No !
I mean
Okay .
let them live their lives in peace without the harassment of chasing them with dogs and supporters and what have you !
Okay .
Any others that , yes ?
I don't think animals should be ta , used to be tested for cosmetics
Mhm .
perfumes or detergents
Mhm .
different things like that .
What about medical research ?
Well , there again , yes , with reservations because if it comes to the fact that if it 's going to save human lives , yes .
Yes , and you get all the animals who are experimented on and you sa there 's not a week that comes out and you don't an a report saying , oh well this this , this causes cancer in rats or and you , imagine the amount , the huge amounts of the sub , whatever substance it is that had been given to rats to cause the cancer , and there 's no knowing that the amount that 's gonna be given to rats causing cancer , will give cancer to humans !
I mean , i it 's just absolutely ridiculous !
I'm a trustee for the beauty without cruelty charity
Aha .
and we would like to see an end to all experiments on animals , for cosmetics , toiletry , household product purposes .
Has n't that campaign been going for
Oh many , many years !
a long time ?
Yes !
And we 're making progress now .
How ?
There are already many alternatives to the research carried out on animals which has been going on for a long time .
Erm for example , you can grow human skin in a , in a cell culture and use that as a , as a testing er , medium
Mhm .
instead of a live animal .
We can it can use erm a si similar substance for eye tests erm , to test to replace the Jeyes eye test
Mhm .
which again has been used for a long time on animals .
These tests are very misleading .
They don't protect bu su er , er the public , they protect the people who are actually manufacturing the products .
Now do you think that the campaign th the th , the campaigns against the use in cosmetic testing had anything to do with the changes that were brought in , or do you think advances and responsible er science would have , would have made those changes anyway ?
I think inevitably , th the changes would have come because the , the alternatives are better .
Yep .
They are less misleading .
Ah , but I think the campaign , the public campaign and the pressure that 's been put on companies have definitely made quite a , quite a difference .
Yes ?
While I agree that there is absolutely no justification for testing for cosmetic purposes at all !
Absolutely
Yes .
none !
I think we would have advanced to the stage we are at had we not used animals in the earlier stages for medical research .
We 're advancing all the time and I think there may came a time we won't use animals at all for medical research , but at , up till now we needed to use animals for medical research .
I think you 've got to be realistic about this whole issue , that er , obviously seeing the poor furry little bunny suffering for cosmetics !
Mhm .
Yes !
I agree , that is wrong !
But , if a test on a chimpanzee would save my child 's life I'm afraid I 'd go for the test on the chimpanzee .
Okay .
Yes ?
Erm I I think that one of the erm , drawbacks in using animals for any kind of testing is that it sort of precludes in some way using alternatives .
And I think that , you know people who , they may be trained when they 're a studying to
Mhm .
use animals , and then go onto to work using animals , and erm you know , if maybe alternative techniques were introduced at an earlier stage , maybe in their training , they 'd be more likely to them on board .
But , it 's almost like it 's the established pattern to use animals to test
Mhm .
all sorts of things , and it 's gonna take quite a big shifty to get out of that .
Mhm .
Yes ?
I agree with what that lady 's just said .
What I find horrible is that there are so many organisations or or places all over Great Britain , they 're all doing the same sort of tests !
can't we collate our knowledge so that not so many tests are having to be done on all these animals ?
Yes ?
Yes .
Erm , being with the S S P C A , I have seen a lot of very sad pictures of animals , but one of the saddest photographs I saw , quite recently was two monkeys , well they 're primates , we are
Yep .
part of that family too , and they were in a lab awaiting experimentation and they were in cages side by side and they 'd stretched their arms out and were holding hands , almost as though , to give each other comfort .
Mhm .
Monkeys feel pain .
They feel happiness , sadness and they also have a sense of humour .
Under the nineteen eighty six act
Mm .
they have stated that all use of animals must be justified and it very carefully policed by the Home Office , as well as locally .
I mean , it 's it 's vets etcetera
Yeah .
Yep .
are always present in research establishments to ensure the well being of the animals , and very often there is actually no pain involved in the research .
How , how do you know that ?
Well I was told by somebody who 's involved in animal
Right .
research !
Right .
But er , frequently the animals are used for the research and there 's no pain involved at that time and they are killed humanly before the research actually takes place .
But do we find it acceptable that animals should be used , however painless the event .
Well I would rather use an animal any time that my own child !
Up there .
Er , Switzerland is one country that has banned the use of animals for research , and I think we ought to be going along these lines that , if animals have rights we ought not to be using them for experimentation .
Mhm .
And if we were to ban the the process , th erm we would devise other means for research , would , we would find alternatives .
There .
Th there 'll , there 'll quickly move it somewhere where we can do it .
It 's quite
alright , they move it out of Switzerland but if we can't have it here we 'll have it in Pakistan or somewhere where they want the money !
So it won't make any difference in that
Yes ?
respect .
I do not think that research has gone as fast as it should !
Mhm .
And it 's going to be a long time before it 's going to be possible , so therefore we still have to use animals , I see no way round it .
Mhm .
And I know that they 're using cultures and things but I still think that we are a long way from not using animals .
Up there .
Erm can I , can I move this conversation on to the
Yes .
th th the , the veterinary side ?
Mhm .
Erm , we 've we 've covered the fact that animal models don't always reflect the human situation , but if we 're going to understand control and eradicate disease in animals , this sort of work must go on .
Could I go back to something the lady here
Yes .
said about the Animal Procedures Act of nineteen eighty six , erm , I know she 's been told about the animals are killed painlessly and that they suffer very little pain , where there 's any pain at all , but in fact this act erm which is governed by a committee only erm issues guidelines as to what might happen .
No matter how serious an infringement there might be of that act they are not subject to any sort of criminal offence .
Sh shall we try and see what the er , what the general feeling on this is ?
Do you think that er the use of animals in research is ever justified ?
Er , button one for yes , and button two for no .
Research there being either on behalf of animals themselves , or on behalf of er , of humans .
Is research on er , the use of animals in research ever justified ?
And this particular hundred are creeping in with their votes but have decided , seventy fo seventy seven of them say yes , all be it th th th , by far the majority , and twenty three say no .
Could anyone say what the consequences would be if they were n't available for use in er in the development of human er medicines and treatment ?
Well I wouldn't be here because a horse was used for a toxin to provide the anti-toxin for diphtheria whe , in my days when I was younger there was no toxins as such , vaccination as such and so therefore the horses were used for research to provide the anti-toxins .
So do you think people who would like to ban the use of animals in research are in , are in cloud cuckoo land do you ?
Yes ?
Would any of you twenty three like to defend your position ?
Yes ?
Erm , I'm just not sure why any any person would think that they have more right to life than animals do .
I mean what what gives you more right to life than an animal does ?
Anyone wa
Just because we have , a so called civilized nation that we live in that destroys the world , that destroys animals that destroys the environment we 're living in !
You know , where 's our right to life come from ?
I think you can far too sentimental about it !
Erm humans are more important than animals , you you can not gi equate an animal life with human life .
We are the intelligent order .
Being intelligent , we hope we won't be cruel to animals , but you can't say that we are , animals are just as important as humans .
Mhm .
Wha , why do you think we are more intelligent than animals ?
Well , for a start
You know , because we can have television
we could
studios ?
No !
We can reason with each other , animals don't reason with
But
other .
We have conversations , animals don't have conversations !
We are , we are living in a world , we are living in a world where constantly there 's violence , does that happen in the animal world !
Yes of course it does !
Of course it does !
Of course it does !
To the same extent ?
They 're horrible !
Animals are terribly cruel to each other !
N no well
Yes ?
I can't accept that !
Surely if intelligence is the answer , you know , what about mentally handicapped children ?
They 're , they 're not intelligent , does that mean they 're just the same as animals ?
If intelligence is the criteria , then an awful lot of us in this room would be used as test animals !
Mhm .
We have a choice if we want to be involved in research
Mhm .
whereas animals don't !
They have no
Mhm .
choice , they have no say .
Mhm .
There , yes ?
How do you know that erm animals don't reason ?
Like , how do you know what goes on , like with , dolphins , with whales , with all sorts of species of animals , like we don't know , well we 're so dense we can only see things like this !
We don't know what goes on there , we 've got no right to interfere with their lives !
Yes ?
I think , I think we 're overlooking one erm
Mhm .
great power that the individual has , instead of being ing , indignant about erm , our views on animals in research , we could quite simply exercise our power , not to buy the products , to ask questions of our
Mm mm .
of our doctors what kind of drug it is ?
What research goes behind it ?
Do to exercise our individual intelligence to examine the facts on no , on the basis of our own conscience , individually to make a decision , and we can all do that !
We can buy a different type of product .
And there are many
Mhm .
companies now erm which quite obviously assert that fact , on the doorways of chemists for instance , they do not test on animals .
So you 're saying the consumer pressure could could change things ?
Mhm .
It it it 's every effective measure
Mm .
of stopping erm , a certain product it simply will go out of production .
I would disagree that er , humans aren't used in experiments because I think that we 're all being used at various
points in our lives , for experiments , medical or otherwise .
Mhm .
And erm a , a lot of the medicines that are passed er have been passed to a certain degree and then th th the we become the the animal .
Are you speaking as a , as an experienced guinea pig yourself ?
Well I'm a diabetic erm
Yes .
so to a certain extent th the human that was introduced in the last few
Mhm .
years has has is an experiment .
How do you feel about that ?
I , don't mind being used as a guinea pig because I feel that it 'll help people in the future .
Up there .
I believe that we have been given the right to have dominion over animals .
The point I would like to put over is , I 've listened to one or two erm , radio programmes , and television programmes about this and I personally would like to have more evidence of what actually happens to the animals .
I don't think us er er public people really realize what is going on and I think then they would maybe stand up and be
Mm .
and be counted , but I think we 've tended to stand back and just say well we know it 's going on but what is actually being done to these
Mhm .
animals ?
Yes ?
Yes , we that lady over said there were guidelines , there were people that go in and inspect , but there are not enough , it is a known fact , that there are not enough people to go and inspect all the establishments where animal erm , experimentations are taking place and , I love animals , and alright , yes , yo you can do ex , some experiments on animals but let 's not be cruel !
That lady up there said that we have experiments , I'm sure , human experiments , you know , experiments , sorry , on human people
Mm .
but , on human beings , but we 're not put through the state that animals are !
We
Mm .
don't have great lumps made to grown on us , we don't go through she , severe pain .
And , which company was it that says , to do something about pain you first have to create it .
Mm .
Ah , I mean that 's terrible !
I was responsible for researching into the , so called cruelty free products for beauty without cruelty , and it was a real can of worms !
I was
Yep !
I was sorry I got involved in it at one point !
Erm cosmetic companies are very devious !
It 's what they don't tell you that 's important .
Erm , there is a big problem at the moment with cosmetic labelling , for example , erm just exactly what does cruelty free mean ?
What does against animal testing mean ?
These are the kind of things that are actually on cosmetic products .
Mm .
It could mean , erm , against animal testing but I go along with it anyway .
It could mean erm cruelty free , er erm who de defines in that case , what cruelty is ?
Er , not , not tested on animals might mean , by me by but by someone else !
And it all sells products !
And , beauty without cruelty has been involved recently in having er , trying to put forward an E C erm , directive on th er , the labelling of cosmetics , but it 's very , very difficult !
And , mainly because of those kind of problems .
Yeah .
Yep .
What do you mean by erm , not tested on animals ?
The finished product ?
The ingredient ?
Ingredients are tested for other reasons too not necessarily just for the cosmetic and toiletry trade .
I think that one of the outstanding erm criticisms that I would make of the whole programme , in research with animals , is the fact that only two licences have been revoked I think you said
Mhm .
on now , I think it 's a bit like factory inspectors , and I talk from experience on this , er th o i me , everything gets cleaned up before the inspectors
Mhm .
arrive !
If you report something you always get the same reply , nothing wrong when we went round !
Mm .
I 'd like to move with th er , I I think tha wi given wi , though we haven't got all that much time , can we move onto another area that was brought up at the beginning of the programme which was erm the use of animals in recreation and er Lisa particularly mentioned hunting , now , she thinks hunting should be banned , do you ?
Do you think hunting animals should be banned ?
Various animals that hunted in this country , foxes , in some places deer , hares are coursed er in some places .
Well well !
There 's an interesting result !
Seventy nine of you think yes , hunting should be banned .
For the minority , twenty one say , no .
Would any of those twenty one feel brave enough to say why they said no ?
Yes ?
Well I I so , should er be unhappy to see the , the the red-coated huntsmen a an abolished scenario .
But , erm I think they could instead have an electric fox , if there 's such a thing ?
Or , a drag and there 's no need to interfere with the fox at all .
Okay .
Yes ?
They say that hunting 's for er er human pleasure , er , I mean personally I 've only been to one hunt , and I don't see what all the the , the , the , the trouble 's about because the huntsman is only a spectator , it 's the hounds that are hunting the fox and it is to keep the foxes down .
What 's better than , gassing , shooting , poisoning ?
Mm .
What 's more humane ?
So you think hunting 's fair enough ?
From my point of view , yeah .
Yes ?
Beside you .
Yes , I I would have to , I 'd have to disagree with er , my colleague here .
Erm , I , it 's not the shooting is , most certainly , as long as it 's with a a qualified marksman
Mm .
it 's most
Mhm .
definitely less cruel than hunting because the animal is chased and er , what it 's heart is doing while it 's being chased and it 's , really is the idea 's quite horrendous to me !
And actually , hunting doesn't kill all that many foxes , a a hunt probably erm , kills one an , at a meet if they 're lucky .
But hunting does maintain jobs , and countryside people often say .
Would anyone like
Mm .
to talk to , to to that ?
Yes ?
Well coming from a rural community
erm hunting and shooting and fishing are very important to the
Yeah .
economy of the community and to have suburbia creeping in and trying to dictate to what has been the foundation of the of their economy , for many , many years is almost ridiculous !
Mhm .
Down there .
I think the idea of taking a fox and having it ripped apart legitimized by our society is a bad message to pass onto our children !
When children nowadays are becoming more responsible to our society , and they see us as one world we have a responsibility to protect ourselves and our world , and that includes the animals in it .
The seventy nine of you who voted for banning hunting , a are you all townees , do you not understand th the fabric of er , of the country ?
Do you have an alternative to offer that would er , that would sustain that fabric ?
Yes ?
I live in the country , I live in the heart of the country right next to a sheep farm , and there 's no co , no message at all from the farmer that foxes are a pest it 's a misnomer put about by the hunt .
Fox hunting was started , two hundred , three hundred years ago by the aristocracy because there wasn't enough deer , because the fo the forests were getting obliterated by the same pi , the same people , it was started as an entertainment , it 's an entertainment now !
And now the hunt are turning round and they 're lying about what they 're doing , they 're saying it 's pest control , they 're saying , we do it , it 's quick , it 's a sharp nip in the back of the neck .
It 's not !
The hunt encourages foxes into their land they actually build artificial earths , we saw one of Saturday when we were out protesting , the ar , they encourage foxes onto the land so they can hunt them .
A hunt is no good without foxes .
They don't want foxes
Alright .
to be depleted at any way , they encourage them !
So you actually go out and do something about
Yes .
your your your er your feelings ?
Wha what do you do as a protester ?
We actually , I'm actually er , in the Scottish Action Against Blood Sports
Aha .
and we do many things , we write to MP 's , we write to councils trying to get them banned off the land , and we 've been very successful .
We 've actually helped stop the oldest hunt in Scotland , in Li Lithgo in Stirlingshire , which ended last year .
We were very successful then and we 've now progressed .
We go out every single Saturday , weekdays if we can , and we try and stop the stop the fo , hounds killing the foxes
So
peacefully .
so so you 're proud of having stopped the oldest hunt in , in Scotland ?
Very !
Right .
I 'd like to disagree with that .
Ah .
I'm an ex-master 's wife from Lithgo in Stirlingshire hunt , and we had to stop because erm the country was disappearing underneath us .
We had a new
Mm .
town built in our country with two motorways , and the towns have all expanded to great extent and that was why we had to give up , it was nothing to do with our friends the saboteurs .
It was creeping suburbia then , it wasn't
Creeping suburbia .
So wha
Yes .
what do you do now with the , what do the old the old hunt 's people do ?
Well we 've , we just have to er , grin and bear it .
There is nowhere else to go for us .
Yes .
I would like to ask the saboteurs how they can justify the fact that they ill-treat hounds and horses ?
Now I
personally have had a horse actually had things thrown at it by saboteurs !
I feel this is cruelty to horses .
Yes .
That 's , that 's just absolutely rubbish !
I mean we don't
Well you
can't , you can't
like er , you can't say that she might have something thrown at her horse cos maybe you were n't there and maybe
Generally speaking
Mm .
erm , I mean people who spend their entire Saturday doing something that they , I mean , I don't enjoy going out every Saturday !
I mean , I 'd like to do the things that , my hobbies , but I go out there because I care and I see that I feel that it 's necessary to , to actually stop these people tormenting an animal for fun and if I'm that concerned about animals , I'm not gonna stoop to to hurt a horse , or or the hounds !
I mean I ride myself , I have dogs myself , I mean , it 's just another excuse from the hunting fraternity , turn it round , blame the cruelty on the saboteurs when really there wouldn't be any saboteurs if there were n't people to kill foxes purely for fun !
Do you want to come back on that ?
Yes .
Erm we ha , we have had horses and hounds and damaged but apart from that I would ask the speaker who i , what
Mm .
or who is the fox 's predator ?
After all , the mouse has a cat , so what is the fox 's predator ?
Do you know much about fox ecology ?
Yes .
Mm mm .
Have you ever , ever looked into
I'm willing , I'm willing to listen to you !
well the , I think these people who concern themselves very much about dictating the do 's and don't of fox hunting , if they were to spend a little more time about looking into the research of , how foxes actually live .
Three hundred thousand foxes are killed annually in this country , either through hunting , which only attributes to a small two point percent , shooting , gassing , snaring , all of which happen during the hunting season as well .
So I mean , these foxes are still widespread and abundant , they can sustain seventy percent losses , so what human intervention are you doing ?
I mean ha how can you say that killing fifteen thousand foxes a year is helping to control foxes ?
Up there .
I hunt regularly
Mhm .
because I breed racehorses , I also am a farmer so I wear two hats , but I 've actually seen foxes sit down we move the hounds move in , si sit down and scratch in the middle of a field , and then they think ah !
Right we 're off !
But , in fact from a farmer 's point of view they are a su a nuisance , we have a man who co , who supposedly raises pheasants , he traps them , he also trapped my dog and this is him ah , justified , his justification was there were too many foxes .
Erm .
and so therefore , we don't particularly pretend that they are
Mm .
that hunting justifies the the end of killing foxes but it does preserve country life .
We 're going to have to close , alas , because it 's been very interesting , and er er er a very diverse , ninety six people think animals should have a better deal , seventy seven think that the use of animals in research is justified at ti , from time to time , and well over seventy
Except .
think that hunting should be banned .
And , my final question to you , just out of curiosity is , are you ve , a vegetarian ?
Button one for yes , button two for no .
I could of said do you eat animals , but I decided that would be insensitive , to those of you who
are vegetarians .
So , in this , very animal loving assembly , I think er , you would agree er , only twenty one are vegetarians and seventy nine people love animals but they also enjoy chewing on them from time to time .
Wo would er any of you animal eaters like to say something about that position ?
Yes ?
Yes , I would
As , as an S S P C A representative .
and and also as a farmer , if I
Mhm .
might say , I'm a beef farmer , erm I enjoy my , my beef very much , my philosophy is that erm , if we 're going to use animals we 're going to eat the , their time here should be as humane , they should have as humane treatment as possible , and they should be free from fear , hunger and pain , and when the time comes for them to go they should know as little about it as possible .
Yes , but they never do !
You might say that about the human animal really , might n't you ?
Yes
Thank you all very much for a civilized and interesting discussion .
Thank you for joining us .
Goodbye .

Of course .
Of course .
It wouldn't be the same place if I wasn't .
It wouldn't be the same place if I wasn't .
.
I never should have .
What 's this ?
Oh she 's .
. Give me strength .
er it was my stomach .
Mhm .
I think I must have picked up a virus .
Sure did .
Cos I was passing it so she gave me a couple of tablets .
She er gave me some .
Mm .
Yeah .
Still a bit of diarrhoea in the mornings .
Still a bit loose in the morning are you ?
Aye .
Still loose in the mornings .
That 's the worst I 've ever had mind .
the older you get th y you imagine it 's worse .
You know ?
Once it 's past twenty one .
Aye .
Well you maybe think it 's worse .
in the morning but then after the diarrhoea stopped it was a kind of sickness you know ?
You you 'd bru you 'd got nothing left there to do anything else with cos you 'd
That 's right .
And you were
That 's right .
feeling as it were ready to come up the way you were swallowing it you could feel it .
Oh it 's .
The wife come in she stays up around the corner and keeps an eye on the on a Saturday .
on a Sunday though .
I 've made a soup .
.
She says I don't know .
. So when Bobby says , are you gonna give me , are you gonna give
Aha .
Aye .
.I tell her and she says , well look , get another line from your doctor .
Er I phoned her at work at the tribunal .
Aha .
I phoned her and I says to her I says , .
She said , well look , go back to your doctor she says .
don't quote me , she says .
Mm .
I said , if you 'd have said what you should have said at the bloody tribunal .
One of these capsules after your breakfast in the morning
Mm .
and after your cup of tea at five o'clock .
Right .
settle .
Will it ?
Settle the .
a cup of coffee that I'm ready to get on .
That 's right .
First thing
Yes .
make a cup of coffee in the morning you know .
Aye .
Well that 's why you 're to take that as soon as you get , as soon as you start morning .
this morning what I 'd done this morning was just dancing about cos I , I had to go to the toilet I could n't wait
and I was dancing about and I said , I'm not gonna make it .
with that cup of coffee and , oh yes you are .
Oh
She 's a bad woman .
She 's a bad woman .
She is .
I was purple .
That 's terr oh that 's terrible .
Oh that 's hard .
And that 's .
Aye .
Mm .
Right Alec .
Cheerio then .
Cheerio now .

Hello Chris
We play games on it though .
No
Has anyone got a ?
I don't think it 's , I mean
Good communication though .
Mm .
Try A two see if A two 's on it .
Yeah absolutely nothing at all .
what sort of resistance on that lot ?
Christina go to your lecture tomorrow
Say again ?
ten o'clock drive down to North Shields with all speed .
What 's this ?
All speed
Then you don't need to miss your lecture .
Oh no , right .
Shame , bad luck Chris .
Can you drive over with either Christina or Edward ?
Yeah
Where was that man that wanted
Is he willing to pay for them ?
Oh yeah whooo !
Hurray !
Oh well done Lily .
Oh I just wanted to ask you how to work the machine but it 's done now .
Oh right .
Good .
Oceans and climate , it 's not currents it 's oceans and climate .
Who ?
We 're missing out currents .
I might have to steal some more paper later on
Mm !
but I 'll give it you back .
Can I switch the lights on ?
Yeah .
The highly productive waters off once supported one of the most bountiful fisheries in the world but in nineteen eighty three the which produced the fish failed and the fishery crashed .
Deprived of the which they the marine iguanas of the Galapagos starved to death .
Arid equatorial islands were transformed by rainfall but their sea bird populations disappeared .
had returned
The climatic perturbations known as alminio seemed to occur every two to ten years .
The nineteen eighty two to three event was one of the most severe on record and its affects were felt around the world .
Large parts of Africa , India and Australia were ravished by drought while the west coast of the Americas was lashed by storms and torrential rain .
The nineteen eighty two to three event was also the most comprehensibly observed so far .
The changing patterns of sea surface temperature were recorded by satellite mounted sensors and they showed a region of unusually warm water travelling across the Pacific .
But why did this happen ?
At the time a number of instrumented buoys were moored along the equator and were sending back information about the wind and sea conditions .
In addition , large numbers of drifter buoys were launched into the ocean off Peru and for several months they were tracked via the Argos satellite as they drifted with the surface currents .
You can see the paths of the drifter buoys looking like comet tails thin arrows centred on the equator show wind direction while the thicker arrows show current direction .
Watch the buoy drifting westwards just north of the equator , as it approaches one of the moorings it suddenly changes direction with the current .
Normally we 'd expect these buoys to move west in the south equatorial current under the influence of the south easterly trade winds but during alminio winds become weak and westerly and buoys putting off the coast of Peru seemed to wander about aimlessly .
Other buoys previously moving westwards now changed direction .
So it seems that the weakening of the trade winds allowed more surface water normally piled up in the western Pacific to flow back eastwards across the ocean .
But it 's not as simple as that .
Sea surface temperature affects processes in the atmosphere ocean and atmosphere form one system .
Our work proceeds by trying to model this ocean atmosphere system and initially we made these models to develop an understanding but it turned out that the models worked pretty well to make predictions .
Now in order to make a prediction of what say what 's going to happen this year I would have to know the state of the system of the ocean and the atmosphere on January first and in order to do that in an ideal world I would have a tremendous amount of data about the ocean and about the atmosphere and be able to put it into this model but this data , by and large , doesn't exist .
What we do have are some relatively scanty observations of the surface movements over the tropical Pacific based on volunteer observers on merchant ships .
We need the winds everywhere and we rely on people in Florida state to take these very sparse observations and turn them into a map which covers the whole surface of the tropical Pacific .
We then take those kind of and use it in an ocean to create the state of the ocean .
Now we have the ocean and the atmosphere and we can go and we go forward and , in a good year , if we 're lucky , the way the model evolves with the ocean driving the atmosphere and the atmosphere driving the ocean , mimics what happens in the real world and so we can make a prediction .
Predictions have value of course because these are things which affect climate and affect people 's lives , but also making a prediction is a way of trying to verify whether the understanding that we think we have about how the system works can actually be translated into equations which are put on a computer , and then when you let this go it in fact s does indeed do what the real world does .
With increasing success at modelling changes in the tropical oceans , oceanographers are now aiming to predict global changes in the world ocean circulation experiment , W O C E for short .
In this experiment we would be making measurements of the entire world ocean looking at essentially a snapshot view of the behaviour of the ocean during a five year period .
Crucial to these observations are satellites , satellites have the ability to make measurements at least of the surface layer of the ocean on a nearly daily basis .
Also the observations in all parts of the global ocean from ships , from moorings , from drifters on the surface of the ocean and floats in the interior of the ocean .
This data set , coupled with extensive satellite observations , will give us for the first time a essentially a snapshot view of the behaviour of the ocean .
Understanding how the global ocean works is important if we 're to forecast climatic change .
Pollution of our planet may already be warming the atmosphere and there 's rising concern about what will happen at the poles .
The polar regions of the ocean play a very crucial role in the global climate system .
It 's in these areas that the ocean heat is lost or vented to the atmosphere as this heat vent was carried into the ocean in the lower latitudes .
In polar regions , as the heat is lost to the atmosphere the surface water naturally gets denser and it sinks and it spreads at some level in the ocean into the rest of the world ocean .
Even under the equator if you go deep enough you 'll enter water masses that were formed in the polar regions .
This has an effect of cooling the deep waters of the world ocean and it also has an important climatic effect in removing excess C O two from the atmosphere .
The north Atlantic in particular is important in removing excess er carbon dioxide from the atmosphere .
Perhaps half of the carbon dioxide introduced to the atmosphere has been removed by the ocean , primarily occurring in the northern hemisphere in the production of north Atlantic deep water .
The southern hemisphere polar region may play a smaller role in carbon dioxide balance but it is primarily responsible for cooling the deep ocean .
Until the advent of satellites in the nineteen seventies we knew very little about the sea ice cover around Antarctica other than the northern fringes .
The satellites revealed a rather remarkable feature in the Antarctic sea ice in that there are persistent open water areas even in the middle of winter when the area should be frozen over , the atmosphere is cold enough to freeze the ocean and yet , in these areas , the ice does not form .
These are called poleniers There are two kinds of poleniers one occurs along the coastline of Antarctica and is essentially formed as the strong winds blowing off Antarctica just remove the ice exposing the ocean , and the ice forms in this now exposed ocean very rapidly and then it 's removed by the wind .
Within these coastal poleniers an enormous amount of sea ice could form and then is removed to the north dumping enormous amounts of salt into the shelf water making it very dense and setting up the stage for the deep sinking associated with Antarctic .
The ocean er poleniers were also revealed by the satellite images and these were even more remarkable and perhaps more unexpected .
In these areas the surface water is convected deep into the ocean and deep water then comes up to replace it .
Now the , the elongated convection cells which carry the heat of the deep ocean into the surface layer and prevent the formation of ice .
These are called sensible heat poleniers in that they 're maintained by the sensible heat of the ocean .
The most remarkable of the ocean or sensible heat occurred in the mid nineteen seventies , what 's referred to as the Widdell polenier An area of about three hundred thousand square kilometres was ice free for each winter for three consecutive years .
The amount of ocean heat that was lost to the atmosphere during the Widdell polenier events in the mid nineteen seventies was absolutely enormous .
We have temperature measurements before the polenier event and we have temperature measurements of the ocean after .
The ocean cooled by about one degree down to depths of three thousand metres , an enormous amount of heat was extracted from the ocean .
However , although the polenier event is associated with cooling of the ocean , it may not have had a very large impact on the carbon dioxide balance .
The speed of the overturning does not allow er an equilibrium to be reached between the ocean and the atmosphere C O two content , and this is probably true throughout the southern ocean .
It appears that the main extraction of excess C O two of the atmosphere is accomplished in the northern hemisphere , associated with the north Atlantic deep water .
And then the southern ocean 's primary role in a global climate system is to very significantly cool the ocean .
So how fast do the deep water masses carry heat and carbon dioxide through the oceans ?
Fall out from nuclear explosions has provided useful for water masses especially as the radio active nucleons are effectively time coded .
Another group of artificial substances which can be used to track water masses are the fluoro fluorocarbons , C F Cs or freons for short .
Water collected from the deep ocean contains gases dissolved in it when it was last at the surface and the relative proportion of these gases depends on their solubilities and their concentrations in the atmosphere .
Denise has used a ratio of two C F Cs , freon eleven and freon twelve , to work out where water several kilometres deep in the ocean was last at the surface .
The concentrations of freon eleven and freon twelve dissolved in surface waters have both increased dramatically since nineteen fifty but not by the same amount and so measuring their ratio in a sea water sample will tell us how old the water is .
This equipment can measure freon concentrations down to just a few parts per trillion .
Bubbling inert gas through the sample removes the freons which are condensed in a cooled coil .
When all the C F C gas has been collected the cooling flask around this coil is replaced with one containing boiling water .
The volatile freons quickly evaporate and are analyzed by a gas chromatograph .
These twin peaks on the chromatograph are directly in proportion to the amount of freon eleven and freon twelve in the water sample .
If we analyze lots of water samples taken at different depths at the same we can then plot a graph of concentration versus depth and get a profile that looks something like this .
This profile is for samples that I just north of South Georgia in the south Atlantic in nineteen eighty six .
The red line represents freon eleven and the green line freon twelve .
There are high concentrations in the top fifteen inches , but when we get below the next layer , the concentrations become very much less and the ratio of the two concentrations doesn't change very much .
As we go deeper , there is a slight variation at three thousand metres which we know corresponds to Antarctic intermediate water .
As we go even deeper to five thousand metres the concentrations begin to right again and the ratio begins to change .
If we now look at the curve which shows the freon ratios in surface water and look for a ratio of two , and lining this up with the nought degree curve because we 're working with Antarctic water which of course is very cold , we can see that a ratio of two corresponds to the year nineteen fifty nine .
These samples were collected in nineteen eighty six so we can calculate that the water is seventeen years old .
Now we know that Antarctic bottom water is formed here in the Webber Sea and the samples that I 've been talking about were taken here in the South Georgia basin , so we can see that it has taken seventeen years for the water to travel from here to here .
It 's not just water sinking into the deep ocean that carries information about conditions on the surface .
The tiny alga cochilicus amenianarxia multiplies in the spring forming enormous milky blues .
On death their placed as aggregate and rain down onto the sea floor where they dissolve if the water is deep enough .
But scientists at the university of Bristol have discovered that , even where sediments contain no skeletal remains , two rather special organic are being preserved molecular fossils if you like .
They 're very similar except that one has an extra double bond .
How we stumbled on this was that when we grew some of these algae at Plymouth with our colleagues there , we found that when we grew them at one temperature then these two molecules were present in a certain ratio but when we changed the water temperature then the er ratio changed .
So we , we then wondered could this actually be a sort of thermometer for the water temperature ?
And we were absolutely amazed when , in going round the ocean floors , we found that indeed these molecules in the sediments showed a , a relationship to the surface temperatures above them at the present day .
And what we 've done now , and with colleagues from Germany , is to take cores off north west Africa , say about twenty metres down into the sediment , we sample them in the lab here and took the small amounts of sediment and examined them for these long chain compounds and we were extremely excited to see that as we went down this core , back through the last few hundred thousand years , we could see our signal on sea surface temperature oscillating about roughly in the same way that er has been found with other methods of getting at the past history of the climate .
For example , where the last ice age was taking place in Europe , then you can see the signal of the lower temperatures in the oceans off north west Africa in the form of this sediment signal .
Well so much for the sea surface temperatures of the past , but we 've been looking at our records of the compounds in the sediments even more carefully and what we 've seen in there are molecular fingerprints which do not match those of the marine organisms .
So where are they coming from ?
Well we 've fortunately been able to track them down to the waxes which er occur on land so what we 're seeing here is a , an input from the land carried on the dusts which are blown in the winds from the Sahara and other regions out into the Atlantic Ocean .
So this indeed looks a very exciting new development for us .
But anyway , the whole problem we face now is how to do more samples because we 're only looking at intercourse in the cores of , say , a thousand or two thousand year spacing , we 've got to get down to a few hundred year spacing to really see some of the changes in climate that we know have gone on .
How are we gonna do this ?
Well the only way we can see is to turn to the , to the physicists and the computer experts and to remove the chemical steps from our analytical scheme and use the speed and precision of the newer types of maschotrometer We already use auto-samplers for gas chromatography but now we need to bypass chemical steps .
One device we are testing is an advanced maschotrometer system with three small maschotrometers coupled together in a series .
This device should give us a single analysis in about five minutes rather than ninety as at present as we don't need to separate the mixtures , we can do the analysis directly .
Really detailed molecular records at a spacing of a hundred years or less will be necessary to predict the climate change in the future and we 'll really need that information if we 're going to live safely on this planet .
Now geologists have a maxim that the present is the key to the past but what we need to do is to use the past to predict the future .
In the tropical oceans reef building corals have been responding to climatic changes for hundreds of years .
They act as living tape recorders of the past .
When we five and a half years of life of the coral from Isabella Island in the Galapagos the remarkable thing about this coral record is that it represents nearly three hundred and eighty years of continuous coral growth .
Now corals grow under the sea but we didn't collect this particular specimen there .
This specimen came from a reef that was uplifted virtually overnight in nineteen fifty four during volcanic eruption .
This photograph taken several years before the uplift shows the dark oceans to the left and the grey volcanic land to the right .
The has a small beach .
This photograph , taken several years after the uplift , shows the beach now one kilometre from the present day shore line .
This uplift brought with it many large colonies of corals one of which , this massive colony of , we sampled and brought back to the lab .
So what can we learn about the oceans from this coral slab ?
If we look at them carefully we see a faint band in it but we can't count the bands this way , we can see them much better with X- rays .
We placed the coral slabs on film , illuminated with them with X-rays and when we develop the film you see band patterns like this .
The alternating light and dark bands form as coral growth responds to seasonal changes in the water temperature and cloud cover .
Each band here represents one year we can age the , the coral by counting its bands just as trees can be banded by counting .
We know very precisely the age at the top of the coral when it was uplifted and died and what we 've done is counted these bands back through hundreds of years , back to the time when the coral first started growing and that was in the year fifteen eighty three .
Now in the bottom part of this coral , the bands are quite widely spaced and are very regular .
Now corals are very sensitive to changes in water temperature and these regular bands tell us that the water temperatures didn't change very much .
Now if we look forward through time we see regular bands like this occurring through the mid sixteen hundred to sixteen forty , on up into sixteen sixty sixteen eighty still broad regular bands , conditions very conducive to coral growth , and in the early seventeen hundreds on up into the mid seventeen hundreds one can see a remarkable change in the character of the growth bands .
If you look carefully at this level you 'll see two dark bands and in between the growth .
At this point the coral was extremely stressed , in fact large parts of this colony died at that time .
This tells us water temperatures were changing and we believe this represents a major almenial event which occurred in the year seventeen forty seven .
Well so far we 've just been looking at the record of growth bands in this coral skeleton , but we can acquire a great deal of additional information by sampling the skeleton , and we sample the skeleton using a small drill and we can analyze the , the powders that we collect for the stabilized of oxygen .
The oxygen isotonic ratios of the coral tell us the water temperature at the time the coral was growing .
Now remember this coral is from the western side of Isabella Island and at this location water temperatures are primarily controlled by the of cold , deep water as the trade winds blow from east to west across the islands .
If you look at the oxygen results and plot them against the year of coral growth we see cooler water temperatures and hence stronger trade winds during the little ice age prior to nineteen hundred .
The coolest water temperatures occur near seventeen hundred and eighteen hundred A D which also correspond to periods of .
The period between eighteen sixty and nineteen hundred is especially important .
This was a time of very rapid warming at the end of a little ice age and if we can understand how the climate changed at this time , we 're much better able to predict future climatic perturbations as the earth warms up due to the addition of greenhouse gases .
A rise in sea surface temperature will lead to an increase in the frequency and severity of tropical hurricanes .
Parts of the world now outside the hurricane belt may soon experience their destructive power .
There will be more almenial events in the Pacific .
Climatic perturbations in general will become more frequent and more severe .
There will be more floods and more droughts .
All these inter-related events result from the powerful coupling between ocean and atmosphere which controls our climate .

Anybody been here before ?
No .
Okay , excellent , so you don't know what 's going to happen ?
No ?
Okay brilliant .
Well what do you think ARC stands for then ?
Have you been told this ?
No .
Say that again ?
Okay .
It 's archaeological 's the first word .
Well the second two
Resource centre .
resource centre okay .
Archaeological Resource Centre .
So what do archaeologists actually do then ?
Any idea ?
Yes , .
Look for bones and things .
Pardon ?
Look for bones and that .
Look for bones , okay .
What else do we look for ?
Erm old things from the Romans .
Ro Rom Roman stuff , okay .
What kind of things do you think ?
We 've got we 've got bones is one good one .
Yeah ?
Bowls .
Bowls , potter pottery yeah .
pottery 's another one .
And what 's another one ?
Coins .
Coins maybe .
Fossils .
Fossils , that 's really palaeotology , that 's to do with dinosaurs and that kind of thing .
We 're involved with people , okay ?
?
Well china , pottery , bowls all the same kind of thing .
Buildings , brilliant .
Okay they 're the main three .
We 've got pottery , we 've got bones , we 've got buildings , okay .
So you might want to remember that when you get in there cos on the first exhibit you 're gonna t have to use that bit of information .
Okay .
Right what other things do you think we might dig up ?
They 're the main three .
We 've had coins as one .
What else ?
Think of some everyday things that you probably don't even think of .
Pardon ?
Okay maybe .
What else ?
.
Weapons .
Weapons possibly , depending on what period .
Clothes .
Clothes , brilliant .
Okay we find quite a few clothes bits of leather , shoes , stuff like that , okay .
That 's another exhibit that 's gonna be in there , you 'll be able to have a go at making a shoe .
Right .
Okay , we 've got these three kinds of building these materials , okay .
We 've got bones , we 've got pottery and we 've got building material .
Right what do you think happens to them once we 've found it ?
We 've dug it out the ground .
What 's the next thing that 's going to happen to it .
Yeah ?
Clean them .
Clean them , okay .
What with ?
Brush .
A brush and what else ?
Well w we 've got the we 've got the the object , we 've got a brush what kind of liquid thing ?
Are we gonna use bleach or what ?
water .
Water , okay .
Brush and water that 'll do .
Okay , right so we 've cleaned it , now what we gonna do ?
put it in .
Yeah we 're gonna have to dry it first , okay .
We 've got a wet wet object .
.
Right okay .
At the moment we 've got these piles of washed finds here .
We 've got building materials , shells , bones all sorts all mixed together .
What do you think we might do before we send it off ?
Sort them out okay .
And that 's what you 're gonna do as soon as you get in there , that 's your first activity .
You 're gonna be given
Toby because they 're late they 'll have to miss the video .
Oh .
Right well okay .
Cos the other group are here already , they 're here on time .
Right-oh .
So erm
We 'll the talk 's nearly finished anyway .
Okay .
Okay .
Right , sorry about that .
Right , okay , we 've sorted them out .
That 's what you 're gonna do , you 're gonna be given a pile full of bits of rubble , shells , all sorts , and you 've got to sort them out to different piles .
Okay ?
Right .
So what happens after we 've sorted them out ?
So we 've got a pile of bones , a pile of building material , lumps of wood , what do you think we might do to them next ?
Okay yeah , we might preserve them .
And then what ?
We 've got thi we 've got these this lump of bone okay , we don't know what it is , what we gonna do with it ?
Okay .
We might study it , but more likely ?
Do you think people who are digging all these bits up are going to know everything about all the things they 've dug up ?
Yes .
Well they might not because there are people I mean like me students who might not .
Okay so what what who do you think we could send them to to tell us what we want to know about them ?
Where could we send them ?
We could send them off to a university or something like that so the .
Okay ?
Right , so we do that , send it off .
And so we get this thing back erm and we find out it 's a sheep bone and it 's from about the age of the Vikings .
What can we tell from those two bits of information ?
It 's old .
It 's old , yeah .
Okay .
It 's an animal .
It 's from an animal .
It 's from an animal .
But more importantly we can tell the Vikings had sheep , okay ?
So I mean from a couple of bits of information we could tell they had sheep , they probably ate them , teeth marks on it , things like that .
Okay .
Right .
If you want to How many have we got here ?
If you get into threes I think .
How how many have we got altogether ?
I think there 's too many to do the actually er
Well if we get them into threes
Toby .
and then the rest can do
Yeah .
Right .
Welcome to the Archaeological Resource Centre .
Sorry about the delay , but the the school in front of you were nearly half an hour late .
Thank you very much for turning up on time .
Now so welcome to the ARC .
Now the ARC A R C .
What does that stand for ?
Who can tell me ?
Yeah ?
Archaeological Resource Centre .
Archaeological Resource Centre , yes , good .
Now I'm somebody now I'm gonna pretend I don't know anything about this .
I probably know what resource means and what centre means , what does archaeology mean ?
find things study them .
We find things that we study yes .
What sort of things ?
Where do you find these things ?
Underground , good , yes .
And how do we find them ?
Yeah ?
can dig down .
We can dig down to find them , yes , good .
Now some archaeologists dig down to find things , others study things that are above ground .
Things like this building .
Now you were standing over the road for five minutes unfortunately , but I hope during that time some of you used your eyes .
What sort of building was it before it became a museum ?
A church .
Yes , good .
Which part of the church are we in now ?
Which part of the church ?
What 's up here ?
Can anybody see ?
Yeah ?
The tower .
Yes , good .
We 're in the bottom of the tower so , what do you think that was ?
That 's right , yes .
That 's a door , you go through the door there , there 's a staircase that goes upstairs .
Now we can't let you go upstairs but later on you 'll see the room up above here and you can see where that goes to .
Yes good .
So the reason I asked that question is because I wanted to see if you were already thinking like an archaeologist .
Cos an archaeologist is somebody who looks for clues .
Like that clue .
Anything else that you noticed when you were on the other side of the road ?
Yes well the rest is all modern cos this used to be a church but then it was turned into a museum , it 's now a museum .
You can see some of the old things .
When you 're inside there if you look right at the far end you 'll see one of the old windows , a beautiful old window that 's five hundred years old .
So keep your eyes open when you 're going through .
Good .
So .
Now some of the archaeologists dig , some look at old buildings like this , but there 's lots of other jobs that archaeologists do .
So what we 've done we 've made a film just to show you all the different jobs that archaeologists do .
And some of you 'll be quite surprised at some of the things you 'll see .
Right so any more questions before we see the film ?
Good .
Now when the film 's over I 've got one or two more questions to ask you so I want you to watch very carefully and listen very carefully as we go through the film .
Well it 's good .
Right .
S so apart from digging and researching and looking at old buildings , what other jobs do archaeologists do ?
Yes ?
yes ?
Yes , good .
They do .
Er they put the pieces back to where they used to be .
You saw in fact the lady as you came in about the same time as you came in who does that .
Put the pieces back to make the pots .
Yes because we very rarely find a whole pot .
Usually what 's happened is somebody 's been doing the cooking , dropped the pot on the floor , and all the pieces have been thrown away .
And one of the jobs we 're gonna give you to do we 're gonna give you one little piece of a pot and a picture and you have to try and work out which pot that the little pieces came from .
Yes good , that 's one thing we do , put the pieces back together again .
Yeah ?
Yes , good .
They look at them through microscopes just to find out what they 're made of .
Yeah ?
Yes , take pictures and draw sketches .
Yes good , cos everything that we do has to be very careful recorded and taking the photographs and doing the the drawings and sketches that 's one of the ways of recording .
How else do we record ?
Now there was a lady who was working in the site and she was doing this with her hand .
What was she doing ?
Yes ?
Yes , good .
She had a computer actually on the it was on the side of a surveying instrument , so she was probably working out how far down she 'd actually dug by looking through the sights and reading the numbers and then she was entering up the numbers on the computer .
Yes , good .
Now also on the site working there was a man kneeling down like this , and he had a black beard , don't haven't got the question yet .
And a trowel and he was trowelling away .
What did he have on his head ?
Yes ?
He had a helmet called a hard hat .
Does anybody know why ?
Yes ?
Cos something might fall on his head , yes , and he 's also he 's working on a building site and that 's the normal regulations .
Safety rule regulations have to have a hat on your head .
Now as he was digging he was finding things .
What was he doing with the things that he was finding ?
Yes , good .
Well it wasn't actually a box .
Did anybody notice what was it ?
It was a ?
No .
Somebody else was doing the washing .
What he was putting them in a ?
It wasn't a bucket .
It was a tray , a black plastic garden seed tray that we call a finds tray , and all then things he was finding he was putting them in there .
Now at the end of the day the finds trays come here and all the finds are washed and dried , and there 's somebody called a finds assistant .
A find assistant 's job is to sort them out into different types of materials .
That 's gonna be your first job here today as archaeologists .
Right we 're going to give you a tray and ask you to sort the finds out .
They 're all things that have been found in York .
Right , are there any questions before we start ?
Yeah ?
Yes , good .
A R C is superimposed into the film .
Yes , good , fine .
Any other questions ?
Now when you go through most of the things that you will see you can touch , but there are things up on the shelves at the sides and we put them there for special reasons , usually cos they 're very heavy or cos they might break easily .
Now if you want to see something that 's up on a shelf at the side , ask one of the helpers wearing a red jersey and they 'll take it down for you and show it to you .
If you get stuck , anything you don't understand , anything you want to know , ask somebody with a red jersey and if they know the answer they 'll tell you .
Right , if they don't they won't .
Now upstairs there are people working , so when you get to the far end we ask you don't go straight upstairs , if you can wait please and we 'll we 'll we 'll all you 'll all go up in the room together , .
Right so how many have we got altogether ?
Thirty one .
Thirty one .
Okay .
But we 're in er groups of five .
So for the first activity you 'll need to be in twos or threes .
So what I'm gonna ask you to do in a minute is to line up in threes .
So if I can just come through here .
I think there might be a parcel for you at the door is it ?
For me ?
It 's from .
Yeah that 's it .
That 's right .
Okay step back .
Yeah .
Right I 'll tell you in a minute .
Right .
Sh .
Right .
Now if you look in front of you you 'll all see little a green tray with lots of objects .
a lot of the people that work here are archaeologists and for the day we want you lot to pretend that you 're archaeologists as well .
Right , can you do that ?
Right now the first job that we want you to do is to help us to sort out some of the things .
Now sometimes when archaeologists carry out the work they have to get in and out of a site really quickly .
Now all they have time to do when they 're working on the site is to put them in the trays and wash them .
So you can see that none of these have got any mud on them or anything like that .
Now if you all want to pick one object from the tray .
Right .
Now tell me what what you 've got one at a time , starting at this end .
Yeah ?
Bone .
Yeah ?
No not stone .
We call that we classify that under building material .
Bone , yeah ?
Yeah ?
Bone , yeah that 's right .
Do you what that is ?
Bone , that 's right .
Shell , that 's right .
Pottery , yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Bone yeah .
Bone .
Pottery , that one .
Yeah .
Bone .
Building materials .
Bone .
Bone .
Yeah .
Yeah , well done .
That 's right .
Right .
Now quite a lot of you picked a piece of bone didn't you .
Right .
picked pottery , some of you got building material , this lad here and someone round there , right , and a couple of you picked a piece of shell .
Now they 're the four things that you 'll find in your tray .
So do you want to take e each object out one at a time and then put it on the table in the categories so you 've got one pile of bones .
No that 's a piece of tooth .
Yeah that 's right .
Right now listen .
Stop what you 're doing a minute .
Right .
Now if you look in your tray you 'll see a label with a number on .
Right ?
Now it 's quite important this label , and I want you to copy down this number onto one of these labels , one for each category .
Now before you do that , don't do it yet .
I want I'm gonna explain what this number is , right .
Now if you look at the first four figures there , does anybody want to have a guess at what those first four figures mean ?
Yeah ?
When they found them .
That 's right , that 's the year the excavation took place .
Now does anyone have want to have a guess what the next number might mean ?
Now it 's nothing to do with the day or the time or the months or the week or anything like that .
Yeah ?
No .
No .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
No .
No .
No .
No .
No .
Right .
Yeah .
No .
Yeah .
No .
Right well I 'll tell you .
I 've got I 've got one .
Yeah ?
No .
I 've been having some quite intelligent guesses but no one 's hit the nail on the head .
This is the number of the site .
cos each site has a number and could you have a guess at how many excavations ?
Yes ?
More than seven .
This one 's number seven and this one was in nineteen eighty eight .
Ten .
More than that .
More than that .
a guess ?
More than nineteen .
Yeah .
More than er twenty two .
Yeah ?
No not that many .
Yeah ?
Higher .
Yeah ?
Yeah ?
That 's right .
Not far off a hundred sixty .
Well done .
Right .
Now what about the number in this box then ?
The first number there of the two .
Now the last number is the number of the site , any ideas what number that might be ?
Right something that nobody 's said yet , so I 'll give you a bit of a clue .
When you when archaeologists carry out the dig they don't dig up the whole site .
Now what do they do ?
Yeah ?
Er do they put them into boxes ?
Not not quite .
Do they have a special kind of ring round
Well I don't think anyone 's gonna get this so I 'll tell you .
When you dig when you carry out the digging on the a site you dig trenches .
Right ?
So they dig a trench right down and this is the number of the trench .
Then the last number , which someone said earlier , is the number of the layer in the ground .
Right .
So do you want to copy this number down onto one label for each category and then put them into a bag and then But before Now wait a minute , wait a minute .
Now before before you put them into the bag I will check them , right ?
Yeah just out all those numbers on there .
Right .
So that 's a fish 's backbone a vertebra , so that would go in there .
What 's that ?
Excuse me is this your group here or
No , no I'm
There is a nearer one to you there .
This is for real , this is a bit of real archaeology .
they really do get used .
It 's from a stone age and it 's between four and five thousand years old .
Guess what it is .
It 's not a rock .
Well it was it is rock but it it was something else , it was a bone .
No a f a fossil is something that 's been turned to stone in the ground .
You 're thinking of a fossil as being an ammonite a curly one , yeah .
But that 's a a fossil is anything that 's turned to stone .
That 's three quarters of a million years old .
And the animal it was from would have stood about the height of that balcony .
Well you find them in Africa and India these days .
No .
An elephant .
That 's from a prehistoric elephant .
They were colossal animals .
The mammoth you mean ?
Yeah .
No that 's a warm .
A mammoth was a cold climate .
That 's from a warm climate .
Mammoths were around till fairly recently
That 's right .
It comes from real bees .
You know when they make honey ?
They make a honeycomb out of wax ?
Do you see that ?
Well when we take the honey away and we get the wax left over we can make it into lumps .
and if you 'd just like to try try it on .
at one end put the thumb down put it on the wax and put the thumb over the top and pull pull it along .
Like that .
Well done , that 's right .
So you 're catching the right amount of wax onto the outside of the thread .
isn't that good ?
And then in the air it stiffens very slightly as it cools down , but I think on a nice warm day like this is might be .
So you 've you 've got a slightly stiffer end which gum gums it together , so it doesn't .
now you do some lacing .
Can you see them ?
Do you think you can follow those ?
Mm I think if you try and do it here , so you make it into a shoe shape , you curl it all up into a shoe shape , where do you think it 's going to go ?
There , it is , that 's right .
Ah .
It 's a sort of That 's right push it through the hole and catch it at the other side .
That 's right , yeah .
You 've got it .
Aha .
And you can just pull it so that it flattens .
That 's right yes .
And then you have to pull it pull it tight .
Aha .
Nearly right .
And then if you pull it together it 'll pull together .
Follow me all the way round and we have Emma here who is erm who Just keep on flooding round everybody and have a tray each .
Erm So everybody just come round to here .
.
Yeah .
Okay .
Now we will run out of trays so if the people who haven't got a tray would like to go on .
If I could just introduce for you , this is Emma who is a erm experienced archaeologist who 's with us on a three-month placement , and she will take people through this .
If there 's anybody who can't fit in here , there are one or two places round here , we you can er flood onto these activities here to start off and then swap round back again .
So over to you Emma .
Has everybody got er a tray or sight of a tray ?
Right .
Okay Well and you 've seen the video so you 'll be aware of the sort of things that we do here .
And this is an introduction to look really you 'll experience of the work of archaeologists .
And it 's these finds in the trays are actually real archaeological finds from real sites in York .
And they 're what we call bulk finds .
Er they 're the sort of things that if you were if you were digging on a site you 'd find these every day , you 'd find an awful lots of them , er and they 're really what the people of the time think of as rubbish .
You know broken pot , throw it away .
They 're but we do .
So in these trays you 've actually got erm quite a variety of of material .
You 've got pottery , you 've got building material such as tile lumps of plaster around somewhere as well , erm shell , bone , all sorts of things , okay .
So what actually happens , these are taken off-site and they 're washed but they 're not sorted .
And this is the first job that we have to do really , is to sort them out into their different categories .
So you can just sort of take them out and put them on your desk , all the bone erm all the pottery .
I 'll just tell you about this Can I just tell you about this just for a minute ?
Cos this is quite this is quite important , okay .
Right .
If you just pick up a sherd of pottery , okay , that really by itself can't tell you an awful lot .
I mean we can say what it 's made of and we might be able to make a guess at how old it is .
But if you don't know where it 's come from it really isn't as much use .
That 's where these labels come in , okay .
Now these actually each each tray should have one and they actually tell you where the stuff comes from .
So here the first number , in this case nineteen eighty nine , is the date that the site was dug .
Okay .
The next number is the site code .
in this case it 's number four .
Erm all the all the sites are are given a code what that that one actually is .
Now this next number in the box is the layer number .
Okay , so we know exactly where these things come from .
So then you we can tighten in on the site to not only a place actually on the site but how far down they came from as well .
When y when you 're dealing with seventeen feet of strata as in York , you n you need to know where it 's come from .
Okay .
So I 'll tell you I 'll tell you what to do with those in a minute but if y at the moment if you 'd just like to have a go at sorting it out .
If you 've got any questions please ask me , I 'll try and answer them .
When you 've finished sorting them into their piles , the next job is to put each pile into a separate bag , so that you would put all your bones into one bag , all your pottery into another .
So these are now ready to go off to the specialists , okay .
So what you have to do then
Sh .
Sh .
Sh .
Hang on .
Sh .
Sh .
Sh .
Sh .
Hush .
Right .
Okay can you all I'm sorry I was talking to the study group .
Did you all get the bit the bit about ?
No .
No No .
No ?
Alright okay .
Erm when you 've finished sorting them out into their little piles , if you 'd like to then put each little each pile into a separate bag , so all your bones would go into one pile er one bag , erm all your pottery into another bag , and then this is where the label comes in .
This is wh this is where the label is important .
Because for each bag could you
Can we take them home then with us ?
write a copy
don't think so .
of the label , okay so that we can actually and put it actually in the bag , so that when these things go off as they would do to their to the the various specialists who actually know more about pottery know more about bones and can do a more detailed analysis , still know where they 're from .
Okay ?
You 're gonna trust me to do this ?
.
Now now if I can say a little bit about the building to you .
The er buil the building is erm the oldest fabric here is the tower , erm which from the er window the style of the tracery is clearly fifteenth century in origin .
And also the main east window is also fifteenth century .
Now much of the rest of the stone of the building also dates from the medieval period but in fact in the nineteenth century the building er was very popular as a church and the vicar at the time decided that what he needed was more space and so they knocked down virtually the whole building apart from the tower and the east erm erm window and rebuilt it to put in the er gallery at the level that we 're standing here .
So and you can see this quite clearly if you look at the arches .
You see that arch there ?
That is an is an original height of the arch cos that arch is keyed into the main arch of the tower .
But if you look at the next one you see the arches er all the the other arches are have been raised about er a metre , and that was done deliberately to get the extra height on the outside wall so that they could put erm a er er higher roof in for the the knave and for the the aisle so that they could ge make it a bigger space .
So as a result of that because it 's been erm changed in the nineteenth century the eighteen forties and eighteen fifties , architectural historians who we who were faced with a real problem with York cos York had something like fifty medieval churches and erm er about thirty of them surviving into into the twentieth century , erm and they had to make some decisions about which ones to preserve and which ones to let go .
And this building was one that was allowed to deteriorate because of all this Victorian change .
But for us as archaeologists it 's a er it 's wonderful because it shows change and that 's what archaeology is all about , the the influence of humans on place or landscape or or whatever it may be wherever you are .
So it 's a particularly wonderful thing for us .
And now that we 've started to look after the building we 've actually discovered some very exciting and interesting small clues about the building .
If you look up there for example , can you see the row of heads supporting the beams ,
Yeah .
there and on the other side ?
Well they 're they 're those those are from the the style the art style of the heads they are very highly dateable .
They 're quite clearly twelfth century in date , they 're Norman like er er William William the Conqueror , that sort of kind of period .
Twelfth century eleventh twelfth century date .
And that 's a table that would originally have been placed outside , and those heads are basically designed to scare away evil spirits .
But what er what happened is when they rebuilt this building in the fifteenth century the masons found these and reused them reset them inside because they 'd lost their significance in over the three hundred years , so but they were useful structural er things .
So that shows su suggests that there 's twelfth century fabric in this building .
And there are other clues .
If you look very carefully at the stones you can see erm can you see that some of the stones have got diagonal markings all over them ?
Mm .
Okay ?
And if you if you compare those diagonal markings with the sorts of markings on on er some of these other stones , these these are a bit diagonal but if you look carefully they go there 're some going in that direction and some are going that direction .
The tooling on on stones changes through time as as masons change their techniques , and er this is fifteenth century tooling , but that is twelfth century tooling .
If you er you have to get up close to look at these features carefully , but it shows very clearly that there 's a lot of twelfth century stone incorporated in the building .
And that all if you put this together with the documents that we know , it suggests that there was a twelfth century church here which was demolished and then rebuilt in the fifteenth century .
And in fact there are even more subtle things than that you can find if you look carefully at Oh I might er I think that we might go out into the garden and I 'll show you one or two other features out there that are er even more er interesting and er er exciting .
But anyhow have you if you have a look here there 's erm er the er er I think we ought to be thinking about er
Yeah .
er moving on .
Do you think that is about right ?
Yeah .
Okay .
Yeah .
So if you 'd like to go down the stairs there there are some coats oh your coats and things and I will er go and come and join you and we 'll we 'll take off and look at the outside .
If I may ask you about the window ?
Oh sure .
rebuild er every fifty or a hundred years or whatever ?
N no I don't think so .
I think these these are fifteenth century .
I think they 're fifteenth century they they they they are they 're well cut and they 're well
The g the glass ?
Er the glass the glass itself is replacement .
Oh sorry , the glass itself is replacement .
There but there are some traces of fifteenth century glass up there .
Do you see the little coloured arrows in those ?
Those are fifteenth century glass .
That survives .
Glass will survive .
What happens is that although it does tend to decay it builds a crust on the outside that stops it eroding .
So you will be looking at er glass erm here and elsewhere that is really very ancient .
Not no not well you know just like ordinary glass .
I mean it 's it 's a fairly fairly imp er er permanent material .
You can get Roman glass for example Roman glass f erm pottery erm glass vessels erm which are incredibly thin , the the glass is as thin as light bulbs , and that survives erm two thousand years .
So we 're only asking for five hundred years .
Oh does it ?
Oh you do you work in it do you ?
Oh right .
Yeah .
Okay well I 'll well I 'll just get my coat and come with you .
huge number of people died in childbirth and in er as infants .
A lot of women dialled giving died giving birth
Childbirth ?
erm but there were er a small number of people who managed to make it to good old healthy seventies eighties .
But there is er not not many .
Right We 've a a man with a bicycle trying to get through so er I think if you if you
That 's alright .
come through on the grass that okay ?
Oh yeah that 's
Have we got everybody ?
I noticed there a young man what 's he called Richard is he ?
No , .
Patrick ?
No .
Robert ?
Mike ?
Michael .
Michael .
Mike .
Michael .
Michael .
He 's he 's not come yet so erm Perhaps while while we 're waiting for the others I 'll just say a few words about the building , because erm from out here you can see er quite clearly that the central portion of the building is the oldest erm from if you look at the state of the stonework .
Er particularly if you look just at the ordinary wall fronts the front wall the stones are very much more heavily eroded there than they are on this this the aisle here .
And er if you look also at the way that the stones fit together they 're ve they fit together very neatly on the aisle where by the small window whereas the central part of the church there 's much more mortar between the joints .
So those are very good indications for for later building .
But there is in fact a very interesting er story archaeological story which we can deduce from the outside of this building .
And I 'd like to erm try and get you all to see what you can tell by simply observing the building , and I 'd like to concentrate if we may on the central part of the building , because there are a number of changes that have been made to that building erm which tell a story .
And one of the things that archaeologists do all their time is try by looking at the evidence , whether it 's stuff that comes from the ground , landscapes or old buildings , to try and understand the changes that have happened through time , to see things that were there that have gone , and to to work out what
in the erm Victorian period the stone was far so far rotted they inserted some new stones there .
Yeah ?
Anything else , yeah ?
Little holes in That 's excellent .
Why do you think they 've got those little chips in them ?
To plaster over ?
Plaster over , brilliant .
Now that 's a very important clue that you 've spotted .
Brilliant .
Now what I want you to do No this is getting very exciting to me .
I'm ve I this is the first time it 's happened this way round that anybody 's got That 's the most subtle clue and somebody 's spotted it .
I think it 's wonderful .
So what I want you to do is to follow these little chips er dimples here , they 're on this stone there 're a few on that but not on here , so that bit it goes in that direction .
They 're on here , they 're on here , a few there , they 're up there , but they don't go any higher than that .
I 'd like you to look along and see if they go to that line and stop and they g you can see some over here .
See how far you can trace them along there .
See how far you can go .
See how far .
How far do they go ?
Come on , how far ?
Here , yeah and h how far along ?
Three .
Oh No .
How fa how far how far up do they go ?
What 's the highest you find them ?
Up to the window .
Okay , up to there .
So o so there was once a plastered surface across there , okay ?
Was it painted ?
Er it may have been but you can't we haven't got much evidence for that .
Er er well that that bit you 're go you 're jumping too fast .
Now what other changes are there ?
What other changes ?
Er er let 's erm Have a look at this here , look at this here .
Smoothness .
What ?
The smoothness .
Smoothness , yeah , yeah so that 's a new stone , there 's a very new stone .
That was we put that one in in about nineteen eighty six that one .
Erm but this this this doorway , does this doorway look as though it 's always been here ?
No .
Why not ?
Cos the stones are sm are are little there while
If you look at the w if you look around the windows you 'll always get a drip course .
This has not got a drip course , you know ?
You look even over there on that building there 's above the window there 's a drip course , by the doorway , is a drip course for the rain coming down dripping off .
Oh yeah !
This has not got a drip course .
Okay ?
And if you also look the most the the the clearest change that 's happened on the outside of this building , if you look at that window , if you if you follow the edge of the window the original window came all the way down to this point , and then across and up , and this has been all blocked up .
Okay ?
So and this doorway has been inserted that close to the corner of the window .
That 's you know any any architect 'll tell you that 's just wild , that 's just ridiculous , it 's very dangerous to put a doorway so close to the corner of a window .
You have much more maintenance .
So what we know is that this must have been blocked up before this doorway was inserted , okay ?
So what you have got here is an a blocked up window an inserted doorway and a plastered surface .
Now if you can put all those three pieces of evidence together what does that suggest to you ?
H er why would the people want to do that in a church ?
Plaster an outside of a wall with no so er with no drip course so this must have been an ?
This must have been an internal wall at one point .
There was a room out here ?
Exactly .
Exactly .
There was once a vestry built out here , and er this doorway was put in so that the vicar could get into the vestry to change his clothes .
And that building has gone .
It 's no longer here .
But by looking at the clues of the building we can see that it was there .
And that 's the sort of thing archaeologists are doing all the time .
That 's what we 're trying to do all You know that 's that 's that 's just our job , that 's how we 're we 're looking at buildings .
Now what is particularly interesting is if you take that and you try and date when these various things were done , and if I ask questions why was it done like this .
And it was done like this , this was done at a period when this church was changing from a Roman Catholic church The the window the original glass in this was a massive stained glass window of the crucifixion , and that had been put there in the fifteenth century by a Lord Mayor of York who was very wealthy and very religious and he wanted to show how wealthy and religious he was by pu er donating this window to the church .
But England ceased to become a Catholic er country and we had the Reformation and the emphasis changed from people looking at these spectacular coloured windows to learn about the Bible bec er and people started to read , literacy came in .
And the whole style in churches changed .
They started to put up big screens behind the altar blocking off some of the stained glass and writing on those big screens the Creed or the Lord 's Prayer in English , which was done in the seventeenth and eighteenth century .
And that was the time when this was all done .
So the archaeology of the building and the architectural history are reflecting big changes in what people were thinking , how people were erm what they believed their belief systems .
But erm and it 's all here for us to see , if you have the eyes and the detective and the persistence and the research to pick all these little details out .
And so that I hope that I hope you find that interesting .
But the plastered wall 's been inside ?
Yes , exactly .
This was a this was plastered so it 'd be be a ni nice inside wall for inside of the vestry .
And this this we see , it 's er quite interesting , this you notice this bit here is not plastered , and this has not got these dimples , so we think that what actually happened is when they first did this the the the the this bit of the window was blocked up with wood or wattle and daub or something like that , and so it was a a a and then when then when the vestry came down this these stones were put in here to block it up again .
So this is that 's why these don't have the dimples on them , whereas they should have done if they 'd You see so there 's al there 's incredibly subtle things that you can you can pick up .
Now I wanted to tell you a little bit too before we leave about one of the ARC publications that may be of interest to those of you who are self-propelled .
Erm we 've produced a little guide called the Time Traveller 's Guide to York , which consists of four archaeological walks of the city .
And erm each one begins here at the Archaeological Resource Centre and takes you through alleyways and back passages explains , where to go er with drawings text and explains it all .
One of the Romans city , so you can pick out some Roman traces , one of the erm the er er Viking city , one of what happened in the Norman period the eleventh century , time of William the Conqueror and the two castles and the big er erm abbeys he put up , and finally the medieval city .
And this you can purchase for two pounds ninety nine from here or lots of other shops .
I thought I 'd give you that opportunity cos it is a little ARC publication , it 's one that we er So so if you want it .
So I I 've got that with me but I 've what what what we 'll do now is we 'll start to erm make our way towards coffee , which I think might be welcome .
Er er am I right ?
you c you could n't be more right .
Okay , let 's er this way then .
Okay .

Good morning ladies and gentlemen .
Welcome to the fifty seventh day of this enquiry .
I hope , I imagine I should say perhaps , that this is the last day on which the County Council will be represented formally at the enquiry .
We turn now to land north of Skelton .
Mr .
Right .
Good morning ladies and gentlemen .
We 're dealing this morning with topic areas thirty nine and forty , and sites two and three .
Erm can I just begin by taking the appearances first please .
Sir , my name is George .
I'm here in an honourary capacity as advocate and expert witness on behalf of the Skelton Parish Council , the Skelton Village Trust ,
I don't think there 's any need to read all the other names , Mr .
It 's all
Erm
Is is it correctly set out on the day 's programme ?
It is indeed sir .
Good .
Er er s i it is set out on my proof , G W Fourteen .
I haven't checked the erm er wording of today 's programme , but I 've no reason to assume that any mistakes will have been made on that .
Erm
Mr I I have from you I think er six documents .
There is a summary , your proof , your appendices , there 's a letter dated the fourth of February from the Yorkshire Wildlife Trust , there is a special statement , and last , and only just received in the last few minutes , there is a supplementary note by Doctor on the Greater Crested Newt and its importance in relation to Skelton Pond .
Sir , you have enumerated all the documents which exist on our side , and with regard to the letters erm er of the fourth of February and the twentieth of April to which you have referred , they are part of the set of appendices , and are respectively appendix eight and appendix nine .
I I appreciate that point Mr , but as they arrived separately they 've been given different numbers er a as simply er a matter of administrative convenience .
Sir , before I open the case , er after you have taken the appearances , it is my intention with your permission to make a special statement having regard to an event in the past , and to then make submissions .
Thank you .
Thank you very much .
please .
Mr .
Sir yes , I represent the County Council with respect to these objections sir , and I shall be calling Mrs to give the evidence , and she will produce a proof and a bundle of appendices which consist of two plans .
Those are documents N Y Two Three Seven and N Y Two Three Eight .
Thank you very much .
And for the District Council , Mr .
Yes sir .
Sir , I 'll be calling Mr .
His proof is R D Eighty Two with er appendices R D Eighty Three .
Thank you very much .
Mr ?
Yes sir .
Sir , I'm instructed by Mrs .
I represent those who are enumerated on the second sheet .
Thank you for not
Yes , thank you very much .
That 's quite a long list I think .
Sir , you have before you I hope the proof of evidence and appendices from Mrs .
Yes .
Sir , with permission , the course I propose to adopt is as follows .
I propose to call her , but if in the event I judge it to be unnecessary then I shall invite because I don't want to add unnecessarily to the length of these proceedings .
Thank you very much indeed .
.Right , Mr then please .
Sir this is a special statement .
I was advised by the Greenbelt Local Plan Programme Officer , on fifth March , that counsel for North Yorkshire County Council , with the apparent concurrence of counsel for Ryedale District Council , had delivered an oral submission to the inspector , that at the hearing of the case which was to have taken place on the eleventh of March , certain evidence contained in my proof of evidence issued on twelfth February should be treated as inadmissible .
That submission was made at a time when I was sch not scheduled to be present at this enquiry , and was not present .
A prior indication of an intention to make a submission had not furthermore been communicated .
On hearing of the occurrence , I immediately requested through the programme officer a copy of the submission as delivered , but received in reply from the County Planning Officer of North Yorkshire County Council merely a statement that the County Council was requesting that an issue be not entertained by the inspector on the basis of the Council 's position as set out in paragraph eight point one of its proof of evidence .
Not being in possession of a verbatim record of the submission by the County , I have prepared twelve linked submissions in this matter , document G W Fourteen B , which seek to rebut with justification the point believed to have been made on behalf of the County and District Councils .
If after I have read my submissions the councils wish and are permitted to make any observations on it , I request the right to reply thereto before the matter is decided by you .
It is my intention to proceed to open the case proper , relating to areas D thirty nine and D forty , after the points raised in the court 's submissions have been resolved .
Er Mr , you have of course just been reading your special statement , erm document number five , and there is left the erm additional two pages which makes these er submissions .
I would imagine that the er parties on my left have had a chance to read and consider these erm statements already .
Er I I would think it very little advantage in actually reading all of this aloud now , unless you feel it is going to be some great advantage .
Sir , it has always been one of my principles that planning , for its acceptance , depends on public understanding .
There is present in this hall today a number of people who are concerned with the future of Skelton .
They have had no opportunity whatsoever to hear the nature of the point which is due to be considered by you in relation to these submissions , and I think that it would be in the interests of public understanding of this case were they enabled to hear .
Well Mr , of course the same argument could be put forward in er to justify reading all proofs of evidence in full , and er that would lengthen an already very long enquiry to er er erm a quite grotesque extent .
However , as this is a particular topic , and as er I'm going to be asking the councils er and the supporters if they wish to comment on er your submissions , perhaps to assist the public understanding of these replies , er there may be some advantage in you reading er at least a summary of these er points .
But I certainly don't want to take any other evidence in court other than this .
Pl please continue then and and er
Yes .
With regard to
we 'll we 'll deal with this relatively quickly .
Yes sir .
The as regards to the other evidence , you have my two-page summary , er and therefore there is no risk of erm any erm leng length of time being taken the rest of .
Changes in proposed greenbelt boundaries affecting a given area , and occurring at the consultative draft stage of local plans and or pre-map stage and the formal deposit of those plans , and or between the deposit copies and proposals subsequently issued by county and local planning authorities by way of desired changes to deposit copies , militate against , and may totally inhibit in relation to that area , emergence within the meaning of the national doctrine most recently propagated in paragraph er within erm paragraph thirty two of the revised version of P P G number One .
Proposals made by way of change to a deposit copy have a relatively stronger affect against emergence , owing to the lesser public consultation which attends them prior to the enquiry stage .
Two .
The existence of valid objections to the deposit copies and or to the proposals subsequently issued by county or local planning authorities by way of desired changes to deposit copies , also militates against the operation of the doctrine of emergence in relation to that area .
Three .
Impediments to emergence from more than one cause which exist at any one time in relation to the same area , are cumulative in the degree of their effects , up to a state of total inhibition of emergence prior to adoption of the plan concerned .
Four .
A change of greenbelt status , and changes to a proposed greenbelt boundary variously affecting the combined area known for the purposes of this enquiry as D thirty nine and D forty , north of Skelton Village , have been proposed in the deposit copies , and in the desire to change proposed by the county and local planning authorities , and sundry valid representations have been lodged relating to the exclusion of all or parts of the area of the greenbelt .
The essential feature of these representations is that they seek greenbelt status , and any question of the technical means by which this is sought to be achieved , such as by washing over , or exclusion from an inset area , is immaterial to the relevance of the representation of the end desired .
This is especially so as the local plan makes no reference whatever to the proposal to effectively change from a washed-over to an inset status , while the greenbelt local plan refers to that change only by the one word , quote proposed unquote , in parentheses on page twenty five of the deposit copy .
In the case of neither plan was attention drawn to this fundamental change in the plans accompanying the text , or at public consultation displays , and few members of the public have therefore been aware of the prevailing washed-over status of Skelton , and consequence consequently of the intended change to it .
Five .
The cumulative effect of the changes proposed and the objections made , is to negate the emergence at this time of any new greenbelt boundary affecting the area of Skelton .
Six .
Skelton Village and the area of D thirty nine and D forty form no part of the built area of York , but are separated from it by open country .
Seven .
Skelton Village and the area of D thirty nine and D forty are located well within the general extent of the statutory York greenbelt , as defined by Policy E Eight Four of the North Yorkshire County Structure Plan , approved by the Secretary of State for the Environment .
Eight .
No inset within the greenbelt is in existence for the area , which is at this time washed-over by the greenbelt .
The local planning authority refer to the washed-over status of the whole area from nineteen eighty one , in paragraph two point one point four of their proof .
Nine .
As a result of the village being within , and washed-over by , the greenbelt , no inset boundary exists in the vicinity .
It is in my opinion axiomatic that a boundary which does not exist is ipso facto incapable of being re-aligned , but can only with ju justification be created de novo .
Likewise , the physical suitability or otherwise of a boundary as which does not exist , can not arise .
Ten .
In accordance with the provisions of national policy as set out in paragraph nine of Planning Policy Guidance Note Two , any alteration to the general extent of the approved greenbelt is to be proposed only in exceptional circumstances .
Eleven .
Any alteration within the general coverage of the approved greenbelt by way of the creation of an inset , would require justification in accordance with the second sentence of paragraph nine of P P G Two , and in the strict terms of a proposal made under approved Structure Plan Policy E Ten , as inserted by the Secretary of State for the Environment .
No such proposal has been made by the county or local planning authorities .
Twelve , and last .
Having regard particularly to submissions five , eight , nine and eleven above , the changes currently proposed by the county and local planning authorities require to be considered in relation to the washed-over greenbelt status at present applicable to the area under which no boundary is in existence .
Such consideration inter alia is given in my proof of evidence and the summary thereto , and they are therefore admissible , and of major relevance to this enquiry .
Any submission to the contrary which may be or has been made by North Yorkshire County Council and or Ryedale District Council is accordingly strongly and totally refuted , for the reasons detailed in these submissions .
Sir .
Thank you Mr .
Mr , do you wish to reply to that ?
Er briefly sir , yes .
The deposit copy of the York greenbelt local plan showed site D thirty nine as being within the village of Skelton , and site D forty as being without in the greenbelt .
Objection was made by the Skelton Village Trust to site D thirty nine being shown as being within the village perimeter .
That was the only objection made to site D thirty nine , er that it should be The objection was that it should shown to be in the greenbelt .
That would be .
When the proposed changes were made known , advertised , and er members of the public and other bodies were able to make representations with respect to them , site D forty was shown as being additionally within the village .
Skelton Parish Council and Mr made objections to that proposed change .
Those were the only two objections made to that proposed change .
We therefore , sir , have before us today to consider these two sites , D thirty nine and D forty , in the context of the relevant and duly-made objections that have been made , and they are the simple question is , should these sites be in the within the greenbelt or within the inset .
It 's actually , sir , a fairly straightforward issue .
What Mr is seeking to do now is to raise a much wider issue , it seems to us , and that is that Skelton ought to be washed-over in its entirety with greenbelt notation .
That objection has never been made .
It 's not a duly-made objection , it 's not one that he has any right to raise at this late stage .
We will not entertain it sir , because it raises a whole host of wider and different issues , many of which we in fact considered yesterday in the context of Stockton , if you will recall .
The objectives which the objectors are anxious to see achieved are to have these two sites shown as being in the greenbelt .
That can be achieved in the context of the objections that have been duly made .
What we can not countenance though sir , is any widening o of the route that they seek to go down , to have these sites included in the greenbelt , and that 's to say to entertain the argument that the whole of Skelton ought to be washed-over .
The issue is straightforward , should these sites be in the greenbelt or not ?
That objective can be achieved er under the terms of the objections that have been made .
The er need to widen it to include er a washing-over argument doesn't arise .
Thank you Mr .
Do you want to add anything to that Mr , or does the same point apply ?
Well er sir the same point applies , and I 'd only say this .
Erm in relation to the er modification in the plan which er the deposit plan which put these two sites er out of the greenbelt , er Mr did make representations .
Er in answer to the question Which proposed change do you object to ? he wrote Greenbelt boundary north of Skelton , and then in answer to the question Please state here the full grounds on which your objection or representations will be made , he wrote The change is contrary to my supported representations on the deposit plan .
Sir , you will remember in the deposit , Skelton was inset , although these two fields were not part of the inset .
So he supported the deposit .
And I object to it , as I consider that O S fields seven three six five and six eight six two with the land extending westwards to the A Nineteen , should not be part of the Skelton inset area .
It 's plain , it 's unambiguous .
Mr 's concern related to two sites and two sites alone , not to the principle of insetting .
Indeed , we 're not aware of erm anybody .
Mr , you you 've er commented upon Mr 's objection that he made himself , but of course there are he is appearing for many others ,
Yes , .
many of whom no doubt are present today .
Yes .
Er was the same did the same apply to the objections made by
Well , we we 're not aware of anybody objecting to the general principle of insetting and seeking Skelton to be washed-over .
Everybody was concerned with these two fields .
Thank you .
Mr , I'm not quite sure t w er what your your standing is in relation to this point .
Are there any helpful comments you could make ?
Sir , I think I have probably have no standing , and the answer to your question directly is no .
Thank you .
Mr , before I make a ruling on this point , did you wish to make er any further comment ?
Sir , one has to have in these matters regard to the practicalities of the situation .
The question of washing-over and insetting is a technical planning matter in which the population as a whole is not well versed .
The representations which come from members of the public and others can not therefore be assumed in all cases to embody the approach which would be given were a a full understanding of the previous and proposed situations in the mind of those who made that proposal .
This is , I am certain , the case with regard to Skelton .
I have ample evidence that persons who are very aware of matters of public interest in general have been unaware at a critical stage of the washed-over status at that time of Skelton .
It is I believe a result of that situation that reference to the correct , that is to say the continuation of washing-over , was not known in the documents first submitted by way of representation to various planning .
Secondly , I did say that the degree of confusion has existed because the two planning authorities have jigged about with the line a great deal .
It is perhaps fortunate from our point of view that we can pin ourselves , in so far as we are talking about an inset , to the actual deposit copy of Ryedale District Council , when they did get the matter right , but no body apart from them , sir , did so .
Sir , I feel that regard should be had by you to the practicalities of the situation as well as to the submissions which I have made , in coming to your decision .
Thank you Mr .
I have of course had the advantage of considering this matter er previously , and I have had the chance also to look at the various objections that have been made .
It does appear to me er that the view which has been expressed by Mr and Mr is correct , that you and your clients did not object in terms , or indeed , as far as I can see , by implication in any way , to the existence of an inset for the village .
They certainly did object to the proposed changes , but they did so in terms of where it is right that the inset boundary should be placed , and as far as I'm aware there are no references in any objections to the wider question of whether or not the village should be washed-over or be inset .
I have therefore to agree with both the councils , that the comments you have just made and which you make at some length in your proof on this point , amount in effect to a late objection .
Neither council wants me to deal with this as a late objection .
It is therefore a matter which lies within my discretion as to whether or not I take it as a late objection .
I am not convinced that special circumstances apply in this case which override the which is advice given very clearly in the P P G Twelve , that , in general , late objections should not be entertained except in most exceptional circumstances .
I should however indicate that to understand properly what is the appropriate position for an inset boundary , I have to look at the reasons for there being an inset at all for the village , as , as you correctly indicate , it lies plainly otherwise within the general extent of the greenbelt .
It may , therefore , be necessary to examine why the two councils did not adopt the alternative approach of washing-over the village .
You are , however of course , aware that this background to insetting was discussed at some length yesterday , in the context of another village .
There would , therefore in any event , be no need and no advantage for me , in repeating all that was said then .
And this is of course , as if I agree with the view that you expressed yesterday in a general context , although it was made specifically then in relation to one village , any recommendation I make in relation to that village , if it is based on the general principle , must apply by analogy also to Skelton , and I would have little choice but to recommend to the councils that they may wish or indeed they should , reconsider this question of washing-over or insetting elsewhere .
I think I hope that that is clear .
It i it is I appreciate er a difficult er course now to steer between approaching head-on an objection which is a late objection and dealing by er reference to obliquely perhaps to matters that have been dealt with elsewhere to the question of washing-over , but I'm sure that you can steer this particular course or cross this particular tightrope with success .
Sir , we are much obliged to you for your consideration upon this matter , and I assure you that I shall do my best to avoid in the evidence which I shall give and in my other remarks apparently proposing a washed-over status for the village as a whole .
However , it may incidentally erm come into the words that I use that erm er I'm referring to the washed-over or other status of these two sites .
I shall endeavour to avoid that , and I ask your indulgence if this happens , since to a great extent one can not erm select particular sentences erm that have not already documents .
Sir , if it is your wish , I will now open the case .
Please , yes .
A are you going to be reading from your summary ?
Er when I give my expert evidence , I will read from the summary .
Sir it is my wont to open er a case of this kind with a quotation .
In nineteen fifty three , the Ministry of Housing and Local Government issued their Design Town and Village manual and because of difficulties attending design concepts , the manual was made up of essays by eminent planners on various topics , with the full imprimatur of the minister .
A contribution relating to the English village was made by the late Thomas , and he had this to say .
It has sometimes been claimed that the village is a peculiarly English invention .
Whether that is so or not , the English village is , I believe , among the pleasantest and most places that men have ever built to live in , and certainly it has a physical character and appearance that is strongly its own .
Whatever may be its points of similarity to , or difference from , other countries ' villages as social institutions , it has very special qualities of picturesqueness , not of course to be confused with quaintness .
I do not think that these qualities arise wholly , or even mainly , as it is so often assumed , from the character of its buildings and the beauty of the natural forms , such as trees , which stand in juxtaposition to them .
I believe that they lie as much , or even more , in the form in the ground plan which the buildings and the natural objects together make .
Sir , you have heard the virtues of various villages around York extolled at earlier hearings in this enquiry .
You have heard in response to a direct question put by yourself to an expert for North Yorkshire County Council , that he regarded the village of Flaxton as making a contribution to the historic setting of York , that it had a greenbelt function .
You have heard of the historical circumstances attendant on some of the villages , and you have heard of the beauty of them .
We have ranged wide .
Thaxton , Flaxton , Sand Hutton , Upper Poppleton , they have all come before you .
Sir , today you have before you what I believe is the most important village still existing close to York , which has , over a considerable part of its area , extant at this day a medieval character and feel .
Skelton is a very special village towards its north side .
Sir , Skelton has made its contribution to York 's housing problem in the past .
An inset was at one time created for Skelton , and it resulted in a considerable amount of building on the south side .
That building is not in character with the main part of the village to the north side .
It is quite obviously a twentieth century excrescence , however good it may be in itself as such .
Sir , Skelton has taken all of that that it could possibly stand , without destruction .
To envisage any modern development at all on the north side would be catastrophic , having regard to the very special properties which there exist , qualities which contribute , undoubtedly , to the historic setting of York .
Skelton is a village whose residents are proud .
They are increasingly aware of their heritage .
The Village Trust is a respected body which has been in existence for many years .
learned contributions have been made , and in that connection , I need only refer to some which are part of the appendices for the case before you today , notedly the contribution made following recent research by Mrs on archaeological matters of significance to this particular area .
I could go on for some time sir , but I will now proceed to the technical planning matters .
I'm a Bachelor of Science in Estate Management in the University of London , and a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors .
My first main appointment subsequent to the War was in the Planning Technique Division of the Headquarters Technical Directorate , in the then Ministry of Town and Country Planning , St James 's Square .
During the later part of my career , I was University Estates Officer to the new University of York from the university 's inception in ninety sixty three until my retirement .
Skelton is a village with a long history and an attractive character in the area of the church .
It is here that William the Conqueror is said to have bribed two friars to help him gain access to the City of York after he had besieged it unsuccessfully .
In eleven sixty six one David le , the Keeper of the King 's , was granted an allowance and certain rights here .
The church , which is a gem of early English architecture , and which with the green is the focal point of the village , was built about twelve forty seven , aided by the treasurer of York Minster .
There are many stylistic aspects which are reflected in this .
The coverage of the conservation area , which is one of the earliest created in North Yorkshire , dating from nineteen seventy two , not nineteen seventy as written , is limited to that part of the settlement which has notable village character and contains listed buildings .
It includes the present D thirty nine site , near to the sixteenth or seventeenth century Skelton Manor House , and it has important archaeological and nature conservation interests as described in reports .
Skelton is well within the general area of the approved York greenbelt , and is a small free-standing settlement that was washed-over by the greenbelt in the draft Southern Ryedale District Plan of nineteen eighty one .
This plan underwent the full consultation stage and was employed for over ten years for development control purposes .
The Greater York study did not designate Skelton as an area for expansion until two thousand and six , and no proposal exists in other plans for the making of an inset into the greenbelt on the basis of the need for expansion .
Sites D thirty nine and D forty are in any case not located within the built-up area of the settlement in terms of Greenbelt Plan Policy Four .
Sir , in making reference to erm policies which erm have relevance to the question of the status of the two sites we 're concerned with , I will start with those which are part of the statutory plan , that is to say the North Yorkshire County Structure Plan approved by the Secretary of State , and then proceed downwards to the more recent documents which do not employ .
So in paragraph six I start with the C S P .
The north side of the village could not accommodate additional development without detriment to its basic form and character in the terms of Structure Plan Policy H Three .
As mentioned in paragraph twenty three of my proof , an appeal decision relating to land immediately east of D thirty nine referred to the unsuitability for development of that area , Since the character of the village would be seriously harmed .
Policy H Four of the approved county structure plan precludes any development which is more than small- scale .
Structure Plan Policy E Four , and er erm that is a correction sir , I have E Five down there ,
Thank you .
Structure Plan Policy E Four provides that conservation areas will be afforded the strictest protection .
Can I help you Mr ?
What what are you looking for ?
Thank you , I do apologize sir .
Erm
Right .
Is it E Four you 're looking for ?
Er no sir , er E Four I will take as read .
But we now have erm following research by the Yorkshire Wildlife Trust in relation to the document that I have described as appendix eight .
Erm the reference on page two of erm the Conservation Officer 's er letter , Mr 's letter of the fourth of February , a reference to Policy E Six of the County Structure Plan , erm which in his expert opinion , very firmly covers sites like this one .
Er I think that er I will not read any more of that letter at present , but er certainly it 's not only E Four but E Six er of the C S P which applies here .
I would be grateful if at some point Mr you were to deal with er Doctor 's er most recent comments on the Greater Crested Newt , since of course I 've only just had those er more or less on coming into this room , and I haven't had a chance
Yes .
to read it or think about it .
Yes sir .
Erm I will in fact deal with that now as an aside , a very necessary one too .
Could you start off by telling me which pond it is we 're talking about ?
Yes .
Because I just want to be sure .
There are two ponds of course which are shown on There is the much larger pond
Yes .
to the east of Oakwood , and the smaller one west of Skelton Manor Court .
Yes .
We 're talking about the one within erm the er area known as D thirty nine sir ,
I thought it might be .
er which is immediately west of Manor Court .
Erm sir , I don't know whether you and my friends erm on the bench opposite had an opportunity last evening of erm having glimpsed at Tomorrow 's World , but
I fear not , I was too busy reading your proofs .
.
Oh thank you sir , I'm much obliged for that .
Erm I lighted on it almost by accident , and er it was very interesting in that erm the Great Crested Newt was featured , as a result of the action of the Secretary of State in refusing an application by British Coal for open-cast coal mine .
And the reason was that er part of the area at a pond near the was erm an ancestral home of the newt .
Erm a reference was made er by the by British Coal to erm er their erm absolute willingness to provide ponds elsewhere .
The Secretary of State was not convinced er that er a habitat would be taken up er elsewhere .
And sir , the letter which you have before you er dated twentieth April from Doctor , is very much on that tack .
We noticed that as one of Mrs 's appendices er there was a reference to a willingness by one of her clients to provide other ponds , were development to er proceed on the area known as D thirty nine .
And erm er Doctor has looked into this matter , and you will see in the fourth paragraph of his letter of the twentieth
is obviously highly selective and .
You can take a newt to water , but you can't make him swim .
.
Thank you sir .
Er sir , I will leave you to read the rest of that letter .
Alterations have been deposited to the County Structure Plan , and erm that took place before this hearing er before this enquiry opened .
Policy E Two of the proposed Structure Plan alteration number three applies to all land outside existing built areas and countryside outside the greenbelt .
And this policy would therefore preclude the development of D thirty nine and D forty .
, could you just er wait for a second ?
Well I I think probably I can compete with the Tornadoes now by raising my voice .
Right , thank
you very much , that 's .
Yes ?
Thank you .
Erm and Policy E Two provides that development in the open countryside will not be permitted .
It goes on in more detail but that is the basis of it .
So that erm would appear to preclude development of D thirty nine and D forty in any case , no need having been established .
Reserves of potential development land in such locations are not provided for in any policy .
We now turn to Southern Ryedale , sir .
Southern Ryedale Local Plan Policy C One Three would preclude the development of D thirty nine as the development of that whole area would not enhance the character of the conservation area .
I think it 's worth actually looking at that policy .
It reads , In conservation areas , permission will only be granted for developments including changes of use , especially from residential from residential use , providing that they enhance the character of the existing buildings in terms of design , scale , grouping , materials , and will not cumulatively substantially increase the generation of traffic , parking and other activities , beyond the environmental capacity of the conservation area .
Sir , it is my opinion that any development in area D thirty nine , which is wholly within the conservation area , would have those deleterious effects , and the same applies for D forty two D forty two .
Continuing with the Southern Ryedale Plan , Policy E N V One normally precludes new development outside the existing built-up areas in the absence of exceptional circumstances .
It reads , New development will normally be permitted outside the existing built-up areas only where it is essential to the needs of agriculture or forestry , or there are other exceptional circumstances .
While as settlement within the greenbelt , development could not normally be permitted on D thirty nine and D forty , as these are outside the built area in the terms of Policy G B Three , which we have oft considered at erm this enquiry .
Policy H Seven applies in the event of Skelton being an inset area when any development would have to be within the settlement , and no more than small-scale , precluding D thirty nine and D forty .
It is submitted that the whole of Skelton Village should be looked at as a unity , that there is extreme environmental value over its north part , and that were the village inset into the greenbelt , the inset boundary should be precisely as shown in the deposit copy of Southern Ryedale 's Local Plan .
Thank you very much .
Mr please .
Mr , you 're probably aware that the deposit plan inset boundary for Skelton is the same as that was shown in the consultation draft of the greenbelt plan .
Er yes I am .
And you will probably be aware that at the consultation draft stage , which shows the same boundaries as are in the deposit plan , both the Parish Council and the Village Trust supported the inset boundary as shown drawn in the consultation draft .
Were you aware of that ?
Can I be clear what you mean by Mr ?
When you say Supported , do you mean they didn't object or do you mean they
No .
actually supported ?
They made representations supporting the proposed inset boundary for Skelton , both the Parish Council and the Village Trust .
Thank you .
It 's er it 's page one hundred and three of the consultation draft , report on the consultation .
Do I have that document ?
I don't think I
No you may not
Not at this stage in the enquiry sir , I'm not going to produce any great er any any documents .
Were you aware of that er Mr ?
I was not aware of that .
I came into the Skelton case at a much later stage .
Erm I would say however that there has been far more consistency about the view taken of the need for greenbelt protection on the part of the bodies and individuals I represent than has been shown by the two planning authorities judging from all the changes that they have propagated .
And at the deposit stage , erm Mr , Skelton Village Trust made objection to site D thirty nine ?
Having previously supported the site D thirty nine being within the inset ?
Do you know when they changed their mind ?
No .
Do you know why er the Parish Council made no objection to site D thirty nine being included within the inset at the deposit plan stage ?
No .
Do the Parish Council object to site D thirty nine being shown within the inset ?
As instructed , erm I present a case which is unified on behalf of all the bodies and persons I represent .
There is an objection to the whole of D thirty nine and D forty not being within the greenbelt .
Well y you 'll appreciate why I 've asked the question er Mr , because they supported it , they made representations in support at the consultation draft stage , they didn't object at the deposit stage , and yet today , as I understand your evidence , you 're telling us that they do object to site D thirty nine being shown within the inset .
The objection , I repeat , is a unified objection , but I have no doubt that earnest consultations will have taken place not only by the bodies I represent in the past , but also by your own authority .
I'm a little concerned here Mr .
It it does seem to me that the Parish Council are of course an an elected body , who will if they have views on this subject no doubt have formal minutes which will set it out one way or the other .
I'm wondering whether this might be an exceptional case , where er during cross-examination Mr might take instruction from his clients to find out what their minutes actually say .
It must be a matter of record .
Well i i indeed .
So that was going to be my next question ,
I apologize Mr .
as to whether or not there were any
.
Er as to whether there were any recor if there are any record or minutes as to when er the the change of mind occurred , er because plainly there there has been a change of mind .
Now Er well th er th members of the Parish Council if there are any present as I imagine there are , will have heard my question .
let 's proceed and perhaps erm at a convenient moment we could take instructions as to er what resolutions if any have been made in this regard .
Sir I will take this on board , but I think it comes rather badly from an authority in fact both authorities which have so shown so many confusing changes of mind about this area in the whole process since the first plan was issued , that the er details of the consideration by one of the constituent bodies of this erm objection er should be er examined er in such detail .
Erm we don't know the details of the consideration that has been given by the authorities , what we are concerned with is what they are now proposing .
What I believe you should be concerned with is what the erm persons I represent , bodies I represent , now wish to see happening with regard to these two sites .
I think Mr what I would like to see , I don't want to go too far into the history , but I would just like to be sure that er bearing in mind this complex history given on behalf of those you are representing , that the views you are putting forward are the er current views of the Parish Council as expressed in their formal minutes .
I w that is all I want to know .
Yes sir .
As a matter of fact I'm sure .
.
Mr , you and I have debated in the past er in this room er whether or not exceptional circumstances are necessary to define an inset boundary for a village which in the sketch plan of the greenbelt to have been shown as washed over .
We 've had that debate before haven't we ?
Yes , we 've covered various subjects er more than once , er so much so that er I would be much obliged if you would er focus on a particular instance that I could then have an opportunity to recall .
Well Mr , your memory appears to be very short .
We debated it yesterday .
Right , I know now what you 're referring to .
Er you I take it you haven't changed your mind and you still maintain that exceptional circumstances are necessary , because that is how you view , how you read paragraph nine of P P G Two ?
Yes , and that is because we have an approved structure plan which indicates the general extent of the greenbelt , and we 're not talking here about an inner boundary or an outer boundary , we 're concerned with a pre-standing settlement .
You erm understand I think , or will understand Mr , that if these sites are not included in the greenbelt , that 's to say if they are shown as part of the inset , so far as the greenbelt local plan is cer is concerned , they have no other designation , that 's to say the greenbelt local plan doesn't purport to er allocate or to designate the land for any other purposes .
Correct .
It 's simply the conclusion that the land doesn't serve any greenbelt purpose .
Yes that would be your reasoning , yes .
Now the questions we have to address here today Mr , er are whether or not er this land , these two parcels of land , serve any greenbelt functions or not .
That 's the principle issue between us isn't it ?
Not entirely .
I would not exclude a consideration of the greenbelt functions served by the area , but it is not for us to question the correctness of the approval by the Secretary of State for the Environment of the general extent of the greenbelt for York .
A general extent of greenbelt within which this area lies .
Therefore , unless excluded from the greenbelt by a particular process , all land in this area must be assumed to have a greenbelt purpose .
Well Mr , that would apply to er any land lying within a six- mile radius of the city centre .
Apart from the considerations which I mentioned a few moments ago , it would indeed .
Well is er Mr the issue which the inspectors ought to be er addressing themselves whether or not this land serves a greenbelt purpose , or not ?
I said a few moments ago that I would not exclude consideration or the need for consideration of the greenbelt purposes served .
What I attempted to tell you was that there is essentially no region that in respect of any land which lies within the general area of the statutorily approved greenbelt , its mere existence within the greenbelt must be taken to mean that it has a greenbelt function .
But y you a are asking the inspectors to proceed on the basis that all land within the six-mile radius of the city centre serves a greenbelt function ?
Unless , under some process , it has been excluded from the greenbelt , yes .
And it would be excluded from the greenbelt because it didn't serve a greenbelt function ?
It might be excluded for various reasons .
Well what 's another reason ?
The most obvious is that er an area had been inset because of the need for expansion of a settlement .
That wouldn't serve a greenbelt purpose ?
It would not in the future as a result of that subsequent building .
That is your Haxby-Wigginton case .
You do recall our argument yesterday .
Haxby-Wigginton , which has been allowed by Ryedale District Council , as the result of Or its predecessor , as the result of the creation of an inset , to develop to the size of Malton .
One of the er matters that er one needs to apply one 's mind to in considering whether or not this land serves a greenbelt function or not , is to look at the land and assess whether or not it is more closely associated with the village or more closely associated with the er agricultural open land beyond the village .
No .
There is no necessary requirement to do that .
And although it may be one means of looking at the site , it is not an essential part of determining greenbelt function .
Is one of the matters to which the inspectors ought to be applying their mind whether or not this land is more appropriately regarded as countryside or part of the village ?
No , for the reason given in my last answer .
Is one of the matters to which the inspectors ought to be applying their mind Would development of the site these sites amount to encroachment into the countryside ?
Indeed so .
Well how can you decide that , without first deciding whether or not this land is part of the open countryside or part of the village ?
It is not necessary to incorporate the concept of being part of .
It is simply necessary to ask whether the matter the whether the land is open land or not open land .
The issue is whether or not the land is open land or not open land ?
It is essentially as simple as that .
And all open land therefore Does it follow from what you say that all open land necessarily must serve a greenbelt function ?
I would never in a planning matter , readily make an absolute statement like that .
In nearly all matters of physical planning there are exceptions .
But I would say that the way to look at this site is to ask whether it is part of the built area , in other words whether it is built on , or whether it is not part of the built area , in other words it is not built on .
Well that was the question that Mr asked you a few minutes ago wasn't it , er Mr ?
Sir , at that stage , the emphasis seemed to be erm a connection er whether the connection was principally with other land outside or whether the connection was with the settlement , rather than the nature of the land itself .
And my answers were in that sense .
Do you regard
Er so sorry Mr .
I'm sorry sir .
Er forgive me interrupting ,
but I I I don't understand the word that you 're using Mr .
When you say land is built-up , presumably you do not mean simply that there is a building that there has to be a building on the land .
Er to a greater or lesser extent , land within the curtilage of that building er can also be described as built-up .
Is is that correct ?
In general terms yes sir , one would look at the curtilage of a building , yes .
.
But if on the other hand the curtilage were particularly large , erm then er it it were otherwise unbuilt er it would not of necessity form part of the built area of the settlement , if the situation were on the periphery .
What I'm trying to understand you 'll appreciate Mr , is the difference between the test that you are putting forward , er which is whether or not it is part of a built-up area , and the test that Mr is putting forward , whether or not the land is part of the village .
At the moment I'm not entirely clear what the difference is between these two forms of words .
If you can help me more on that , er that would I'm sure assist my judgement .
I would say sir that my approach is neither .
It is to look at the characteristics of the land itself , rather than to associate it of necessity with the land on one side of it or the land on the other side of it .
When we look at the characteristics of the land itself , do we have to decide whether it 's countryside or not countryside ?
You do not necessarily have to decide that .
Well what are the characteristics of this land ?
These sites are small fields .
One 's a paddock .
A paddock is defined in the nineteen ninety concise Oxford as a small field .
Therefore a paddock .
I don't think we need to particular distinctions .
.
Your The site C can you look at appendix two of er Mrs 's er appendices please , Mr ?
While you are finding that , could I make a general request of the counsels .
It would greatly assist me er if I could have a copy of a one to two thousand five hundred plan showing these lands without any er heavy lines on them .
I'm having some difficulty working out where fences go because they 're obscured by these twenty foot wide er lines .
Sir I 've got one here .
Ah .
I if that could be copied er perhaps er that would be of great assistance .
Thank you Mr .
Er Mr , could you just repeat
I er appendix two
Er Mrs , yes .
Right , thank you .
In order to focus in on
I don't think that 's er Mrs 's appendix two , but i i it
It it 's the bigger it 's the one with the bigger scale , yes .
Presumably nothing turns on which plan
No I I don't think it does , i save that one makes reference to features on a particular plan
Er yes
I think it may help .
Right , yes .
You 've got it , have you ?
Do you s you can see where it 's indicated on the plan where topic area D thirty nine is ?
Yes .
You you see the land to the er generally to the east of it where there 's the large pond ?
Yes .
A substa substantial area of open land which is shown there as being within the inset of the village ?
Yes .
That land you obviously regard as being properly included within the inset ?
I 've not made any comment about Skelton Hall .
Do you want to make any now ?
Can you assist us ?
Do you regard that land as being within properly included in the inset or not ?
I 've not had the benefit of walking round the grounds of Skelton Hall .
And the er the boundary to the north of topic area D forty nine , indeed to the north of topic area
You said forty nine .
Thirty nine , I beg your pardon .
Thirty nine , and topic area D forty , you 'll be familiar with those boundaries ?
Yes .
Trees , hedges , trees , and there 's a track on the northern side .
Indeed .
And the boundary along the western side of topic area D forty is the A Nineteen
Yes .
and er the the vegetation alongside the A Nineteen .
Yes .
And those are perfectly satisfactory boundaries for greenbelt purposes aren't they ?
Yes .
Defining greenbelt purposes .
One of the points you make in your er evidence erm Mr is that because topic area D thirty nine is shown as being within the conservation area , that it ought to be included within the greenbelt .
That 's right isn't it ?
On that point , I would say that there are a number of considerations which arise as the result of that site being within the conservation area that militate against development in themselves , and this is in general well recognized on your side , and by the er er by the City Council .
And you 're on you 're supportive of the conservation area and its boundaries ?
Yes .
Can you look please at your a appendix one , in your bundle of appendices ?
Yes .
And if we turn er to the last page of the first appendix , we can see the boundary of the conservation area .
Yes .
It 's shown by the erm large dotted line , and we can see how it er follows the boundary of topic area D thirty nine .
Yes .
Would you turn back one page please , and look at Two pages I beg your pardon .
Turn back two pages , and look at paragraph four of the report which we can see is headed Description of Conservation Area .
Have you got that ?
Yes .
Can you turn over the page again now , I want you to direct your attention to paragraph four point six of this report , which reads The boundary proposed for the conservation area is limited to that part of the settlement which retains its village character .
Yes .
Do you agree with that ?
I have no reason to disagree .
Yes .
Thank you Mr .
Thank you very much .
Mr please .
Thank you sir .
I sha n't detain you long Mr .
Mr , erm paragraphs twenty four er to thirty of your proof draw our attention to the existence of the conservation area which was being debating a matter of moments ago .
Yes ?
Yes .
Paragraph thirty one you deal with access difficulties .
Paragraph thirty two and thirty three you deal with proximity of listed buildings .
Paragraph thirty eight you deal with er ecological interest , and paragraph forty , archaeological interest .
I think that 's a fair summary of paragraph .
That 's right .
None of those factors , er I hope we can agree , have any relevance at all do they to the issue of whether a site performs one of the five greenbelt functions ?
The answer to that is not straightforward .
You started with paragraph twenty four , which deals with the conservation area .
Yes .
The characteristics Er this is a general observation .
The characteristics of a conservation are are usually characteristics of special quality in environmental or building terms , and as such they are likely to promote a contribution to the quality of the setting of York where they occur within the greenbelt area .
And that of course is the prime purpose of the York greenbelt .
I must have been misguiding myself for a very long time Mr .
I 'd always understood that land should only go into the greenbelt if it was necessary to be kept permanently open , by reason of it performing one of the five purposes .
Now again , where do I find in any government guidance a suggestion that the fact of the existence of a conservation area is directly relevant to the determination of whether or not land performs one of those five purposes ?
You have heard my opinion that in general terms , the existence of a conservation area is an indication of the likelihood of a contribution being made to the special character of the settlement and therefore to the setting of York , which is the prime purpose or the prime function of the York greenbelt .
Well , as far as one is concerned with the A Nineteen , er isn't it fair to say that the northern and western boundaries are so er constructed with hedges and trees that in fact while er er one is travelling along the A Nineteen one doesn't actually have any meaningful view of the conservation area in any event ?
Mr , it is not necessary for a passing motorist to be able to appreciate the qualities of a settlement that he is passing .
It is sufficient for the quality of that settlement to be such as to inherently improve the setting of the city .
Can you see York from within the conservation area ?
Certainly .
Yes .
Yes .
We 'll deal with Mr 's answer if you don't mind .
he can erm answer for himself .
Mr , you 've taken issue with the conservation area .
Of course I dealt also with a large number of other factors , highways , environmental considerations , archaeology .
I take it from the nature of your answer that you would in any event agree that none of those other factors which you concern yourself with have any relevance as to whether or not the land performs a greenbelt function ?
Certainly listed buildings do .
As regards highways , they do in this case because the nature of the road pattern in this part of Skelton is such as to contribute materially to the characteristics of this ancient part of the village .
I would refer you to the late .
Erm it is a contribution by those er road patterns and the characteristics of the lanes , Church Lane in particular , Northfield Lane , that contribute to the quality of the environment .
And we are talking about this environment , and the contribution it makes to the city of York .
We are not talking about whether one can appreciate the city of York itself from here .
The quality of Skelton is what we 're talking about .
Well I have your answer Mr , but I don't think that continuing this national .
You remind us in paragraph twenty three of an earlier decision letter .
And in that you er remind us of the view of the inspector that er this area has a strongly rural character .
Yeah ?
You have that ?
Yes .
isn't it fair to say that that in itself does not justify greenbelt designation , what is important is if the site forms part of the countryside and makes a contribution to it ?
Here again I think that you 're in danger of drifting from the essential feature , which is that in the absence of a requirement to take land out of the greenbelt , the whole of the area er within the general extent of the greenbelt as approved by the Secretary of State erm has a greenbelt function .
Well I know you 'd love to debate that with me , but we devoted a whole morning to it yesterday so I'm not going to .
With regard to the inspector 's decision to which you refer , it should be borne in mind that he was concerned with the effect which development would have , and where development would be suitable or unsuitable .
And he said that he did not consider that Skelton should be allowed to expand so far northward .
He was speaking of the area around Northfield Lane , north of Oakwood , which was a new settlement concern within the buildings themselves .
Yes .
Mr as I read your proof , you presume that by excluding D thirty nine and D forty from the greenbelt , that these sites will be developed .
You make that assumption and it 's it 's essential to your case , is that is that fair ?
What I would say is that the power of the local planning authority to resist development on these sites would be materially reduced were the initial negative presumption against development afforded by greenbelt status removed from them .
Well that is self-evidently true .
Er I can't hear you .
That is self-evidently true .
One accepts that .
The simple fact is you presume , do you not , that these sites are going to be developed ?
I do not make that presumption .
My presumption is that there is a suggestion that development would be facilitated rather than hindered by the removal of the greenbelt protection .
Well it 's just as I read your paragraph fifteen point two , you say To exclude sites D thirty nine and D forty from the greenbelt presupposes the expansion of Skelton on its northerly perimeter .
Nothing ambiguous about that is there ?
You 're assuming it is going to be developed along its northerly perimeter .
The movement of the boundary which you seek to create is possible only under the terms of Policy E Ten .
Policy E Ten requires that the boundary be moved only if a need for expansion can be established .
I hear what you say , and you know why I'm not going to debate that with you again today .
You say in your proof , paragraph forty three , this is really the last point I'm going to deal with , that the amendment to the deposit copy erm ignores several of the policies in the Southern Ryedale Local Plan .
Do you have that ?
I have paragraph forty three .
Erm C Forty One is one of the er policies which you say is ignored by the suggested amendment .
I'm sorry , C Forty One ?
C One , sorry .
C One .
Do you have that in front of you Mr ?
I have C , yes .
C One is a development control policy , is it not ?
It is .
Can you e please explain to me how a site 's exclusion from the greenbelt in itself breaches a development control policy ?
Er it certainly doesn't do that .
It is simply a case as I said in my summary that er er C One is a policy that is applicable , because it 's a conservation area .
Mm .
But of course there 's nothing in national policy which creates erm a prohibition upon development either in or proximate to conservation areas , is there ?
No , but what I have done is to give you my expert opinion that any developments within the conservation area er within the D thirty nine part of the conservation area would be likely to be destructive of the character of the ancient part of the village .
I hear what you say , what you 're aiming to do now , without ever having seen any form of proposal .
But what about D forty ?
D forty is very closely associated with D thirty nine .
You see , paradoxically , C One little one and C One little three in fact give a strong measure of protection to the er character of the conservation areas do they not ?
Yes .
E N V One is another policy you say our modification offends .
That 's page sixty two of the deposit .
Yes , I have it .
Mr .
Er E N V One .
Again , how does exclusion of a site from the greenbelt offend E N V One ?
You use the word Offend .
Er could you refer me to a place where I have erm er
Well you say it ignores several local plan policies .
So let 's put it another way , how does the exclusion
I I think su surely Mr the next sentence makes it quite unambiguous .
The proposed change would be contrary to this policy , Mr says .
Yes .
My answer to that would be that er since the only permissible reason for pushing out this inset boundary would be a need for expansion , expansion involves built development , and built development would not seem to be within er the possibility of er Policy E N V One as well as within the possibility of er other policies
E N V One
O one moment .
Mrs , I I c Mrs , I can hear your evidence as clearly as Mr 's at the moment I fear .
E N V One applies to land that is perceived as forming part of the countryside .
You 're aware that on this side of the room Ryedale have stated in terms in their proof that they do not perceive this land as being part of the open countryside .
The reference is four point two point seven .
There 's nothing inconsistent is there , in Ryedale 's position , having made that judgement about these two pieces of land ?
I'm not criticizing er the erm view of the planning authorities on the grounds of lack of consistency in their interpretation of policies .
I'm merely saying that their interpretation of certain policies is not coincident with my own .
You refer to Policy E N V One .
Mm .
The reference in that policy is to development outside the existing built-up areas .
Mm .
I regard open land of this size as being outside the existing built-up area of Skelton .
That 's a matter for judgement isn't it ?
And the inspector will have to make that judgement in this case .
Yes , I have given you my judgement on it .
E N V Three is another one that er that might be offended .
You say our modification is contrary to E N V Three .
Yea , E N V Three as I read it is er a pure and simple development control policy .
How do you say excluding this land from the greenbelt is contrary to that development control policy ?
Well , E N V Three is basically a damage limitation exercise , and I think that erm the qualities of this area are so great that er it would be im impossible to envisage
So if I
a situation relating to a new development under which there would not be damage .
So if I short er short circuit the rest of my cross examination on these various policies that you say er we 're in erm we 're in some measure of conflict with , your answer would be in in relation to E N V Eleven and E N V Twelve which you also cite , do I put it fairly your answer would be this ?
Look I can not conceive of development taking place on this land without coming into conflict with those policies .
That is the essence of your position is it not ?
Before I answer that , I must er address myself to E N V Eleven , which relates to ponds ,
Right .
and E N V Twelve , to habitats .
Mm .
I think that the summary which you gave is fair also in relation to E N V Eleven and Twelve , yes .
Can I be clear please I I'm sorry Mr , can I just be clarif clarified as far as E N V Eleven is concerned , which pond this is in terms of names ?
It 's not it 's not .
This pond is not listed under E N V Eleven .
Er it isn't either of the er ponds
No .
listed in there ?
I think that 's right isn't it Mr ?
Yes .
Erm I think that the exercise on ponds is not of very long standing .
It 's an ongoing exercise , and er we have produced er sufficient scientific evidence to show that this pond is of tremendous value .
Doubtless the
not prohibit development ?
I rely in this matter on the evidence of experts in er wildlife conservation , and that is .
I don't really think there 's anything to be gained by any further questioning .
Thank you Mr .
Thank you very much Mr .
I think we 'll take a break now ladies and gentlemen for fifteen minutes please .
Thank you .

or the Open University
Yeah but the Open University ones cover all of the material and they 're what I actually wrote the lectures from erm but there 's six of them which is why the o the only advantage of the other one is that it 's one not six and so but I mean the material is all covered text of which there are three copies of most of them in the library one on short loan and one on sort of a general loan so you
Yeah .
What 's the other one like ?
The
Tha that 's quite good for , for the biological stuff , it doesn't really contain much sort of useful for the last three or four lectures , it doesn't contain much on sort of ocean circulation and the physics , you know but it covers the biology interactions quite well .
And also it 's quite useful for the
Right then we , we 'll leave some of the physics and stuff that we 've been doing behind now and just spend one lecture looking at some chemistry which I know will be equally popular .
Oh good .
Most of the ninety two naturally occurring elements , that 's leaving aside the , the elements that have been created artificially in particle accelerators and things , have been found in sea water and it 's quite likely that those that haven't yet been recorded from sea water will be recorded as our analeti er as our analytical techniques get better .
So basically you can consider sea water as being a solution containing salts of all of the naturally occurring elements .
Can you just copy that down .
Would I , would I do that to you ?
Mhm
You will probably be relieved to hear that you 're not expected to memorize that table and to regurgitate it in the exam .
What you should be aware of though is which elements are the most common in sea water and you 'll not be too surprised to learn that sodium and chlorine , as in sodium chloride , as in common salt are in fact the two most elements in sea water followed by magnesium , sulphur and calcium .
Now there is inherently a problem in carrying out any chemical analysis of sea water and that is the fact that sea water contains lots of lumpy bits .
These particles , this particular matter is generally given the sort of generic term seston some of those particles are mineral particles some of them are colloidal aggregates as the iron tends , iron , iron , ions tend to come together to form colloids in solution and some of them are particles of biological origin .
So there are a whole range of different origins to these particles but they 're all floating around in the sea water .
So if you come to try and analyze sea water you first of all have to separate the er aqueous base and those things in solution from this particular material .
For no real reason other than tradition samples are normally passed through a forty five mu sieve or membrane filter .
Is that seston or sestron
Seston T O N So sea water analysis then is carried out on the water which passes through the forty five mu filter .
Typically in the open ocean situation sea water contains thirty fives parts per thousand of salt , usually expressed as that symbol , sometimes you 'll see it written as parts per thousand P P T and what that means is that there are thirty five grams of salt per kilogram of water and that 's usually given the symbol S and is referred to as the salinity .
We can divide the components of sea water into three erm categories firstly those things which we can consider to be major constituents these are substances which are present are concentrations greater than one part per million .
So if you look down your table you 've got your concentrations here in parts per million and you can see that everything above fluorine would be a major constituent and everything below it would be a minor constituent .
Major constituents account for ninety nine point nine percent of the material dissolved .
Minor or the trace constituents then are present in concentrations less than one part per million they obviously count for less than point one percent of the total salts They are useful as chemical tracers of particular waters .
If we know a water has a particular site of , of origin then we can often use minor trace constituents as a marker of that water to follow its fate and its path through the ocean , okay ?
So minor constituents are often useful as chemical tracers .
Our third category then is substances which are , are nutrients , and this is nutrients in the widest sense .
These cut across the major and minor boundaries in that some of them are in concentrations greater and some lesser one part per million .
These are substances which have biological significance .
The principal ones are nitrogen , which is present as nitrate , nitrite and various oxides of nitrogen phosphorous which is present as phosphate silica present as silicate which requires silica ?
And carbon present as carbonate which is used in skeletal material or as carbonate or C O two or H C O three minus which are all used as substrates for photosynthesis .
Because these are biologically active compounds , they don't follow the simple chemical processes of the other elements in the water , their concentration at any given time or place is a function of the biological activity and history of the water .
So for example in a region of high productivity you may find very low concentrations of carbonate because it 's been stripped out and converted to skeletal material being used in photosynthesis .
Substances whose concentrations are not affected by biological activity you 'll often see described as bio-unlimited compounds so you might come across that in your reading .
Right ?
So that 's substances whose abundance is not influenced by biological activity , okay ?
So that 's the opposite if you like of those nutrients .
In addition to salts , ocean water contains dissolved gases .
All of the gases present in the atmosphere are also present in surface waters .
That occurs simply by physical processes , primarily gas being trapped as bubbles under the action of breaking waves .
Carbon dioxide is the most soluble of the gases because as it dissolves it doesn't just go through a physical solution it goes through a chemical conversion such that carbon dioxide dissolving in water forms carbonic acid which , in water will dissociate into a hydrogen iron and a hydrogen bicarbonate iron which can further dissociate this is why I 've got a nice wide blackboard and you 've only got a piece of A four paper so you end up with a carbonate iron two hydrogen ions This system is a dynamic equilibrium .
If you put more C O two into the system the concentrations of all of these go up , if you take carbonate out , for example for conversion to skelet skeletal material , it will pull material in this direction through the , through the s through those equations .
The actual point of the equilibrium , where the balance occurs on each of these , is a product of temperature and pressure .
Topically this system is extremely important .
If you measure the atmospheric rise in carbon dioxide due to fossil fuel burning , you 'll see that it 's only about one half of that predicted if all of the coal and oil that had been burnt since the industrial revolution had gone into the atmosphere , we would probably have er an increase in C O two double what we can actually measure .
The rest has entered this system and has been absorbed by the oceans .
Okay ?
So we know that so far about fifty percent of our anthropogenic C O two has been locked away in this system in the ocean .
And at the moment there is considerable er research effort being directed to try and work out just how much more carbon dioxide the ocean will continue to absorb .
What does anthropogenic mean ?
From human sources .
For example can we continue burning fossil fuel and will half of it continue to be absorbed by the ocean or is the ocean reaching saturation such that these equilibrium terms are being reached and future increases in C O two will be reflected in atmospheric build up , and it 's only atmospheric C O two that contributes to the greenhouse effect .
So the exact er nature of this balance and how waters between contact with the atmosphere are being mixed into the deep sea , cos remember this equilibrium can only be occurring in surface waters cos only they are in contact with the gas phase how that turnover of deep water 's occurring affects just how much capacity we 've got for absorbing C O two in the oceans and therefore mitigating the greenhouse effect .
How can we work that out ?
What 's that ?
How can you work that out ?
Well that 's what they 're trying to do at the moment by measuring rates of turnover of deep to surface waters
Mhm
which is actually poorly understood , we 'll talk a bit more about that in the next lecture .
Okay ?
But you can see if this lot gets converted to carbonate and then that water then gets mixed down to the deep water , it will be replaced at the surface with water which has a low carbonate concentration which will suck more C O two out of the atmosphere .
So it 's quite critical as to how that rate is turning
It 's then oxygen surface waters are saturated , in fact they 're often super-saturated with oxygen .
In part this is the result of photosynthesis which is pumping oxygen into solution but again primarily it 's down to the physical saturation due to breaking waves and air bubbles being mixed in to the system .
Below the photic zone oxygen is consumed by biological activity so immediat from immediately below the photic zone you tend to see a decrease in oxygen with depth reaching a minima somewhere between five hundred and a thousand metres depth
Re reaching a what ?
Reaching a minimum .
Below about a thousand metres oxygen concentrations are fairly static down to the a minimum between five hundred and a thousand metres depth so they 're fairly static .
That 's in the open ocean in enclosed basins , for example the Black Sea , many fjords and sea lochs , the deep waters are not renewed by water masses moving in from other areas in the way that they are in the open ocean and there anoxia can occur in the deep waters , that is the oxygen can be completely removed by biological activity particularly in degradation processes of organic matter , bacterial respiration so anoxic conditions can occur in isolated deep basins but low oxygen concentrations are actually very rare in the open ocean .
Why is that ?
Why is it erm well yeah er le less of a level of oxygen at erm medium depth
Yeah ?
now surely it 's far more difficult to get oxygen down deep ?
Yeah .
It 's because that 's the sort of trace you get with an oxygen minimum around eight hundred metres .
The photic zone is , this is percent saturation of oxygen fully saturated and what we 're seeing here is oxygen being utilized by respiration .
In general biological activity decr decreases with , with increase in depth so you see er respiration using up this material .
But when you start getting down here you 've got low biological activity
Yeah but sh sh
but you 've also got water masses which are being moved in which are rich in oxygen .
The reason they 're rich in oxygen is because they were formed at the polar regions , alright ?
Where , because the water is very cold , it will absorb an awful lot of oxygen .
We 'll look , we 'll actually look at the processes of deep water formation tomorrow , so you 'll actually see how the waters are formed , but the reason why this is high is basically the act of A , low biological activity removing it and B , the fact that the source waters have not come from below , they 've come in horizontally from an area where they were formed which was very rich in oxygen .
Now if you start analyzing the composition of sea salt , or the salt in , in sea water , what you find is that there is a remarkable constancy in the ratio of one element to the other .
No matter where you go in the world ocean you find that although the total salinity may vary , the actual ratio of say silicon no that 's , let 's say potassium to aluminium is the same er so there is a constancy of composition there is a constant ratio between the elements .
That constancy of composition relationship breaks down in enclosed seas and bays for example where er addition processes , I E er salts which have been eroded from river water , may alter the composition .
So may , you may have a bay for example that 's in an area where all the rivers draining into it are rich in copper because they 're running over rocks which are copper .
So in enclosed areas like that this breaks down but in the open ocean system you 've got this very strong constant ratio .
Other areas where it may break down are areas of high biological activity for example tropical reef flats very high biological activity there , very high demand for calcium carbonate to build all those coral skeletons , so carbonate will be stripped out .
And waters passing through the earth 's crust at hydrothermal vents etcetera will also have undergone chemical changes so again pool waters being emitted will vary in their composition .
So how do we actually go about measuring this thing called salinity ?
Well if the definition of salinity is the amount of salt dissolved in a particular volume of water , perhaps the logical way to do it is simply to take a volume of water and evaporate it and weigh the amount of salt that 's left so that might be the simplest approach .
There are however problems with that approach of how much do you dry the salts , for example .
Depending the amount of drying concerned actually alters the composition of some salts .
For example magnesium chloride holds water within its crystal lattice and if you dry it that water comes out , but as it comes out it also strips out the chlorine as hydrogen chloride gas for example .
So that would be one salt whose actual nature and therefore weight and therefore your measurement of salinity will vary depending on the degree of drying .
Carbonates will combust at relatively low temperatures so if you dry your water in an oven you may find you 're actually burning off some of the carbonates .
So that would be another source of error .
Well our constancy of composition gives us a way round some of these problems .
If we can establish through very careful analysis what the ratio are between certain elements and each other then that ratio also holds between any given element and total salinity , yes ?
Yes .
Yes .
So by measuring just one substance we can work out the overall total salinity .
The substance that 's most frequently measured is actual the chl is actually the chlorine content and the salinity is one point eight zero six five five times the chlorine concentration .
Chlorine is relatively easy to measure I'm sure you 'll all of done it at A level chemistry titration , silver nitrate ?
Yeah ?
To establish the concentration of chlorine in a solution .
And that was the technique that was really used up until the sixties for the determination of salinity .
Whole research cruises where water samples were being taken at many depths , every sample that came back was titrated on board ship to get the silver nitrate to establish the chlorinity and hence the salinity .
These days we can do it much easier and we do it electrically , so we can use a relationship between conductivity which has to be er compensated for temperature and pressure at which you 're doing your readings , and that gives us a measure of our chlorinity and then that gives us a measure back to our salinity .
And modern salinometers will automatically compensate for the temperature and pressure and do this conversion so you can get a direct read out from an electrical instrument of the salinity .
But one must still be wary the fact that although we 've got this nice electric gadget , that we drop the probe into a bucket of water and it gives us er a salinity it is still entirely dependent on this ratio and this ratio is based on the constancy of composition which is very good for open ocean waters but breaks down in coastal waters where erosional processes , where fresh water additions and the sediment loads of the rivers may actually alter this ratio , okay ?
So although we 've got a device we must use it with care when working in coastal waters .
Another way of measuring salinity is optically .
This is an this is er another this is a good one for use in the field , it can be quite accurate it 's , it 's certainly a very easy one to use in the field cos all you need is a thing that looks a bit like a telescope about four inches long and what tha the principle it 's working on here is the fact that ref the refracted index of water changes as you dissolve salts in it .
So what it really is is a fr refractometer okay ?
It 's measuring a refractive index of the solution but , and giving you a read out in terms of salinity , okay .
So a useful field technique .
Do you have to sieve it first ?
Sorry ?
Presumably you sieve it first ?
Well again all of these things should be done on water that 's been passed through a filter to separate the water from the sestron yeah .
However again , in the field that 's frequently not and you do literally drop your probe in a bucket .
As the actress said to the bishop .
Exactly , I was just thinking the same thing .
Well that 's the sort of composition which immediately begs the question where do these salts come from and where do they go to ?
So sources and sinks of salts .
What do you think the most obvious source is ?
Yeah .
Weathering of rocks by rain water , by frost , by chemical action which is then leaked into rivers and carried from rivers into
However some salts are very abundant in river water but are very rare in crustal rocks .
In particular chlorine the most dominant element in sea water it 's quite common in river water but is extremely rare in the rocks that form the earth 's crust .
So the simple weathering model will not explain our distribution of chlorine .
Chlorine is an example of an element that is being recycled continually .
The chlorine we detect in the rivers has actually come from the ocean .
The chlorine is picked up as aerosols droplets containing salt for example from breaking waves taken up by the atmosphere , carried over the land , rained down again , gets into the rivers and ends up back in the sea .
So chlorine is continually going through this cycle .
Ocean to aerosol into the atmosphere , carried over , deposited as rain , leaks back through the river system into the sea .
Looking in ballpark figures , river water is about three hundred times more dilute than sea water .
How do you in the first place ?
I 'll come to that in a second .
Ah right .
Sea water though contains proportionately less hydrogen carbonate silicate and calcium than river water .
So river water is greater than sea water , proportionately , for those elements .
Okay ?
Which implies that these must be precipitated in some way out of the marine environment .
They 're obviously being continually carried in from the river water but are being taken out of the system somewhere in the marine environment .
Looking at that list would anybody like to suggest what sort of processes those substances are all involved in ?
Biolo biological .
skeletal .
Yeah , biological .
Diatoms calcium hydrogen carbonate skeletal material these things are probably ending up predominantly as deep sea sediments pelagic sediments , yeah , remember ?
Diatomic oozes regularian oozes and so on ?
So that 's a sink for some material .
Let 's come back to our chlorine then and think about well if it 's not being weathered out of the rocks , what 's its ultimate source ?
And the simple answer is it would appear that it 's volcanic in origin .
Volcanoes emit very large concentr very large amounts of hydrochloric acid as a gas H C L gas and earlier in the earth 's history volcanic activity was much , much more widespread than it is now and during this period vast amounts of H C L were emitted .
This is highly soluble , so it is immediately washed from the atmosphere by rain into solution .
And since then this chlorine has been continually recycled through the hydrosphere .
Sorry One of the other tables you 've got shows you a comparison between the elements which are present in crustal rock and in the sea and from that you can see which ones are a good reflection , I E whi which elements have been transferred to the sea by direct weathering , and which of them are undergoing other processes , either other sources or other sinks .
So for example you can see chlorine the percentage of chlorine in solution expressed as a , a per centimetre solution is something like twenty four thousand but its percentage in crustal rock is nought point nought one three so there 's this big excess of chlorine to explain .
Now arguments such as that in terms of composition of the sea relative to the composition of crustal rock
imply a steady state system or over a long term and if over the long term the rate of addition of material to the sea is equalled by the rate of removal .
If there 's a continual turnover of material we can actually calculate its residence time , that is the average length of time a particular molecule of substance X spends in the ocean .
And that would be calculated as the total amount dissolved in the ocean divided by its rate either of addition or removal so if we 're assuming steady state the two will be the same , whichever is easiest to ma measure and that would normally be expressed in years
Sorry , what does R T stand for again ?
Residence time .
So w w what rate of addition or removal addition or removal ?
Yeah , right .
Ei either the rate of addition or the rate of removal cos if we 're assuming a steady state the two will be the same and it 's just a question of for some substances it might be easier to measure th the rate of addition , for others it might be easier to measure the rate of removal .
You should get the same answer if you did them both .
Mhm .
There are some residences , residence times , we 'll note that the units are actually millions of years .
Chlorine has a residence time of infinity , that 's because it 's being recycled round all the time so it 's in the system forever , .
Very low residence time for hydrogen carbonate biologically active , and an intermediate time for things like sodium and potassium which are common in crustal rock and are also commonly being deposited through sedimentation and so on .
In general there 's a good correlation between a substance 's residence time and its concentration .
The more important it is in sea water , the longer its residence time .
The principal removal mech mechanisms for salts are inorganic precipitation a chemical reaction between the dissolved substance and a particle , such that it then becomes part of the particle and obviously for biologically mediated substances biological processes such as skeleton formation or conversion to biological tissue .
just want to look at the carbonate system in a bit more detail .
Calcium carbonate is teetering on the brink of solubility in sea water .
The surface oceans are actually super-saturated with calcium carbonate so there 's a lot in solution , there 's more in solution than in theory is possible , in super-saturated condition and in addition there 's a lot floating around in the solid form in biological material .
Spontaneous precipitation from surface waters is actually fairly rare because most of the carbonate a ions are weakly bound up with magnesium ions in surface waters .
So it 's the presence of magnesium ions in surface sea waters that helps keep the calcium carbonate from precipitating .
Sorry , what 's bound up with ?
The carbonate is bound up with magnesium ions , weakly .
Very weakly but it is sufficient to pr prevent them pairing with calcium ions to form precipitate .
What 's that ?
Er two plus and two minus .
Now as th this weak bou bonding 's overcome by biological processes to actually produce solid calcium carbonate in skeletons , now as that skeletal material sinks down through the water column , it moves out of the region of super-saturation and begins to dissolve .
The region where it begins to dissolve is known as the lysochine okay ?
So that 's the region where calcium carbonate is no longer super-saturated and so that skeletal material , as it floated down through the water column , would begin to dissolve .
If you go deeper through the water column you 'll come to a depth where all of the calcium carbonate has dissolved and that 's known as the carbonate compensation depth , or C C D the carbonate compensation depth .
These are , are not single depths , they 're , they 're more regions and the actual depth where the two regions occur varies around the ocean .
The depth of the lysochine is basically controlled by water chemistry.. the P H and the concentration of carbonate in the water .
The C C D is controlled both by the water chemistry , the P H and carbonate concentration , and by the rate of supply .
So below an area with a very high biological activity , where there 's a very large amount of calcium carbonate raining down , the C C D will be deeper because it will take that much longer for this material that 's rained down to actually dissolve .
Yeah ?
So , okay ?
So the C C D will be deeper under biologi biologically productive regions .
?
Yeah .
So the C C D will be deeper under regions with high biological productivity .
And if you remember your distributions of deep sea sediments you will recall that calcium carbonate based deposits are rare in deep waters because it 's all dissolved but are more common under regions where there is a high productivity because the C C D will have been depressed .
So you can get calcium carbonate deposits for example , on the top of isolated sea mounts or mid-ocean ridges .
The carbonate system is also important in the control of sea water P H .
Typically sea water is alkaline around about eight plus or minus nought point two P H units and P H is defined as the negative log of the concentration of hydrogen ions .
Variations in PH away from this are typically controlled by the equilibrium we 've already seen between the hydrogen bicarbonate ion and carbonate and H plus .
So this equilibrium is the principal mechanism for maintaining sea water P H .
If it shifts that way you get a greater liberation of , of ion , of H plus ions which moves the P H down , making it more acid .
How much chemistry can you remember ?
Equilibrium constants ?
If K is the equilibrium constant for that reaction then we can actually redefine our terms such that the concentration of hydrogen ions will be K multiplied by the concentration of hydrogen bicarbonate ions over the concentration of bicarbonate ions .
In practice it 's very difficult to measure the P H of sea water .
Because there are so many substances in there an and the relative concentrations of many of these ion species are dependent on equilibrium reactions such as this , it makes it very difficult to measure using the traditional approaches .
One way round that is to actually measure the alkalinity of the water .
Alkalinity is not a measure of how alkaline a solution is , it is therefore a stupid name
but it 's the one the chemists give it .
Alkalinity is defined as the amount of hydrogen ions required to neutralize the negative charge on the anions , I 'll go through it again Roly
in the solution .
Okay ?
So that is the amount of hydrogen ions required to neutralize the char the negative charge on the anions .
And therefore it can be found very easily , very directly , simply by titration .
And having measured the alkalinity you can simply convert back to work out the concentrations of the carbonate and bicarbonate ions and from that you can calculate the P H using that relationship .
Okay ?
So in practice it 's easier to measure the alkalinity and then back-calculate to get that and hence the P H than to actually try and measure the P H directly from sea water .
Are you sure you wouldn't physics ?
Right just to finish off I just wanna look at actual vertical distributions of elements in the ocean .
We can actually characterize three types of distribution .
Firstly those substances which increase relatively rapidly with depth and then become constant and this group are usually referred to as the bio-limiting element or a bi having a bio-limiting distribution .
Substances which are required nutrients , micro-nutrients , copper and zinc are required as micro-nutrients by plant cells for example , would show distributions like this de decreased levels in surface waters where er in the photic zone biological activity is high they 'll be continually stripped out of the water column there in the concentrations then increase as biological activity decreases and then becomes constant with depth .
We then have a group of substances which are bio-unlimiting this is concentration and that 's depth barium , bromine , chlorine iron magnesium , potassium , , sodium , sulphate will all be examples of bio-unlimiting substances .
And of course because this is biological oceanography it 's not as simple as that there is a third category which is bio-intermediate .
These show some decrease in surface waters but not as severe as the bio- limiting substances calcium , barium carbon would be examples of bio-intermediate substances .
Why doesn't it tail off at the bottom then if it equals out at depth ?
I thought you said with the bio- limiting it , it evened out at depth as a concentration
Well it is , this is the concentration across here , this is depth .
So that 's a constant concentration .
Yeah ?
Everybody happy ?
Follow all of that ?
Good .
Do deep sea circulation tomorrow .
Radium radium
That 's a washing powder .
That 's right , no that 's Radion
Ra radium microbes
sea water .
Keeps all the fishes clean .
Keeps them sparkling white
You 've , you 've got you 've got a video which is scheduled for one thirty because you 've got something else at two o'clock , but you can have it now if you prefer to have it now rather than one thirty

Come in .
Doctor , can you change my ?
There you go , thank you .
Thank you very much .
Dr because for all that , she says well I don't know what 'll happen .
I says well you 'll need to cancel it because they send an appointment to that person .
We will be charged for it , even if they don't attend .
That 's right , that 's what I thought .
So I 've asked her just to phone cancel it out , and that should just be the end of it .
And that 's , that 's it , okay .
Right , that 's great Jean , thanks .
Good morning .
Good morning .
Well young sir what can we do for you today ?
I was going get an employed Doctor .
Er
thought I might ask you while I'm here about
Ah .
how my blood tests went and er
Blood tests .
Er
labs have got it .
Erm I'm attending this Doctor , I go back at the end of the .
Blood tests seem to have been alright , yeah ,
Oh aye .
Good , that 's good John .
Yeah .
Mhm .
Er now he wants you to stay on your tablets
Aye .
just the same as before .
Aye well , while I'm here could I get another supply because
Yes .
actually I , the dose that I had to take , I cut them down to see how it would go but , I must admit , I suffered from it Doctor ,
Mhm .
it didn't do me any good , you know .
U we went
That 's right , that 's right .
And the other thing was the Brekanil
Pardon ?
Brekanil was the other thing he wanted you to have .
It 's the inhaler .
The puffer thing .
Oh I , oh I see .
Fair eno oh well .
Aye .
There we are .
And I cannae , cannae sleep lying down horizontally , I 've got to kind of you know kind of
Right .
Propped up a bit .
propped up .
Doctor , you know .
Now that 's , that 's that
Anything
let you get a wee bit of a sleep .
Just if you take this just about an hour before er bedtime .
Oh is this something ?
Just something to let you get over into a nice easy sleep , John .
Right Doctor , fair enough .
Save you getting any wheezing during the night .
There we are John , that 'll keep things right .
Er
Thank you Doctor
erm are you due an insurance line today ?
Yes , I am Doctor .
Er if you actually date it from yesterday ?
Mhm sure ,
Is that possible as well ?
sure .
It being the holiday .
Aye .
Er chesty in the morning then , bit chesty at night you know ?
That 's right , it 's that 's it .
There you are young John .
Right .
thanks very much .
Okay John .
Cheerio now .
Cheerio .

not his hair , not other things about him , obvious things about him .
His colour .
What colour was he ?
Erm white .
Good lad .
He was white .
Obvious things about him again that you might forget , obvious things .
He had a moustache .
He had a moustache , yes , but I'm talking about really obvious things that we might forget .
Policemen would remember but you might forget , obvious thing he was white
Slim .
Good girl .
He was slim .
And we have done this before haven't we ?
Yeah he was slim , what else was he ?
Was he right at the back .
Quite tall .
He was quite tall .
Obvious things about him you forget , right ?
He was white slim and quite tall , yeah ?
Then you can give him the clothes , right I want the clothes .
Erm dark no light brown leather jacket .
Light brown leather jacket , we 'll see in a minute on the video
He had black jeans on and white
Cords .
shoes .
Black jeans and white cords , we 'll see if you 're right , it 's gonna be on in a minute .
Black shades .
Black shades , when do you mean black shades , like mirror shades yeah ?
Yeah .
Right , well done .
Erm he was in his thirties .
He was in his thirties , I would put him in his early thirties , yeah , I 'd say he was younger than me .
Yeah
He had brown hair .
He had brown , see if you 're right in a minute .
See if you 're right .
He had a moustache .
He had a moustache , yes .
He had a blue car and
He had a blue car , stop it there , I 'll stop it there , he had a blue car .
What is important about the car ?
You 've got ta remember .
Oh !
Yeah , what have you got to remember about the car ?
Registration .
Good girl , the registration number , yeah we had before once or twice .
Right all hands down and no guesses , no guesses , what was the number ?
Oh !
Oh !
No guesses , what was the number ?
There you go my man .
M J B three six seven X .
Is he right or is he wrong ?
Right .
Who says he 's right ?
Who says he 's wrong ?
Top of the class , well done .
M J B three six seven X .
Cos I 've caught you out on that before , yeah .
What else do you remember about the man ?
He had a deep voice .
He had a deep voice , yeah .
I think we 've got all of it haven't we ?
But the important points , what ?
His shoes were like plimsoll .
His shoes were like plimsolls , fair enough , yeah , we 'll But the impoi important things to remember , if you can , was his car his number plate , yeah ?
He was white he was slim and he was a tall man .
Yeah ?
Very important .
Okay you may not have ever seen him , he may just have been sitting in the car , then remember his colour maybe his moustache and then the type of car he had .
Can anyone , top of the class , what kind of car was it ?
Oh !
Shh shh shh .
What type of car was it ?
Volkswagen .
Volkswagen what ?
Polo ?
No , you 're guessing .
It was a hatchback .
It was a hatchback .
You 're gonna see it again
No it 's not it 's the other one innit ?
It was blue .
Blue , yes , blue .
If you didn't see it , it 's a tricky one but there 's a good way , we 've brought up a good point as well , if we look at the car when the car comes up , who said Polo ?
Cos it 's not a Polo , it 's a Jetta , it 's the one with the boot but if you can't remember what it is you can either , did you know the difference between a car with a boot and a car with a hatchback ?
Do you know the difference ?
Do you know the difference ?
If you don't say , say you don't know the difference and I 'll explain .
I don't .
You don't ?
A hatchback is where all the back comes up here like a Fiesta yeah ?
And where a boot is where only the booty bit comes out the , the , the glass window doesn't come up as well .
Understand that ?
Yeah ?
Yeah .
A hatchback is where it all comes up and it all swings up , the whole back swings up doesn't it ?
What 's that , like a Ford Fiesta ?
A little , little Peugeot
A Sierra .
No , a Sierra , a Sierra the whole lot comes up , yes , but they 've now changed to a Sapphire and the Sapphire is just the boot , yeah ?
So you can explain , if you don't remember the car remember if it was a hatchback or a boot .
It comes in handy , know a blue car and I think it has a boot , I can't tell you the type of , don't make it up , if you don't kn know , don't make it up .
White , slim , early thirties , very tall man , yeah ?
Very .
Would you have said he was slim or very slim ?
Slim .
I thought he was very slim actually .
I 'll go with you , I 'd say he was very slim , he was a very slim man .
Thank you
No it 's not being horrible to anyone , skinny wasn't he ?
Yeah ?
. We 'll see how well we got on and how we didn't .
See what we 've got .
Whitey type trainers , plimsolls , yeah that 's close enough innit ?
Who said black trousers ?
Are they black ?
No , grey .
Grey you could say they were dark , if you didn't know for definite you could say they were dark trousers .
If you don't know don't make it up , don't guess .
Who said moustache ?
Well done .
yeah ?
The glasses , well done .
Whitey type , I don't know what they are casual shoes .
M J B three six seven X , well done .
It 's a Jetta , a V W Jetta .
Right , when you start your holiday been coming here now years and years and years and every year I show you that video , you know that video off by heart , you should do so when you play , play safe , that 's all I'm saying , play safe .
Enjoy yourself but play safe .
If someone approaches you and you don't know them , someone you don't know is a stranger .
Did you see how nice the man was when he started to talk to Jason oh I 'll go and help you how friendly he was he was conning him , he was tricking .
Just remember play safe , someone you don't know is a stranger , yeah ?
Now I 've frightened you , all have a nice holiday , but play safe .
Yeah ?
Will you do that for me ?
Yeah .
Good stuff .
I 'll see you later .
Take care .
Thank you .
You 're getting too good , I 've got ta che

Right coming in ?
Thanks very much .
Okay , we looked last time at the development of the Kuomintang and nationalist China after the nineteen twenty five twenty seven revolution and I said then that the defeat of that revolution had a profound affect on the character of the Kuomintang and the character of the nationalist China over which it presided .
Exactly the same is true of the Chinese Communist Party .
The Chinese Communist Party is totally transformed , I think transformed out of all recognition , and becomes a completely different kind of political organization as a result of what happens in nineteen twenty five to seven .
And to understand that change I want to go back to the beginning and just to trace what has happened to the Chinese Communist Party since it was formed in nineteen twenty one when it had a mere I hope everybody can see that , it 's not very large today and I don't think I can any better than that In nineteen twenty one when it was first founded , it had a mere fifty seven members and it didn't grow very much for a number of years .
By the middle of nineteen twenty three there were only three hundred members of the Party .
By the middle of nineteen twenty five only a thousand members .
Then , of course , the revolution bro broke out , originally in Shanghai with the main and thirtieth movement , subsequently spreading to Canton and Hong Kong and other major er cities in the south and east of China .
And then the Communist Party began to grow very dramatically .
By the end of the first year of revolution they had ten thousand members , so they erm increased in size ten times in the space of about six months .
By the middle of nineteen twenty six they had thirty thousand members and then they peaked in the early part of nineteen twenty seven with sixty thousand members .
Now that is actually a very large organization indeed given th the size of the Chinese working class .
Something like , think I 've got it here , yes , something like fifty percent class of
the members are actually industrial workers .
The rest of the members are intellectuals er and students primarily .
Now that means that at the peak , the Communist Party has a working class membership of something like thirty thousand plus , which is one in every hundred industrial workers in China at this time .
That is a pretty substantial er party given that the Communist Party is essentially a party of working class militants , of shop stewards , of trade union organizers and so on .
That means it has really very substantial influence indeed inside the Chinese working class .
It controls many trade unions including some of the big confederations , most notably the Shanghai General Labour Union , a sort of T U C really , erm for , don't know whether it would bear much relation to the modern T U C in Britain , the erm , the sort of confederation uniting all of the unions in Shanghai , controlled by the Communist Party .
And so were many other major unions and union confederations .
This Party is then very substantially er destroyed , not completely , but very largely destroyed by the nineteen twenty seven coup and the repression which follows it .
There are large numbers of executions , lots of people are er taken off to prison , many people in fear and despair and demoralization drop out of the Communist Party , it 's particularly dangerous to be a Communist Party member in the major cities where the repression is most intense and where the security forces er are most numerous .
But the destruction of the old Communist Party is completed by two policies that are adopted by the Communists themselves , both a response to the defeat they have suffered in nineteen twenty seven .
First of all there is the adoption by the Communist Party in the years nineteen twenty seven to nineteen thirty of an ultra-left policy .
A policy which consists essentially of insisting that no major setback has been suffered , that the revolutionary movement is still going forward , that there will be new major revolutionary outbreaks in the immediate future .
And in pursuit of that perspective , that outlook the Communist Party launched a series of what can only be described as ad adventurist er attacks on the new Kuomintang authorities .
The autumn harvest uprisings , for example , in the autumn of nineteen twenty seven which consisted of attempts to lead peasant risings erm in various parts of the countryside , particularly in the area er around here er Kiang See and so on where the peasant associations had been particularly strong .
Such as the Canton commune where down here in er Canton , perhaps the second major industrial city in China , the communists rose in revolt erm and attempted to establish erm a kind of red base in the city of Canton .
But they rose on their own with virtually no support at all amongst ordinary workers , it was essentially a rising carried out exclusively by the Communist Party members themselves .
Such as the attack which they mounted from the countryside of the city of Chang Sha which is also in this er in the same sort of area where the old er where the Communist Party had had its main strength .
All of these military adventures are crushed very very quickly , usually in a matter of days .
Large numbers of the Communist Party members who have risen almost in complete isolation against overwhelming odds , large numbers of them are actually killed in the fighting , many more of them are arrested and executed and in this way , the destruction of the Communist Party , particularly in the major cities , is to a very large extent completed by their own mistakes .
Instead of retreating instead of going underground instead of accepting that the situation had become extremely difficult and it was necessary to try and rebuild their organization and their influence gradually over a period of time , they committed their shattered forces to further battles and more or less completed er their destruction .
Why ?
Well for two reasons .
One , I think , because the Communist Party in China itself was completely disorientated by defeat .
Right up until the coup in nineteen twenty seven they had been following a policy dictated by Moscow , dictated by Stalin which told them form alliances with the Kuomintang , work with the Kuomintang , first of all trust Chiang Kai-shek , then when Chiang Kai-shek turned on them they were told to trust the left Kuomintang leaders who were based in Wo Han in the middle Yangtze valleys , and then they turned on them a policy , in other words , that had proved absolutely disastrous .
Then confronted with the enormity of the defeat which the Party had suffered , many members were completely i incapable of understanding er what had gone on , were disoriented by the defeat they had suffered and were open to the argument the strategy was right all along , the revolution is still going forward , there are going to be new uprisings by the masses and so on and so forth .
A complete disorientation among the ordinary membership .
But into this situation there is the intervention again of Moscow , of Stalin .
Stalin 's policy has changed dramatically .
Up until nineteen twenty seven he 's been saying work with the Kuomintang , work with the bourgeois nationalists , work with the parties to your right .
At the end of the nineteen twenties the policy from Moscow , not just to the Chinese Communist Party but actually to communist parties all over the world swings dramatically to the left and Stalin is arguing that there 's , there are going to be revolutionary explosions all over the world the Communist Party must forge its own path , it must put itself at the head of these struggles , it must give a lead to the masses by launching insurrections and so on and so forth .
Why has the policy changed ?
It 's changed partly because Stalin 's er strategy in China has been shown to be a disaster and Stalin is trying to cover his tracks and most effective way of protecting himself against the criticism and the unpopularity which is likely to come from the failure is by insisting that the strategy was right all along and the revolution is about to triumph .
He 's also changing tack because in nineteen twenty nine , in Russia , they begin the collectivization of agriculture , the destruction of the Kulaks , the rich peasants , the adoption of the policy of forced industrialization .
To justify this and Stalin presents it as a revolutionary me measure , as a shift to the left , as the creation of socialism , to justify it er Stalin presents the argument that the whole world is moving forward to a new stage on the road to socialism , it 's all a lot of nonsense but the ideological needs of the regime in Russia are determining the advice which is being given to er various communist parties .
The second er factor which really , by the communists ' own decision , completed the destruction of their organization in the cities and towns of er south and east China was the decision in the early nineteen thirties by large numbers of surviving communist militants to leave the cover , to er leave the cities and the towns where the repression was severe , where it was very difficult to avoid being picked up er by the police
to escape that , by fleeing into the countryside , very often into particularly backward and inaccessible areas of the countryside , where they would be safe from the security forces and where they hoped they could begin to create a new base among the peasantry .
So not only do we see a physical flight to the countryside but also a change in political outlook .
An orientation now among many of these displaced militants no longer on the working class but on the peasantry and on developing the struggle of the peasantry as a way of creating a base , a new base , er for the Communist Party in the countryside .
Now at this point I want to sort of take a break from looking at the development of the Communist Party to looking briefly at the peasantry because although the peasantry have been in the background for much of the time , we haven't actually looked in any detail , so far , at the condition of the peasantry in China .
And their role is now absolutely crucial , crucial to the development of a new strategy by the communists and to the revolution of nineteen forty six to forty nine .
The poverty of the Chinese peasantry was , I mean really for us i it 's , it 's very difficult to imagine how appalling conditions were .
There had been , for one thing , enormous population growth I 'll put the figures up for you The population had roughly trebled er between seventeen hundred and eighteen fifty and then , in the period we 're primarily concerned with here , the hundred years from eighteen fifty to nineteen fifty have increased from four hundred and thirty million up to five hundred and eighty million .
Now that meant that there was massively increasing pressure on China 's land , and there was growing parcelization of the land and what was happening was that peasant families would of very often er produce two or three sons
Could I just ask a question about that ?
What was the reason for the growth between eighteen hundred and eighteen fifty because they hadn't had sort of mass industrialization industrialization which had caused population growth in other countries so was there any particular reason why there 's should have trebled in that time ?
I think that 's a good question .
And what 's the answer ?
Yes , I mean I don't think anybody really knows .
Erm there are various er theories to explain it erm and I mean usually , if there is a significant population increase , and that is a very very dramatic increase indeed , it is associated with increases in productivity .
And yet quite clearly there have been no significant increases in the productivity of Chinese agriculture and certainly no large scale industrialization .
So why the population should have been growing on this scale I think is er a question that we can't answer very easily .
Could it be that the statistics in seventeen hundred were wrong ?
That er well the kind of census
I suspect not
in seventeen hundred .
erm and what makes me suspect not is that Chine Chinese record keeping for many many centuries had been very thorough of course because it 's the basis of the imperial taxation system , so my guess is that the figures are probably fairly reliable .
Were they receiving er more produce from their outlying parts of empire ?
You know , w was there more agricultural er produce coming in to make er their food supply better ?
Well t I mean to the extent that that is happening , that there is a development of trade on the sort of , you know , with the periphery of the empire and with erm areas outside the empire , and that was certainly happening in this period , I don't see why it should have a significant impact on the peasant population because there isn't really any evidence that it 's , in a sense , trickling down and enriching the peasantry .
There 's no er evidence of a significant increase in the peasants ' standard of living quite the reverse in this period .
So , again , it may be a factor but it 's probably not the most significant
So by , by the peasantry we , they , they represent purely the people in the outlying agricultural areas ?
The peasantry are excluded from the cities ?
Mm .
Er and that was just primarily to the growth of the peasantry ?
Yes .
Mm .
Yes .
You would expect i i if it was because of an improvement in their standard of living , however slight , you would actually of expected the population from eighteen fifty to nineteen fifty to have increased even more wouldn't you ?
If , if , if you could explain it by that because presumably their standard of living did change between eighteen fifty
Yes
and nineteen fifty so you would 've expected to see the same sort of increase .
Yes .
Cos I mean presumably they were n't between eighteen fifty and nineteen fifty they were n't practising excessive birth control to
Yes
to keep it under .
Yeah that 's right .
Is this roughly over the same area ?
Is this
Yes
roughly over the same area ?
yes , yes yes , the area 's not changed .
I was this this contradicts now , I was wondering whether more areas became accessible between seventeen hundred and eighteen fifty for some reason or other , therefore they could you know er enrol more people , and count more people .
Well I mean not , not in the sense that
the Chi the Chinese empire is , is actually growing but possibly in the sense that within Chinese territory marginal land that has n't previously been used for agriculture is being brought into use .
But that in itself er certainly won't increase
No
erm productivity , quite the opposite .
I mean marginal land tends to be brought into use , the less productive land , precisely when there is a pre the pressure
Yes but there could
of population .
but there could be more people .
It could support more people ,
yes
yes , absolutely but the , but the level at which those people
will exist will be that much lower , presumably , than the level of people who are in the more productive , the more fertile er parts of the countryside which are already in use .
Could it have been the age old story of having more children to keep you when you get old ?
If life was becoming harder .
what they say now
they have a lot of children
Yes
to look after them when they get old .
Yes .
I , I think that 's again going to be part of it because that is certainly I mean a major reason why er a lot of peasant societies have large families , but we 'd still have to try and explain why it was that in this period , presumably so very much more of those children were surviving than had been the case earlier .
Now usually we would explain that sort of things in terms of improved sanitation , improvements in the standard of living and so on , but that 's not really happening , there 's no evidence for that in the Chinese countryside in this period .
Would the flight from the towns to the countryside in the early thirties of made any difference ?
You did say that er the communists
Yeah it 's very small numbers of people .
Pardon ?
It 's very small numbers of people .
I mean given the size of China I mean th there 'd be
No I wondered how they sustained , were sustained in the countryside if vast numbers were moving from the towns into the impoverished countryside .
We 're talking about tens of thousands , really .
It 's a problem isn't it ?
Yes .
I mean it is , I mean how you explain it is erm by no means straightforward .
But what we , what is , is unquestionably true is that it does mean that there is growing parceliza parcelization of ple of peasant plots which means that the average peasant now has a much smaller plot of land in which to try and support himself and his family than was the case earlier in Chinese history .
There is also a continuing technological backwardness I think I , I probably mentioned right at the outset that in nineteen fifty India had six times as many tractors per acre in cultivation as China did .
Now India was an extremely poor country in nineteen fifty and still is , yet it had six times as many tractors per agricultural acre as China .
Britain incidentally had two thousand times as , as many but I mean that 's the sort of contrast which perhaps you would expect .
It 's even the case that the iron plough , apparently , was comparatively rare in peasant China at this time .
Most people were still using wooden ploughs er which , not only di is it much more difficult to cut the sod with a er wooden plough , but it also cuts only in to about half the depth of an iron plough so you can't sort of turn the soil over to anything like the same extent .
There are of course virtually no chemical fertilizers .
There aren't even animal fertilizers through most of the Chinese countryside because er animals haven't replaced human labour power , human labour power being so cheap and numerous , generally speaking .
Human e excrement , believe it or not , was the most common form of fertilizer in the Chinese countryside .
So the technological backwardness means that , and the over population , means that the soil is , is losing its richness and there 's absolutely no way of restoring it artificially by ploughing deeply and turning up er new soil or by re-enriching it as it were by the use of artificial or natural fertilizers .
And then , on top of this , there are major natural disasters .
Again a reflection of technological backwardness because natural disasters can be controlled with a sufficient investment of resources China isn't able to do that , there are plagues of locusts , there is widespread flooding er there are also , by contrast , periods of severe drought , particularly up in the North China Plain which is at the best of times erm a semi-arid region .
And then there 's the class structure .
Here 's the peasants The gentry made up three percent of the population in the countryside .
The rich peasants made up another seven percent I have to check to see I 've got the figure 's right the middle peasants , twenty percent the poor peasants seventy percent .
A rich peasant is a peasant who works his own land but will employ some wage labour as well because he has a large enough plot to be able to , to need to do that .
A middle peasant is somebody who is more or less entirely self sufficient , he doesn't hire any labour but nor does he have to work for anybody else , his plot is big enough for him to be able to support himself and his family .
A poor peasant , who made up seventy percent of the population , is a peasant who doesn't have a plot big enough to support himself and his family .
He may be completely landless , or it may be that his plot isn't big enough and he has to spend part of his time , or part of his family has to spend part of their time , working for somebody else to get in some extra money or possibly renting land from somebody else .
Now the distribution of land was that these two groups making up ten percent of the Chinese countryside owned fifty percent of the land .
The middle peasants owned twenty five percent which meant that the , the poor peasants , making up seventy percent owned just twenty five percent of the land .
So on top of the appalling poverty of Chinese rural life there is a very unequal distribution of land which means that some people are desperately poor compared with others .
And then in addition to that if you were a poor peasant who had to hire land from somebody else , you would of course pay rent and in the nineteen thirties it 's been estimated that the average rent paid by a poor peasant farming somebody else 's land was forty five percent of the harvest .
So virtually half of what you produced would go to the landlord .
And then everybody would also pay taxes .
Taxes to the government , taxes which were particularly high in this period , because it 's the period of the war lords , the period of the civil wars , the period of the war between the Kuomintang and the Communist Party , high levels of war taxation throughout this period .
Unsurprisingly very many peasants got into debt .
It 's been estimated again that almost half of all Chinese peasants were in debt to the money lenders .
The money lenders would very often be the gentry , or the rich peasants , but there were also merchants who specialized in lending money , loan sharks .
So er many would have , in addition to paying their rent and their tax , also regular interest payments to be made .
And finally , people er were subject to various forms of forced labour , most obviously of course conscription into the armed forces but other kinds of forced labour as well repairing the irrigation streams , digging dykes and , and so on and so forth .
I just want to read three anecdotes which , and I mean I 've given you sort of odd statistics and the advantage of anecdotes is that they actually put flesh on the bones I think , and they really give you a sense of what it meant to be er a peasant in China in the nineteen thirties .
A poor middle aged peasant couple of Cum Sien in Honan province were dependent for their subsistence on the wages of their only son who worked in a coal mine .
When the couple , who were in their forties , unexpecte unexpectedly had a second son , the conscription officers informed them that their older son would have to serve in the army since the law exempted only one son per family .
The wife pleaded with them , explained that they 'd starve to death if the older boy left .
When the local authorities dismissed her pleas she went home and beat her baby on the ground until it was dead .
Another one The peasants up and down the valley lived and died in their special fashion .
The father of one family died .
Since his wife had been failing and the family was very poor , they decided not to bury him right away .
Perhaps the old woman would die too before really warm weather came and the old man began to smell when they could save by burying both with one funeral .
The old lady agreed .
So they stored the coffin in their darkest , coldest room , the old woman 's sick room , and piled stones on its lid to keep the dogs out .
Last one this is the these are reports incidentally by er European doctors working in China at the time Another desperate case that we treated for nothing was that of a young man who looked like a skeleton .
One would have said there was nothing but skin on his bones .
His family was so poor that they 'd been obliged to sell him .
He was accordingly sent to a family that had no sons .
When six years later a son was finally born , his new family simply threw him out and the poverty is so great in the region that one month spent begging and homeless brought him to death 's door .
The extent of the poverty I think is very very difficult for us to imagine .
Now this had already resulted , between nineteen twenty five and twenty seven , in a spontaneous explosion across much of the Chinese countryside .
Essentially what we will see between nineteen forty six and nineteen forty nine is a controlled explosion when the Chinese Communist Party quite systematically and deliberately harnesses this vast pool of discontented humanity and uses it to sweep away the Kuomintang regime .
That 's essentially what we see happen .
Which brings us back to the Communist Party itself .
What I 've called the Maoist turn , the turn in , in programme , the turn in strategy which is lead by er Mao Tse-tung , and we have finally got erm to the stage in Chinese history where Mao Tse-tung 's role becomes crucially important .
The s he is one of these numerous Communist Party militants who makes the move from the cities and the towns into the countryside in the late nineteen twenties early nineteen thirties .
The strategy which he argues for in the early nineteen thirties , and it subsequently becomes the dominant strategy of the Party and Mao becomes the er recognized leader of the Communist Party er really at the beginning of the second half of the nineteen thirties , nineteen thirty five nineteen thirty six , around that time it has become the dominant position .
His strategy consists of essentially three things .
Reliance first of all , not on a working class mass base but on a peasant mass base .
Secondly further to that , the reliance on a strategy of guerilla warfare in place of the strategy er of strikes , mass strikes , armed insurrection in the cities and the towns .
And thirdly increasing emphasis , not on the socialist politics of the Communist Party in the nineteen twenties , but on the development of a nationalist ideology which could appeal to all classes in Chinese society who were interested in getting the Japanese out and who were angered by the Kuomintang government 's inability to stand up to the Japanese .
These were the three crucial elements which gives rise to this central question in all discussions really of the Chinese revolution which is was this Marxism ?
Was this a Chinese adaptation of er the doctrine of Karl Marx , a signification of it , if you like , a Chinese version with the essential ideas , principles , programme and so on of Marxism retained or was it in effect an abandonment of Marxism ?
Whatever the Chinese leaders said , whatever Mao Tse-Tung said , did it amount to a complete abandonment of what Karl Marx had been arguing for , what er position which Lenin claimed to stand in in Russia and so on .
The answer to that question I think is that it was not Marxism .
And it was not Marxism for a number of reasons and this is almost certainly going to be very controversial so I hope that it will feed discussion in the , in the second half .
It 's not Marxism because what we actually have now in a Maoist Communist Party , as it emerges in the course of the nineteen thirties , is a leadership composed not of socialist working class militants but of intellectuals whose prime motivation is that they are modernizing nationalists .
People who want to see a strong , unified , modern , industrial China created which is able to defend its territorial integrity , its independence and stand up for itself er in the world .
That 's the prime motivation of the people who constitute the leadership of the Party .
Come on , hello , ready ?
Oh about
Right , well
ten minutes .
erm we don't want to not get our tea and coffee
No but I mean he has n't supposed to come and , you know not really .
Do you want , I mean
No but they do go at half past
Yes
three I think .
I think
Yes .
that 's when their time 's up you see .
Ah
I 've got about , you see I 've about ten minutes
Well
five to ten minutes , I mean we might actually miss our tea and coffee so
shall I finish off
I wouldn't mind
shall I finish off after the break ?
Yes .
Mm well we 'll have to we 'll have to start
Right .
When , when shall we start again ?
Ten minutes .
Ten minutes .
Right , ten past then .
Ten past .
Well we don't , we have our tea before we come and when we go home .
it 's a better cup of tea .
Yes it 's
I certainly need one
Oh yes
Yes
Sorry ?
You 've got an easy day then ?
If it 's been cancelled .
Well er very easy
You ?
Yes .
Right .
What I was erm doing was trying to identify the three er characteristics of the er Maoist Communist Party as it emerged towards the end of the nineteen thirties which really disqualifies it , I think , from the label Marxist , means that it 's a completely different type of organization to what the Chinese Communist Party had been in the nineteen twenties .
I talked about the leadership being essentially a leadership of modernizing nationalist intellectuals .
The rank and file , by contrast , is composed of peasants , a mass membership is composed of peasants .
Primarily peasant guerilla fighters , people who were fighting in the Red Army , and it draws its mass support , the Party members draw their mass support , er from the peasants in the areas where they establish their authority .
And this rank and file membership and the wider group of supporters are subject to leadership from above , there is no real inner party democracy in the Maoist Communist Party .
Policy is decided by the leadership and there are various er mechanisms for passing erm the leadership 's ideas on to the rank and file , various systems of , of education , some might say indoctrination and so on , but no real inner party er democracy , no real er involvement in the decision making processes by this mass membership of ordinary peasants .
And thirdly the objective was no longer what Marx had acclaimed the objective of er a party following his leadership should be , no longer the objective which Lenin , in the Russian Revolution , claimed was the objective for the Russian Bolshevik Party not a workers ' revolution which would then spread and become international , worldwide .
Quite clearly the objective and you can reading between the lines of the propaganda which pours out er of the Chinese Communist Party for the late thirties onwards , reading between the lines you can see it the objective is essentially Chinese state power , achieving power and using power to build er a national er unified , modern state .
So the impact of nineteen twenty five to seven on the Communist Party and on the revolution which it made in nineteen forty nine is just as great as the impact had been on the Kuomintang and nationalist China .
Let me just sum it up .
What had been essentially a workers ' party , fifty percent of the membership workers based predominantly in the big cities and towns becomes a party of intellectuals and peasants .
Intellectuals er and professional revolutionaries in the leadership , a mass membership of peasants .
A party which had been essentially urban becomes a party of the rural hinterland and not just erm the , the countryside as a whole but particularly , in the nineteen thirties at any rate , the most backward parts of the Chinese countryside , the most inaccessible parts , the least developed parts of the countryside .
A party that had based er its strategy on strikes and urban armed insurrections becomes a party of rural guerilla insurgency , a completely different kind of strategy for winning power .
A party whose main base of support had been the , the unions and the er union confederations which grew up in industrial cities like Shanghai becomes a party whose main power base is its own Red Army , its own army of peasant guerillas which it itself has created .
And , finally , a party which had seen itself as being part of a process of international socialist revolution , linked with the Russian revolution of nineteen seventeen , becomes a party which is primarily a party of Chinese nationalism .
Now if th this side , the list on this side erm represents the sort of essential characteristics of a Marxist political party , and if that 's a reasonable er summary , and people might want to take issue with it argue that these aren't the essential characteristics , that there are other essential characteristics or one other important er characteristic which I 've ignored , but if these are , down this side , the essential characteristics of a Marxist party then Mao 's Communist Party in the late nineteen thirties can not , it seems to me , by any stretch of the imagination qualify .
The Chinese Communist Party of the late nineteen thirties is a completely different kind of political organization to what had existed in mid nineteen twenties .
Is that a good thing ?
Good question .
Perhaps we can talk about that .
Would you call Mao himself one of the intellectuals ?
Yes in the sense that although he comes from a peasant background originally , it 's a rich peasant background and he himself had er a reasonable education and subsequently erm built on the education that he was given becoming in part self-taught .
I would certainly classify Mao as an intellectual .
Yes .
Shall we arrange ourselves
Yes .
Finished ?
Well how long was the er the Russian revolution a Marxist revolution ?
It 's another good question .
I mean the Marxism was the motivation just as it was for the Chinese but er I don't think the Russian revolution remained Marxist revolution for very long But the achievement of revolution did make it possible for the success of revolution to be seen by the Chinese because it had already been achieved .
That 's what gave them their
I , I , yes I mean I , I
their drive you know
I don't want to sort of wade in in response to that , I want other people to er
Are you going to sit in the centre ?
Are you going to sit in the centre
Everybody finished with this ?
this part of a general truism that erm Marx banned communism
Yes , yes that 's alright .
of the industrial countries .
Countries which actually adopted it were found to er in this way .
As I say I'm not going to respond immediately cos I think other people ought to .
Well I 'd like to say to that that er no Marx didn't specifically erm erm look to Britain or er Germany , only in the sense that they , at the time most advanced and he , he reckoned that er ideas of communism would spread only in the most advanced countries who in course of time would influence other countries .
But initially there had to be a real , genuine erm working class revolution and therefore Marx looked first to England because we were the most advanced and we 'd been in the business of running capitalism for s so much longer than any other country in the world .
What we need is a definition of Marxism of course .
I know .
Oh dear
Well one that we can at least discuss as to whether this was Marxism or not .
But that 's precisely the problem because erm the definition which I would give to it is necessarily a definition which would preclude er regarding Mao 's party as a Marxist party but then other people would say that my definition was er itself controversial .
Yes well if you tell us what your definition
I would s I would , I would say it is that i it is the theory and the practise of international working class revolution .
And I would say that all of those elements have to be there .
It is a political theory but it 's also an attempt to act on that political theory so it 's practise as well .
It 's the idea that you can't have socialism in one country , it has to be international it 's the idea that it has to be based on the working class because the working class is the agent of socialism and it has to be by revolution because the ruling class won't give up its power and wealth voluntarily .
I would say all of those five elements have to be in a definition of what Marx meant by Marxism .
I would agree with that but I 'll take it further to say that , and if you read Marx you 'd find this very clear , what he meant ultimately that the working class would achieve is a kind of a society where there was a common ownership of the means of life .
No ruling class , no working class , just people producing wealth as they produced it , consuming it that would be an efficient society where nobody would go hungry , there would be no unemployment , no poverty and er it 's the ultimate objective of er the human race .
But that isn't , if we want to survive , that is what we must achieve , the common ownership of the means to survive .
And it also means er er obviously no classes , therefore no wages or salaries , no money , no banks just people and the material resources of the earth .
But you 've got you 've got to have leaders haven't you ?
And here they had the intellectuals as the leaders which they had got to have .
I mean after all , the working class wouldn't
on their own would they ?
Yes
If they had
if they had the well because nobody came forward from the working class through it , it was the intellectuals that started it and gathered the
You 're wrong you see
not even working class .
No
Surely once you have leaders then the whole things fall down
Of course it does .
Yeah .
be because leaders want power and they get power and so they want more power .
That 's it , absolutely right .
But then i i nothing will work without leaders .
Mm see
Marx , Marx didn't Marx did not anticipate leaders .
What he did say to the working class is this that the emancipation of working class must be the work of the working class itself .
That means an educated working class , understanding the needs of socialism or communism and setting about the task of achieving it by getting rid of capitalism and introducing socialism , or communism .
Which means the same thing to me .
What happened what happened really in , in Russia and China is er that they had a sort of captive lower class who 'd been used to a very authoritarian kind of rule so they were able to impose communism from above .
Because there doesn't seem to have been ever any er revolution that was initiated by working classes .
Victor Hugo says there will be no revolution until the middle classes man the barricades er which they 're beginning to do now .
But who are the middle classes ?
Who are they ?
You see
Pass .
here again here again you see in Marx , Marx says that more and more , and he said this in his day , more and more is society spreading into two classes on the one hand the ruling class , the owners of the means of life , on the other hand the r vast majority of people today , it 's ninety percent of the population , who don't own the means of l of life but ten percent do .
And more and more said Marx , society 's splitting into these two groups .
There can be no middle class with even those who are highly paid , they are highly paid members of the working class , they 're not middle class .
But after all Marx himself was ma er middle class .
No he wasn't .
No he wasn't .
Yes but working class aspire to be middle class , and very frequently represent themselves as middle class
Well , yeah
and , and middle class er wish to achieve upper class .
It 's the lower class that tends to stay where it is because it doesn't get the representation .
Because middle class will push the lower class down and be supported by the upper class .
Sounds
So they have to have
It sounds like
It sounds like sounds , it sounds
Yeah well it is Ronnie .
a nonsense to me for this reason , that there is in society the payers of wages and the receivers of wages .
That 's how society 's divided .
We , you know , there are buyers and sellers and that 's how you divide it .
Mm .
You can't get away from that .
That 's capitalism and you , so long as you 've got buyers and sellers you get this antagonism of interest between buyers and sellers .
What would you have then ? ?
Obviously the interests of buyers and sellers are diametrically opposed to one another .
Mm well how do you get away from that then ?
That 's this society .
I I think that when we discuss Marxism erm we tend , I mean looked at the
Yes .
philosophical side of Marxism which is very interesting and there 's a lot of very deep thoughts but what we 've been given your definition , is what I 'd say is the political strategy that Marx said er was necessary to achieve the philosophical ends .
Now you 've er , you 've defined what you think is , what you consider to be Marxism which is the political aim , the strategy and of course within your definition er it 's so easy to er make a definition which suits your premise that er the Chinese Party was not Marxist .
I agree with you but it 's it 's very easily done isn't it ?
Mm .
If you want to prove a point , well you give the answer first and say this is what erm what 's it all about .
However I , I er I can't see that er what happened with the C C P falls within either Harold 's definition or your definition of Marxism .
Perhaps you 're both wrong , I don't know .
You did say that the Communist Party to state power .
Erm were n't they then following Stalin 's ?
You see he moved away from communism as
That 's right yeah , yeah .
what we , you know , pure communism and just er adopted state power .
And it seems to me that China was just doing the same as St Stalin did .
In , in fact Mao himself said it
I 've got it here in , in , in black and white , Mao said what we are after is the abolition of feudal ties , to get rid of feudalism .
Not , not getting rid of capitalism , get rid of feudalism .
Yes .
the Chinese Communist Pa the , the new Chinese Community Party , did it declare itself to be Marxist ?
Yes .
Mm .
You see I mean er er and this generally , I mean ju just as when Stalin claimed to be communist , that claim has been accepted by the great majority of people writing about what was happening in Russia in the West and in just the same way the Chinese leadership er after nineteen forty nine claimed to be communist , claimed to be standing in the tradition of Marx and that claim , generally speaking , has been accepted .
But there are all sorts of other claims that people make that we are very much more critical of .
When Margaret Thatcher says the N H S is safe in her hands
we
we , well at least we , we give that some thought , we don't just accept it because she said it
No
and I mean there has n't been , I think , that kind of critical investigation of the claims that have been made by successive leaderships in Russia and China and other states claiming to be communist
Mm .
That 's right .
which we would normally subject the claims of political leaders to .
Mm .
See it 's , it 's the question of a big lie isn't it ?
If you keep on saying a thing long enough communist , everybody believes you even though it 's the biggest lie on earth .
It 's a complete myth .
There 's never been any communism in Russia communism in China .
No but it , it , it
What , what has happened is
partially worked in Russia
No it didn't
they 'd introduced capitalism into China
Into it , yeah .
they 'd introduced capitalism into Russia
Yes .
Yes .
But they at least did a half half of it .
good .
I mean don't forget don't forget don't forget when everybody was wearing their sickles and hammers in this country they had millionaires in Russia .
Now can you
Yes .
credit millionaires in a co so-called communist country ?
That 's right .
Because it 's human nature people want to get better things .
But aren't , aren't changes aren't these changes er in Russia and in China forced upon them to a degree by circumstances , by the fact that the outside world immediately withdraws and opposes a rising of the people as a whole against the established government er I mean we 've seen in recent times with Iran and so on haven't we ?
Er public opinion didn't welcome the overthrow of of the Shah , it was immediately horrified and everyone gathered together to er try and bring about a re- establishment of the Shah .
That 's right .
Er I mean they had a family in er Russia didn't they ?
I mean that must have what it c er millions died in that and er the same thing happened in China .
And all of that makes it easier for those who are leading or in control to change the policies and get acceptance .
Yes , but not to achieve communism
No oh no
because the cry of the Soviets was at the time , in nineteen seventeen , the cry of the Soviets was not for communism or socialism but their cry , and they had it inscribed on their banners , peace land and bread , that 's what they had there , peace , land and bread , not communism .
But er communism and politics are like religion they don't necessarily deliver the goods .
They an interpretation don't they ?
Which , which they
Well
sell to the public .
you see to put it back to Marx it 's the working class that have got to deliver the goods .
It 's in , within their power now , look at the working class ruling now .
They 're on erm local councils and members of the working class sit on their local councils .
The working class can take over at any time when they wish , when they have the knowledge , when they are in the majority .
Well they 're always in the majority aren't they ?
Well of course
And Southend returns a Tory council
Yeah
year a well
But they don't have to do that do they ?
They don't have
But it 's them they do it
Because if one stands out then they lose what they 've got , they lose their job .
Once they ever reach that position
I don't see that at all .
and the it 's perfectly it 's all about it
er er on television at the moment isn't it ?
I mean lunch time we were hearing how , because they stood up for what was right , it was over the killing of soldiers and that , this man job and actually he more or less said that he was something wrong with his head didn't he ?
Yes he was put into a mental institution .
mental institution and having to give up his job because once they get that position if they speak out , in any way , for instance the Civil Service you can't speak out at all even if you can see something that you know is wrong
Well
there is nothing that you can do about it
well
and even if you want to
erm
you have to side with
I think that 's entirely wrong .
Entirely wrong
Yes .
because I 've known civil servants who 've been er members of my organization , I belong to the Socialist Party of Great Britain , the only socialist party in this country .
We stand for
Yes .
communism as propagated by Marx in his day
Yes .
and we have had in our ranks civil servants .
Yes but then they 're but nevertheless they could n't
I mean they 're university professors .
publish anything however
But they do publish things .
I can bring along the statements of these people who 've said all sorts of things , you can you know put down at once but they 're not put down .
There 's a man , Steve , stands up in Hyde Park every Sunday er talking about communism and socialism .
Mm .
Erm I w I was going to say , going back to China , erm they 're a bit frightened of China now in , in what was the Soviet Union I heard the other day , were th were they a little bit anti China 's type of communism before er the Soviet Union fell or were they all , all pals together ?
In the nineteen fifties
They recognized the difference in their types of communism .
Well it 's certainly true that there were ideological differences but whether those were the reason for the split or not is a er is a , is a moot question and I suspect not .
I suspect that ideological differences with the Russians and the Chinese denouncing each other as counter- revolutionaries were sort of a cover really for the fact there were , there were real conflicts of interest between the Chinese and the Russians which we will , will , we will look at .
But I , I mean through the nineteen fifties there is a reasonable measure of co-operation between the Russians and the Chinese and then from the beginning of the nineteen sixties and onwards there is conflict between Russia and China .
And I mean there has been up until fairly recently , it 's only in the last few years that relations have tended to get a bit better .
Mm .
You were saying about erm the West not , not questioning Russian and China and , you know , accepting that they were communist .
Di did that not because erm as capitalist countries we would perceive anything communist as being the enemy and so it , it 's actually in our interests to , to , to lump them all together rather than question because
That 's right .
if you question you might actually find that there 's some good thing or , or at least the people might find that there 's some good things in it so it 's then er it becomes more of a threat then to the capitalist world
That 's that 's right .
than by just dumping them all together and
Right .
accepting it .
Or you could say erm that if communism can be equated with secret police and the Gulag Archipelago
That 's right .
and forced labour schemes and so on and so forth , then you 've destroyed , or you 've very seriously undermined the appeal
Mm
of radical ideas in the West .
Now I would suggest that that is the prime motivation
Yes .
But the communists in Russia were er th all this er Gulag Arli Archipelago and secret police have been in existence in Russia for hundreds of years before the com er communists came in .
It was because the people were used to that kind of society with a secret police and er government inspectors and sending people out to Siberia and putting
Oh yes .
Under the Tsar
your intellectuals in prison haven't they ?
I mean the society 's didn't change all that much as far as the ordinary people were concerned .
But we 've changed too here , we 've changed since the , the last century haven't we ?
Look at the way they treated people years ago .
Yes but in Russia they they had this kind of framework before communism began
Well that 's true
Mm mm
but it wasn't exclusive to Russia of course in the land
Oh no I
of the Tsars the Tsars dominated , of course they did .
They sent
Yes I know , I don't dis
people to prison , they sent them into exile .
We know they ill treated them , but so they did here .
But I mean in Russia they , they were use yes I know but
Mm
they were n't , didn't do this in this century so much here peasants did they ?
Well eighteen twenty four
Yes but that 's not this century .
But , but I think er you know in , in Russia er they always had this kind of authoritarian regime .
People always were sent to Siberia , before the communists came in .
So it , it didn't really
Well that 's right
Yeah alright
make much change to the ordinary people .
What do others think about that ?
I mean do , do people think that if , if
That 's a point
if there is a sort authoritarian political tradition
Mm
that that could be something which is quite difficult to , to break .
Yes China was
even more so in China where
Yeah
they were used to an authoritarian er regime .
I think it would be very relevant in China .
And that 's why I think erm the West is making an enormous mistake in thinking that eastern European countries can suddenly become cos they never have been and I can't see any democratic now .
I think
demo democracy .
Is there any de democracy anywhere ?
Anywhere ?
Well
There are some places were you , I mean all democracy means is that you , you have a vote
Yes
anything else .
Yes , yes , but you would pro see what they do after
Yes mm .
Have they taken any notice of you ?
But at least you 've got the chance haven't you ?
At least
That 's , that 's right
you 've got the chance whereas in these countries they haven't , if you haven't got a democracy .
You haven't got political democracy and you can't have democracy er er er as long as er some people have the control of other other people .
Some , some people possess the means of product production and , and can do what they like to many other people , they 're the people
But isn't it the ignorance of the people because the people are ignorant and they actually don't know what they 're voting for
Ah that 's it , yeah yes that 's it , yes .
which is the main thing .
They don't know what they 're voting for .
Yeah yeah that 's right .
but still , it still comes to my point , there is no democracy
Well yes no but
But we , we can we can differentiate between two , the two different sides still I think .
I mean they they 're all er some , some countries which we call demo democracies erm aren't the same as we are , they 're
Yes well it 's
And there , there are shades of democracy , I mean Sweden 's far more democratic than Italy and so on .
Yeah .
Mm .
Er but they 're still different from countries like Rumania and Russia and so on
Yes mm
which have never had a an inkling of democracy
Yes that 's right .
there 's no likelihood of getting the same sort of regime that we 've got which I know isn't democratic in that sense
But when we want to teach a democracy to er to er to a different er the countries of the east , when it 's it 's a big humbug I think you can't teach them
Yes
we can't teach them much .
Er what are we teaching them now ?
Market forces .
Er er er market forces everywhere er you you 'll see now it 's all for the market forces and if you have market forces a few on the top and all the rest at the bottom .
Mm it 's happened already .
mansions being built in Russia now .
Yes , yes it is er
doesn't it take a long time to change people 's attitude against authority .
I mean I go back to
Mm
I mean that was horrible police state
Mm .
but now and they have dispensed with that a hundred years later and more than a hundred years .
So it takes a long time think more egalitarian .
cos it 'd have to take a long time .
no no
Yes most probably
no it 's up to us .
It doesn't have to take a long time , it 's up to us here and now .
yes but I mean people don't give up what they have , that 's human nature .
I'm actually very dubious about this idea indeed because I , I don't think that anybody actually likes being in a situation where they simply have to do what they 're told
No
and they 're not allowed to question anything
That 's right .
and they 're not allowed to disagree and answer back and argue as , I don't think anybody likes
Nobody likes
being in that situation .
People don't think great , this is the , this is the ideal sort of government
a really strong ruler who can tell me what to do so I know where I stand and so on .
And there are moments in history when
when
when , when that sort of system suddenly gets blown away .
I mean I think that 's really what we 've seen in eastern Europe
Yes
in sort of
Mm .
the revolutions of nineteen eighty nine .
And I don't think everybody 's going around in eastern Europe thinking oh what we need is to get back to the old Stalinist system where you , you know , you had someone telling you what to do all the time .
Far from it .
I think we do have to explain the , the re-establishment of authoritarian forms of government more carefully , we can't just assume that there 's a kind of almost instinctive hankering after it among the mass of the population because I'm just not convinced by that at all .
There have to be , there are particular reasons why er after revolutionary upheavals you very often get authoritarian forms of government and I would say in Russia and i i in a sense it 's linked with Harold 's question as well about erm the Chinese following a Stalinist model of economic reconstruction think what you 've actually got in Russia is not this sort of mass hankering after authoritarianism but you 've got a situation where the bureaucracy that controls a completely devastated , backward economy , which is what they 've actually got in the early nineteen twenties , where the working class democracy has just disappeared really with , with the , with the economic collapse , with the factories shutting down , with all of the old communist party militants going into the Red Army or getting sucked into the state bureaucracy with that sort of complete collapse really , economically and socially and politically , you 've got a situation where the central priority of the leadership is to build up Russian industry as quickly as possible so that Russia has got the armed forces it needs
Mm .
to defend itself against foreign
That 's right .
foreign aggression .
And that 's the central politic so the i ideas of socialism and , you know , international working class revolution goes out of the window
That 's right .
because there 's er there 's an absolute desperate er anxiety that Russia 's not gonna be able to defend itself unless it industrializes very very quickly , it 's
But surely
that gives rise to the authoritarianism .
surely that also suits the , the people at the bottom because i be because the , the government is , is producing work in effect it means that the people at the bottom have jobs and , and can earn money and , and so they 're , they 're lot actually improves .
I mean th they , they might don't necessarily see why it 's improving and what 's behind it , but their lot must improve if there 's industrialization and weapons and things to be made , that they they have jobs and presumably have more money than they had before when they were just sort of not doing very much .
In the long term there must be improvement as Russia industrializes , but in the short term erm presumably we see the development of , of a , of a sort of Stalinist totalitarianism precisely because the screws are really being turned on people as much work is being got out of them as possible in order to accumulate capital and to build up basic industries and , and , and to divert , I mean not just into heavy industries , but to divert er resources into arms production as well .
But what they 're not doing is spending loads of money on hospitals and houses and schools and raising the general living standards , they 're spending it all on heavy industry and armaments .
Which is why I think the government is authoritarian , why you have secret police and gulags and so on , because they can't afford to tolerate large numbers of people saying this isn't what the revolution was supposed to be about .
Mm .
But
Is it because of the interference with one country to another then ?
If they were perhaps left on their own to sort out their own problems
Yeah .
wouldn't they do it better ?
They may look
if they looked inward instead of outward .
But then they 've always got the threat of er er er I mean at the moment there really isn't that threat is there ?
Unless you 'd er think of America , but they 've got so much problems there that they 've got to look within themselves now haven't they ?
Otherwise there 's going to be chaos there if they don't stop now and look within themselves instead of all of this interfering in other countries which they 've done in the past .
America has got to do that , Russia is broken up so it 's lesser than it is , in fact it 's going down , if only they 'd look , but you see they can't do it now without outside help .
Without the outside help they can't build up there country .
So it seems everybody 's got their head against a brick wall at the moment because of in fact the whole world seems worse than it 's ever been .
I don't suppose it is , but it seems like that to us because we know more about it now , we see it on television .
Maybe we , we 're all more
Well it ought to be said that the world today , in this year nineteen ninety two , is a different place from what it was a hundred years ago .
Yes .
Compared with then we 're now a village , not a worldwide any more .
We can lift the telephone and speak to people in Australia .
The communications are such that it 's like living in a village .
So therefore we 've got to look at it that way .
We want to be a big village , we want to be human beings living in a human society
Yes , yes of course .
Well of course I do know that the , the only answer to it , of course , is for the christian way but it 's not what it , that 's going to happen .
But that is the only answer , the christian way .
That is not the only , if it 's not gonna happen it 's not the only answer is it ?
But it is er there 's not going to be any other answer .
That 's , that is a con that is a contradiction .
But there isn't going to be any other answer because that is the only answer .
But , but it isn't in , in , in that people have never lived er according to er christian philosophy or indeed
No
any other religious philosophy , or even any secular philosophy .
I mean
No , no .
I mean any of us really could sit down and draw up a list of er of things where , if we , you know , a list of rules if e war for a very small subscription ornot many groups other and if everybody stuck by them , everything would be wonderful
Mm
but then of course the reality is that that
No
has never happened and isn't happening now and it 's
No
it 's never going to happen .
We have to
Mm
actually look at the real social forces that cause people to act er in violation of all of those very desirable philosophical principles .
I 'd like to take up your point about is it that erm after revolution and so on and break downs , governments er countries , say like Russian , China er some of these eastern European countries , they 're motivation goes to building their country up to resist occupation .
Erm that seems to be the main motivation but I don't think it is , personally , er it might be what is suggested to them because if they look like going socialist again , then it is not what the majority of the capitalist wants , or the major powers want .
They haven't been fighting all these years to get rid of communism to see it re-emerge again so you , the confusion continues , as it is in Russia , and then you insinuate the idea that , with the breakdown of social order and so on , you must have a strong man , you must have strong arms and that 's where your Hitlers and your Mussolinis and all these people come through in that little vacuum in between of disorder .
It 's a dangerous time .
But I don't think it 's the will of the people , it 's sold to them .
Whereas the revolution usually comes from the straw that broke the camel 's back .
They 've been revolting for years under the surface and then some thing happens that make it possible course the continued revolutions have gone on through the world and because they 've seen the success of a revolution in Russia although we didn't know the full facts of it in the West , it was , it did establish a huge area in the wake of a revolution .
How could it , how could it be a success when it collapsed , how could it be a success ?
I mean communism
Ooh no no no I said the success of the revolution which swept away
See communism , communism
the existing force that was there .
I'm not saying that it achieved er a great victory
Well it wasn't a success was it ?
but it , it completely changed the scene and established an entirely different system .
Not a good one , but it established it .
Can , can I go back to er a question which , you asked was it a good thing
Mm
that there was this change of policy in the Chinese Communist Party .
Mm .
What do people think about it ?
Chinese Communist Party .
That they , th they
Yes that you said it er Pat thought it seemed a good thing , the way you were saying it
I wasn't meaning to suggest it was either good or bad I was to report it .
Well no , no I know but I thought well that doesn't seem to well that 's better than what they had .
There was no change in policy Mao himself said he was there to do away with feudalism .
I 've got it here in black and white
Yes .
that was his object , to do away with feud not to introduce socialism do away with feudalism .
Do away with , yes of course .
Which is what they done .
Mm .
Well it was a good idea in as much as it returned to the people 's wishes didn't it ?
People had been staging revolutions without a great deal of success over the years and it was seventy percent of the people who were disadvantaged wasn't it ?
Well if they were n't represented in the Kuomintang were they ?
But didn't the er the new Communist Party leadership simply canalize the , the discontent and use it to achieve their own political objectives rather than that discontent itself forming the basis of revolutionary change .
I mean I , I rather suspect it was the , the former it wasn't th the driving force was not to be the needs of the mass of the population , but the needs of the mass of the population could be used , could be harnessed to build the Red Army
Mm
which would be capable of sweeping away the Kuomintang and putting into power the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party .
Yeah .
And I suppose , I mean if I was to answer the question was it a good thing I would have to say no .
I mean I would have to say that that , that turn by the Chinese Communist Party meant that it was a turn away from the idea that it was the , the ordinary people themselves who , who should shape their own destiny .
I think the Communist Party actually adhered to that idea in the nineteen twenties .
nineteen twenties
didn't it have to survive first though ?
It had to first of all survive which is why it went on the long march wasn't it ?
And unless
Yes
it could expand , unless it could gather strength and produce an army er it was on the road to annihilation which was their the course of erm Chiang Kai-Shek 's wasn't it ?
Which persisted even through the march and so on .
They had to first of all get a base from which to achieve , unfortunately of course gaining the power and the growth of the power no doubt the ideals were corrupted and it became what you are su suggesting it did , it no longer represented the people .
Became ideological .
Yes well I I , I mean you erm you posed the question whether it was a good or bad thing , this change erm I can only the results of the change and what would have happened if the change had not taken place or try to er see what the change , it would seem to me that the alternative er would have been a continuance of er possibly erm a kind of Kuomintang erm type of policy which encouraged erm other nationalities to develop China as beginning to happen now .
Whether that would have been , at that time , for the benefit of the mass of the Chinese people we 're talking about erm I don't think I , I rather think that the er turn that Mao took probably in the long run , in the long term , was to the benefit of the mass of people erm the peasantry , the workers in China because I think the alternative would have been erm international exploitation .
Which is what we 've got now .
You 're ge you 're beginning to get it now , yes .
Erm
No we 've had it all the time .
Well I , I'm not sure of , here again he 's making another turn isn't he and er you 're going back to as I say , what would probably have been the lesser of two evils .
Erm but erm er I , I mean there 's been a double turn in , in fact .
And what you 're suggesting Harold is that er he 's going back now to er er the erm er the idea of the , I 'd suggest that o w w what would have been the alternative was erm international exploitation .
I'm more interested in the , the kind of s so called philosophical erm ideas that have been raised , as whether this , you know , these kind of ideas of a , a kind of ideal state are just possible .
I have my doubts erm in , in that erm certainly not within one nation erm I , I agree with you entirely that it 's contradictory to Marxism in that erm what happened in erm with Mao was that erm he turned away from any internationalist socialist concept .
But erm and that presumably one could say that in the same way as Stalin did but that erm Trotsky 's idea was much nearer to Marx .
But erm it 's all very easy to say you can't have socialism or this ideal state , whatever you might like to call it , unless it 's all er er you know kind of international er it 's got to be , happen all over the world or it never will happen at all but erm first of all it 's got to happen in your own country and it seems to me that we imagine that everybody , the mass of the people that we , we do that er we want this ideal state .
And I doubt , as a result of the last general election , whether people want that kind of state .
I think that the mass of the people , as far as I can see , want the state where they can er well economic climate in which they can make money for themselves and get on top .
And I think this has been proved you know that ask when people have changed their minds and said I don't know , that this is what has happened in the last er ten to fifteen years erm and which makes me feel that once again I think that advances can only be evolutionary erm I think that erm , I don't know if you , anybody saw Joseph Conrad 's erm spy story on the television ?
It finished up with one erm very relevant , relevant to this class , quotation erm can't remember the last part of it though , he was talking about the Indian , that he had a , talking about it and saying voodism catholism and then the next stage erm which I can't remember the word but in effect it meant co-operation and you can't get that it seems to me unless you have a , a change of vision , change in erm not just in society but in people because this is where it starts .
And whether the erm the kind of ideology or the ideas are christian or Marxist erm you 've got to wait till the overwhelming mass of the people see that truth before er it can be effective .
Which is why
But you don't
I think that , unfortunately , with China erm you know the , the whole idea is going to collapse .
It 's not on the path to a utopia at all .
Mm .
Well you don't even get co-operation like that within a single family unit do you ?
No , no .
So I think you 're right , it 's got to be a massive change for people .
I think it 'll come but , well , we 're rather impatient I think when you look back over the past hundred years you see some massive erm changes which are quite unprecedented .
Nobody could dream that , you know , things that are in existence today , a hundred years ago , you know it was , it seemed impossible .
But people will probably only all co-operate when they are all threatened by the same external
Yes .
Yes
so , so that everybody 's threatened by the same thing so that
lot of green , little green men landing somewhere
The whole , the whole world today whole world is threatened with pollution .
don't you know that this planet is , don't you
Yes but people shut their eyes to it .
don't you know that this planet is running down , that time is short .
We 've got ta do something about it .
We 've got to , we 've got to do something about it .
Well that may be the answer That may be the answer .
But at the moment people shut their eyes to it because
You see there 's every , every , there 's every evidence to show there 's every evidence to show that those who live by profits will never cure pollution .
They will never er produce a healthy environment .
But we 've got to do it , us , people .
We 've got to see the damage
and then do something about it .
Yes but then you see Greenpeace is going , trying to do it and
You 're always
there 's very few of you here belong to it , I can't see your badges on , we haven't got ours on at the moment and a lot of people don't even believe in Greenpeace .
If we put , all put our badges on we 'd be weighed down .
Because it 's not practical .
So it , it 's not until something really happens
Why don't they believe in it ?
Well maybe they 're ignorant about , we 've heard people say I don't believe
in al any all of that , maybe they are the saviours of the world for all we know , the Greenpeace people .
Maybe .
We have advanced for a price
What , what
and we will not give up the good things in life for Greenpeace and for a clean environment
But , but you won't you w I will , you won't
because ah no
What is , I mean what is being discussed it seems to me is , is a , is a dilemma that has been debated ever since people became interested in social change ,
Yeah
Mm
the possibility of deliberate , purposeful social improvement and I think it 's much more straightforward than people generally suggest .
The
So do I .
the , the , the implication is always erm that you 've got to make some sort of choice between do we get the social change first , which gives rise to a different kind of people , better people , or do we first of all change the people so that they 're capable of making a better world and of course it 's a catch twenty two , isn't it ?
Mm
The reality is
the , the reality is both change together .
That is actually what happens if you look at processes of social change in history
That 's right .
that as peop that as a social crisis develops , people become interested in radical critical ideas and they start talking about how things can be improved .
And the , the pressure for change builds up and as the changes begin to happen , new values , new attitudes become dominant which in turn affects how people see things so they become interested in yet greater changes .
Now that 's what actually happens , there 's a there 's a dialectical interaction between people 's ideas about what society should be like and the changes that are actually going on around them .
It 's not chicken and egg it 's two things interacting , that 's how history actually operates .
That 's right .
yo you 're suggesting is what is happening now and so many of us he no he not just here but in population generally belong to all sorts of pressure groups erm whatever they may be like Greenpeace and many others erm really it 's , it 's a jolly hard slog , the point is that erm it the lid is on the kettle the whole time and it 's only , the only way that people can get anything done is by joining these organizations erm but it 's a very slow business erm but there 's no other way of doing anything because you can't change what happens at the top .
Everything is , is , whether it 's pollution or anything else erm you can't , you can't change it .
Er n nothing ever happens up there that 's why people are so disillusioned with politics altogether .
I think er everything is in the people 's hands really , but people are so varied and so different aren't they ?
You speak to a person about one thing and they 've got a totally opposite point of view from you and you think well I am surprised , with all that they 've gone through and yet they you know , they don't see , people don't s think along the same lines .
They think so totally different and there 's got to be a reason for that .
Is it to do with education ?
Is it to do with the newspapers ?
A lot of it 's to do with newspapers .
A lot of people don't care one way or the other as long as they 're alright .
Most people are quite happy if everything is fair , if things are fair they think well it 's fair .
But there 's so much that isn't fair .
And really everything is in the people 's hands if only they knew it .
But people are different and want different things out of life .
Yes .
Yes , but then there 's got to be there 's got to be
But I mean people are very kind on the whole .
aren't they ?
Greenpeace have a meeting somewhere I'm sure everyone goes there by car .
Yeah , exactly that is what I'm sort of
Yes , yes , yes of course .
Maybe there 's no other way they can get there .
If there was a proper , a bus system that you could nip on easily they would do that but all those
That 's right .
things are taken away .
I mean , yes
Yes
I mean there used to be a tram , trams running along the Southchurch Road
Yes
you could nip on there for a
All of that 's taken away from you .
Yes .
These things have been taken away from you .
That 's right .
And people have to have cars
By the , by the same token , you know
I mean I , I never went in a car when I was a child .
I was going to say that everyo ebs absolutely everyone is against war but not many people actually joined the United Nations after the war for a very small subscription or not many groups of people have many members in it , and of course because there were so few members in it , they a they went one particular way which a lot of people that had joined didn't agree with and so they came out of it .
I it it 's oh no , we don't want war , we 're all against war , but nobody is prepared to bother actually to go to a meeting or , or pay a small subscription and , and then you w you could of had a very strong United Nations now the same as after the first world war , but it 's the people that didn't do it .
isn't it the government rather than the people ?
The , the amount of money put into the United Nations by the governments
Yes but it
not by the people .
it 's also the individual isn't it ?
I mean if the
if the individual sort of carried out UNICEF things and , and that sort of thing , they rely on the individual
you 've got a
But there 's there 's , there 's another pr sorry
It 's alright I was only gonna say I think you 've got a er erm strong battle to wage against the sort of natural freedom of people
Mm .
Yes .
and the fear of people for each other that that lot might take away what I 've got sort of thing .
And also I think , which is very strong and I think it does come out in , in the Chinese Communist Party , is the lust of power which can be even more dangerous when you convince yourself I 'll do all you lot good but I can make you all members of the Communist Party , whether you want to be or not doesn't really matter , you know , it 's gonna be for the good of the country so you fall in with this trap of assuming that you want is for their good so it 's sort of a , a dangerous thing .
I think it does happen in China , I think it happened in the early part of the Russian revolution before Stalin was and we had communism with .
And I think these are very dangerous erm threads that run through the society of er you know , the , the international community where we , we live on this fear almost .
We 're frightened of what will happen and sometimes we have need to be frightened , you know , they are going to do very different things because they disagree violently with us .
And that 's why your idea that I think it does have to be a very gradual process where we learn to trust each other , we learn to live by our decisions that we make together rather than separate decisions .
But I think there 's a very strong argument Chinese revolution And , to a certain extent you can understand that people have to identify with something and the easiest thing to identify with is a king and a queen erm Chinese communist leaders of various sorts , Stalin even Karl Marx , you know , you can convince yourself that he had all the answers when of course , really , you must see these things as developing .
And I think this is a very strong I think has to be taken into account whenever you 're talking about history .
Can I just say , do you think that erm there 's a er within the last twenty years there 's such a terrific change in society , like people who know other coun er other countries know each more through television
That 's right .
That 's right .
and within the last say twenty five years there 's been a dramatic change in the young people 's way of thinking , maybe more of them have gone to university than they did the previous twenty five years and that there is such a difference now than there was that I mean for instance if there was a war there wouldn't , there would be far more conscientious objectors than there ever was before far more than erm young man saying no I'm going to fight for my country , be patriotic I don't think you would find , for instance , the youth of this country so patriotic as they was in the last war , your country needs you .
And they would be a coward for not going to war .
Well they wouldn't need them anyway .
No .
They wouldn't need them because of the , this technology and that that 's but nevertheless they do ha they would be conscripted because they do have to have the ground troops of
That 's right .
prove that this technology wasn't so great as one would have thought it was without the ground troops .
But that , that 's just one little part of it but and because there 's been a lot of quite worldwide travel of young people , not perhaps on a massive scale , but at least the young people of each country are more thinking more of them
Not only the young
more of them , not only the young people , of course not , but I mean more of them , I know there always were some of more than there was before it has changed every value , even moral values and everything like that , have changed a lot the last twenty to thirty years .
That 's , that is
But that 's not sorry
an element that could come into it .
I was going to say that , that , John 's point about evolution , it comes slowly because
Yes
in nineteen , nineteen forty
Mm .
they said exactly what you 're saying , it wasn't the last twenty years it was
No
it was continuous through the century .
I mean
Yes .
in nineteen forty older people were saying don't , don't go and , and volunteer and , and think what you 're doing
Well
more so than they did in , in nineteen fourteen , it 's
Yes
a gradual evolution .
The world gets smaller .
but I , you see mm now see I'm not , I'm really not convinced by that at all , I because I mean it 's quite clear that right across Europe in nineteen thirty nine , nineteen forty , er there was a real sense of oh no , not again
Yes .
and it was because the generation whose sons were being sent to be slaughtered
In the first world
had gone through it themselves .
And I'm , I'm sure that was the reason , there , I mean there are all sorts of er accounts of you know how people poured onto the streets waving their bloody flags in nineteen fourteen and die in the trenches
and it didn't happen in thirty nine because remember how monstrous it was
No that 's that 's what I'm saying
I think that 's the key thing in thirty nine forty and
But now it 's forty years
yeah , exactly , and
Give it another twenty years and there won't be people left who remember .
er that 's , and I and I'm thinking about the response to the Falklands and the Gulf .
Yeah mm
These , these were , these were comparatively small er wars , I mean the Falklands was an absolute I mean farce really , it wasn't a serious
complicated and yet
I , I 've never heard anyone saying a word about the Gulf war .
What a approv approving ?
I have ne
I have never heard anybody saying that it was er not the right thing to do .
Well I have .
I stood amongst twenty thousand
Ah but so did I and I did nothing but write during that time but I 've never known and everything I 've said about that is true , has turned out to be true .
I stood amongst twenty thousand people
It wasn't a war
It wasn't a war , it was an attack .
Yes and
And it was a wicked cowardice thing that ever happened
at the time virtually everybody
and eventually it will all have to come out .
at the time virtually everybody supported it , I mean
Yes , they did .
Yeah .
Everybody supported it .
I wrote to everybody going , in fact ev all over the world I should think all , everybody in this country because that is how I felt about it .
I knew that it was the most wrong and wicked thing to do
Yeah .
and the last massacre that happened , which has never come out yet , will eventually have to come out , because there are soldiers now that are talking about it .
The most coward and yet everybody you spoke to s s thought that was a good thing , because they believed everything they saw on television right until the girl that was the actress that cried on television and said he pulled the plugs out of the incubators for the babies , and she was an actress and yet that was head headline news .
Yeah it was
Headline news .
So have you , have you have you now persuaded yourself that perhaps you 're over optimistic about I mean cos you were suggesting that attitudes had changed
Yes
fundamentally I mean I
No , I am appalled at people , I can't believe that people behave the w er take the attitude the way er
but they do .
I can't believe that people would take this attitude .
I have gone through it
Mm
I have experienced
That 's right
how people can behave .
Mm .
My husband was Jewish
Yeah
and suddenly I mean people lived for centuries there
Mm
suddenly I mean they were outcasts
Yeah
of every everybody threw them out , concentration camps and all that sort of thing , no ?
Although the majority of the people didn't know I believe that came out after the war , but people who were affected , they knew exactly that their son or husband was in Dachau
Mm
And people believe they would believe this country , although I'm very grateful to be here .
Mm .
We 've just gone through Armistice Day and I was and it 's always made , made me feel there 's something a little bit wrong about Armistice , it seemed more of a glorification in the way
Yeah
it was presented .
the first
Yes
time we 've had men who have been in war talking about the horror of war
Mm .
Yeah .
precede it and I thought that was a significant step forward .
But we can see the horror now , we only need to look at television and Yugoslavia .
Ah yes
We see horror now .
Yeah .
Mm .
We see it but we see it again and we see it again and it becomes less and less of an impact .
But at a time like that when i it 's devoted to the fallen in a war and men who were the heroes of the war say it was disgusting , you know , and and how they , they expressed themselves I thought was was a very very significant thing , it made a very very strong impression .
And I think that people who will be watching those services and the preambles to it , I think it will make an impression .
I don't know whether any young people would have been watching because I don't know
There 's
whether they , they focus to it .
Well I think
yeah there 's a muse th th there 's a museum at Carne in Normandy , I don't know if anyone 's been there , we went there last year , and it , it 's a new museum , a memorial museum and that 's the most moving place I 've ever been because it 's actually designed to show how awful war is and that it should n't happen again , it 's not a museum glorifying war , it 's a museum showing that , that it should n't happen , we should n't let it happen and there 's a erm there 's a great big case as you go in which has er a statement from every country that took part in the war , including Germany , and they 're all there , they 're all there together saying that you should n't you should n't let it happen and , and and I , I thought that was the sort o you know i i it was very impressive because i it wasn't glorifying anybody , it wasn't saying we won the war , you lost the war it was it was a , a coming together to say that it should n't happen .
But you see er
Mm don't think that 's a new idea , I think we were all brought up on that idea .
And sure I , I'm sure that the , the I mean th th the sentiment is more or less universal , I mean virtually everybody is opposed to war and yet again and again and again the leaders , who pay lip service
to these ideas , launch another war but it 's always a just war , this time it 's always justified
Mm yeah
and they 've got no alternative , otherwise we 're gonna get walked all over .
But it 's only , it 's only a few people that do it
Oh yes it is .
I mean are we all er er
yes it is
something wrong with all the people that allow a few people to do this ?
I mean it 's such a very small people isn't it ?
Yeah yeah
Why don't they put all the leaders of all the countries up in the air
Yes , yes
I always used to think that , why can't , why can't they push Mrs Thatcher
John I think this , this is wh , I think this ought to be the last contribution .
I'm trying to sort out in my mind what is the difference between these national wars er with er the use of violence and the kind of civil wars for social change er you can call it , or revolution , er involves er a civil war involves violence .
Now you see I don't think that you can say I'm all against national war but , but you 're in favour of a violent revolution
Mm
to change things for the good .
Er I can't , you know , there seems to be an inconsistency in so many people who are against national wars but er would say that what we need is a revolutionary situation in order to change things for the better within society .
Is there a difference ?
Well I think
Not so violent as war surely ?
Oh I don't know .
I was going to suggest that this is er , I mean I 've made a note of this question , that we ought to return to it next time
Yeah
ready to go .
this one 's been brought back if anyone wanted to
this is the book he was talking about that 's been brought back if anyone wants it .
No ?

Bright intervals are possible and apart from the chance of a light shower it should stay dry milder than of late with a top temperature of eleven celsius fifty two fahrenheit in a moderate south easterly wind .
Mist and patchy fog will form tonight and drizzle is likely in places too .
The overnight low eight celsius that 's forty six degrees fahrenheit .
Good afternoon from the county 's favourite station it 's half past twelve .
Radio Nottingham news headlines with Alison Ford .
Calverton Colliery is to close in just three weeks ' time .
The proposed closure was confirmed just twenty four hours after British Coal announced the pit was to go into the review procedure and revealed that it 's lost more than six million pounds in the last six months .
British Coal 's Midlands Group Director John Longdon has recommended that Calverton should cease production by November the nineteenth .
Nottinghamshire police have released a recording of a girl they believe called the Kingsmill Hospital at Sutton in Ashfield claiming she 'd had a baby .
They think it 's the same teenager who 's made at least a dozen calls to the police and a hospital in Lincolnshire she sometimes uses the name Cindy and sometimes Linda .
She says she 's fourteen and that the father of her child is her own dad .
A member of staff has been suspended from a centre for the handicapped in Nottinghamshire pending an internal investigation .
The probe at Redoaks Training Centre in Ringworth follows a police investigation at Stonecross Lane Residential Unit in Mansfield .
Nottinghamshire County Council won't confirm what the latest allegations are .
They 've stressed the two cases aren't linked .
A Nottingham car salesman who went with two prostitutes aged fourteen and fifteen has been jailed for three years .
Forty seven year old John House of Fairwell Drive in Bulwell denied having unlawful sexual intercourse with the girls but was found guilty at Nottingham Crown Court .
Recorded crime in England and Wales rose by three point eight per cent in the year to June .
Home Office figures put the total of offences at a record five point seven million but the rate of increase showed a sharp drop on the two previous years and more than half the recorded crime was either theft of or from vehicles .
And Nottinghamshire 's business leaders are the least confident in the East Midlands about the prospects of increased sales according to a survey by the accountants Price Waterhouse .
The survey also says that ten per cent of the county 's companies think the market will actually contract in the next six months .
Those are the headlines I 'll be back with the news in detail at one o'clock .
At twelve thirty two traffic and travel for Wednesday lunchtime listen for a space in a moment first traffic further afield from Jonathan Clays .
And we take a long range view if you 're heading on the motorways this afternoon .
Er locally no real troubles on the M One er if you 're heading down to Leicestershire we have the work at twenty two on the M One not really causing too many troubles but some brand new work on the go in Northants today between junctions nineteen and eighteen that 's the M Six down towards Rugby .
Southbound looks pretty slow heading into those roadworks as well for the time being .
Of course at the top of Derbyshire at junction thirty on the M One we still have the work there .
Again just two lanes open can slow things and a quick glance elsewhere well no real troubles reported just a look at the A One Stanford still the roadworks on the go there both north and south will slow things down .
Jonathan Clay 's A A Roadwatch .
The Forest park and ride attendant tells me they 're fairly busy but with still parking space site for the moment and there 's room to park on the Colwick Race Course and the Queens Drive site too and that 's service does offer free parking for yourself and your passengers and you can travel into and out of the city again for a pound .
Not too many problems on the parking front in the centre of Mansfield .
The Walken Street car park attendant tells me there 's still plenty of parking space available there .
In Nottingham city centre though the Royal Hotel car park that 's fairly busy and there are still queues at both entrances of the Victoria Centre and it will take you a good few minutes if you want to get yourself parked in Trinity Square car park they 're still operating on a one out one in basis so obviously better to avoid that one if you want to get yourself parked up you can avoid those queues there 's plenty of room at the Stoney Street car park that 's in the Market there 's always the Fletchergate car park St James Street you 'll find that next to the Albany Hotel or you could er make your way to the Broadmoor Centre you won't have to queue to get in there .
Next update in around twenty five minutes time .
F M one O three point eight and ninety five point five it 's Radio Nottingham Nottinghamshire 's favourite station .
Now it 's erm twelve thirty four let 's go back to the news this lunchtime .
As we 've just heard in the headlines Nottinghamshire police have taken the unusual step of releasing a recording of a girl they believe has made at least a dozen calls claiming she 's given birth .
The initial call was made to the Kingsmill Hospital in Sutton in Ashfield on Saturday night .
Since then she 's contact Nottinghamshire and Lincolnshire police and the Lincoln County Hospital .
She uses two name Cindy and Linda and claims to be fourteen years old .
She says she lives on a housing estate on the outskirts of Mansfield .
says that I was the one that killed it and I didn't .
He was the one that got me pregnant and he says that I can't come home at all now and I phoned the hospital , yes , and they said that come in and if I go in then you 're going to arrest me and then you 'll just call my dad like you always have done every time I 've run away from home and then every time you lot have took me back home and then I end up getting pregnant .
Acting Detective Superintendent Mick Cox is leading the enquiry he 's been talking to Nigel Bell and telling him they 're convinced that the same girl has made all the phone calls .
We sent er our er receptionist to Lincoln to listen to the tape recording .
Er she 'd held the girl in conversation at Mansfield er for quite a while and she 's listened to the tape and she 's convinced it 's the same girl .
Given the amount of calls and the fact that they 're telephoned in different areas it seems a lot of trouble to go through if it was a hoax .
Yes exactly and er you 've heard the tape er she sounds very harassed er and we 're concerned for her welfare .
When was the last telephone call made ?
On Monday evening we had all these these calls over a three day period .
What 's come out in the in the telephone call which you recorded was that er the father baby she is alleging is actually her own father what do you think do you think that puts her in any danger the fact that you 're making this public that the father may hear this .
That 's a possibility but this has been talked through with both the Social Services and the the hospital and er we 've decided to take that chance .
In terms of your inquiries where have you been trying to get information from ?
What about local schools in the area ?
We 've been in touch with all the local schools in the in the Mansfield area er we 've followed up inquiries of girls that have not been at school and so on and er these er have led to er to nothing .
She says that she she lives in a on the estate on the outskirts of Mansfield have you been checking around that area ?
Yes but of of course we 've got a number of estates er around the Mansfield er but we have made inquiries we 've er er we 've made appeals through the press and the radio as you well know .
Are there any leads at the moment ?
None at all only the er er the tape recorded message that she er er left with the er police at Lincoln .
Given the prospect that that her father is actually the father of this child do you that she 'll still be at home ?
I 've no idea I can't er I can't say whether she would be at home or not .
What about assurances then she 's obviously distressed she thinks that she 's going to be in trouble if she come to the police .
Well I'm bothered about her health and that and that 's what I must emphasize to her if she 's listening that er as far as we 're concerned we would want to just give her some sympathy advice and support in relation to this matter .
Well what about family ties family ties are strong if she 's worried her father 's going to get into trouble as well .
Yes I can appreciate that but at this moment I'm not worried or bothered about any prosecutions in relation to this matter I'm bothered about the ch the child 's er health .
She can contact the hospital or the Social Services where who 've agreed to er to talk to her and give her all the advice and comfort that she needs .
From your point of view apart from waiting for further calls from her what can the police do ?
Well we 're still continuing to to monitor the situation we 're still carrying on inquiries at er at schools we 're going further afield now in case there is some suggestion that she she might be living further afield er towards Worksop or even in towards Derbyshire .
Now if you did recognize the voice or you think you can help the police then there 's a free phone number to contact it 's O eight hundred six to six nine nine nine it 's O eight hundred six to six nine nine nine that 's a free phone number so it won't cost you anything to call O eight hundred six to six nine nine nine it 's the number to call if you did recognize the voice there or you think you can help the police in any way O eight hundred six to six nine nine nine and there 'll be more on that in our next main news which is on the way at one o'clock .
Now let 's look at some placed to go and thinks to do and people to see for later on today .
This lunchtime from one until three the Meadows Community Art Centre are running a craft marathon .
You can go along there and make crafts cards and Christmas presents no experience is necessary and you can take one object home each day and the remaining items will be sold at a Christmas Craft Fair to raise funds for the arts project .
It 's free to have a go and the Centre is on Queens Walk in the Meadows in Nottingham that 's from one until three today if you want to go there .
One till three as well the Special Needs Support Group are meeting at Ilkeston Health Centre and they offer mutual support and understanding to those parents who have children with special needs .
One fifteen till three fifteen the Blidworth Wow Group are meeting in the Blidworth Social and Welfare Centre to learn more about screen printing .
A creche is provided and that costs fifty P ten bob .
One thirty until three thirty a friendly ballroom and sequence tea dance with refreshments is on and the I C C on Mansfield Road in Nottingham the International Community Centre and that 's half one till half three .
Half one until three forty five sequence dancing on at St John 's Church Hall on Greylands Road at Bilborough the cost is seventy five pence there including a cup of tea and bickies too .
One forty five the Keep Fit Association and got ladies keep fit to music at Attenborough Village Hall .
Six till seven this evening the youth and junior group of the Beeston Red Cross are meeting at a hundred and fifty six High Road in Beeston that 's the Red Cross Centre at six .
Seven o'clock an evening of entertainment with clairvoyant medium Brian Gibson is on at the Scout 's Headquarters on Lovers Lane at Newark tickets are two fifty there seven until nine .
A ten week preparation course on to the Open University programme leading to the diploma in Health and Social Welfare starts .
This is at Clarendon College at seven and that 's on Pallam Avenue just off Mansfield Road in Nottingham er contact the college for more information that starts at seven tonight .
Seven thirty a tour of the Broadmarsh Caves leads from the Broadmarsh Centre to book a place on the tour call Nottingham four eight three five O four four eight three five O four .
Half seven the Hare and Hounds at Warsop and District Camera Club they 're meeting at the Hare and Hounds pub in Warsop and tonight they have a competition Slides in Action and seven thirty Slimmers Clubs U K are meeting at the Age Concern Centre Street in Beeston and seven thirty as well until eight thirty a mixed ability aerobics class is on in the gymnasium of Rainworth Recreation Centre that 's one fifty there and Joe Walker Zydeco Band direct from Louisiana are appearing at the Old Vic on Fletchergate at Nottingham tonight at half seven six pounds the tickets there four pounds concessions and they 're available on the door .
Anything you 're up to let us know it 's What 's On B B C Radio Nottingham P O Box two two two in Nottingham Nottingham N G one three H Z to write to er give us a couple of weeks ' notice if you can .
You tell us and we 'll tell Nottinghamshire for free so that 's What 's On B B C Radio Nottingham Box two two two in Nottingham Nottingham N G one three H Z to write to and don't forget tonight as well er if you want to come out and see us we 're doing Drinking Partners our pub quiz er we 're in the Star Inn on Middle Street in Beeston and the evening there starts at eight o'clock .
Albert Hammond that is and er A Free Electric Band it 's Radio Nottingham it 's a quarter to one and er Action Line Action Line time now and er in a film Thelma and Louise that 's starter of the trend for stronger independent women if er you fancy a lift but want something a little less drastic then our Louise from the Action Line team is here today with something to tickle your fancy I'm scared now I hope you 're not suggesting that er women take to their cars and mow down any unsuspecting male that gets in their way .
Now would I Geoff do you think I really would do you then .
Well I would hope not actually that 's that 's a relief so er so so tell us what we 're talking about today .
Well I'm going to suggest going back to education .
Returning to learning is not easy for everyone especially if you 've had time out to bring up your kids .
You may need a lot of confidence a lot of support and you might even need some help looking after your children if they 're quite young .
Well if you live in Snainton towns then I 've got details of an organization that can help out with all those things and help you get back onto the learning ladder and maybe into a job .
All right then tell us who they are and what they do .
Okay well there 's something we talk about a lot on the Action Line they 're called Fast Forward and they 're a training agency .
They run courses especially for people who might find it difficult to do a course at their local college because of things like language difficulties and the fact that you might have children to look after .
David is an education and training development worker for Fast Forward .
Here he is to explain what Fast Forward do and why they 're needed .
There are a lot of barriers that exist between people and training some of them could be things like they don't have access to child care it could be they lack confidence so we go for support and we can offer training which is local we can offer language support .
Basically we we try to break down any barriers that might exist between local people and the training opportunities that do exist .
That was David who works for Fast Forward .
It sounds really good because as David said you choose the course and they 'll help you out with all the practical things like child care and travel expenses .
What about the the actual courses though what kind of courses can you do ?
Well they 've got er links with six colleges so they can offer you more or less anything from management to catering to horticulture .
They 've got erm an adult literacy course if you want to brush up on your reading and your writing they 've got computer courses they 've got a course in sound engineering and a works skills for women course which is what Sarah did .
Well it involved a lot of things a bit of everything .
Typing and word processing everything really .
It was very good very very good for women that have been home for a long time and want to get their confidence back .
At the end you know what you want and you get your child care and your travel care .
I go to college now I'm doing my G C S Es and I'm enjoying them very much and I'm glad I went onto that course first .
That was Sarah who did the Works Skills for Women Course at Fast Forward and that 's now helped her to get on to some G C S E courses at college .
Can anyone go along to Fast Forward then is it open to all comers .
Yep erm well anyone can go along but you do have to live in Snainton or St Annes .
You don't need any qualifications or anything like that .
If this is you and you 'd like to get back into education and get on a course why not go along to Fast Forward .
They can help you with your training needs your child care and your travel and they can also provide the support you need if you 're not confident about going back to learning .
Here 's Sarah again .
I didn't want to stay at home I wanted to get back into education and I didn't know how to the easiest way I suppose .
It was so scary coming you know all them years staying at home you lose all your confidence and it 's a very very good way and I recommend all women to do that who are like me children and have been home that long .
My family was very very supportive my mum was very happy that I was doing something for myself later on in my life it will help me very much and my husband was very very good .
That was Sarah talking about her course at Fast Forward .
Now if this sounds like it could be the kind of course you need call Action Line and they 'll put you in touch with the people at Fast Forward and once you 've got the training and the qualifications the next thing is the application form isn't it and you 've got details as well today of someone who can help with that haven't you ?
That 's right trying to find work these days can be demanding and extremely frustrating so you want to make sure that you give yourself the best chance of getting a job and one way to help is to do a good application form and know how to handle yourself in an interview .
Well there 's an organization in Radford who can help out with both of these things they 're called A T O Training and they can tell you all you need to know about things like application forms and interview techniques as well as advice about further education and wan t what to do if you want to start your own business .
Now Fast Forward was for everyone wasn't it , this one isn't ?
No it isn't .
First of all you have to be unemployed and you have to be black or Asian .
Now it 's especially for people who are black or Asian because a lot of the time they miss out on the opportunities that are available to a lot of other people because of things like language barriers and although you might think it 's unfair it 's not actually illegal .
The Race Relations Act says that you can do this you can have courses especially for black or Asian people so as I said you have to be unemployed you have to be black or Asian and you have to live in either Radford Hyson Green St Annes Lenton or Snainton .
I 'll just say those again it 's Radford Hyson Green St Annes Lenton or Snainton .
If this is you and you 'd like some help or advice about interviews and application forms then call us on Nottingham four double one two double two and we 'll put in touch with A T O Training and if this isn't you if you 're not black or Asian and you would like some help then you can call us as well and we 'll try and find something for you .
All right four double one two double two to call Radio Nottingham 's Action Line if you want to know any more about Fast Forward and the courses available there and how you can get on them or if you want to know about A T O Training as well four double one two double two and try and call Action Line before four o'clock this afternoon if you can .
Er what 's happening tomorrow then ?
Well Carolyn 's here tomorrow Geoff to show that age is just a state of mind .
That 's tomorrow but
All right .
don't forget our bonfire list .
If you want to know where your nearest display is then you can call us now on Nottingham four double one two double two .
If you 're stuck for somewhere to take the kids on firework night and you want to know the one that 's nearest to you Action Line have got a great big long list you 've got piles haven't you ?
Piles and piles .
They 've got piles over there er four double one two double two to call Action Line and er try and call before four o'clock this afternoon if you can for the er information about the firework displays that are near to you for more details about Fast Forward and details about A T O Training as well Nottingham four double one two double two for Radio Nottingham 's Action Line call before four .
Billy Joel and er the River of Dreams it 's Radio Nottingham six minutes to one o'clock now Kids ' County for today these have been the clues , It 's cheap it 's quite big and you can see a pub and you can see the Victoria Baths .
Erm the Castle and Aldi Supermarket guess so far Cecil 's on from Plumtree hello .
Hello there Geoffrey .
How are you ?
Oh I'm very well thank you and you .
Marvellous .
Good man .
Absolutely marvellous .
Er what do you think about this erm this leaf stem sculpture that all the fuss is about you know the one that 's down by er Marks and Spencers ?
Well I I mean I actually the the leaf sculpture itself I I don't really think a lot of it .
don't you ?
Not really no I
What about the trees ?
What about the trees that are all around it ?
Oh the trees should remain .
Cos they want to pull the trees up as well .
Well I can't understand anyone want to pull trees down I mean I 've got a tree in the in my garden it 's about seventy feet high .
I know it 's a bit dangerous but I wouldn't cut it down .
Yeah I mean I think I think they 'll put some more there afterwards but
Yes but you know I mean a tr a tree takes a long time to mature doesn't it ?
Yeah .
You know and I mean it seems such a shame to cut it I mean they 're living things aren't they ?
You 'd have er there 's somebody on yesterday who said that thinks it should er it should be against the law to cut a tree down .
Well of course there is there is such a thing as a preservation order isn't there ?
Yeah yeah .
So I mean you stick those on them and er and er they won't be able to cut them down .
Well we 'll see what we say anyway we 've got er we 've got a couple of the Councillors on erm after one o'clock today Councillor Stuart Argyle and we 've got David Poole on as well
Oh right
to give us both sides of the argument so we 'll see what they have to say and er invite people 's calls as well see what they think about it .
it would be very interesting to hear what they 've got to say I mean especially someone who wants to cut them down I can't understand anyone wanting to cut trees down unless they 're dangerous .
Yeah tree van
You know I mean
Tree vandalism it 's called eh ?
Well it is I mean trees give off oxygen anyway don't they ?
Mm yeah .
You know and they soak up carbon dioxide so it 's good for the environment .
Yeah .
Yeah why anyone wants to cut them I don't know .
Yeah well we 'll see what they say .
Yeah it will be very interesting yes very interesting .
We 'll see what they say see what they say afterwards .
Because people are getting rather agitated about it you know .
yeah .
Erm anyway the Kids ' County what are we talking about ?
Well I I thought after your first two clues it was Green 's Windmill .
Oh .
Oh .
Oh Cecil no .
Oh oh dear
You passed it .
Oh what a shame .
Never mind have a go have a go again soon .
I will .
Tarrah .
Tarrah .
Bye bye .
Er Hilda 's on from Southwell Southwell .
Hi Southwell .
Are you all right ?
Yes I'm fine .
I could tell you were going to be a Southwell one .
Oh really ?
Southwell For goodness sake
Southwell You didn't say it correctly .
Southwell erm what you up to today Hilda .
Well I 've been making Christmas cake this morning so I feel quite er happy with myself .
Oh I see .
Slosh a bit in the cake and slosh a bit in your throat .
That 's right .
Is it one for you and one for me ?
Almost yes .
How much have you put in ?
Er four tablespoons in the cake .
Have you and how much have you put in you ?
Well I licked the spoon .
Did you ?
.
And you licked it again and you filled it up and you licked it again .
No no .
Are you going to keep feeding it up until Christmas ?
Yes every week it has to be fed .
Do you how much do put in when you give it a feed ?
Well you prick it all over with your a knitting needle or something
Mhm .
and then put about two tablespoons on each time and stand back .
Well you 'll have a happy Christmas won't you ?
Mm .
Kids ' County what are they talking about ?
Snainton Market .
Yes .
Ooh .
Yes .
Hooray it took so long to get that sorted as well .
Yes I know cos you did have it on a few weeks ago .
Did we ?
The same thing .
No .
Mm .
No .
My daughter 's been trying to get on for ages .
Has she ?
Yeah but you ignored her last week .
Oh I would never do that .
I think you were sick of the kids .
Oh kids .
.
Grrr never mind they 've all gone back to school haven't they ?
Yes it 's wonderful .
Thank the Lord there is a God .
You can have erm loads off the stuff off the conveyor belt for you for today you can have er a video loads of C Ds some sweets and toffees and things erm some crates of moist toilet tissue .
Wonderful .
Cos they sent me loads of that and er I 'll sort you out with a T shirt as well all right ?
Yes find super thanks Geoff .
Okey-dokey well erm hang on the line and er we 'll get you all sorted .
Best do another one best do er Kids ' County number two for today same as before Nottinghamshire 's kids talking about Nottinghamshire 's people and places and things I need to know where they 're describing remember whatever the answer is it 's always somewhere around Nottinghamshire always somewhere in the county three four three four three four to ring then for er Kids ' County number two for today here 's the clues , It 's got barbed wire around it it 's made of wood it 's long .
There it 's got barbed wire around it it 's made of wood and it 's long where are they talking about what are they talking about somewhere around Nottinghamshire Nottingham three four three four three four to call from this lot of clues , It 's got barbed wire around it it 's made of wood it 's long .
There what are they on about ?
I tell you what you can get for it you can have erm a make-up bag with a string of pearls in they 're not real one you can have er more of that moist erm tissue stuff er a bag with sweetener things in it there 's er a video about a Biggin Air Show and loads of marshmallows too for Kids ' County number two here 's the clues , It 's got barbed wire around it its made of wood it 's long .
Nottingham three four three four three four to ring and er call as well and tell me what you think about that leaf statue and the trees round there cos we 've got the councillors on talking about that after er one o'clock today .
A quick look at the travel then from Annie Smith .
On the parking front in the centre of Nottingham you 'll find a space at St James Street and the Arndale Centre car park but Victoria Centre 's got a few minutes wait at the York Street entrance and Trinity Square still very busy next update in ten minutes time .
And we 'll do the whole lot altogether the er traffic and the trains and planes in full every day on the county 's favourite at ten past one .
Good afternoon from Nottinghamshire 's favourite radio station .
At one o'clock it 's the headlines this lunchtime it 's announced that Calverton Colliery 's to close before the end of the month .
The police appeal for the public 's help in identifying the voice of a girl who rung a Nottinghamshire hospital claiming she 'd had a baby and a member of staff is suspended from a centre for the handicapped in Nottinghamshire pending an internal investigation .
They 're the headlines today the details from Alison Ford .
Calverton Colliery is to close in just over two weeks ' time .
The closure has been confirmed twenty four hours after British Coal announced the pit was to go into the review procedure and revealed that it 's lost more than six million pounds in the last six months .
Union leaders at the pit say they 'll challenge the closure by taking legal action .
Sarah Sturdy reports .
British Coal 's Midlands Group Director John Longdon has recommended that Calverton should cease production by November the nineteenth .
He says continuing heavy losses and falling markets have given him no option but to propose that the six hundred and forty man pit should close .
The Union Leaders he met today at Calverton Miners Welfare say they 'll challenge the closure through the pit review procedure .
But even if that lasts the full nine months British Coal has the final say on whether the pit should be shut down .
Nottinghamshire police have released a recording of a girl they believed called the Kingsmill Hospital at Sutton in Ashfield claiming she 'd had a baby .
They think it 's the same teenager who 's made at least a dozen calls to the police and a hospital in Lincolnshire since reporting the birth at the weekend .
This report from Nigel Bell .
I was the one that killed it and I didn't .
He was the one that got me pregnant .
This is the voice of the girl that sometimes uses the name Cindy and sometimes Linda .
She says she 's fourteen and that the father of the child is her own dad .
Acting Detective Superintendent Mick Cox says they realize the girl could be in danger but believe it 's necessary to broadcast the recording .
This has been talked through but with both the Social Services and the the hospital and er we decided to take that chance .
They 've checked schools and housing estates in the Mansfield area but say they 've no leads .
Half a dozen officers are investigating the case but police forces across the East Midlands are on standby .
Mick Cox is urging anyone who recognizes this voice to contact the police .
There 's a free phone number O eight hundred six two six nine nine nine .
Every time I 've run away from home and then every time you lot have took me back home and then I end up getting pregnant .
At the James Bolger murder trial in Preston the jury has been told how two the two eleven year old defendants tormented an elderly woman shortly before they allegedly abducted James Bolger .
They 've denied abduction and murdering James also attempting to abduct another child .
Kevin Bucket reports .
The court has been today hearing evidence from witnesses building up a picture of what the who defendants were doing in the hours before the alleged abduction of James Bolger .
A qualified nurse Pamela Armstrong said that she and two other woman had been running a stall in the Bootle Strand shopping centre .
At one point an elderly woman was looking at the display when the two defendants starting tormenting her .
Miss Armstrong said the defendants were in some way prodding the woman from behind she swung round as if to hit the children with her bag and they ran off .
Another witness Mrs Angela Higgins said she saw the defendants shouting and behaving stupidly .
She said one of them spoke to her own four year old child .
It 's alleged that later in the day the defendants abducted James Bolger took him to a railway embankment and murdered him .
The case is continuing .
A member of staff has been suspended from a centre for the handicapped in Nottinghamshire pending an internal investigation .
The probe by the County Council at Redoaks Training Centre in Rainworth follows a police investigation at Stone Cross Lane Residential Unit in Mansfield .
Rob Tomlinson reports .
Nottinghamshire County Council won't confirm what the latest allegations are about but it 's been reported that they centre on fraud and sexual harassment at Redoaks .
An inquiry is being conducted internally at the council run centre and police have not been called in .
However two weeks ago they were called in to investigate claims of physical abuse at Stone Cross Lane Residential Unit in Mansfield a warden run complex for mentally handicapped adults .
Detectives were alerted by Central Nottinghamshire Health Care Trust and it 's understood their inquiries will take some time .
They say there is no link between that investigation and the County Council 's probe into allegations at Redoaks .
You 're listening to B B C Radio Nottingham news it 's coming up to five past one .
A Nottingham car salesman who went with two prostitutes aged fourteen and fifteen has been jailed for three years .
Forty seven year old John House of Fairwell Drive in Bulwell denied having unlawful sexual intercourse with the girls but was found guilty at Nottingham Crown Court .
Chris Throup reports .
The jury at the trial heard that House 's sessions with the two girls were arranged by nineteen year old Natalie Meadows who introduced them to prostitution .
He drove them to fields in the Derbyshire countryside where the offences took place .
House was arrested after the mother of the fifteen year old took down his car registration number .
The car was traced to dealers in Nottingham where he 'd worked for nine years .
At Lincoln Crown Court today Judge Richard Hutchinson who 'd adjourned the case for reports sentenced him to two consecutive eighteen month prison terms .
Meadows of Hill Road in Baysford was found guilty of two charges of controlling prostitutes and two of aiding unlawful sex .
She 'll be sentenced at a later date .
A forty six year old Nottingham Museum assistant has been remanded in custody charged with the murder of her eighty year old mother over eighteen months ago .
Patricia Gregg of Mews in the Meadows had surrendered herself to police yesterday morning before appearing before City Magistrates today .
This report from Paula Boystones .
Beatrice Gregg was found dead at her home in Close in March last year .
Today a bail application was refused and Miss Gregg was remanded in custody for seven days .
Last year an inquest was told how a milkman became suspicious when he noticed milk had not been taken in from the doorstep of the house .
A post-mortem examination at the time showed she 'd been hit on the head with a blunt instrument .
Miss Gregg told detectives her mother had been waiting for the handyman to call at the time of her death .
The man was never traced .
After today 's hearing Miss Gregg 's solicitor Donald Worsley said he intended to make a bail application to a Judge in Chambers and if this failed he would then go to the High Court .
A hundred and thirty three Manchester United fans are appearing in court in Istanbul after trouble at a hotel .
Thirty one others were held but escaped from custody .
The British Consulate says some of the United supporters are likely to be charged and all of them will be held until after this evenings game against the Turkish champions .
One Manchester United fan insisted he 'd seen very few disturbances .
Never been in trouble at all like and and I 've certainly not seen any trouble .
I 've been out on the on the streets and the roads and we 've had a few beers and I 've not seen any trouble but the first I 've heard of trouble was was this morning after breakfast in a nearby hotel and and by by the trouble that 's been caused I don't know the details of it but I believe it 's been quite intense really .
British and Irish Ministers have begun talks in Belfast on the political future of Northern Ireland .
Before going into the meeting the Irish team spoke of a good deal of hope for peace and the Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew said all options remained open .
Recorded crime in England and Wales rose by three point eight per cent in the year to June .
Home Office figures put the total of offences at a record five point seven million but the rate of increase showed a sharp drop on the two previous years .
John Silverman reports .
On the face of it the trend is encouraging .
Recorded crime fell in eight police force areas the rate of increase in violent crime was significantly lower than the previous year and the rise in reported thefts was the smallest for four years .
But within the statistics there are signs that the mobility of criminals is inflicting more crimes on rural areas than the cities and the amount of vehicle crime continues to cause concern .
The Home Office Minister David Maclean said that despite some encouraging signs the Government would not become complacent on crime .
That 's the news now and a look at the lunchtime sport here 's John Shaw .
Nottingham Forest are likely to stick with the same team that beats Notts County for tonight 's match against Millwall at the City ground the London club are currently eleventh in the First Division Forest will go above them if the Reds win .
Notts County striker Rob Matthews returns for the Magpies Reserves against Wolves at Meadow Lane tonight Robbie Turner will also play .
Kick-off is at seven o'clock .
Mansfield Town Caretaker Manager Bill Bearden has given his whole squad the day off to try to stop the spread of the flu virus .
It hit it hit Ian Stringfellow last week and caused Nicky Platten now to pull out at the last minute last night .
Manchester United have selection problems for this afternoons European Cup Tie against the Turkish side .
Gary Pallister is already ruled out and there 's a doubt concerning Brian Robson who has a sinus infection .
If Robson doesn't play then Roy Keen will take his place .
And an announcement will be made later today about the venue for the World Cup qualifier between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland which is scheduled for Belfast on November the seventeenth .
The match may have to be moved because of the recent violence in the province .
And the main points of the news again this lunchtime .
A member of staff has been suspended from a centre for the handicapped in Nottinghamshire pending an internal investigation .
Nottinghamshire police have released a recording of a girl they believe called the Kingsmill Hospital at Sutton in Ashfield claiming she 'd had a baby and Calverton Colliery is to close in just over two weeks ' time .
The announcement was confirmed twenty four hours after British Coal said the pit was to go into the review procedure .
Union leaders there say they 'll challenge the procedure by taking legal action .
Ten past one traffic and trains and planes at lunchtime .
On the trains British Rail say no problems all doing find East Midlands Airport all okay as well let 's listen for a space now with Annie Smith .
Good news if you 're making you way to park at the Walken Street car park in the centre of Mansfield the attendant tells me they 've got plenty of space .
On the park and ride sites the Forest is busy but I'm told there 's parking room still available and there 's room on the Queens Drive site and ample space at the Racecourse just follow the yellow signs for that particular site .
If you want to park in Nottingham city centre there 's space at the Arndale Centre car park that 's at the bottom of Maid Marion Way or you could even made your way to the Stoney Street car park you 'll find that in the Leys Market .
Trinity Square still proving to be very busy so expect a few minutes wait if you want to get yourself parked in there and have a couple of minutes wait if you want to get into the Victoria Centre that 's at the York Street entrance .
Finally taking a look at traffic in and around Nottingham 's roads the vehicles I can see are moving steadily .
Annie Smith Radio Nottingham Travel .
On the motorways no problems at the moment as far as we know .
The A Six O Nine Trowell Road there 's resurfacing taking place there between Arlston Drive and Burnwood Drive so watch it .
On the A One near to Markham Moor north bound lane closures expected now until five o'clock tomorrow .
On the A Six Twenty there 's railway bridge work taking place between and Welham extra lights there .
And problems still in Baysford cos of the closure of David Lane and Southwick Street diversions in operation there long delays expected .
At Collington Chapel Lane is closed until Friday cos they 're putting a new sewer in there and traffic 's being diverted there along Main Street and at Totton there 's roadworks on Nottingham Road at the junction with Attenborough Lane delays likely there especially at busy times that 'll do us for now we 'll update the traffic for you again in half an hours time .
It 's Radio Nottingham F M one O three point eight and ninety five point five Nottinghamshire 's favourite station with the weather forecast for the rest of the afternoon .
Staying cloudy in most places although a few bright intervals at possible and apart from the odd chance of a light shower it should stay dry milder than of late top temperature eleven celsius fifty two fahrenheit mist and patchy fog will form tonight and drizzle is likely in places too the overnight low eight celsius forty six fahrenheit mist and fog clearing slowly tomorrow a dull start it should brighten up later on though sunny intervals developing the high tomorrow thirteen degrees .
The Chairman of the Board and er You 've Got Me Dangling on a String it 's radio Nottingham it 's Geoff Owen here till two this afternoon .
Dennis McCarthy on Afternoon Special from two till half four Alan Clifford at tea time in for John Simons from half four until seven o'clock at tea time later .
Radio Nottingham sport on from seven and then John Tanton from ten until midnight to come on the county 's favourite .
Er Kids ' County on to our second one for today Rita 's on from Mansfield hello Rita .
Hello .
How are you ?
All right .
Good oh and what 's happening to you then today ?
Well we 're just watching Coronation Street she asked me to turn it off .
She 's what ?
Says stop watching Coronation Street and listen to Radio Nottingham .
What you can do both at the same time can you ?
Yes .
Yes well of course you can Rita you know have two things there together it 's okay it 's fine .
Er the clues for our second Kids ' County for today are these ones , It 's got barbed wire round it it 's made of wood it 's long .
There it has barbed wire around it it 's made of wood and it 's long Rita .
Is it Major Oak ?
Major Oak no no no .
I didn't think it would be .
No it could have been though could n't it ?
Well you can go back and watch that thing now can't you ?
Well I 'll watch for come back .
Aye ?
coming back
or whatever her name is .
Bye Rita
Bye .
Bye bye .
Katherine is on from Chilwell hello Katherine .
Hello .
Hello how are you ?
Fine thank you .
And what end of Chilwell are you at ?
Erm we 're on the traffic lights where all the work is Lane .
Oh are you down there is it hell ?
Oh terrible awful .
Is it he every morning it 's hell .
Every morning you can't get the car in
What 's it like now ?
Just the same all the workmen are there can't cross the road
can't you ?
can't hear no it terrible .
Oh and can you hear it rumbling all the time ?
Oh yes the jack hammering .
Wobbling about ?
Yes .
There and you 're si and you 're sitting there on your sofa and you get this strange rumbling
That 's right near the window yes and all the dust is coming in we 've got to put up with it till Christmas .
Until when ?
Till about Christmas .
Ah .
December it 's not going to finish till December .
But you 'll be able to get all the tinsel out won't you when it goes .
Yes .
What do you think about this statue and all these trees we 've been talking about the ones around by Marks and Spencers yes ?
Well I was thinking maybe we could bring it to Beeston with the other one .
Do you think so what
Match up one each end .
I like that one that 's in Beeston of the old man sitting on the bench there .
Oh that 's nice but people keep knocking little bits off it .
Yeah .
Knocked his nose and knocked his foot .
It 's a bit fragile isn't it I suppose .
Yes it 's a shame .
Little little extremities .
That 's right .
So you 'll have it in Beeston will you Katherine ?
Yes
Maybe you could present it to those workmen .
You know when they 've when they 've finished .
That 's a good idea .
You could give it to them could n't you ?
They could have a little roundabout they 're going to have there .
It 's a little pressie .
What about the trees though do you think they should take the trees down ?
No I don't think they should no I think they 've been there quite a while it 's a shame to .
Cos they 're quite old trees those aren't they ?
Yes yes they should leave them really .
They want to put up some of these little spindly poky trees .
Oh no .
You know the ones that that pop up everywhere .
No they should leave those there really they look
You think so
They look quite nice .
All right then well I 'll get the I 'll get the two councillors on in a minute .
Okay .
And we 'll see what they have to say and if you feel so moved you can ring back and shout at them Katherine .
Yes thank you .
All right er Kids ' County here 's the clues these ones , It 's got barbed wire round it it 's made of wood it 's long .
There it 's got barbed wire round it it 's made of wood and it 's long .
I was going to say Major Oak .
Oh Katherine .
I know .
That 's what Rita just said can't you think of anything else ?
I can't think of anything else either no .
You nana .
My husband really thought it would be Major Oak .
Are these workmen outside of your house are they the ones with the er with the trousers hanging half way down their bum ?
Oh yeah there 's about twelve of them yeah when they bend down their trousers fall down .
They 're all that sort of are they .
Well er off to have a look at some workmen 's bums out the window and have a nice afternoon Katherine .
Okay thank you bye .
Tarrah bye bye .
Er Kids ' County I 'll give you some more clues these might help , It 's got tunnels it 's metal round the edge it 's green .
There it 's got tunnels and it 's metal around the edge and it 's green three four three four three four to ring for a bash at Kids ' County and er we know it 's not the Major Oak cos that 's what they 've both guessed so far all right .
Here 's the clues then all together then this lot , It 's got barbed wire round it it 's made of wood it 's long it 's got tunnels it 's metal round the edge it 's green .
There somewhere around Nottinghamshire something around Nottinghamshire what are they describing there three four three four three four to call for a bash at Kids ' County don't leave it too long before you call and er if you want to talk to the councillors about the leaf stem and trees you can call as well .
There Art Garfunkel that is and I Believe When I Fall in Love it 'll be Forever .
It 's Radio Nottingham it 's one twenty two erm Muriel Poole and erm what 's this or twin Alan from the Stockhill Estate happy birthday have fun lots of love to you from Christine and from Derek and from Karl as well so have a lovely day .
Er David Wilson from Booton happy birthday love from Susan and Andrew and Amanda and from Adam as well .
A budgie lost lost from the Lenton area yesterday tea time at six o'clock from Sherwin Road it 's green and it 's called Freddie seven nine one six five six to ring seven nine one six five six if you can help there .
Er a dog lost from Bulwell on Sunday it 's long haired it 's a Jack Russell and it 's white and black it 's female no collar to call if you can help here .
Er cat lost from Newthorpe Common yesterday it 's black and white called Tasha and it 's female one year old .
A letter erm from New Baysford it says Two weeks ago my car was nicked in Illkeston in the Pimlico car park between the hours of two and five whilst shopping .
Could you please announce this on your show .
Well all right then it 's er a red Escort Laser with blue graphics and it 's bright rosso red in colour and it 's C and there 's some slight rust on the driver 's from wing and there 's red paint on the exhaust and it 's grey inside .
If you 've seen it somewhere then can you call a reward of twenty five pounds offered to the person who can advise where the car is payment will be upon receipt of retrieving the vehicle .
It 's come from Miss Dawn who wants her car back it 's a red Escort Laser it 's bright rosso red and it 's got a bit of rust on the driver 's front wing and red paint on the exhaust .
If er someone 's taken it for a ride and dumped it near you then can you call Nottingham and it 's Dawn who wants her car back anything I can do you for three four three four three four is the number to ring .
If you want to shout about the leaf stem and the trees then call now .
Talking to two of the Nottingham councillors who are rather agitated about it all and talk to you as well give us a ring .
Afternoon Special this afternoon we have a couple of interesting guests to meet George Hamilton the fourth will be with us he 's involved in the tribute to Patsie Clyne Show and Esther Rantzen who 's here for the Child Line campaign .
Funny Man is the competition and we have a new pre-release video as a prize and there 's a phone-in and you can take part and have a chat on the air Afternoon Special this afternoon just after the two o'clock news .
Forest are at home tonight it 's Millwall who try and stop Stammon and we of course will be there too .
Tommy Cooper talking at length about when he ruled at the Den and we 'll be talking to about his Norwegian career and his arrival at the City ground .
And apart from the Bohemian Rhapsody news of the rest of the European football tonight and we have the double attacking spearhead of Colin Fray and Martin Fisher at the City ground and you listening to the classiest football cover on Radio Nottingham from five past seven .
Now er over the last few days we 've been er talking quite a lot about er that statue you know the one that 's down by er down by Marks and Spencers that 's the best way to describe where it is the leaf stand the er the one that looks like a tulip and water dribbles down the side of it .
Well they want to move it they want to develop the area and er now they 're talking as well about taking the trees out from around there too which is really getting up people 's noses it would seem .
Councillor David Poole is on hello .
Hello .
Thanks for coming on David now you 've hated this thing ever since it 's gone up haven't you ?
Yes yes er and and the price it cost the er tax payers and rate payers of Nottingham in the first place to put it there yes .
tell us what 's going to happen to the area then David .
Well it 's going to be revamped as er as you probably know that part of the City is being slowly revamped er and this is one which is going to be done in about the middle of next year .
Er it 's going to have er a circular area with benches and for shoppers can relax and everything but er unfortunately as you say there 's going to be three mature trees in the centre of St Peters Square will be removed as part of the opening up of the area .
It seems that this is what 's annoying people the most though
Mm yes .
lots of people really could n't give a stuff about the the statue there .
We 've had a few people coming on and saying they want it to stay there or they want to leave it there but it 's the trees that 's really annoying people .
Why have they got to go David ?
Well that 's the question I 've been asking in committees er because I'm I brought this up when they did nicely when they took all the trees away from down er Long Row on the High Street .
There was a lovely tree outside old Boots shop there they took all them away and put these little ones down the middle and I also brought it up when they did Weekday Cross they took the trees which had only been there a few years they took them all down and put put some others up some little twiggly things you know .
Er I did ask the question as well what what 's going to happen to these trees or what happens to these trees when the City Council removes them and I 've never got an answer yet and I'm going to keep asking somebody some day will give me an answer .
I mean are the just destroyed or are they removed and reused again we don't know .
All right we 've got er Councillor Stuart Argyle in here as well Stuart good afternoon .
Er hello Geoff .
Hello erm so tell us what your stance on all of this is you 're furious about the trees aren't you ?
Well I'm concerned Geoff as a Ward Councillor I read about this in the paper that the Environment Committee which David is on er agreed to this scheme which is I'm all for having squares in the city centre and places for people to sit and enjoy and I'm ambivalent about the leaf stem .
I understand it 's been offered several homes so that would be nice .
But I am concerned for the three trees that David has just mentioned being removed .
I need to know that it 's necessary to remove all those trees I 've been told all sorts of things like they 're in pots and they 'll become pot bound they 're growing outwards they might fall down they might fracture mains they block off the er view of the church well I think they 're a nice asset in the city centre .
This is a city without a lot of parks in its centre only the Castle and er not a lot of trees not mature trees so er er I need to know that it 's necessary to move these trees .
All right David do you still think it 's necessary to move them ?
Er Stuart Argyle on I also say that they are removing one tree outside the former Horse and Groom public house as well .
I didn't know that .
They are er Stuart but they replace replacing by eleven new trees to be planted eight among the seating area on Albert Street and three on erm the footway outside the Horse and Groom .
But are those trees those that the little er the little spindly ones what do they call them engineers trees don't they because they don't take much looking after .
Yes we were told they 're going to be trees like that because they 've had a lot of trouble with pigeons roosting in the erm the mature trees and it 's impossible for people to sit on the benches underneath cos of er pigeon mess .
Well well if
coming on
Yeah do Stuart
pigeons .
The pigeons are of cause er er er a cause of debate in the city centre some people like pigeons some don't some say there are far too many pigeons .
And it 's a bit of a nonsense to say that pigeons perch in trees you may see an odd pigeon sort of settle in a tree but not for long .
Pigeons are derived from the Rock Dove and which nested and perched in cliff side and buildings are the nearest thing so I the pigeons aren't really an argument and you do if you want proper birds in the city centre such as thrushes and blackbirds and even sparrows you need real trees to encourage them and the these trees are fairly mature and helpful .
If you want to come in on any of this three four three four three four you can call now .
Mary 's on from Baysford hello Mary .
Hello Geoff .
What have you got to say then you want to talk to David Poole .
Yes I do well firstly I do believe the statue should go .
Why ?
Erm I just don't like it I think it 's horrible .
Mhm is is that the same for everything else around the city that you don't like you 're quite happy to just knock it down would you and take it away somewhere else ?
No just that one .
Just the statue okay what about the trees around there ?
The trees we should fight like mad to save them .
Mhm cos they 've been there for ages haven't they Mary don't you think ?
Yeah and we need more green in the city not less .
And do and do you think erm do you think it 's justified to take the trees down because you 're going to put up some some new little ones in their place ?
No definitely not .
And do you care if the pigeons sit in the trees ?
No .
No all right .
They don't sit in trees anyway .
No tell me what er tell me what you want to say to Councillor Poole ?
The other thing is it 's a question to Councillor Poole I mean why should the people of Nottingham give any credibility to anything said by someone who is quoted in the Daily Sport of all newspapers as saying and I quote , Surely the County Council could erect something more in keeping with the City 's heritage like a little old lady in a shawl .
Now as far as I'm concerned and many people this remark is ageist and sexist and really what has it got to do with Nottingham heritage ?
All right David is that what
I 've no just a
Okay carry on
Albert Ball or William Booth or if he really wants a statue of a lady why not Maid Marian in a lace shawl ?
All right then David Poole did you say that really ?
I said that we ought to er somebody asked me er from one of the national papers which ought to be put in place there and I did suggest that we ought to have a statue like just been mentioned to somebody from Beeston they 've got a nice man on a bench there .
I suggested putting an old lady sitting on a bench with a lace shawl erm er sculpture of so that it represents er Nottingham lace and etcetera and I said it would look more attractive and catch people 's eye than what 's there at the present .
So it was it was the lace that you wanted emphasizing rather than a
Yes
little old lady on a bench ?
That 's it .
Oh I see Mary is that any better .
Er no .
Oh no okay .
No certainly not it 's not I mean a little old lady yes the lace has something to do with Nottingham Nottingham 's heritage we all know that .
A little old lady has not .
Maid Marian has in lace .
So perhaps perhaps Maid Marian with some lace on ?
Certainly .
I knew I knew you 'd be happy .
Well Mary we 'll wait and see thanks for calling on .
Er Dorothy 's on from Carlton hello Dorothy .
Hello .
Hello .
What have you got to say about it all Dorothy ?
Well firstly I don't like the tree the leaf and I honestly think that it should be place as a permanent position in the foyer of County Hall as a permanent reminder to all councillors on the waste of public tax payers ' money .
wouldn't it be a greater waste of money though now having got the thing there though to shift it out the way completely Dorothy ?
Well it 's better than going in the river like you suggested yesterday where it 's hidden and forgotten permanent reminder .
Well I 'll tell you tell you who suggested that yesterday now let me have a look it was one of the councillors wasn't it said lob it in the bottom of the arboretum lake it was er Conservative Councillor Charles Clarke who said the only suitable place for that daft leaf is in the middle of the arboretum lake .
But he says again that we should n't move the trees simply for something which is meant to fit in nature doesn't always fit in .
What do you think Dorothy should the trees go as well ?
I think life of trees is very precious and should remain precious .
So so we keep the trees there ?
We keep the trees erm they 're on about the trees are mature well my suggestion is there 's a lot of councillors that are very mature and really they could do far better getting eleven spindly new younger councillors to make these decisions on behalf of all the public tax payers in Nottingham .
So er you 'd like to lop the councillors as well would you ?
Well I think the public ought to have more interests in these things that are happening in Nottingham .
Mm well we 're inviting people to call
Really important .
people to call now three four three four three four if you want to come in on this .
Erm Mrs Moody from Hucknall thinks that er that leaf stem thing ought to be off in a garden somewhere .
Er Councillor Poole it seems that nobody wants to shift the trees .
That 's correct yes and I don't blame them and er if Stuart Argyle thinks the same way we 'll we 'll certainly er see what we can do about pressing for keeping these trees .
I mean myself has mentioned it now in committee but er I was a lone voice you see that 's the that 's the trouble when you 've got fifteen other members and and they don't seem to be bothered about trees .
What should people do if if they they want to protest about it further David ?
Well they could address their letters to myself Councillor David Poole or Councillor Stuart Argyle to the Council House erm the suggestion you know er their the thoughts the thoughts on this what er they could er erm help us in our campaign and also about the leaf stem as well if they want to write to me at the Council House suggesting and I mean proper places to where it should go because that 's really up to County Council but er at least if I had some suggestions we can pass them over to the County Council where where it could go .
But Stuart you 'd welcome that as well would you people to write to you ?
Yes certainly .
A lady has just said one of your earlier callers has just said that Council are out of touch well we should n't be out of touch and that is this exercise you have two councillors on here from different parties showing a concern for the trees .
I'm not so bothered about the leaf stem .
What does interest me about the leaf stem she suggested it should be put in the foyer of County Hall well when Nottingham becomes a unitary stat unitary authority and County Hall is made into an hotel perhaps it would be a bit unfortunate for the visitors to have the leaf stem er when they book in .
That 's going to be er in the future perhaps or not but er the problem now is er is those trees .
Let 's get er a couple of more people 's er opinions on Peter 's on from West Bridgford hello Peter .
Yeah hello good morning Geoff .
You know we we 've heard a lot about this leaf bud structure and what to replace it with but since this is Nottingham and this centre of lace why could n't they put something there like a loom or something sculptured to look like a loom ?
My second point is the trees .
Now I'm an ex-gardener I'm a horticulturist it take roughly about forty years for trees to reach maturity it doesn't say much for our planners if they plan to put those trees there and then now are gonna have them up again it sounds much like change for changes sake and that that it basically my comment .
Why can't they plan for a longer term for those trees ?
You you you know as as a gardener then about these er these little trees that they 'll be replaced with these little spindly ones
Yes .
can they grow as big can they grow to to look as attractive as these old maturer trees that are there now ?
No no er erm well er there is Prunus that 's a plum I mean a cherry that grows up and various ones like that the only trouble is with these type of things they can be more of a nuisance than the trees that you do have now because those trees growing up those spindly ones as you put it erm some gardeners call them or whatever name they use I but the trouble is bits die in the centre of those and they tend to drop down and they can be in time more far more of a nuisance than the trees they 've got now which seems to me quite suitable .
Mm well thanks for your thoughts Peter echoing what everybody else has said and er thanks for coming on telling us about the new trees as well .
Stuart that 's the point isn't it that they 're not going to look as good ?
Well you 've only got to go onto Longrow Smithy Row and see those trees there they 're like toy town trees .
Peop they 're like they 're like umbrellas that need unfolding and people say oh they 'll spread out and they 'll develop foliage well there 're similar sorts of trees on Castlegate and they 've been there about three years they 've done nothing in fact they 're dying .
And er you know there is this attitude that nature it has been said nature is untidy well nature by its very definition is untidy .
But you know you see those tr trees outside St Peters Square they look good the church looks good framed behind them in the country they 're trees country churches are surrounded by trees and they look better for it they frame buildings .
Yeah it won't look so good if they they put those funny little trees up there .
All right Barbara is on from Chilwell .
Hi Barbara .
Hello Geoff .
What are your thoughts then ?
My thoughts the leaf stem should never have been there in the first place it was a waste of money .
What do they do with it now then ?
Whatever they like bottom of the River Trent if you like but it would be very going off the subject and I 've only got a minute or two to spare but what someone pointed out to me that terrible monstrosity outside the Theatre Royal subway and every time I pass I fume inwardly .
I 've been meaning to write to The Post letter page about it for several years .
It 's an insult to feminism and I 'd like to know how much that cost out of the rates .
All right yeah well let 's erm le let 's stick to talking about the leaf stem for now cos we don't want to go on er slagging off every bit of art that 's around the city centre do we Barbara otherwise
is it art over the Royal Centre
we 'd be here all day .
That 's not art it 's horrible Geoff insult to
You don't like that either .
Insult to womanhood it 's an ugly monstrosity .
All right then well
I 've seen people come up and stop and stare aghast at it .
Well er we 'll leave that for another day now Barbara .
Do you think do you think about the trees the trees should stay there or what ?
Yes I do yes .
And what do you think about this idea of turning it into like a little piazza there for everyone to sit out on do you like that idea ?
Well yes anything like that especially as it should be the shopping area .
Yeah .
Yes .
If you had if you had some seat there though do you think the seats would be nice under some trees ?
Of course yes I know it encourages the pigeons and they make a mess but anything to beautify the inner city .
All right Barbara thanks for coming on .
Thank you Geoff .
We 'll talk about the one by the Theatre another day and see what people think about that .
Er Freda 's on hello Freda .
Oh I'm here again .
Oh right what 's up ?
Now now then Geoff we don't go to Nottingham to look at trees we don't go to Nottingham to look at the countryside we go to see the shops and spend money .
And that er leaf was absolutely diabolical .
Mhm .
Anybody can can spend other people 's money and and as for that lady saying we want the young people on the Council good heavens the young ones would spend it quicker than the old ones .
So do you think the trees aren't important then are you not bothered about them .
I'm not bothered about them you 've got tre you can go in the countryside and see that you 've got trees at well a lot of us have got them outside our own houses .
Do you not think that I mean the people who were saying keep them there they 're saying it adds something to what 's in the city centre do you not agree ?
I'm I'm not er well if they 're going to er if they 're going to lose their leaves like they are doing now people are slipping on them aren't they .
Mm maybe the odd one or two will you know Freda
Yes yes well leave the trees where they are but but that diabolical thing well art today I don't know what they think art is .
You liked you like nice holes with flowers and vases on and things
I like the I like the I like the old the old art we used to have in the olden days mind you I like everything that 's old er that 's why I like you Geoff cos you 're old .
Yeah well I'm catching you up Freda
Er thanks for coming on .
Well we 're going to Nottingham to spend money .
All right then
Bye bye .
Tarrah there I think I think we 'd better leave it there otherwise we are going to be here all day .
Er give a final word to David Poole .
Yeah well on what people have said I I think that er there 's a possibility that er if Stuart and myself get together with the officers concerned that we if these trees are pruned and trimmed as they they 're saying they 're over overgrown at the moment surely that would cut them down in size and if they 're regular pruned every so many years they won't they won't be a nuisance I don't think in future years .
All right then er a final word to Stuart as well .
Er yeah thank you yeah the trees really do matter .
I mean David 's talking about the leaf stem I could n't care less about the leaf stem I'm with most people I understand that Councillor Barry Jackson 's offered to look after it in his garden cos he likes it and he 's welcome to do that .
But er Nottingham 's er city that 's proud of its nature it 's not generally realized that there 's about a hundred nature reserves in the City of Nottingham maintained by the city of the Notts Wild Life Trust and er this is great on the outskirts but in the city centre there 's too little nature in it .
There 's only the castle grounds that 's a park in the city centre you 've got to pay a quid to go in there on Saturdays and Sundays and I think these trees really matter I am concerned and I'm going to ask questions about them and I will talk to David about it as well although the leaf stem he can keep himself .
well we 've got people on both sides of the political fence agreeing here for one .
Erm if you want to er to make your voice heard about it then write them letters write letters into your councillors erm and er and let them know what you think or you can write them to me and I 'll pass them on .
I 'll say thanks very much to Councillor Stuart Argyle for coming in our thanks as well to David Poole for joining us on the phone thanks David .
Thanking you
Thank you .
I 'll leave you for now it 's Radio Nottingham it 's seventeen minutes to two .
I think all we can do after that is er have a Frank this is er Frank Sinatra and Brazil .
There Frank Sinatra that is and er Brazil it 's Radio Nottingham fourteen minutes to two bit late with everything today thanks for all your calls on that .
Erm more calls than we could cope with in the end for and er see what happens to it and keep in touch write to your councillors and let them know what you think or write to me and I 'll pass the letters on .
June from Mansfield 's on hello June .
Hello .
How are you ?
Fine thank you .
Marvellous and what 's been happening with you today ?
Erm I 've been out shopping today getting wood to put a floor in the cellar .
You what ?
Putting a floor into the make a pantry .
In the cellar ?
Yes .
So you can store all your wine down there is it ?
Or your beer and your booze .
Yes yes that 's it home-made wines and things .
Oh are you is that what you 're going to do ?
Yes .
Have you started making them already or
Oh yes been making it a long time .
And how many bottles have you got then June ?
Oh we 've still got them in the demijohns yet
Have you ?
Yes .
I often wonder about this er a demijohn would imply that 's half a john wouldn't it ?
so can you can you get one that 's twice as big that 's called a john ?
I'm no yes I think you can actually .
Can you ?
Yes yes you can get them .
I 've never heard of that before .
No but you can get them big .
You can get a john can you you can get a big john ?
Yes .
I see oh er fireworks winner Mrs from Eastwood heard the firework noise just then so she 's off to Alton Towers with the family to see the fireworks stop calling for that now .
Tracey 's on from Radford next hello Tracey .
Hello .
You all right ?
Yes fine thanks .
Good we 're doing family things today we had erm we had why these hard times are making the families pull closer together on earlier on and we 're all er looking after each other a lot more so I want a thirty seconds worth of family things today for Loot at Lunchtime .
Tell me about your family Tracey .
Married got a husband got three children three boys Daniel Ben and Thomas .
Mhm how old ?
Erm six and a half nearly three and nearly one .
I can hear is that Thomas we can hear shouting ?
No that 's Ben that 's the one that 's nearly three .
Oh is it ?
Yes he 's playing .
Yeah where 's the little one ?
In bed .
In bed asleep ?
Yes .
Just how you like them .
That 's right eldest one
But you don't
at school .
You don't know what they 're thinking about though do you ?
No .
Thirty seconds worth of family things I 'll put June on from Mansfield first cos June 's out champ are you ready ?
Yes .
Here we go .
House home baby nappy naughty cot bed bath rattle crib brother sister aunty uncle mum dad grandpa stories boys girls hats coats shoes gloves smiles frowns tears joy meals wheels cards games Christmas Easter church love holidays chores outings cleaning carpet tables sofas chairs bedtime stories prayers books baking cooking pastry cakes bread sweets fireworks crackers birthday treats parties smi theatre flicks panto tricks magic shows Punch and Judy swim dance skip .
Ah you got sixty two June
Oh my goodness
Oh my stars sixty two you got that 's not a bad score that is it ?
Should be all right Tracey from Radford 's going to try and knock the smile off you face aren't you Tracey ?
Yes .
You 've got sixty two to beat thirty seconds worth of things to do with families and your time starts now .
Brother brother-in-law sister sister-in-law aunty uncle grandma granddad great grandma great granddad mother-in-law father-in-law niece nephews cousins children babies teenagers family car family house family outing family entertainment family birthdays weddings anniversaries Christmas Easter grandchildren mamas papas granddads dadas nan nanas children 's toys children 's parties children 's clothes coat jumpers vest trousers socks shoes dress cardigan birthday parties toys cars rattles crisps family tree family car .
Tracey ?
Yes .
Your content was good but you were lacking pace I think forty eight you got so I want the weather forecast from you next all right ?
Oh .
Hang on the line don't put the phone down and June from Mansfield sixty two gives you a list of prizes numbers between one and ten choose three of them .
Erm one .
Number one is some Turbaco Chilli Nods in tubes .
One ?
Er yes .
Er what what else have I have I had five ?
This is a new list today it 's a brand spanking new one .
Oh five .
Number five is er a mug Radio Nottingham new style
I 've already got one .
Have you well have another one get a set .
Another one ?
Erm seven .
Number seven loads and loads and loads and loads of this moist toilet tissue cos we 're trying to get rid of it all so you 've got the lot .
Right .
I 'll talk to you tomorrow okay ?
Erm I'm not in tomorrow I'm in on Friday .
Oh are you well you 'll have to come back on Friday then and we 'll find somebody else to take you on tomorrow .
right oh
Okay tarrah
Right bye
Bye bye .
Hey why aren't you in tomorrow ?
I'm at er Chesterfield doing the er
Oh of course
charity market .
Well that 's a good enough excuse and good luck with it tomorrow .
All right thank you .
Bye bye .
Bye .
Loot at Lunchtime back tomorrow then ten to one quarter to oneish listen in then we 'll give you the qualifying question .
Gracious me it 's ten to two now yakking on a lot today er Beverley Craven this is and er Love Scenes we 'll get er chunk three of Nottinghamshire 's Big Bang on before two .
Beverley Craven that is and er Love Scenes it 's Radio Nottingham six minutes to two .
Er trains are all okay say British Rail no problems there no problems at the airport two motorways are all fine as well .
Er delays problems still in Baysford cos of the closure of David Lane and Southwick Street diversions in operation there .
Chapel Lane at Coddington is closed until Friday and at Totton there 's roadworks on Nottingham Road at the junction with Attenborough Lane delays are likely especially in busy times .
Will update the traffic for you throughout the afternoon and a full service at tea time Alan Clifford on from half four till seven o'clock .
F M one O three point eight and ninety five point five the weather forecast for the rest of the day .
From Tracey from Radford off you go .
Okay staying cloudy for most of the day should stay dry patchy fog will form overnight with a little drizzle .
Tomorrow should brighten up with sunny intervals and the outlook for Friday is mainly dry with sunny spells .
Marvellous Tracey absolutely marvellous .
Er put the next bit on for me save me the job say Nottinghamshire 's Big Bang .
Nottinghamshire 's Big Bang .
Fireworks .
Fireworks .
Day three .
Day three .
Bye .
Good bye .
The Trading Standards Department of the County Council is responsible for legal controls on fireworks .
In particular that fireworks comply with the British Standard that people register that they are keeping fireworks retailers and wholesalers so that we can go and inspect the storage conditions er and that people obey the law by not selling fireworks to people under the age of sixteen .
That 's John Nottinghamshire 's Assistant Chief Trading Standards Officer .
It 's his department 's job to make sure the law 's being applied when it comes to fireworks .
The requirement i is that th when they are stored in the erm shops they 're stored in safe conditions .
That means they are stored in in containers which the public haven't got access to and away from any possibility of er naked flames or any other methods of ignition getting to them .
Mike is an Assistant Divisional Officer for Nottinghamshire Fire Brigade .
He 'd like to see everybody going to public bonfires instead of having private ones .
In my opinion er and probably a lot of fire officers ' opinions as well bonfires in private houses are no longer necessary .
But i if while we 've got them we will still be there we will still be called to put them out and one of these days we 'll be dealing with bonfires when somebody 's house is on fire and we need to be there instead .
Er with the possibility of er well horrific situation developing at that I wouldn't like particularly to talk about .
So how do Trading Standards make sure that people aren't selling fireworks to those under age ?
We will try and take we will er as usual send young children definitely under the age of sixteen into shops to see if people will sell fireworks to them and if they do then er we will take the appropriate action which may mean criminal proceedings .
It 's the er the only way we can see of effectively enforcing that part of the law .
It is important the fireworks don't get into young children 's hands because they themselves er will be in danger .
Mike says that it 's surprisingly not just at this time of the year when they have trouble with bonfires that go out of control .
Right throughout the year we will attend er a number of bonfires every single month .
Er a quiet month will be one and an say building up to October and November time as many as fifty sixty in that particular period .
So far if we take on the ninety ninety two figures we attended something like eight hundred bonfires .
Precautionary measure and in fact to put fires out .
Er in November of last year we actually attended fifty five bonfires that got out of hand .
If we hadn't have put them out then serious injury and damage could have been done to property .
There are statistics kept on accidents by er Central Government which all hospitals are asked to put to but you 've got to realize that these are only people who have attended hospital .
Most accidents in the last year occurred at private or er family parties as opposed to larger displays .
There were nearly twice as many accidents at private parties as there were nn er public displays .
But then there are street accidents which usually mean people discharging fireworks in the street which in itself is an offence enforced by the police .
The highest type of firework last year if it was specified was the sparkler remarkably enough and we would make this point very seriously that parents tend to give children sm very small children sparklers and they must remember tha that these things are fireworks they are dangerous they do get red hot er they must supervise them at all times when they give them sparklers cos they may wave them around they may se set somebody else 's clothing on fire with them they may get the sparks in their eyes if they get too close to them er and one particular danger of course is that they they may get hold of en the hot end when the firework has finally extinguished and they think it 's all finished with .
And that is very very hot and will give some nasty burns to people 's hands .
The business about sparklers erm it is one of those things where the very young children like to hold a sparkler but it has got to be done under proper supervised conditions .
You are playing with a fire the temperature at the tip when it 's burning is approaching about a thousand degrees centigrade .
And that is awfully hot it 's enough to bend steel and you can the effects of that on the metalwork after it 's burnt away .
And there we are putting it into a three or four year old 's hand something that 's erm got that sort of temperature round it .
Trading Standards on Nottinghamshire 's Big Bang so a week of fireworks chunk four of that on tomorrow .
It 's er Dennis next with Afternoon Special I 'll see you tonight at the Star Inn on Middle Street in Beeston at eight o'clock for Drinking Partners if you want to come along and watch there .
It 's the county 's favourite radio station B B C Radio Nottingham the time now 's two o'clock .
Radio Nottingham news with Dave Harper .
Calverton Colliery is to close in just over two week 's time with the expected loss of around six hundred and fifty jobs .
The proposed closure has been confirmed twenty four hours after British Coal announced the pit was to go into the review procedure and it was revealed that it had lost more than six million pounds in the last six months .
Union leaders at the pit say they 'll challenge the closure by taking legal action .
Nottinghamshire police have revealed released a recording of a girl they believe called the Kingsmill Hospital in Sutton in Ashfield claiming she 'd had a baby .
They think it 's the same teenager who 's made at least a dozen calls to the police and a hospital in Lincolnshire since reporting the birth at the weekend .
Nigel Bell reports .
I was the one that killed it and I didn't .
He was the one that got me pregnant .
This is the voice of the girl who sometimes uses the name Cindy and sometimes Linda .
She says she 's fourteen and that the father of her child is her own dad .
Acting Detective Superintendent Mick Cox says they realize the girl could be in danger but believe it 's necessary to broadcast the recording .
This has been talked through but with both the Social Services and the the er hospital and er we decided to take that chance .
They 've checked schools and housing estates in the Mansfield area but say they 've no leads .
Half a dozen officers are investigating the case but police forces across the East Midlands are on standby .
Mick Cox is urging anyone who recognizes this voice to contact the police .
There 's a free phone number O eight hundred six two six nine nine nine .
And every time I 've run away from home and then every time you lot have took me back home and then I end up getting pregnant .
At the trial of two eleven year old boys accused of murdering the toddler James Bolger the court has heard a statement given to the police by James 's mother Denise .
She described how he disappeared and how she frantically searched for him .
The boys have denied abducting and murdering James and attempting to abduct another child .
From Preston Crown Court Kevin Bucket .
Denise Bolger gave her statement to the police on February the thirteenth the day after her son James disappeared but before his body was found on a railway embankment in Walton .
She described how she was at a butcher 's shop when she noticed James had gone .
She ran into other nearby shops looking for him and asking people if they 'd seen him .
Then she reported his disappearance to the shopping centre security office and the police were called .
Mrs Bolger who 's expecting a baby next month has not been in court but her husband Ralph sat through the first two days .
The court also heard evidence today from a nurse who was in the shopping centre several hours before James Bolger disappeared .
She said she saw the two defendants tormenting an elderly woman by prodding her from behind .
Then they ran away .
The trial is continuing .
Crime in England and Wales has risen to record levels according to the latest Home Office figures .
They showed that in the year to June reported crime was almost four per cent higher than in the previous twelve months .
But the rate of increase is much smaller than in recent years and some police forces including the Metropolitan Police recorded fewer crimes .
A member of staff has been suspended from a centre for the handicapped in Nottinghamshire pending and internal investigation .
The probe at Redoaks Training Centre in Rainworth follows a police investigation at Stone Cross Lane Residential Unit in Mansfield .
Nottinghamshire County Council won't confirm what the latest allegations are about but it 's reported that they centre on fraud and sexual abuse at Redoaks .
They 've stressed that the two cases aren't linked though .
Huge fires are still raging out of control in California .
Thousands of people have been forced to move out of their homes in the exclusive resort of Malibu and suburbs northwest of Los Angeles .
Several people are reported to have been seriously injured .
A State funeral mass has been held in Rome for the film director who died at the weekend .
Thousands packed the Basilica where the service was held others followed the mass from the Square outside .
The director whose most famous films include the and Eight and a Half will be buried in the family crypt in his home town of Rimini .
On to the weather forecast now for Nottinghamshire .
Many area

er er the the sort of way in which we 're going to recover the
Yeah .
the figure .
Yeah .
The way we 're going to recover it first is on that
Right but
So I want to I want to work out what 's involved there , I 'll go at something like twenty per cent , so it 'll come out about twenty pound fifty something
Right .
like that .
I 'll go in at first , I 'll see how much that 's gonna be which is about seven hundred pounds .
Yeah .
And I 'll work that into the five per cent and it may reduce the erm period of time to
five months say or four
Yeah .
months but I 'll work it out
Yeah .
and I 'll say to him , right , okay , we 'll give you the five per cent r reduction for only eight months of the year .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
But this bearing goes up to this price .
And in ef
Yeah .
in effect what you 're doing is helping us out with the cost that we incurred in getting it and the help that we 've done you .
Right right .
I 've got the price of that product up and also get him his reduction after a period of time .
Right .
Yeah .
When you 're when you 're talking about what it 's cost us to get him those bearings
Right .
er the figure is well over a thousand pounds .
Right .
This simple bit is the overtime .
Mm .
The overtime that we worked is about thirty five hours at six pounds an hour .
We had three additional setups
Mhm .
Er those were only the setups o as a result of breaking something else down and putting this bearing on .
yeah .
It had nothing to do with s with the the setups involved in splitting the batch
right .
Okay ?
Okay .
So so you 've got there three a at erm
Three
Three seven an Yeah , seven and a half hours .
Two and a half hours for setup at twenty eight pounds an hour .
Mm .
Right so you 've got a you 've got another hundred and fifty quid there or so
Mm .
at least .
A hundred innit yeah .
So then then you 've got the thing that is not measured which we can't measure is the disrupti the the cost of the disruption to all the other customers
who who 's batches have been put back
Mm .
as a result .
Yeah .
And now that is immeasurable
Mm .
but it costs .
Yeah mm .
And and so erm and if you double the figure that you 've got there
Mm .
you may be getting somewhere near .
Mm .
Yeah okay
So so
twelve hundred quid .
So a thousand twelve hundred quid is the sort of is the sort of minimum figure you
Yeah .
should be talking about .
Right .
Er and when he says well h how the hell do you make that up ?
Well I 'll give you the easy bit ,
That 's manufacturing , he 's not daft .
He 'll know
Yeah .
it 's gonna cost something like that .
Yeah .
So yeah , fine .
Erm and
Yeah , I just want to get the emphasis back onto that one first , and the products , we accepted it and we 've got to live with it at some point in time , but the longer I can put that off , the better .
But the majority of the advantage I make , I want to be put into the .
I I would yes I would suggest that when you when you do this five per cent thing erm make your make your
Even if it 's three per cent
make your price adjustment .
Make your price adjustment soon .
Mm .
Make it now
Mm .
and say well we 'll hold that for five months but then we 'll go back to the
Yeah .
Yeah we 'll restrict it instead of going into the full year
Instead of to the higher price for the end of the year we 'll
Well instead of doing it
might say well just do it the end of the year .
I 'll see what I can get from him , yeah .
Right .
Yeah alright .
And and er we 've then contributed to his cost down
Mhm .
because over all his situation will be better .
Yeah .
And er we 'll have given it him I mean on his on his total cost he 'll be down .
Yeah .
Right .
And we 'll have given him a clue for how to budget for next year as well .
The E R C one er for this extra ceramic , that is separate , I 've got to do that as export so leave that with me .
Okay that that is out
Right .
that is out the equation it 's er one thing I 've got to haggle with Graham on .
Right .
That will be .
I won't get an instant reaction .
Well I will but it maybe not that er .
This is erm the the ceramic cage
ceramic balls .
Right this is a new thing for experimental work that we 're doing for them is it ?
Er well it 's not a new thing , we 've be we 've been making ceramic ball bearings for a while
Yeah .
we 've have a E R C for about six months now .
Er we 've come to the end of some of the trials .
They want to run one up to see what the maximum speed is , well of course that 's gonna destroy it .
Yeah .
So but they want to do cooking trials as well , actual cooking trials
They Cincinnati .
Yes .
at Cincinnati in the new development shop .
Yeah .
So what we 've got is another set put through .
Now you 're talking about five hundred quid for the set of three bearings .
So I'm saying to Graham , come on , we 're helping you , you are helping us obviously , I'm not gonna deny the fact you 're helping us with our research .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
But er you know
We 've got ta have a sensible price with them .
Got ta be reasonable with it .
So I need some help on that .
We 're giving him wh If he gives me three or four hundred quid .
You 've given him one set already have you ?
Or we 've used one set at E R C .
Well and we 've used it for Well answer is yes but I'm you know , it 's making sure you get the business .
You know , come on .
If we 're gonna be partners it 's got ta be equal not er
Yeah .
So anyway yeah , I I 've got ta do that with Graham .
Er right okay no problem with that .
Right , Steve has offered two per cent , whereas before nothing .
Yeah er last year the budget was thirty K at thirty seven per cent and we actually did forty K at thirty seven per cent .
And there is another five and a half K to come in from now that 's closed .
So there 's a bit more business
Right .
drifting in .
So we 've got potentially forty five .
With that being such a low figure this year , tends to be quite cyclical .
Yeah .
You know , one year 's quite low , thirty five , forty thousand , next year sixty five .
Yeah you tend to get that
Yeah .
spread .
So next year I think is potentially hoping that it 's gonna come .
Whether the recession knocks it back a bit I don't know .
But er there is potential for fifty K plus at reasonable margins seven per cent .
So you know he 's offered two per cent and they 're not giving it out to many people .
The only reason he 's giving it to us is cos he 's thinks that we didn't have an increase last year .
He 's forgotten that we did but I'm not gonna tell him that .
Er
If w if we we did get an
Right well
increase last year .
Actually .
Well I think
If he knew that he 'd turn round and say get lost .
I think I think what you what you need to do is to push him
Right .
If h er how much nego er what what 's the situation at the moment , you said three per cent have you ?
You 're gonna go in at th you went for four ?
I I I went for four .
I went for four he said he said zilch .
So I said , well come on you 've got ta be reasonable with me so I spoke to him last week and he says , look you didn't have one last year so I 'll give you two .
And he says it 's more than I 've given the others because they did have an increase .
He 'd forgotten that we did have an increase .
The only problem is
Well
precision market at the minute is are playing silly buggers .
have given me a a bit of grief because the they 're on a very similar price level now to us .
Mhm .
Because they 're being supported by .
But are coming in they 're quoting three or four per cent underneath .
Er at they 're ten per cent underneath and historically , a couple of years ago , you 're talking two or three times the price , their prices at one period , probably about the mid to late eighties , doubled and trebled in price .
Who 's marketing ?
It 's it 's er their part of aren't they .
That 's what I was thinking .
Yeah .
But their prices now
Are are they being are they being marketed by ?
No it 's who 've called in to yeah Andy .
He 's e he 's now you know .
So I 've got a
Well
problem with them .
Er in so much as I mean I must admit with these increases , I appreciate your need to get the extra profits and I'm looking at the ones where I think we can push them to get a bit more .
But there are others where you know I'm e I'm very reluctant to to get involved .
I mean
Right .
for example .
Well
We budgeted twenty K at sixty two per cent margin , we 're actually eighteen at sixty five per cent margin .
Now you can't screw people like that .
No .
And let 's just let 's just go
And they have really
back to .
Yeah .
Er how many part numbers do we sell to ?
Sorry ?
How many part numbers do we sell to ?
Er about twelve .
Plus standard bearings as well on top of that .
Right .
Erm can you push him up on the standard bearings ?
Very doubtful .
Er the group will buy European rubbish if they have to .
Right .
Erm can we can you as part of the discussion , can you start off by saying well thank you very much for the call that you gave me last week but erm erm there 's there 's just a couple of sizes I 'd like to talk talk to you about .
Mhm .
What try and get it back on some .
And try and squeeze a few back a bit further .
Yes ?
Okay .
Yeah .
Aha .
Yeah .
I 'll have a look
See
I 'll have a product .
The problem is I can't say that at the minute cos I haven't got my print done .
I'm having a yearly detailed print done of last year ,
Yeah .
John was just running it for me now so I 'll pick it up on the way home tonight .
You see but I 've had to have this run
Right .
for other reasons , I E the industrial stock .
Yeah .
put the onus back on me now to say what of that stock we want to keep before they throw it away .
Right .
Yeah ?
So I 've had to have this print run of detailed customer parts by quantity for ninety three .
Right .
Yeah unfortunately I 've not been able to have it done yet .
Other people have been jumping in and getting print left right and centre
Right but but but that 's coming tonight that ?
That 's coming to then I can start to look in more detail
Right well I I mean I think that that 's the way to that 's the way to try and squeeze Yeah yeah
try and get a few on others take on
Well yes what what you 've got to try and do is to divide and rule .
Get the overall number up .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
Get the overall number up by erm by er focusing
on a few
Okay .
and and I mean , obviously to begin with you don't give away on anything .
No no .
Erm and er that 's that 's the way Er Tom .
Okay thank you .
Je ne comprends pas .
Exactly yeah .
Right so you 're gonna try and divide him and rule him .
Right .
Just
I 've just had a a quick word with Maureen , this is another thing that 's come up .
On the industrial side , I mentioned to Steve last year at the end of last year saying , look it 's coming up to .
Then I 'd be looking after you for both products and what I want to do is have a look at all the standard bearings you take to see if there is potential for a supply .
Yeah .
What he 's done is stuffed an order through for a six three O eight .
Yeah .
At like half price , less than , erm a six three O seven that we supply already , because it 's the price .
So I knew this would come up but I didn't realize he 'd be jumping onto the bandwagon that quick .
So that the six three O eight was a product that had supplied ?
had supplied yeah at about four pound eighty I think the price is .
Yeah well of course
The six three O seven we supply at about nine pounds .
So I 've got a problem .
So why did he come to why did he come to for the six three O seven .
Because it was one that we were doing with in conjunction with an E P three bearing .
Special B J seven thousand .
Or E X P
What and they were matched in some way ?
Well no we had a matched pair of a pair of precision E P bearings radials at the front .
I mean they use a pair of radials
Right .
together .
Right .
Erm and because they like to keep the same manufacturer on one shaft if they could , they took out six three O seven for the back end .
Well of course part of
ask for an E P three supply it .
part of part of the erm part of that issue says that of course all the prices that he 's got .
Tho they 've all gone up eight per cent .
Because prices have gone up eight per cent across the board .
Right .
So so the price as was before
doesn't exist it 's
is no longer valid .
Right .
Now erm we will have to look at the situation with regard to the er all the other ones and we 'll do an analysis , what are the volumes and so on and what other what other popular metric bearings
We 've got an opportunity to Right .
Are you buying from anybody else because can we do a deal on the whole lot ?
Right that 's what I was trying to get
Yeah .
Erm
You see I 've got the prob I mean my initial reaction is I mean I I 've got no strong feeling to say we 've got to supply product the stuff it 's cheaper , we make more money , sod it .
Erm
Well of course even the product is product .
No yeah when it is our product it 's a D five if it 's , it 's D six if it 's .
But erm I don't care which is what it is
No .
to be honest .
No .
Erm but er I have the problem with trying to balance up which way to go .
I mean obviously I 'd like to sell it all at price levels but there 's get away with that .
Of course you w of course you would Of course you would and it may be that what you will have to say is , Well look , erm I gave you the four per cent on the on the precision types and that that really has to stay , but by the time we by the time we 've done all the analysis on the er on the popular metrics , it will work out that it is is is only two per cent .
Right okay
Because of because of the because of the erm er ups and downs that 's all .
So I
Yeah .
Leave that with me I 'll I 'll get in contact with Steve and I 'll try and get this list sorted .
Where you can be a bit where you think you 've got a technical issue to sell ,
Mm .
which is on the precision ones ,
Yeah .
erm even if it 's slightly over engineered ,
Mm .
try and push it .
Yeah okay .
Where where you know that he can go out to the market for a popular metric bearing and and slaughter the old price
Yeah yeah .
then you 've got you 've got to beware .
Yeah sure .
But but don't give it away for nothing .
Mm .
the thing the thing that you 've got to avoid is getting into a situation where you 've where where you you say to him , Oh well okay
two per cent , and then he comes back to you and says , but what about this six three O eight .
Mm .
And what about the six three
Yeah .
O seven ? come on fellas the six three O seven 's got ta be cheaper than the six three O eight .
Yeah yeah .
Erm and and you get yourself into a into a hole .
Mm mm .
So I I think you 've got to open it up by separating the two bits of business , the bit that 's special
Yeah .
And and that 's that 's going four per cent .
The bit which of course basically going eight per cent .
Right .
But if if you end up with all the popular metric business at somewhere around the sort of equivalent price level , margin level that you 've got that business at ,
Mhm .
then you stand a chance in being able to show him nothing more than two per cent .
Right .
Do you see what I'm getting at ?
Yeah yeah yeah I know that .
But you 've actually got you 've manoeuvred him there in such a way that he might be prepared to accept that .
Yeah fine okay .
Right , so I 'll get in contact with him and we 'll sort that then .
Erm is one they 've been in a very similar position to in so much as competition 's forced them to cost down dramatically I mean
Yeah .
you 're talking a third more .
They get all they get promised orders right up until a month before switch on time and then it goes .
And they really do have problems with getting customers to promise an order for up the line and keep it .
Yeah .
Competition turn around 's gonna chop another ten per cent off .
Erm and the fact that we 're making over sixty per cent margin i is good business for us in such Okay it 's only twenty K , but potentially longer term when the recovery comes , they 're gonna be
Spindle bearings ?
Yeah .
Only spindle bearings ?
Er no it 's for er screw support bearings and spindle bearings .
There are some S F T twenties and stuff like that as well but those don't show in these figures you see .
I 've got ta look at them separately cos I haven't got the industrial yet .
Erm right .
So
But but basically we s we screw 'em .
And we 've got you know that is actually a lot lower than it used to be because we they actually caught us charging them three hundred and fifty quid for a bearing that we 're now charging them two hundred and fifty quid for .
So you can imagine what margin that used to be .
I mean we 're talking eighty per cent .
Yeah you start to feel a little uncomfortable .
Especially knowing what are always in there , Stuart 's always on the door cos he lives in Keighley .
Yeah he lives round the corner .
Yeah he 's well in there , but not got the business by er trading off .
But it 's a good technical business to have for other people as well to know about .
We deal with , we deal with names , they 're all names to be connected with .
Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah What what have you said to at the moment .
Er all I 've said is , Yes I understand your position , I 'll go away and talk to Tom about it .
R Right , have you have you given him a figure have you put a figure on the table at all ?
No I said four four from the letter and it 's been left at that .
It 's four from the letter ?
It 's four from the letter I haven't reduced anything yet .
So he he he 's got four .
All he 's said is nothing .
Right .
I must admit I'm in that
Right .
one particularly with the margins on I'm reluctant to
What 's his payment terms ?
Thirty days normal ?
thirty days yeah .
Right .
Erm is there anything else that you might be able to get out of him if you concede ?
Not really .
Erm
Is there any other business that
Not really no
What do you do where does he get his screws from ?
hydrostatic .
Er , We can't compete .
can't touch them .
Never
Can we not ?
No our buying cost 's higher than 's selling price sometimes .
. Very difficult .
Right .
have their quality problems , that 's where you can score over but the prices are very very low and tend to pick them up .
I I quoted for a rolled screw once , yeah and my buying price from I'm talking about a year and half ago , was higher than 's quoted price for a ground bore screw .
It was just so
Yeah .
Mm .
have a problem all of their own and I don't intend to drag that into it .
I'm I'm happier to stand away and 's going in on Friday .
Mhm .
I'm happier to stand back and let him do his bit and I 'll do my bit , as long as we 're talking to each other .
Yeah as long as we know what the other 's doing .
Yeah .
Yeah .
But they 're prepared to let it stand as the prices are at the moment cos they 're under pressure .
Ah .
With their own problems , this supply and what have you .
Ah .
Apparently if click on one particular size that they can get it from , that could wipe out 's business cos as soon as they click one size , then 'll be in and wipe the floor with them .
That 's the impression I'm getting and and they 're and they 're tending to back off .
Not to invite the er the monitoring in effect , the comparison .
Now with and me it 's a different ball game .
Well .
We we have this split Oh okay .
first What do you think , I 'll do the in a minute , that 's on the list so .
Well I think I th I think you may may find yourself having to er er give way .
Mm .
There .
Erm you 've got to put up a show
Oh yeah yeah .
and again er if you can
If I get something on one of them to s to look as though I 've
Right .
fought for it .
Yes .
Yeah and I have to walk away from the others .
Yeah yeah and I mean you can you you 've got
to use the negotiating technique of come on fella you know I'm gonna get I'm gonna get chewed over if I don't
Oh yeah don't worry I do .
come away with something .
I 've already told him I'm gonna get my arse kicked cos I haven't for eight you see .
That 's my
Yes .
There 's my strong point straight away .
Yes .
Get a bit of sympathy cos I 've been asked for eight by you .
That 's right .
And I 've already put a letter out saying four , so I 've had me arse kicked already .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah .
So I'm on the defensive so he 's you know he 's
Right so erm i if you can end up with two or if you can end up with I mean it may be more helpful for him if he gets if he gets a a a no increase on one size and an increase on the other .
And and actually
out if him on a weaker size I will do , but
Yeah .
with it being a higher margin I'm very loathe to er rock the cart .
What 's he doing in the way of development ?
Er Chris they don't they tend to I think it 's like a lot of people in the U K I mean you 've got in the machine tools side but like on the on the side , They use use hydrostatics .
So they they run on the oil you know like our H C F machines do on the shop floor .
Erm but they 're in a position on a lot of the things , like they use our precision P n P two bearings in their dressers .
Yeah .
You know and things like that and bearings well the P three as we call then support bearings .
So you know th they 're using the most accurate bearing they can for what they use it for .
Er on the spindle side , you know , it 's gonna stay the way of the hydrostatics cos of the damping ab capabilities of it so There 's not it 's not an area where
New machines coming along ?
New ideas ?
They tend to be variations on a theme .
Cam grinders , they 're not gonna change a lot .
Reciprocating wheel , cams. things like that .
Right right .
So get the opportunity for
Tom Thank you .
Hello Dietrich .
Right Yes .
Aha .
Right .
Right That figures .
That figures .
Right .
Okay yeah .
Erm we 'll we 'll be erm er we 'll be we 'll be going for ten .
And and I 'll er I 'll let you know if anything else if anything else comes out of that .
Okay and that sh we should have in the next day or two .
Good thanks a lot Dietrich .
Bye .
So erm yes with with with er erm er you you need to encourage them to er think development .
The problem is with that , the way they developed has gone towards the hydrostatics .
Yes .
The problem with development on their machines is I can see it going away from normal bearings .
Right to ?
So so in a way , they 're looking at the levels we 're at now is an accurate level using a high price item .
I 'd be loathe to push them any f tilt them into a position where they say , Well you know could we use for the dresser .
You know what I mean ?
Well Yeah but Yeah but there 's there 's erm th there 's a pay-off between cost and accuracy and that 's the thing isn't there .
Erm what a erm have they have they thought about how they 're going to get the costs down within their machines ?
Mm .
And if so , what are they you know what are they doing about it ?
Right .
Could we could we set up a a a conversation on that on that subject because we might
Yeah .
we might be able to help we might be able to generate some ideas between us
Yeah .
which will help them
Okay yeah yeah .
You know so that 's something that you can give
Yeah as a service part of the relationship yeah yeah .
erm as a a part of the service .
Erm to to emphasize the fact that erm in principle we are we are committed to providing our customers with a service that enables them to be more competitive .
But we 've got to get them to understand that that doesn't mean to say that our prices will always be the lowest .
Mm .
It means to say that if we have the right relationship between us and our customers , we get in a design stage
Yeah .
and and we can help them with our bearing experience
Mm .
engineering bearing experience , we can help them choose a bearing which will enable them to be more competitive .
Mm yeah okay yeah .
So I mean that 's the sort of atmosphere that we we 've got to try and
Yeah I know
try and generate .
Yeah I mean I'm not being cynical but that 's very easy to say .
It is .
Anyway .
It 's easier it 's a great deal easier to say than to do .
But but what you 're trying to create in the guy is a bit of a warm feeling
Yeah yeah .
Loyalty is a good thing .
And and erm
But it only goes so far .
Yeah er er there there is a
there is a there is a world of difference between saying those words and giving giving your opposite number a w a warm feeling
Mm .
and actually doing anything achieving anything .
Mm .
But I mean , one of the things that we 've got on with at the moment is that we 've been saying for ages , you 've got to get your you 've got to get us involved at design stage .
Mm .
And they 've done absolutely bugger all about it .
So what have they done ?
They 've designed in a bearing which which which is stupidly expensive .
Mhm .
And if they 'd started thinking about it at design stage , we could have suggested them another bearing that would do the job and be a lot cheaper .
Mhm .
So but they they 've missed it it 's too late
Yeah .
that 's the that 's the problem .
Once you 've actually designed the piece ,
Mm .
you can't go back .
Tom Oh hello Arthur , good afternoon to you .
Yes .
Yes .
Yes .
I signed three times .
I 'll get him to re retransmit it to you .
I expect it probably got erm er stuck in the machine or something .
Yeah okay Arthur .
See you tomorrow .
Bye .
Kim ?
She 's not here .
Er C Carol could you could you organize page two of Kim 's three page fax
Three page fax .
Yeah he he 's sent back er three pages of a fax that he 'd received .
And it looks as though it 's picked up the middle page .
Okay , to where ?
To Edgeware .
To Edgeware..
Air about airfreight .
About airfreight okay .
There 's one page missing .
Right okay .
Right okay .
.. She 'd offered two straight away so I'm gonna try and get some more out of her .
I take it that is a special bearing , I know she 's had people look at it , I'm gonna try and suss out how far she 's got down that line as to having another source but I don't think she has .
The price we sell that at is quite low .
Really .
Yeah ?
But we have budgeted it for eighty five K at thirty six per cent and we achieved a hundred and three at thirty eight .
Right , so er you certainly don't want to be giving in at at two per cent unless the volume we 're sure 's gonna be higher again this year .
Right , she 's just put another o order on for about erm a big order .
So she says they usually put schedules on for fourteen month for the next ten months , twelve months .
Yeah .
So the order 's on so I 've got to try and argue the toss with her
Right .
erm we budgeted at fifteen K at forty three per cent , we did twenty two but only at thirty six per cent cos the product mix changed .
Yeah .
Yeah .
They sold off their small tools division where we sold some bearings to them .
Which we made good margins on .
That 's the W D S small parts now .
Standard parts
Yeah .
size .
six three O six , six six three O two er fours .
Erm I 've had a word with Kevin and he does recognize the fact that we 've got to get something .
But he this was a week and a half ago and he said , give me a couple of weeks , I want to have a look at the figures and the mix and have a think about it and I 'll come back to you .
But he does want to get something sorted before the end of January .
So I 'll see what he 's got to say .
Right , see what he 's gonna say erm
That is one where we .
Er there 's not a great value in sales , as I say , twenty two K. But then again how values how valuable is valuable ?
I don't you know .
To me twenty two K
Twenty two K twenty two K 's worth having .
At thirty six per cent margin .
Certainly .
Yeah .
So you know , I mean that 's that 's the er So I 'll see what Kevin comes back to me with first .
Mm .
Where are we at with ?
Pain in the backside .
I spoke to today when I was over there just after lunch .
He 's as confused as I am , are an account that you can ne we 're never bottom of We used to have a very good relationship through a guy called Ray .
Mhm I knew him .
The problem is
Liked his golf .
Right the problem is , it was er like a guy called er Norman at .
They got so close to him and knew him so well that nothing else mattered .
When he actually retired it left er
A complete hole .
Yeah yeah I mean , and cert
And we had the wrong contacts with the wrong people .
Yeah .
At the wrong time .
And I said to peter
guess who picked up the account just after that ?
I said I said to Peter and David , back in nineteen ninety one , I said we 've got a big problem .
Oh don't worry about it , Ray 'll see us right .
And bloody hell , six months later , Ray retires and we are left
in nineteen ninety two ,
Right but but
Yeah .
clearly we I mean we 're just not
We had a very bad time with Ken , the buyer at first .
Yeah .
At one point he said David was joking too much and I was too flippant .
Yeah he did have a good go at us through Shane .
Erm but it wo oh it was j He 's such a wanker .
Honest I mean everybody we talk to who knows him yeah , he really is erm the rep 's a bit of skirt , he 's well in .
Apparently .
The the scheduler , Pauline I can't make her out , she seems to be fairly u straight , organized but it had got to the situation where I mean I didn't like it but it happened , we were supplying six months of product and then was supplying six months .
Mm .
There were two sizes , seven O two O and seven O one O which is used on the .
A pair each end .
That we were a joint suppliers of .
With the seven two O five bearings on the ball screw , the lead screw , which were the seven stroke nines that we used to supply , single source , that 's where the big bulk of our business came from and er er a standard E P seven at the other end .
A pair of seven two O fives .
Mm .
Which was joint source .
Fortunately one of the good points about losing the seven stroke nine business is that Pauline transferred some of the stock of that seven stroke nine bearing on to the other end .
Cos they were replacing it with a radial , they 're transferred that stock onto the other end product number .
And it 's carried over our list , so we 've actually picked up the seven two O five now as single source .
Which is okay , that 's a nice bit about it .
The problem is we 're still j joint source on the other two .
And that 's I I had a quick er look through last year 's sales and and laid out in fact I went through item deliveries and worked them into the months
Mm .
to get to see when we dropped off .
And you could see all ours coming up to about erm May time bang , then the gap .
Obviously when was supplying .
And it went to seven months because they did have a downturn in the business so it pushed the quantities back a bit .
Yeah .
Erm so it went to seven months and then you could see us switch back on time and we switched back on in about November .
So I thought , oh that 's great , we 've got the business through till April .
Pauline rings up last week , sent me a fax er with the schedule on and there was the seven O one Os were missing off it so I rang up and said , you know , we 've not got any schedule on these two bearings Pauline .
Oh I 've just sent the fax to for a hundred pairs .
I said Well I thought we were supplying now , it was our turn to have the half year .
Oh dear I'm sorry , I 'll give you the other hundred from for February .
Well thanks Pauline but you 've cost me how nay thousand pounds worth of business .
And to be honest they I I'm whether they 're stringing us along or not I don't know .
exactly the same position on .
He can't make them out , he doesn't know how to handle them .
And I must admit with Ken , Ken is is least to blame because he just puts the orders on , Pauline is the one who schedules it , but the scheduling is just the swannee .
And trying to tie Pauline down .
And how often does the schedule happen ?
It comes out every fortnight .
I mean we might have an order three hundred but if they don't need any it just shows zero so we 're we 're stuck .
The problem is
Mm .
I always said to them I would much prefer to supply fifty per cent of the monthly usage , spread it out throughout the year .
Have half the business with every month .
So if they get twenty pairs , we get twenty pairs .
If they get ten we get ten .
Every month .
Yeah yeah .
Because the six month period that you get which is is reflected is coming th through now ,
Yeah .
lose contact with really where you are with them .
Suddenly they come on cos they don't give as much notice , they 're a pain in the bum .
Yeah .
We try and keep a bit of stock up front so we don't annoy them you know , so we 've got something to react with .
Yeah yeah .
But it catches us with our pants down and they go back to and blame us for it .
But
Certainly
you lose your control over the schedule .
By the time it comes for us to switch it on , they could say , right we want twenty pairs a month at this size , don't know what they 're using .
Because it 's been that long keeping an eye on them that they could be supplying half the business on our time with and then a hundred per cent the rest of the time .
Mm .
And it 's difficult to t tr track it .
Can you can you try and er erm make some er plea for erm factory stab on the basis of factory stability .
I have done .
But that erm that we 'd actually like so many per month and that that enables us to plan the factory .
Yeah I I did it with Pauline , she she actually didn't mind doing it at one point before Christmas but it has n't come about and as she said , won't change it , it won't happen .
I think we 're stuck with it now .
This half year supply business which I don't like at all .
And the fact that are four per cent cheaper than us and as soon as I mention and increase he says , well if it 's dual source we 've been told to look at the cheapest source of supply as single source .
And then you told me , well are saying eight per cent .
Something like that ?
Er I think I think probably they they 're going up a little bit later so
Right right
so basically what what will happen is that they put this order on because they 're cheaper at the moment and the next one we shall be cheaper .
We 'll be if we get our four per cent
If we get our four per cent and they get eight per cent .
Mm .
But
Then then then er then we 'll be on a par .
Do you know that 'll put it up that much ?
Yes .
Sure ?
Well not are they asking for it ? but have they got it ?
Because my one fear is saying , yes we need four per cent thinking that are gonna go for eight , ten or whatever to put us on a par
Well
and go in for five
Well if
and they 're still under us and then they don't create the problem
Oh no no no no but if the situation is such that er you what you say is that is the s the six months has now started has it ?
No no not yet , officially
Not yet .
but what she did , she sent the fax to them and ordered a hundred pairs .
It was only when I rang her up to chase up what had happened to the she says , oh dear I 've sent it to the wrong one .
. I can't say , you stupid cow .
Yeah you know you think I put the phone down
But a hundred pairs for how long ?
H
That 's a couple of well actually what it is the there was a hundred ninety and er then we had er she says but I want the hundred off you in February which was This was at the just bef just after Christmas .
So you 're talking a month yeah , but you see , they may take a hundred in one go and then leave it a month or so .
Yeah .
Yeah or two months .
I it they 're the drop they 're take it in isn't the exact requirement .
Well if
schedule goes like this anyway .
If you if you need to do something about it , then er in order to secure that order for a hundred , then sell them at the old price .
Mm .
Oh I 've don that that 's alright I mean she 's given us
Yeah .
And
the order for them now , we 've got the fax .
Oh we have got it .
Oh yeah got the fax we 've got
Right .
I wasn't .
Oh right okay .
The problem I 've got is is er I know what I want to do and you told me what are doing , so from that I have a good picture of what how I should approach it .
But that is everybody being fair .
Yeah if Now but th if I 've understood you correctly , there 's going to be a few months when we don't actually supply anything .
We should be getting at least to March all supplied from us now for the next three or four months it should all be from us .
Right .
But what 's gonna happen is , these little mistakes are happening and are picking it up .
Oh dear , sorry , made a mistake , yes ?
Mm .
Er
Mm .
How do I cope with that .
But
You can't the most difficult situation in in our job is coping with an incompetent buyer or scheduler .
I don't think it 's incompetent .
That 's the problem
Well
if she was I could accept it .
But she isn't .
That 's why I'm more suspicious than annoyed .
You see what I mean .
And happening to know that the r the rep 's a bit of skirt , that Ken loves
Mm .
Yeah I'm I'm I don't know how to And I'm not gonna go and say come on Ken .
You know you have to draw the line at how far you can go but I'm f I'm worried about this account definitely .
Because I can't I honestly have got a I don't know what 's happening .
And unfortunately unless can guarantee I mean what what what I would like to know is what they 're gonna charge the what they 're charging them now and what they 're gonna charge them .
So we can suit our prices to get .
Because if you think about it , this is a w this is a danger we may suffer without actually being able to to get up .
Yeah .
Mm .
I'm not saying they would , but what I'm saying is if say we 're four per cent behind and Ken won't give me the exact price
Yeah .
it 's three four five-ish per cent yeah , and that isn't gonna be on e the same on every product so
Yeah .
but say it 's four per cent on every size , and I want four , yeah , so I put me four , that 's eight per cent above a bit above .
Yeah .
And go for eight , fine and now I'm on a level playing field .
Yeah .
But is he fifty P in front of me or fifty P behind , Cos then Ken turns
Right .
round and says right , cos you 've both had an increase , I'm gonna go for the cheapest one .
And we 've blown it .
That is that is always a danger .
Yes .
Erm and and erm er yes that that that is
that is a danger , what we have to try and remember although it 's no great comfort to you , is that overall , the prize is tremendous
Mm .
in er I mean even if if get their prices up eight per cent and are still under us ,
Mm they 've done
then
brilliantly haven't they .
you know , well they 've done brilliantly but the market we 've b between us we 've got a good for the market .
entire market price even though it cost us the business at this point in time .
Right .
And and there 's always the chance of getting it back at a later stage er but the whole market will have moved up a level .
Yeah but I don't want to lose seventy grand 's worth of business .
No now what are the what are the items that that are still being bought as precision items ?
There 's er three sizes now , that we 're down to , the seven O one O , the seven O two O which are the drum bearings and then the seven two O five which is the lead screw bearing .
Seven two O five .
Yeah .
And they 're all P
And
P fours .
They 're all P fours with
Yeah .
what sort of things I mean they 're singles ?
They 're pairs .
They 're pairs ?
Yeah .
They 're pairs of P five .
P s P four .
P four ?
Yeah E P seven this was .
Standard normal precision .
The seven stroke nine which is what we call a P three , yeah it 's not but
Yeah yeah .
we 've settled on P three , erm the seven two O five one is the one that 's been designed out .
This seven two O five that 's I 've written down here .
Yeah that 's a P four .
.
That 's one end of the lead screw .
Right so these ones all stay .
Yeah they 're they 're the present sizes now we 're talking about .
Right .
And what prices have we got on those ?
Hang on .
I 'll go and get the price is you want it .
Yeah get the get get me the prices on those will you .
You need an extra pair of hands .
These are what I 've got on the disks you see .
the pricing of it .
If I can find it .
The seven two O fives , twenty six pounds .
That 's pair as well is it ?
That 's pair yeah .
Twenty ?
Twenty six .
Twenty six , yeah .
The seven O two Os are a hundred and nine .
Yeah .
The seven O one Os are twenty nine pounds thirty .
Golly .
That 's it .
So that seems to be an extraordinary lack of difference , between a seven two O five and seven O one O .
Mm .
A mere three pounds .
Three pound thirty .
Just historically how the prices have been
Yeah .
Right these are ninety three prices are they ?
They are ninety three prices yeah .
And er at the moment you 've asked for four per cent .
Yeah .
From January ?
Yeah .
Right .
I 'll get some more information about that .
Okay .
I mean I'm aware of the thing that 's what makes me ask you more about that account , but I am worried about it and and actually in a way are in a very good position .
Because they can be seen to be playing ball and yet benefit .
You know what I mean ?
Mm .
So that 's what worries me .
And you reckon we 're we 're four per cent you 're about four per cent below .
It 's about four per cent on each of the prices .
But I mean , you know obviously Ken 's not gonna tell me exactly what .
If we knew what price were at then it would give me more er confidence to know where we stand and how to go about it .
I mean I don't know what the the the the the standing is with our knowledge of information but I would like to think that if there is er erm not a hidden agenda but agreement being made at a level , that we could share the business .
Mm .
But what I want to do at my present moment is maintain my share of the business .
Right .
I'm not interested in taking it off anybody .
No no .
No that 's that that is our objective is to maintain the share of business at a higher price level .
And erm
I mean even at the risk of probably er the other suppliers making a bit more than us if it means that .
It 'll be interesting if we could find out erm actually what prices are because if he 's a good he would have said exactly the same thing to .
Oh yeah .
Mm .
And he will have told that that erm The prices are four per cent below yours dear boy .
but we 've always known that they have been below .
Yeah you 've always been told you 've always been told that they are .
we 've always kept the business cod Ray was the buyer .
Yeah .
Yeah .
And yes I I agree he was a good contact to have but he ai n't here any more .
Yes .
And it was predictable
And also
And it I mean it it doesn't help saying I told you so but I did
Unfortunately
tell Peter so .
Yeah yeah , well he 's gone so don't worry about that .
Er and erm Yeah he 's gone too so .
Why worry about it .
Erm what er what are our contacts like at a technical level at ?
Okay .
How often do we get a technical visit in there ?
Er well it 's actually at the technical side is , I I 've seen before Christmas .
About the new Phoenix machine that er we haven't got a er opportunity for business on anywhere .
I 've tried and they 're not interested .
What s what sort of bearing was it ?
It 's a small miniature nine millimetre and fourte thirteen millimetre one .
Er a single one and a flanged on as a a pair a matched pair .
And I sent off details with the
A flanged a straight a straight flange ?
One straight bearing .
Yeah .
One plain bearing and one flanged bearing .
As a pair .
What erm
It 's reference .
Sent it all to Viv with all the details , broke all the reference
What volumes ?
Two thousand a year .
How how .
Two thousand on one and a thousand on the other .
Has he re-inquired on Japan ?
No .
Can I ?
Yes of course you can .
Of course cos if
particularly pointed out the flanged bearing and said , You know that does the flanged bearings don't you ?
I said , No I didn't .
He said , they do .
They do flanged miniature bearings and it is possible therefore that
Mm .
somebody somewhere will know .
So what I suggest you do is to give erm Jerry a ring .
Yeah okay .
Cos they won't need to be to P four limits .
Well give Jerry a ring and see if there 's anything to offer Yeah yeah .
Yeah .
Yeah yeah .
Yeah .
Fine yeah .
Yeah .
So Yeah okay I will do yeah .
I 'll send .
Ask for his comments I 'll use K John cos he 's the machine tool man .
So I 'll use him as my contact .
It 's best to keep .
Yeah okay .
Oh and I 've spoken to Tony meeting .
I'm arranging to go and see him , it 'll be into next month now when
Right .
I 've had me
Good .
time off and yeah .
Yeah .
Right okay .
So could could you do something on that , worries me .
I will see what I can find out .
Yeah I'm I'm I'm .
I'm stuck to be honest .
I quoted forty per cent on those screw support sizes last Friday .
Yeah ?
I faxed him over on his on Saturday morning .
So we 'll see what happens .
Erm but er what I 've just put here is forty per cent margin until price is sorted .
We need to
Okay .
do this visit with Roy and get this price list sorted .
Waiting his reply .
Right okay .
Er
You you might you might er er
Cos I did have a word with Steve on Friday and said have you seen Jerry and and has he mentioned this
Yeah .
and and Steve said , No I hadn't heard of it actually .
I said , well look , we intend to fax through to Roy saying , yes we want to do business with you .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
And erm you know , we 're waiting for him to come back and say , Yeah we need to talk .
Jerry so he said he hadn't seen but he 's not necessarily going to .
Do you do you have direct contract with Jerry ?
Mm .
Why don't you give him a ring ?
Yeah fair enough .
And and say erm
Yeah .
you know I'm just off likely to be off for for next week and like to get
Right .
something fixed before I go .
Yeah okay .
Right and then he probably ring Roy and Yeah
You know , use that as an excuse .
Yeah .
fine okay .
Right okay I think that 's it then , er Okay
Right .
so one 's really the one where I need to involve you .
Basically i if you can .
Yeah .
The rest I 'll let you know
I hear .
Erm I I'm also I also quite
Ooh
would like to know what 's going on with and .
Whether actually has any er control over what 's doing in the marketplace .
Okay yeah yeah .
I know it was Andy last time and he 's a guy so yeah , I 'll find out .
Well you find out I might be able to find out to .
Well yeah okay .
Erm that was a point , , I er spindle bearings and I want to take the business off 'em .
Now with it being , we 're not gonna look at a high margin straight away cos I know that 's a waste of time .
Er but we can make a reasonable margin including spacers .
It 's a set of three bearings with a pair of spacers .
So you have two bearings in tandem , a pair of spacers and a third bearing .
And it 's their normal machine centre range .
They use like about forty pairs a month .
Yeah .
Erm sell for about eighty seven pound including spacers so I was gonna go in at about eighty three , eighty four but it 's the new pricing company so I 've got to ask your permission haven't I ?
. It 's a new product , I'm gonna make reasonable It 's about thirty five per cent margin
It 's a new product ?
No it 's it 's a new size for us to supply .
We 've never b
Well
historically with what 's happened is , the design from Japan was taken under licence
Yeah .
and they were based around and and designs .
Yeah .
Now on the five fifty series for example , it 's an complete cartridge spindle on the twelve thousand revs , yeah ?
And we get you know so Anthony would get that business .
Because complete spindles come under the precision range of products .
Yeah .
This is something I was trying to get clarified but I don't care really as long as somebody gets it .
Erm but what happened then is er tended to get the main bearing supply for the normal spindles that manufactured and built .
Mm .
And that was a set of three angular contact ball bearings , and then a N N thirty double row roller at the rear .
Er we 're now doing this partnership which was what today was about , about the new generation spindle .
Yeah .
Erm so that 's going great , I think that 's really going well so the new design , I think we 're well in on .
Erm the old on that you know , took me two years to get the bearings approved and er you know but then having to wait a year and a half cos had a year and a half 's worth of orders on 'em and promised to hold the price for three years is that 's what it took for them to use them up , er has run out , new orders have been put on but I 've got the chance of taking the business .
Er but erm obviously with the thing again , I wanted er obviously
What was the
you don't to go to 'em for and they say , well you just took the bloody off me , I want a cut in me .
Yeah .
This is this is
You know I don't want to be seen to be
This is clearly er erm a situation where erm we must not knowingly take business which we have not enjoyed before at a price below
No at a price below the existing suppliers ninety four prices .
Now when erm you say are supplying at the moment .
Mhm .
Yeah .
The problem is Dave , the buyer at , is worse than Ken .
He 's a real dipstick .
Yeah ?
W his last comment .
Wh what happened is , Richard was the team section leader , Dave historically looks after the bearings sales .
But he 's such a dork I'm taking him off it .
And they 're letting him keep linear .
Cos linear is just consignment stock and you know job there .
Sally the lass who 's taken over the buying for precision bearings , is a great lass got on great with her , and Richard .
And they want to come and see the factory , they want to go to yeah , it fell down cos Richard was too busy at the end of last year , fine get that sorted and i Sally was dropped in the crap by right at the end of last year , came on five sets of bearings , I could 've done 'em in two weeks .
I said I 'll get you in two weeks , wallop wallop It 's alright , to do it , they have 'em back in a month .
We 're alright you know , they only way you 'll get the business , he 's like that , he talks like that , is if you can you know offer a big price saving .
That I'm afraid that 's one thing you can't do
Alright .
even if it means that this year Yeah yeah .
Er
From my own point of view I want the business but bearing in mind what 's happening I'm asking you before I do anything .
Erm I
Should I let the dust settle first ?
Yes .
So I 'll leave it .
E you either either leave it or
If I quote three or four quid underneath , he 'll consider it and we may get an order in a few months time when the schedule runs out .
Do you want me just to leave it ?
I think what you could sensibly say , to them , is , Look , I gather you 've had supply problems with
Yeah .
Yeah .
Cos I was there when it happened .
And s n a look you won't have supply problems with us .
Mhm .
And you could say , look what we 've done with .
Yeah
Competitors of yours .
Yeah .
Competitors of yours , wanted bearings in a week , we got 'em bearings in a
The problem the problem is that 's happened with the design people .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
I have been given Roy , the dra the engineering the the senior designer , Dennis er Kev who 's our
Mm Mm .
he was a development manager , I 've been giving 'em earache for the last year and a half , saying , you are falling behind man .
We 're up and running with , we 've got the test rig going , new spindle bearings up , we 're pushing it .
Yeah ?
Yeah .
And it 's taken that long for Dave to get his arse in gear and he 's a so slow .
He 's he 's he 's been reluctant to do anything because he 's had other things to do .
Right .
But Malcolm in in the end got him to do something .
Who who who are the who 's the boss of these erm wankish buyers ?
Richard was the team leader , he 's the guy for me to work on .
I know I could do it
Who 's his boss ?
Who 's his boss ?
Well Peter but er
Who 's Peter .
Peter 's the group er materials manager .
But I wouldn't .
He 's not one that you can lean on .
Er to wh actually leave it with me because Richard 's the guy .
And Sally is taking over from David , it 's a handover period .
Right .
Because Sally 's not she doesn't understand one end of a bearing from another .
Right .
She used to do a bit of part time buying from the accounts department .
Yeah yeah .
She 's come down now to take over buying and she thinks Dave 's a wanker .
A prat .
Yeah ?
Right .
And I can get Richard and and Sally interested
Right .
but David 's sat there at the minute in the background .
Right .
Now Yes wait
What I need to do is get him out the way .
till he 's out of the way ,
Right .
and suggest to your Sally
Yeah .
that you on on one of your visits it would be a very good idea if you sat down with her and the engineering pal
Yeah , and Roy .
Yes ?
Yeah .
And you have a c not not necessarily with not necessarily with the boss
No no mm .
Yeah .
But just the the the buyer
Mm .
and the engineer .
Right .
And s and begin to drive them with a consolidated plan .
Look wh you 're in this business for a long time , things take an awful long time to happen in this world
Mm .
Mm .
you know that , I know that .
So we 've got to get our plans sorted out .
I want to help you do that .
No Sally 's new at the job , we 've been working at this for for on on the technical front for some time , now let 's just sit down and and work out what we 're gonna do .
Is that alright ?
Yeah .
Yeah , so try and bring those two together
Mm .
because if if you do that , and it begins to erm o occur to her and if she 's fairly bright
Mm she doesn't seem daft yeah .
She 's not clever cos she 's bearings ,
Erm it it it no
she doesn't seem engineering clever .
No .
But she 's not daft .
No but but you 're gonna help them .
Yeah yeah .
You 're going to your object in life is to help her do the job better .
Right .
And explain to her .
And by sitting down and having a technical and commercial conversation together
Mm .
you can sort of chair that that
Mm .
meeting and help her to understand
how much we 're helping them through this .
and appreciate how much else we can do .
And and okay if we 're a pound or two different .
We 're forty minutes up the road .
Yeah .
Yeah .
If we can't e e I 've had a couple of months of stock on the shelf for 'em .
Yeah .
In fact I must admit , I hinted to Dave if if linear will do consignment stock for , why should n't we if we 're only forty minutes away .
But I mean that 's the last thing I wanna do but
Yeah .
but even then we could have consignment stock here in effect cos they 're only forty minutes away , we could throw 'em in the back of the car and have 'em delivered .
Well that 's what we 've got we 've got consignment stock here , it 's on our premises
Yeah .
so they don't have the problem of of of of of
Yeah
the hassle of stocking it and so on .
Yeah .
So you know
I 've just got this David thing and and the thing in the background .
I didn't want to tread on toes .
Well well you 've got a lovely you 've got a lovely opportun
You 've got a lovely opportunity there to sell the non-price benefits .
Yeah .
Just have a try and h try and set up a c a a a meeting with this Sally and your engineering winger
Yeah okay .
and don't talk price at all .
No .
And than at a later stage go bock and have a go at Sally and and remind her of all these good things that you talked about .
The problem is we 're buttoned down on deliveries on standard bearings cos of the balls up about .
Well okay so you 've got to talk
.
you 've got to talk your way through that .
It 's the precision bearings that 's really the prize .
I mean that 's why .
Yes .
And and and of course now that er now that we 've got the total business beginning to operate as one , the chances of letting them down on standard bearings is very much smaller than it ever was before .
Yeah .
The problem the reason we 've let her down on standard bearings is because of this changeover .
Mm .
Oh yeah .
You see it 's got nothing to do with the with our
No no .
competence as a supplier .
No .
Yeah okay .
Alright .
I 'll give you something to
I'm going tomorrow morning there anyway cos Roy 's just given me a call , they 've got some problems with screw support bearings locking up , but er I 'll go over there some time
Right .
.
Yeah .
Yeah .
.
So I 'll Sally .
Okay , is that happiness ?
Right , yeah okay .
Erm just the one 's me main concern .
I mean the others you know it 's it 's what we get and and sort of thing .
With them it 's it 's yeah .
Mm .
Erm I'm not happy with them and I don't know how you get round it .
Knowing what 's happening there .
Well er at the end of the day it may be one that we 're gonna we 're gonna lose but erm
Mm .
If it is

Good morning , everyone .
I think we have nearly a full house but there may be one or two more people to come .
Erm taking part within the presentation this morning ah are Frank who is the fr managing director of Pearsons , and James er , who 's the finance director .
Er we 're going to take questions at the end er the camera there is for internal use only and at the end we 'll hand out copies of the slides to anyone who wants them .
Our profits are disappointingly small in relation to , er er , the , er first half of last year er then , we had buoyant conditions and we made more money than we ever had before .
Recession had already promised a slow start to this year er , but in January when worry about the Gulf actually gave way to the war itself erm , the trading climate which was already weak erm worsened still further .
Er , consumer confidence fell away and U K consumers kept more of their cash in their pockets er , in fact , erm , they saved over two and a half billion pounds more in the first quarter of ninety one than they had in the same er , quarter of last year .
One immediate casualty of the change in conditions was advertising .
Recruitment adversiding advertising for example virtually ground to a halt as businesses started to shed er , people , rather than to look for them .
So what happened to our trading profit ?
In this analysis er , if you set aside the effect of our sale of Elsivir er , the variance was forty nine million seventy percent of which relates to the U K. The drop in profits from our newspapers was the biggest and probably the most widely expected a substantial proportion of their costs are fixed and , er , they therefore are particularly sensitive to , er changes in volume .
Fine china and investment banking inevitably er , er er er er suffered from the economic conditions so did entertainment er , which also brought two extra burdens er , firstly the er marked reduction in tourism and , er , for the first time , a three and a half million pound er , bill for Alton Towers ' loss-making winter quarter which I think we , we 've flagged er , quite consistently .
After newspapers , books showed the largest decline er , and the fifteen million variance is shared roughly one fifth by Addison Wesley and two fifths apiece by Penguin and Longman .
Two of the abiding characteristics of these businesses are first that like newspapers a high proportion of their costs are fixed and secondly , unlike newspapers er , their main selling season is in the second half of the year .
Outside AW 's erm , specialists books er , er , markets er , book sales have been almost universally slow there were very high returns as book sellers everywhere reacted to reduced er , demand by replacing or winding down their stock .
This particularly affected Penguin substantially increasing its spec i its expected first half loss .
Penguin also incurred losses of two million on Smithmark its American remainder book businesses er , before selling it .
Longman the least seasonally biased of the three struggled to break even in the first half and this removed the normal pattern of Longman 's half-year profits helping to offset the first half losses of the other two businesses but before we get too depressed er I point out that Addison Wesley s sales were up by eleven percent and the size of the first half loss reflects the company 's decision to gear up in advance er , for what we w believe will be a very strong er , second er , half performance .
Er , overall I think it 's right to say that we 're disappointed by these results but we 're not downhearted .
All of our businesses have maintained or improved their market shares as managers we concentrate on the full year rather on either half and because of our seasonal bias er , those of you who 've been , er , to our interim presentations before er , will remember that without fail I tell you our results at the half-way stage are not a clear guide to the outcome of the year as a whole .
The major part of our profits are made in the second half er , and this year er will certainly be no exception .
To underline the point I thought I 'd show you this four year average one thing that the exercise shows is that between them our book , entertainment and fine china businesses normally account for about seven percent of Pearson 's annual profit in their first half and for about thirty three percent of our profit in the full year .
This year their net first half contribution was negative which will strongly exaggerate the seasonal bias towards the second half er , conditions will still be far from ideal but with the Gulf factor out of the way and some visible improvement in our overseas markets , particularly North America we think the trading environment will be broadly equivalent to that of the second half of last year .
Now , er , before I hand over to Frank er , a word about the dividend er , in recent years we 've paid an interim dividend which was half the total of the previous year 's dividends and so , er , had a built-in increase .
This year we thought it right to reserve our judgment er , until the end of the year so we matched last year 's interim .
Frank .
Well as Michael says , we 're not proud of the results er , and we 're not going to try and dress them up , Michael has n't tried to do that and I certainly don't intend to .
But nevertheless I do want to er , bring home to you the underlying strength of our businesses there 's no question , we 're very wel very well faced for , for an upturn .
But before doing that er , you may reasonably ask what action we 've taken er , during this year when it 's been such a difficult year .
Do you remember at the announcement of last year 's results we erm we mentioned that we were concentrating on four themes one 's cost reduction er driving for cash erm , improving our market share and investing for the future .
Starting with cost reduction any cost reduction programme always involves a lot of redundancy and , and this is no exception and from the slide you 'll see that we 've er we 've had a staff reduction er , from the the plan for this year of one thousand and thirty three er and that 's the , that will save us in a full year something like fifteen point nine , sixteen million pounds .
This year er , there 's been a negative benefit in the first half of two million and there 'll be a positive benefit in the second half of two million .
Incidentally , it doesn't include the disposal of Smithmark We 've also er we 've also gone in for other cost reduction exercises , for instance at er Dalton with a review of warehousing and distribution er , we should save about a million pounds in a full year and we 've been ramming home to our chief executives the need for annual payroll reviews to be geared to the profitability of the company rather than t rather than to the rate of inflation er , or even , er in , even the market place .
Driving for cash er well an indication of how strongly we , we 've been driving for cash is that er the reduction i in er operating cash flow is less than the reduction in profit .
We 've been telling our chief executives that even though you can't get the sales then at least try to work on your working capital , try and get your working capital er , ratio down .
And there 's been quite a bit of success in in that area both of the newspaper companies er , are doing better than last year and er Longmans for instance expect er expect their operating cash flow erm their working capital rather to be lower this year than last year by by year end .
Erm improving market share , well all of our businesses have improved their market share during this recession and I 'll , I 'll mention them as I go through the individual companies .
Investing for the future although , although we 've been keen to drive for cash er , we really wanted to , to use the benefit of having a strong balance sheet and so where investment has seemed sensible and sound , we 've made those investments , of course we 've put er , cash in the B Sky B er and we 've also invested further in the er Spanish group , the Recollectors Group taking our stake in expansion , adding some cash and getting a stake in the bigger bigger grouping .
If we look at the individual businesses there we er see the individual profits .
If we start with the Financial Times well by their standards it 's not a good result er , but again let 's get it in context , the newspaper 's trading margin is just , just under ten percent , it 's er it 's about nine point six percent er , and on the circulation front they 've done well in market share terms where we 've marginally improved our our market share in the quality market .
Er in Europe we 've gone up six percent in circulation and in Japan we 're on target there and under budget .
In advertisement , er in the advertisement volume area , again we 've increased our market share amongst the qu er , quality dailies a marginal increase er but it 's nationally we 've done very well and for instance in Europe we 're sixteen percent head , ahead of last year in volume and revenue terms .
On the cost side , apart from the redundancies I mentioned , well including the redundancies I mentioned er , the non volume related costs are only three percent ahead of the previous year .
East India Dock is now er , virtually fully utilized printing the Basildon papers in the daytime and the Financial Times at night and the Observer on Saturday night and we 've got high hopes of getting the contract to print the Japanese er , European edition of the Japanese daily and that , that will fill the morning slot so that really will be er , great utilization of , of that er installation .
has been affected on the revenue front mainly in the medical publishing but to some extent in the erm in the financial sector although we 're still absolutely market dominant in that sector but we 've increased the circulation there by ten percent .
The F T magazines have all increased their market share and Profile , our electronic , er erm , information business has grown in revenue terms by twelve percent .
Turning to Westminster Press the cost Westminster Press in a full year er , will amount to three point eight million pounds and er .
all of our paid fors have er , done very well this year in circulation terms all but two of them have increased their circulation in the first half , despite quite high price rises , for instance the York county newspaper , the weekly there , we have a daily but the weekly there went up by five P and the weekly in Bath where again we have a daily that went up by six P .
And every single Westminster Press centre has increased its market share .
Turning to er books and starting with Longman .
Well there as I mentioned a staff reduction of a hundred and ninety two and significant er staff reduct er cost reduction in other , other areas we , we analyze every single er publishing unit and where the erm where they were marginally profitable or less than marginally profitable er we 've taken appropriate action .
And as I mentioned earlier Longman expect the cash flow this year to be better than last year despite the the reduction in profits .
Last year I told you Alhambra er , was receiving the treatment .
This year it 's on profit , on budget at the half-way stage and I expect it to be on budget by the end of the year .
We mentioned a small acquisition in Japan last year , medi on the medical side of Longman , P P S K K it cost us about four million pounds and we were reckoning on a profit of about half a million a year pleased to say that its er , its profit looks like getting to a million pounds by the year end .
And English Language Teaching at Longman which is of course the biggest er biggest profit contributor erm their blueprint sale is expected to exceed nine hundred thousand this year .
Addison Wesley our American college publisher as Michael mentioned th at the half-way stage their sales were eleven percent ahead of er , last year , and you may remember last year they had record sales and record profits and er they 're forecasting er something like fourteen percent a head by the year end in sales terms and they are expecting to maintain their their margins and last year was a very good margin indeed .
Once again there 's been great emphasis on cash maintenance .
Penguin the staff reduction there doesn't look particularly er high but then we were reducing staff there last year and we 've er , we 've disposed of Smithmark and the travel guides er , the warehouse and distribution system is working very well and we 've been adding distribu distribution clients there er the autumn list looks very strong indeed particularly in the U S especially and er , we 've shipped er , over two million of Stephen King 's latest book and there 's another one due in the autumn and we 're expecting to ship about two and a half million of er of , of that one .
Er in the U K we 've held our market position and it 's been a a pretty desperate market we were one of the few if not the only book seller who refused to er to yield better discount terms er , on the threat of er every , every book seller was every er publisher was threatened with erm not being stocked unless we gave bigger discounts .
We held our position against that and I'm pleased to say er , we will continue , we will continue to be stocked .
Er our distribution system has got great press recently and it 's regarded as one of the three best distribution systems in the U K. One of the things we 're trying to do is to pay less for our books , it 's very easy to pay very very fancy prices for , for er mid-range authors and for them not to earn out , so we 're looking for much cheaper books .
A good example is Dances With Wolves which cost us four thousand as a and has already sold over a hundred and twenty thousand copies .
Penguin continues to try and develop its merchandising and is quite successful and the latest success is to get the Flower Fairies adopted by Marks and Spencers for their sleepwear range which will also be marketed in the U S A as well .
Federal and Capital is a small er but high quality er new er newsletter business in the States and er it 's done very well indeed to improve its profits .
On the entertainments side er , last year of course we had that one-off benefit with not having to absorb the first quarter 's loss and this year the er first quarter was pretty disastrous because we had an er er an er amalgamation of , of A the Gulf War B the recession and in London I R A bombing and that really stopped tourists coming to London from overseas and from the rest of the U K. But I'm pleased to say that er we , we 're coming back very strongly and for instance in July at virtually all of our centres attendances were either up to last year very nearl very nearly up to last year or ahead of last year and er at Chessington our revenue was thirteen and a half percent up on last year which I think justifies our investment there .
Some of our competitors in the north have been er really struggling and erm offering four pounds off on a seven pound fifty entrance fee so bearing that in mind we 're v v very confident that we 've im improved our market share in that area too .
We opened our Amsterdam , our new exhibition in Amsterdam in June and er , up to now audiences have flocked there many weeks they 've been thirty percent ahead of er ahead of budget .
Moving on to B Sky B well it 's making excellent progress by the end of July we had over two point three million homes connected and over half of those are subscribing to one or two movie channels .
Costs are well down and will continue to fall and I'm more confident than ever that we 're on to a winner .
If we move to oil well our oil business obviously operates in a cycle different to our publishing businesses and er , at the end of the first half it had record sales and profits fifteen percent ahead in dollar terms ten percent ahead in , in sterling terms which may surprise you slightly , but I think James probably will talk about that later .
This is a particularly good performance , specially in the U S A where there 's been a very serious downturn in natural gas .
We 've increased our market shares virtually everywhere er two very strong er improvements Venezuela and Nigeria and the the initiative we 've taken with the Soviets to rework their wells er should be onstream by the end of the year and we 're hoping that may lead to other opportunities er , both in Russia and er and there 's the possibility from that of some business in Eastern Europe as well .
Investment banking although this year it 's a very different difficult environment for investment banking particularly a house that concentrates on , on corporate finance er there has n't been a great deal of M and A activity and if , if there has it has n't been a very high erm very high ticket .
Er but there have been a lot of issues and we 've done well in that field but of course it doesn't produce the same kind of fee income as the M and A activity .
Lazzards New York managed to maintain their figures of last year in dollar terms and if we take the Lazzard houses as a whole we 're second only to Goldman Sachs now in the erm in the M and A table internationally and that 's on the value of bids on which we 've advised .
Fine China we had a very poor first four months but then in May world sales were nine point nine percent ahead of last year and in the U S A over the last ten weeks we 've actually been ahead of nineteen ninety .
One factor in this is our exporting the very successful Bridal Collection that we developed in the U K , we 've exported that to Canada and the U S and that 's gone down very well indeed .
We 've also had significant growth in our chain store business in this country we 've signed a new two-year contract with Air Canada and we 're much more optimistic about the rest of the year we 've got orders , production and sales all nicely in equilibrium ready for the second half .
Now I 'll pass you to er James .
I 'd just like to make two or three points first of all the exchange factor which Frank touched upon when , when talking about profits you probably all totally familiar but I have forgotten quite how much the dollar has strengthened recently beginning of the year it was nearly two dollars and the result of that is that for the erm first half as a whole the impact of er exchange translation was adverse for our profits compared with last year to the tune of about one and a half million pounds .
It 's not enormous but it 's perhaps er not the way people er were thinking .
Now the consequence of the fact that the dollar end of June er relatively strong at around one sixty of course did impinge on er our er borrowings since we do have a considerable percentage of our gross in dollar terms and if we turn to the next slide er we can see er the summary of the balance sheet at thirtieth of June .
Now you 'll be familiar with the fact since we went through it in April that there has been a sharp jump in our known assets brought about by the sale of Elsivir and the fact that it had a very substantially written down value in our books , seventy five million pounds .
So you 've had a sharp increase in our shareholders ' funds during the six months and a reduction in our net debt which may not be quite as er substantial as you expected but it is the combination of on the one hand the proceeds of Elsivir less some reinvestment which Frank mentioned , we put a little more money in B S B and the minority interests and we do have traditionally in the first half an adverse net movement of funds from operation about ninety five million and then we had thirty two million odd er of simply revaluation as a result of translating our dollar debt at er the one sixty as opposed to the year ending rate .
So net debt is two sixty four million er and therefore the pro forma debt equity ratio 's halved from fifty seven percent to twenty eight percent we do of course expect it to be somewhat lower by the year end as our working capital which is coming to its peak season , unwinds .
I 'd like to go into a little more the composition of the net debt which again is something that er interests some of you we have er a reduction both on gross debt and equally an increase in cash as you would expect as a result of the Elsivir sale the increases are not fixed debt fixed term fixed rate debt is a function again of the exchange rate we haven't in issued any more the whole of the reduction of debt therefore is confined to our floating rate or variable debt and that amount 's ready to the repayment of the gilder drawings we had under our to hedge or partially to hedge our holding in Elsivir We have increased our cash holdings and they remain concentrated in sterling as part of our sterling er asset er portfolio which is managed from Millbank and which we regard as our investable funds as and when needed .

Councillor .
I'm actually concerned that if we , did anybody know about this issue earlier on because I think this has been going on for quite some time erm probably over the last two years and if anyone did know then why didn't they address it before and if anyone didn't know , why not ?
Certainly I I 've been aware for a while now that there have been problems at Kingslane general in terms of of break ins erm not just specifically with the launderette but with also the community room er there and certainly I I 've been engaged in making one or two suggestions about how security measures could be improved .
Erm including discussing with officers the possibility of of fitting security erm erm er forgotten the word , shutters erm to the actual , the actual building itself .
Some of the er that measure is not actually effective or not possible in the context of of the facility er I think there 's been a search for measures which will be effective and er erm that 's what the efforts gone in to , finding an effective way of preventing it .
More than that I really just can't say .
Call upon councillor
getting increasingly frustrated on the subject of other things , pelican crossings and that I 've been concerned to hear since I 've I 've been requested this question and er it was briefly reported in the Cambridge evening news last night that they they 've had almost continuous telephone calls today complaining erm which shows the public as I thought of my own experience er are very concerned about this and would like to erm first of all bring it to the council 's attention and do regard as serious and ask the chair if there is a proper investigation will be made into the way the council handles this subject .
Erm ironically after I wrote erm the letter was typed on Monday erm to Mr Mr the only lights that have been fixed since are the ones at the end of my street and the next street not as I complained about ones on the main road erm there 's an example that 's been going on for many months where a problem , an acknowledged problem of access existed which was the reason for delay but that as I understand it has been overcome some time ago now and it 's still there , this is a group of seven lights together , the lot , erm these lights are still out , they 're not in my ward in fact , they 're just .
Er , I understand there was problem because of the computer breakdown which caused a certain record to be lost but then I discover that there is no copy of man manual copy of orders sent to the contractors for repairs kept so that having lost the computer record the council do not know what lights have been reported to contractor for repair and then find out the basic clients
number seventeen Mr Mayor er Councillor is making speech
To the chair reasons for my concern here and reason for my asking her whether she will now agree to a full investigation of this service at to be conducted by councillors and for the council to be satisfied that the service can be put right .
Just in the nick
Are you satisfied ?
All the members here will know that I have recently erm sent out a circular letter expressing my concern as to where the system doesn't seem to be working properly and asking for your help and cooperation in giving me information on just exactly where it is falling down .
Er , I I I thought it extremely discourteous of Councillor instead of responding to my letter he goes to the press and starts complaining , this doesn't seem to me the way to sort out the problem at all and I am equally aware of the problem er and if it only helps me get some facts together then it it will strengthen my arm getting things sorted out .
There are some problems that have erm had come to light recently .
Apparently erm the compute software which controls the issues of orders to crac er contractor has a fault er last been erm spotted and so that it can be sorted out and er there 's going to be some reorganisation of the way in which erm erm faults are handled in the department .
I'm hoping that this might lead to an improvement but I still please ask you all to keep me in touch with where things are going wrong so that they can be put right .
Thank you councillor
Mr Mayor point of councillor letter came to me after I 'd already written which she will be aware long period .
But erm I I don't , still don't see from this how we 're going to look at the underlying systems because it 's the system that concerns me .
We don't have , we don't have a way of identifying reports and getting them fixed .
I mean the w the pelican crossing case started with , when I was a councillor before nineteen eighty eight an and it 's a difficult one to detect but if you haven't occasionally come back late at night and there 's no traffic that you can spot it because no vehicle d detect vehicles when there aren't any .
But that that , I 've been reporting that fault regularly , five years ago it 's still there today .
Something is breaking down in our maintenance system and it is at the clients side .
got fifteen seconds left to put your supplementary question .
Councillor to councillor .
Councillor do you think that you as the chairman of the citizens ' charter defunct working party of the citizens ' charter where it was generally agreed that whenever possible letters should be replied to , or at least acknowledged , within five to ten working days .
Could you please give some indication as to when you 're likely to respond to the letter sent to you on the twelve of the first nineteen ninety three ?
About the su the pr your reported proposal for a supermarket on the M eleven roundabout and also you see the commitment as confined to the officers only .
yes okay replied to various of your constituents and have conducted a robust discussion on this matter with councillor Jane and recorded in the the Cambridge evening news , I'm sorry I haven't replied , right .
That 's pretty .
do you see it as a commitment for councillors as opposed to necessary just for officers .
Thank you chair .
I hope councillor has n't been puzzling about this question because I think she should have had adequate warning erm the cycling part of working party was agreed by city board on the ninth of on the seventh of December is to come to an end and such work has er relates to cycling within a new transport working party .
Can she please tell us when this demise will take place and when the new transport working party will be convened .
Will she agree that in fact no rationale was offered for the end of the cycling working er party other than the desire to reduce committees ?
Does she agree that in fact this action is incomprehensible to the other participating agencies of the cycling working party ?
The county council Cambridge and district council , could Friends of the Earth .
This committee working party with a small budget has nonetheless through sharing funding with these other agencies has had it prum pump priming achievement of er creating a very successful project throughout the city over a number of years .
Does she agree that this non-controversial form has a er essential role to continue er in Cambridge and that erm the the issues of safety , environment and the promotion of low cost schemes is something that must be preserved ?
Yes I know you 'll have to with me .
Erm yes the cycle work working party has been very successful i er experiment and it has been much appreciated not only by people in the city but by the the other parties that have taken part in it .
Er , we looked at it as you know when we were considering reorganisation of committees and I think this is perhaps one of the few things to come out of all that .
It has only been met twice this year , the budget is quite small for the amount of work we can continue to do is quite small er it 's quite possible that it would only need to meet once a year in future so it would be sensible to combine it with other non-policy and traffic matters as a working party .
This doesn't mean to say that that we can't invite other people to a special once a year meeting of this transportation working party to deal with cycle issues .
I think what we will do , erm certainly a lot of concern was expressed at the last meeting that this er forum should should die er but I don't think it will I think it is very simple , to set aside one meeting a year , devote it to cycles and invite the same people who have coming from the party .
does she agree that there 's something bizarre in er I certainly agree successful experiment it bringing to an end because it 's a successful experiment , er clearly the policy is only to continue with unsuccessful experiments .
Er , yes I agree the funding that we provide at the moment , seventeen thousand I think , er i in in we 've already committed erm for for wh for the coming year , is small but it is because of the example , because er people who wish to m er erm promote cycling schemes and cycling policies within South Cambridgeshire , within the county council can identify the example that we have been setting that hypothecated budget aimed at cycling have been er directed this way and have been spent amicably , constructively , sensibly by cycling working parties .
Then this will not happen as we know , a transport working group is going to be er a controversial area where it will cease to be the operation that we have had in the past from the county .
It is coming to an end in May , it is not coming to an end in practice .
We can now go to the second choice question .
First of all councillor is lucky enough to get two bites at his cherry .
Well I must say Mr Mayor I was gratefully assured by the answer that councillor gave earlier on about the er strenuous efforts the council is making to improve the security at the Kingsway cash point as I now gather it 's called .
Erm , I'm slightly more concerned though about security in this building and in some of our other main buildings and it brought it home very starkly to me and I'm sure to all members of the board when we arrived at our meeting a few weeks ago and spent er over two hours standing , we didn't stay out , more or less standing out in the street and .
And it did bring it home to me that we have got a major security problem in this building and in our other municipal buildings and quite frankly the ease with which anybody can come into this building at virtually any time of the day or evening astounds me .
When I go to other er council buildings er throughout the area they 've all got these little er digital locks and people have got cards to get in and out with .
Now I understand er that you know we are providing public service here and we have got allow for public access but the cost of the council of having all its officers outside of this building for over er two hours must have been absolutely horrendous and I would have thought this would be an area where improving security ought to be a high priority so what are you going to do about it ?
Councillor .
Thank thank you Mr Mayor .
I'm pleased to be able to answer my very first oral question .
Hooray .
I mean , as councillor is aware in trying to move around this building there have been some changes in use of digital locks on some of the doors .
I think it fair to say you can't actually list , you can't actually put preventative measures on hoax bomb scares .
Somebody rings up and says there 's a bomb that doesn't matter how much security you 've got , you 've obviously got to clear the building .
Having said that I mean I think there there has been obviously some concern about some security measures , other than terrorist or so called terrorist threats in relation to staff personal security in the building which is why we 've actually moved towards more one stop per section area so there are limits to where the public are actually free to move around the building .
I would hope over the next few years we actually do move towards increasing towards that but I think we will have some severe difficulties , particularly with the planning department where large numbers of members of the public do visit the area .
But in the view of the action , the event that took place with the bomb scare there are s there are some reviews of security measures being undertaken .
I can not say any more than that .
I appreciate Mr Mayor that you can't stop bomb scares .
Er but I say it , I was just using that as an example of how it brought it home to me how easy it is to get in .
The other evening when we had our group meetings you can just walk in that side door , you can go virtually anywhere in this building unchallenged because we can't have security guards all over the place .
There is no reason whatsoever why those doors should be left open after five o'clock .
There ought to be a system er to allow limited access at least outside of normal hours , yes they 're called keys .
And I'm disappointed that councillor is talking about a matter of years before we get something done about this .
We want something done about it in a matter of weeks and months and not years .
In fact to relation to one stop shops I was talking about years , in relation to the new security I was not .
Erm , I think it fair to say that if you 'd asked more or less to the next meeting and probably sub-committee would be quite , quite acceptable and I would thank you for drawing it to our to our attention .
It 's quite quite a reasonable request .
I trust you will be happy .
Councillor
Thank you Mr Mayor .
We 've still got time have we ?
We 've only three minutes left .
Right .
So you .
Very , very quickly then Mr Mayor .
Earlier this year , or was it last year , I received this marvellous booklet .
It consists of odd pages with some figures on and a load of pie charts .
My my estimate says that each copy of this cost in excess of two pounds fifty .
I have no idea how many were produced but I would ask you Mr Mayor whether you feel that this expenditure was money well spent ?
Yes coun councillor I can advise you that in fact it did cost considerably in excess of two pounds fifty , it cost four pounds and sixty one pence each .
As you will see they they .
They are the colour of the leader of the council 's shirt and as such as such I would have said cheap at half the price .
And I , indeed I'm not exactly high gloss , they are not exactly high tech , what they do do is they
A substantial amount of information which is necessary and which indeed was asked for by members of your I believe at a previous oral question time erm as to the number that were printed you may be shocked to know that one hundred copies were made which means that the total cost of this , I think you will agree , very worthwhile public information , was four hundred and sixty one pounds and twenty one pence .
You , I don't think Mr Mayor , you you answered my question .
Do you think it was money well spent ?
Oh yes , yes I did answer your question , it is .
It is information which is vital to any councillor who is trying to go through the analysis of cost centre by cost centre of the expenditures of this council and as such it 's vital that this information is available to us not only by combing through all the relevant minutes and in er minutes of committees that have taken place but paraded together in one place for us all and members of the public to be able to get access to it .
It is as councillor said one of the costs of democracy , as such money very well spent .
Now we turn to the notices of motion .
Before we do before we do given that it 's just coming up to ten thirty could I ask somebody to propose suspension of standing orders .
Mr Mayor , we don't suspend standing orders , we book them .
Ah .
That simple , thank you very much .
Would somebody please propose in accordance with standing orders that we should extend our proceedings beyond ten thirty .
Yes .
Thank you .
Can I see those in favour of so doing yes , thank you and those against Call upon councillor to move the motion on public sector homes .
Thank you Mr Mayor .
We bring this motion for the council tonight as committed as anybody in this chamber to social housing .
In fact it 's because of that very commitment Mr Mayor that we are so keen to see it used properly and effectively .
Social housing should be just that .
It should be housing designed to meet a social need , directed towards those with no other means , no other option of getting a roof over their head .
It should not , Mr Mayor , definitely not be used simply as an easy option for those who could manage quite happily to provide for themselves , either renting or buying in the private sector but instead choose to let the state provide .
It is ludicrous that the council should subsidise with public money , my money , your money , someone 's housing provision simp if they are quite able to stand on their own two feet .
It is particularly true if by so subsidising you are depriving a would be tenant who is cru in possibly far greater need of that self same provision .
Our concern then Mr Mayor is to see social housing used correctly , for those in greatest need and this leads us to the conclusion that means testing is the best way to ensure , is positive discrimination in favour of people in such need .
If I might turn briefly to see how such a scheme might possibly work .
I would recommend that officers might visit South council , where the scheme in fact
works extremely well .
Amongst , points they might like to consider , are the fact that the scheme is very simple to operate and extremely cheap .
What happens for a simple is that on first application you bring your financial details to the interview references are taken up naturally in confidence and you are then allocated a place or not if you meet financial criteria .
The procedure is carried out once again when you reach the top of the list .
If you don't provide the information you are simply not allowed on the housing list .
If I might secondly Mr Mayor address some of the concerns that have been expressed and no doubt , will doubt be expressed later on .
This is a good time to start this scheme because in a recession it 's even more important that those in the greatest need get the most help .
Means testing Mr Mayor , is undoubtedly equitable .
Nobody in any sector , public or private , should offer benefits unless for a good reason .
The public should no more offer a subsidy of this kind using public money without checking if the recipient actually requires it or anybody else besides , means testing is nothing new , there are plenty of other benefits that are already means tested right across the board .
In the press on Tuesday Mr Mayor , this motion was described as a shameful indictment of Conservative meanness and a re re a return to Victorian era .
Yep .
If it 's mean Mr Mayor to put those in greatest need first , I'm happy to plead guilty .
If it is mean to be prudent how public money is spent , guilty again and finally if it is mean not to subside those who can quite stand on their own two feet I'm quite happy to send myself down .
I will continue Mr Mayor that it is not meanness it is practical caring Conservative policy to ensure that this happens .
He said that with a straight face
It is Mr Mayor it is Mr Mayor the Labour group who should lead the Victorian era and entertain the of the twentieth century .
It is Labour who rather than retreat into their dogma kennel , at the mere mention of the phrase means testing should wake up , adapt , adjust and welcome change .
In conclusion Mr Mayor I repeat social housing to be effective , should be for those in greatest need , not an easy option .
This motion sets out to address that issue and I hope it will gain all party support .
I beg to move .
I reserve my right .
Standing order seven I move that the motion in financial implications and those in favour of dealing with it tonight please show .
Councillor .
Thank you very much Mr Mayor .
Is the tape recorder still on because I have a word that is
describes this motion , I won't use it but it rhymes with rowlocks .
It 's interesting this isn't it , we 've moved away somewhat from the old Tory philosophy of erm freedom of choice .
We 're not going to have people are not going to have the choice about whether they buy a house or rent privately or wish to be on the council housing list , we 're going to force them off .
What this is Mr Mayor an attempt by the Conservatives to create ghettos , to create ghettos for the unemployed and the low paid and the forthcoming victims of your leader 's welfare schemes I think is the likely likelihood of this .
What he 's talking about and this is the same erm same councillor who was talking about living harmoniously side by side those that have are are buying them , those that are renting them but what he 's actually saying is well I'm actually very , very sorry but if you haven't a job , if you haven't an income or you 're income is so low , just go over there and stay away from us decent chaps with lots of cash .
We don't want to live with you .
We don't want you getting on the council housing list , clogging it up because you 've got a job and a bit of money , we want council houses to create ghettos , we don't want people in an in employment , people with money to have council houses .
You 're just talking about as I 've said , ghetto creation .
What I wish erm Mr Mayor , because councillor tries this erm Tory party , central office philosophy time after time after time .
I wish they would actually give him a w an award , and councillor the same award for services to Tory party policy above and beyond the call of duty .
This needs throwing out Mr Mayor , it 's rubbish .
Councillor .
I I I thank you Mr Mayor , erm well what a load of co Coleman balls , er
This motion really addresses a problem that doesn't exist , it 's a fictional sort of problem .
Something like seventy five percent or sixty six or seventy five percent of the , of the units which we actually let , of the houses that we actually let , go to homeless families you know , it is a complete fiction to suggest , or even try and suggest as this does that somehow or other houses are being allocated willy-nilly to people who have massive resources who could go out and buy or rent in the private sector .
The private rented sector as you should be well aware , is in fact declining quite rapidly in this country and no measure that the government has so far taken has managed to rev reverse that trend .
The real issue over time I actually think is affordability of housing which relates directly , not to some sort of magic dogma of any sort but relates to the supply of housing , the supply of housing both in the public and in the private sector and it is the supply side of housing where this government has fallen down .
I mean , I 've got figures here produced by Shelter , probably some sort of pinko left Labour party front like the L G I O or somebody like that .
Turn to the public sector in say , in nineteen eighty nine only twenty two thousand units were actually , twenty two thousand units actually completed .
You don't actually address the problems of lack of sup this lack of supply by limiting access to what exists .
The real question is increasing the supply and that is something that your government has no interest in .
You have presided over an absolute , the increase in homelessness which is quite stupendous .
The number of people that I hear saying things such as I don't remember stepping over people in the street five years ago and it 's true , in this city I don't actually remember doing that , not with the frequency with which it happens today and your government and your party has no record to shout about , absolutely none .
Now we have tried to be a pragmatic and innovative authority .
We 've managed to avoid the use of overtime we have tried our best to ensure a decent supply of social housing but always against the odds , always against the tide of what is going on in our economy and in the housing situa in the housing market .
Council housing public sector housing , equity share housing , indeed even private sector build if encouraged , would lead to a ra a range of housing that is affordable for different people at different points in their life .
We are interested in the notion of affordability , not in the notion of means testing and we recognise crucially that the public sector provides an opportunity for people .
This is something which I don't think registers with the Conservatives .
It provides an opportunity to get out of the private rented sector .
I personally and I'm sure it goes for many here , have spent a long time in the private rented sector and if the opportunity existed to get into council housing we would have taken it .
Because you are very often dealing with the situation where you are personally very insecure .
You have , six months time you could be out of the accommodation that you 're in .
You 're afraid to ask you landlord for a repair because if you do , are you setting yourself up for a rent increase ?
Alright .
You 're afraid to ask perhaps for I mean I 've lived in a house with a landlord , the landlord turned the heating down , turned the water heating off on occasions because we were using too much hot water between about four or five of us .
Decent , affordable public sector housing provides opportunities for wide ranges of people in our country and your government does nothing to promote the right to rent , the ability to get into decent housing where people otherwise would have no such chance .
Because they 'll never be able to afford even equity share accommodation and it 'll be difficult to afford anything more than that .
I find it shameful that you try to promote the measure which doesn't even begin to address the basic problem of housing .
Councillor .
Thank you Mr Mayor .
This motion especially from the that says to instruct the officers to investigate a simple method of means testing .
There is no simple method of means testing .
Means testing does involve officials digging very deeply into people 's you have people spend your monies .
Obviously the proposer and seconder of this motion do not remember what this scheme meant to people in the forties when it was demeaning and degrading and a great intrusion into their private lives and I do feel Mr Mayor that as it was a a it was demeaning and degrading in the forties it will be no less demeaning and degrading in the nineties .
Hear , hear .
Councillor Joy
Thank you Mr Mayor .
Erm , amendment that need to be made to this words housing waiting list , we in fact no longer have a standard housing waiting list but have a housing needs register erm that says a great deal about the system that we have is that it 's judged on people 's housing need and not on their income .
Erm , I hope that will be changed .
Er , another thing that we need to consider is that sixty percent at least , of our tenants are on benefits and that hardly speaks of people income in any way trying to to get round the system .
I think this could be very discriminatory .
We 're also going to consider that Cambridge does have very high housing costs in terms of mortgages and that in the city , whereas it may be reasonable in other areas for people to be able to have the opportunity to buy .
But the cost of housing in the city means that it is beyond them , particularly if they 're on their own , young , single people .
You need far more capital to get you going in a place like Cambridge that you perhaps do in Peterborough where some houses can still be bought for around thirty thousand and that needs to be borne in mind .
I also wonder how the system copes with changes to people 's incomes , er many people particularly in recession we heard that unemployment in Cambridge is now approaching ten percent and if you 've been turned down by the council , your council housing on your means test are you really going to go back to them at a time when you may be under a lot of stress with unemployment to have your circumstances reinvestigated , I very much doubt whether people do go back .
We know from the housing benefit system that there is a backlog of cases , I think hundred and a , quite a considerable number of people of where people are having problems producing wage receipts and evidence of income now and one dreads to think of the burden that will be putting on the letting section by erm inventing yet another system o of this kind erm I think people we know that people are wary already of applying for benefits because of means testing and I think that there 's that it would simply discourage people who really are in need from coming forward .
I think the fact that housing need register , not a waiting list and I therefore ask you to reject er this motion tonight .
Councillor
Thank you Mr Mayor .
There er there used to be a time when it was fairly easy to predict what Tory motions would say .
They they tended to say the same thing as the government , erm but recently Tory motions , in this council , have started to say the opposite of the government f for reasons which remain obscure to me and this is just another example .
Now this motion does not seem to understand government housing policy so let me explain government housing policy , I don't agree with all of it but this , this is the policy bit .
Government housing policy as we found tonight when we voted on the rates is to bring public sector rents into line with private sector rents .
Then , the government says , there 'll be a level private and public sector and it won't matter that we sh someone we we which sector people go for .
In order to deal with the problem of means , the government says , we provide housing benefits and the subsidy , this is the government speaking , the subsidy goes into the demand , it goes into benefit there 'll be no subsidy left if the government has its way on the supply side .
No I think this this policy is misguided just from on practical grounds , because er experience shows that demand side owner subsidies do not increase the supply housing erm which .
In theory they do but in practice they never have .
Nevertheless , going back to the way the system works in practice , you still have housing benefit .
What housing benefit does , because its available for public sector tenants and for private sector tenants .
Is it in effect equalises in terms of means , the people applying for housing so there is no need for a means test for potential tenants because they all have in housing terms , the same means , I I do you understand this , I mean it 's vitally important you understand this just to see why this motion is nonsensical .
There is no difference in needs for potential tenants .
They have the same means and that 's what housing benefit is meant to do .
That is why selection for housing is based on housing need not on financial need , that 's the point , that 's why you do it according to housing need , not for money because the money side has been neutralised .
I hope that 's clear enough for it moves the motion to withdraw the motion .
Councillor .
Thank you Mr Mayor .
I think that many of the points I wanted to bring forward and some that I didn't know about .
Are erm erm have been made I 'd like to simply to say I think two things .
One , one of the most common question of the last weeks are we yes last weeks Sunday visiting that I was involved with in my ward was from people who were perturbed , not about means testing because that is not the word that it was about , but about something that is on the same kind of sphere and that was about whether erm East Gates which decided to be their own managers would also be able to to their own tenants and keep the ones that were less suitable away from the ones that knew that they were suitable .
Now why 's that relevant ?
It 's relevant because at a time when I lived through the means test the one that , the real one , er then that would have been a very serious point because you could switch and turn and twist the means test in such a way that people would be continually at a disadvantage and the nearest I can think of what the effect of that was , living in a very working town , a very industrial working town and it was nothing like as bad as the one in London more recently , was the homelessness of cardboard boxes cities in London .
Now I know there was no means test there but there were other things there causing that .
If you want really to get that in every town and city and country , have a means test .
Councillor
Mr Mayor I think we , we owe a debt of gratitude to councillor this evening because the sort of motions he 's been putting forward has effectively united the progressive forces .
And made one I think realise yet again why one is in politics and what it is that we you know , on progressive winger politics actually stand for .
I 'd like to put one simple note and I think it 'll have to be simple for him to understand it but I would like to put one simple notion to him and that is that there is great merit in having public services sharing by people from all social classes .
For example with education , it 'll be a terrible thing for education if the middle classes continue to contract out in the way that they are so we have a divorced system of independent education quite separate from the state system .
When that happens then the , some of the most effective voices on behalf of the state system will be silent , they 'll have no interest in preserving the best features of the state education system .
The same is true of the health service , the more the private health educa the pri private health welfare comes in , the less chance there is of people who are , who are articulate and people who count in British society start speaking up with the rest of us and saying come on we we 've got a common interest and a common stake in this service and we want the best po for for everybody and the same will start happening in housing if you get your way .
You really must withdraw this motion .
Erm , councillor
There I was , talking to people asleep this morning and I woke to the dulcet tones of talking on the radio .
I must say to those of you who tend we had nice interview
subject I sometimes wonder if sometimes the Tory politicians are like Jehovah 's Witnesses really , they sort of set out into battle and say go out and convert these people , we 're gonna slam the door on them .
And I think there is this kind of elements , this kind of testing battle , go and defend ye indefensible .
Give rise to the , we rise to the bait .
I mean there are some Conservatives who do actually believe in the social welfare of the but there are also , I'm I'm sure there are large numbers who actually know what vicious streak there is behind a lot of the other measures of social control that have gone on in this country since consensus was in nineteen seventy nine er you actually realise what what a tragedy it is in this area .
I actually I I intend to believe you actually have been sent by the Jehovah 's Witness to defend the indefensible , it 's a kind of like a and I I y'know , I'm I'm sorry but I don't really think this actually deserves that .
Councillor
Thank , thank you Mr Mayor I I 'll be very brief because I think that there have been a number of very good points made from all all sides of the chamber tonight and I think really er councillor er touched on the thing that that worried me so much about the creation of ghettos .
If we 're to take this motion seriously erm the tories are suggesting that council housing should be restricted to those in mo most in need .
Now on the face of that that that that 's seems fairly sensible , y'know if somebody is in need we ought to be doing something about it .
But what happens to those families when they 've been housed and they gradually improve their position , do we send our officers down and say ah , you 've got some money in the bank now , you 're not in need , get out of this council house we 're gonna give it to somebody else .
This is what they 're really trying to do , this is the sinister path behind the Tory policy .
Is actually to terrify the p poor and to drive them in into a s an under and this is part of their philosophy that they 've been following since nineteen seventy nine under Mrs Thatcher .
And this is just a continuation of that that prejudice against those that appear to be living off the state and not justifying their existence and I think it doesn't deserve the time that we 've spent on it tonight .
Thank you councillor , councillor .
Thank you Mr Mayor .
Earlier this evening at the Tory twins were recommending to read the city council funding handbook , I would also like to recommend that they also learn something about Tory housing policy .
For one final nail in the Conservative coffin .
about means testing in general , the problem with means test is that they are a rather disguised and very crude form of taxation .
They penalise people who are earning money , the penalise people for saving money .
Now what is the point of saving money if you 're in a job and you 're worried about being made redundant when , if you become redundant you are ineligible for housing benefit because you 've been saving money .
Means test create poverty traps .
They mean they make it , in many situations , make it pointless of people to try and found jobs .
Of course that 's so hard , they don't make it pointless for people to find jobs that they don't declare their income , so that means test would encourage the black economy .
Now as we saw at the last council meeting , where a very right and proper and honest and law abiding council and we don't want to create a situation in which people are encouraged to break the law .
To conclude I think that we should go along rather than hope sort of an aspect of Conservative philosophy which is that people should be encouraged to earn money and they should be encouraged to save money and that therefore in this case this means proposing this Conservative motion , though I hope they will actually have the common sense to withdraw it .
Erm councillor
Well I I actually must have read completely different to anybody else from what I 've been hearing , erm the way I looked at it , the situation that we have locally compared with what David was saying about the national erm what government are doing nationally and the situation we have here in Cambridge city .
I 'd like the people of Cambridge city to know that we do care about the people that are in dire situations financially and that we realise we we have got a problem in housing in the city and that maybe we should be saying no matter what 's going on nationally , that locally we want to pinpoint our social housing towards those people that we feel are financially less off and in more unfortunate situations erm get ghetto creation has been mentioned and I I wouldn't consider council houses to be ghetto .
That , and we 've had this in the past , where I would say that people that live in Yarbury North and South probably do earn less and live in houses that probably are , don't have as big gardens and things like that , so the natu the nature of the is that they probably do earn less money erm but I I don't consider those to be ghettos at all .
And so I I they 're not agree with you so this surely isn't a situation that has arisen or will arise .
We 've got a problem now , w we have to try and s split that between our problems here in the city and what will happen in the future and what the government will intend to do about the problem .
The problem we 've got at the moment is that we have a lack of housing if you like , and we should surely put , pinpoint those houses for those people most in need .
I wouldn't like to try and say you you 're not good enough , go away and live somewhere else , I think that 's .
You might not but I bet he would
Terrible thing to suggest and anybody who thinks that I think has got the wrong idea of this motion .
I think this motion is addressing the problem of Cambridge city and that the people that we feel we should be erm affiliating in so much as they need the housing .
Let 's try and at this moment in time , we 're talking about now not the future .
Let 's try and aim it in their direction .
I think that we should support this motion on my understanding of it .
Councillor I I'm speaking on it .
I I think I think that 's you 're just in the wrong , I think because you 're sentiments are all elsewhere but what is actually being proposed is every bit as vicious as what each of the members of both the other groups have said .
That is the effect of it .
I only want to tackle two things .
One , one thing because it 's crucial in in what was originally proposed in this motion and it 's the lie that public sector housing , local authority housing is subsidised in preference to private sector housing .
If you read any report that comes out from the government , any report that comes out from Shelter you will find that in fact private sector housing , your house , my house , our houses are subsidised twice as much by this government than so called public .
interest tax relief , it 's M I D A S right , so let 's not start talking about the benefit of public sector housing and to show the financial illiteracy of of of what 's actually been proposed if you understand the government regulation about the ring fencing o of of of the housing revenue account and and the way in which housing benefit is now having to be subsidised by those other council house tenants then what 's actually going to happen when your poor people inhabit those houses , those public sector houses and they need the housing benefit that David 's been talking about .
Because it 's going to raise your government P A , P R because there is absolutely nobody left in in local authority housing who 's able to pay it because they 'll all be on housing benefit .
So financial effect of what we 're saying is completely incompetent .
Hear , hear
Councillor debt .
Thank you very much I think er councillor said that in er Tory erm motions goes against er Conservative er national policy but what it does identify is a very worrying sub text to the Tory policies of the moment because w means testing for hou for housing welfare has gone back to the worst aspects of the nineteen thirties politics basically .
Th this company must be in a bloody sight worse a mess than we thought and the government are not letting us know this is what they 're look for are scapegoats and they they 're .
Councillor
I 'd just like to say that only Conservatives could actually put need in one paragraph and slip straight into financial in the next and I assume they 're talking about the same thing .
Yeah .
Well I can't remember having so many councillors have all spoken at one evening .
as the chair .
It goes seconded then back to the chair again .
Councillor .
I will because Mr Mayor I think that councillor started off his response to this by talking about ghettos and a lot of differences between the better off and the worst off and I , the feeling I got from his speech was that what he was actually driving at was he was attempting to perpetuate the class distinction that the Labour party have been so bound up with over the years .
Right , erm ghettos ha have been mentioned by er a number of people .
The , what we are proposing will by no means , create ghettos or or anything else within the housing stock any more than today 's policies are doing anyway .
The other aspect Mr Mayor that I , that I want t to dwell on is the thing about housing benefits themselves , there 's been a lot of talk by a lot of speakers about benefits and er means testing in the years gone by and well okay I 'll give councillor a few more years than I have , I don't remember the forties because I was born towards the end of them but , y'know , maybe that happened .
But there are still today a large number of means tested benefits .
Erm , income support , housing benefit , family credits , maternity expenses , cold weather payment , there 's a whole host of means tested benefits which most people here will probably believe are reasonable to be means tested .
You , that you can't have an income support policy if you don't means test because everybody will have some in that case and th there there is there is another point that erm that er that certain erm highly strung members of the liberal party have er mentioned .
And that is that councillors referred councillors referred to the fact that means testing would generate a poverty trap .
It isn't means testing generates the poverty trap , it is the benefits that generates the poverty trap .
So so I I I think Mr Mayor that although this debate has erm raised people 's erm eye a little , I do believe that most of the people here have got the wrong end of the stick in what was being proposed right .
We are proposing that those that have .
Those that have substantial incomes should not be in a position to take up houses that might otherwise be allocated to those on a lower income and Mr Mayor i as a result of this I feel that that I would urge this council , although I suspect I shall be unsuccessful , in supporting this motion .
At least he got one thing right
Thank you Mr Mayor .
I must say one thing .
One of the great advantages of the advent of councillor and councillor to this council is in fact because of the motions which , I have to say even nine times out of ten I don't agree with a word of , or even ninety nine times out of a hundred I don't agree with a word of what have we been talking about this last three quarters of an hour , housing , yeah .
What we have done is raised housing , what this sort of debate does is raise housing high on our agenda and that 's a good thing , don't let us forget that .
Everybody 's taken part in this debate tonight and I for one am extremely pleased about that .
Housing is vitally important to us all .
It 's one of the most basic needs we all have is to have a roof over our heads .
Having said that I 'll try and speak to this .
Most of the points I think have been well , accurately made and I don't want to stand here making them perhaps less well wrapped and less well , less eloquently .
I think that er the point was brought out very recently , I can't remember even by whom , of the fact that in the first paragraph it says the most needy in our society and further on it says for those in most financial need .
Financial need is not the same thing as housing need .
What we are in the business of doing is providing people with houses who are in housing need .
Financial status can change overnight , we all know that .
So what happens if you have , just supposing you went down to a crazy way o of means testing .
Today I haven't got a job , I get a house tomorrow I have a job .
My financial status has changed overnight , what happens ?
That 's the sp the ridiculousness of this particular thing .
What doesn't change so fast is housing need .
If your living with your in-laws and you 're having a baby and you want a house or if you have a baby and then you have another baby and you 're still living with your in-laws housing need has n't changed it just grows .
We have on our a a a as councillor er er erm was saying must earlier on her piece , sixty six to seventy five percent of people housed are homeless anyway and will be housed because of that situation .
People on our needs register are not swimming in cash , they 're not people who think I shall have a cushy number here , I 'll go and get myself housed by the local authority .
Everybody , unless they 've been had their head in the ground for the last thirteen years , know damn well that they 're not going to get housed off the needs register particularly quickly and they only go to people who are most unable to be housed by any other means are going to bother even to put their names on the needs register .
We already have a very sophisticated way of assessing housing need .
Housing need and we do it and people come to the top of that register and get housed because of dire housing need , nothing to do with financial status .
In any event , I think I put this to you financial status , okay , so you 've got a job and you 've got er er a reasonable income , what financial status straightforward thing that financial status doesn't say what your outgoings are .
You might be divorced and have all of family to keep .
You might have ageing parents who you support and god knows how much other outgoings which are hidden and then you have to go down that road and say that you 're going to look at at financial status you 're going to have to say and exactly what are all of your outgoings in and now down going to get real unpleasant intrusion into people 's business .
Horrible and I'm I lived quite happily for long enough to remember certainly means testing and my parents .
Who would have shu sh shuddered at the very thought that we are even considering such a time in this day and age .
I think erm most of the points as I 've said before , have probably been made and I don't want to make them any more but I would just make one other when we 're talking about means tested it 's interesting that you 're advocating means testing in that way .
I think somebody mentioned mortgage interest tax relief , that isn't means tested as far as I am aware..
Means test the right to buy .
Erm , I would say to you er please vote this motion down , thanks very much .
Councillor you have the right to reply .
Thank you Mr Mayor .
There 's been an awful lot of discussion about this particular motion and I sha n't attempt cos we haven't got till three o'clock in the morning I don't think , to answer all the points .
I will just perhaps tackle one or two of them I think .
Firstly the price about , the the points sorry , councillor made about getting housing .
That 's complete and absolute nonsense .
The whole point of this thing is that , as I said in my speech , about trickle transfer is that people should mix as much as possible .
If we were in fact to promote trickle transfer that would happen a great deal more than it does currently .
Secondly councillor I take your point , sixty percent or so of people are on are erm sixty six p , I deferred your great knowledge .
There are still people who are waiting on on the list for seven years plus for a house .
You also said that the government sh should should do more supply housing .
This year you have the option of using a right to buy receipts to build more housing and yet you are turning it down .
If there was ever a more golden opportunity to do that , and you are spurning it , I 've never seen it , I never see it through a golden opportunity for that .
Councillor it 'll be discriminately certainly , I 've no doubt about that , it 'll be positively discriminatory for those in greatest need , I have no problem with that .
Most importantly perhaps it is quite clearly a nonsense to suggest that this scheme could be introduced retrospectively for council tenants .
That i that is completely infeasible for all for all sorts of reasons it would be grossly unfair on council tenants to throw them out of their house .
Nobody 's suggesting we do that , that would be a ludicrous situation .
Finally Mr Mayor I might just take issue with councillor .
It is an extraordinary assumption that only people with money are articulate councillor , perhaps we should introduce an articulatecy test as a way of getting a council house .
If you 're so keen to see people who are as you , as you say articulate and and a go , in council houses it does seem an extraordinary argument to say that that those people are automatically not in need , it seems very bizarre argument .
I appreciate obviously tonight we have are not not gonna carried today but nonetheless it is something that we believe in very firmly and I hope we have the opportunity to try and persuade you otherwise at some other time .
Thank you .
Those in favour of the motion please show .
Those against .
Thirty nine against , thank you very much .
Sixteen councillors , I take it that you .
Unfortunately council leaders have to leave .
Erm , I apologise first of all Mr Mayor er for the second meeting in a row dealing with traffic matters affecting High to full council .
Erm , I hope that I won't detain the council for too long , I'm sure that this motion er won't be controversial .
The closure of causeway Mr Mayor , is scheduled to be implemented with the completion of southern relief road erm if after a public enquiry , that road is actually approved .
In this motion I have actually requesting that the closure be brought forward in order to relieve what is a dangerous traffic situation at the corner of causeway and .
The problem simply Mr Mayor is that during the morning peak period traffic enters the city via causeway , going erm I think erm this traffic that 's coming over the is joined by local traffic from roads leading off causeway and the result of that is that er on many occasions er we get a long tailback of traffic er waiting to turn right at the junction of causeway and road .
Turn right into er what is a very busy er road in any event at that time but that the dangers is that many drivers are becoming impatient with waiting their turn in the queue and what they 're doing is driving down on the wrong side of the road in order to utilise a little back road that 's a service road which runs alongside road and leads into Nightingale avenue .
Residents in the service road not surprisingly are complaining that excessive speeds are used er by these vehicles using this rat run and this is causing a danger to children going to the local school at that time of the day .
These particular residents , the ones that live in the service road , are campaigning for the service road to be closed but not surprisingly the residents who live aren't keen on that er road closure because that would affect their use that route at other times other than the morning peak .
What has happened because this problem has been recognised is that the police are having to go down there on a regular basis and actually stop people doing this stupid manoeuvre .
Er , because obviously they are putting motorists coming in the opposite direction er in er great danger and I feel that before too long we 're gonna have a head on collision er which is going to end up with serious injuries .
The traffic engineers are well aware of this problem and I and er other Tory councillors have been er in contact with our officers and the trans traffic engineers at the and the engineers er insist that the only answer is to narrow causeway by physically putting in er road narrowing measures .
Er , this will obviously stop people driving on the wrong side of the road but it certainly won't or it won't prevent the excessive use of this service road which is very narrow indeed .
The simple fact of the matter Mr Mayor is that vehicles coming in have got a very er simple alternative route and when they come down the hill they can turn left , go by the golf course knows very well , go round the roundabout and go round the roundabout and come in , alright they 've got to join a queue there but they 're in a queue anyway .
This would be much safer than the dangerous right hand turn and the dangerous manoeuvre of overtaking vehicles on the wrong side of the road .
Because there is this impasse between what the officers wanted to do and what the residents find acceptable the only way I can get this matter resolved is for the council to refer the possible closure to the committee so that the committee can consider all the facts er in the light of the advice of the officers erm and I therefore beg to move this .
I would like to say I'm deeply grateful to councillor Elaine who wrote a wonderful letter to the director of transportation which has formed the basis of my speech .
She sums it up well .
I 'll second that .
Under standing order seven nine O .
Thank you councillor I rule that the motion has no material financial implications .
Those in favour of dealing with it tonight please show councillor .
Earlier this evening Graham I thought you erm made a complaint about the number of reports that are coming to committee er but it 's not for that reason that I wanted to dispose of this motion now erm but there are other reasons .
I do sympathise with the problem that that the local residents have there but I I dare say closing off the road wouldn't be a very good idea but it is something that only the county council can do and the county council have said that they will not do this in advance of the southern relief road being built so I think that really is simply .
Er , I did say .
Er you said you 've had a erm contact with , discussions with the officers over this and certainly I 've spoken to them a an they this is the case .
But they tell me that they have put forward two possible solutions .
One which would be closing off the slip road to Hills Road , oh he mentioned it did he ?
And the other one er the alternative would be to narrow the section of causeway .
erm but these things could be done without going to committees , without any problem whatsoever if we just have this experiment to see how it works .
Er , I gather that the last letter that had from you dated the twenty fourth of November in which you say that you will get back as quite soon to decide whether you want to apply for one of these erm erm ways of dealing with the problem or not .
Erm , I also suspect that one solution is erm not very satisfactory to one group of people and the other solution is not very satisfactory to another group of people and of course er since we are coming up to an election don't want to offend either group of people .
To get the local residents to decide which of these measures er me m measures they would like to try erm an and try it out , since the other way forward is just a non-starter .
Erm perhaps councillor would wish to put a question under response time .
Councillor .
Thank you chair .
Cou councillor has said most of things gonna say .
I do have some sympathy for cou councillor I do know this area and I I do know the traffic problems there and and we do really in the long term need to do something about it .
My problem is that as everybody knows , that the southern relief road is going to public inquiry .
This authority is taking a somewhat different view to that public inquiry than the erm the highways authority er after shire hill er erm so I I think if we were to take a decision tonight it could affect our position at the public inquiry adversely er and I would not want us to get into that situation so I think to some extent er councillor timing on this motions is wrong and we should n't be be er discussing it now .
That is not to say that I haven't got sympathy for the problem that he 's faced with .
Councillor .
Thank you Mr Mayor .
er I think councillor has made the case for the motion which he has put before us which is simply for a report to the environment committee which would deal with the the tactical if that 's the right that 's just been raised by councillor .
There 's clearly a problem , any ward councillor who brings out t that sort of thing which is non non-trivial to this council er for the reasons he has it seems to me deserves er to be supported unless there 's a very strong case against it and I don't worth considering and that 's what I shall vote.worth co you don't .
Hear , hear .
You know I I would seriously like to confer with councillor , he makes a very important point .
I think if ward councillors bring a map of have no whatsoever .
They it is brought forward on safety factors and I think that is a matter that should be considered by committee whatever political persuasion er I do use this road er regularly Mr Mayor , er I live there , I an indeed one of the people , if you like , er inconvenienced .
But my colleague has brought it forward on a matter of safety .
It is true , causeway because of the situation that exists we do have people driving on the wrong side of the road .
They drive on the wrong side of the road for some considerable distance which actually amazes me , I'm sitting there lawfully in the queue and someone comes whizzing by on the right er without any sight of the traffic coming the other way , er interestingly we did have the police er have had the police up there monitoring the situation .
There was two of them w wi with a Range Rover the other morning er with all sorts of notices and the following morning they had a motorcyclist er hidden behind the hedge as it were er that seemed to obviously put things right for a couple of days .
I said good morning to them of course .
Erm but I would say it does indicate the er seriousness of it .
Apparently it has er this substantial police presence and so on .
So to get back to the serious matter Mr Mayor if I may .
My my colleague promoting this on safety grounds er is absolutely right er I I really do feel the southern relief road issue where indeed works causeway will be closed in the proposals er is one thing .
whether the southern relief road goes ahead or it doesn't er is is really not er pertinent with the moment .
If it goes ahead it solves the problems but let 's suppose it doesn't go ahead .
Erm , then obviously we 've still go to address this problem .
If it does go ahead the proposals to close it will be somewhat late so why don't we look at them now .
So the southern relief road isn't really pertinent to the to the argument .
There is a local problem of some substance , the police have been there , it is a matter because of circumstances people driving on the wrong side of the road , it 's certainly dangerous conditions er and I think it 's reasonable to to er take up councillor the this is the practical problem the committee could look at tonight .
Thank you erm councillor .
Well I'm sorry I'm still I still think we should throw it out because , simply because I don't think you 're putting forward , I don't think that the motion er proposes the right solution to the problem .
I would suggest er I wha , I have three suggestions or two suggestions to make .
You could I I er it seems to me that body that you should go to with this is the joint sub .
Because the county has to make a decision on the road closure so therefore it should go to rather than .
Or else you can try one of the , one of the solutions that has already been suggested by the officers .
Councillor .
I think perhaps the council will now see why I'm getting so frustrated and it 's because we 've been talking about this for over twelve months .
I can't agree a solution with our officers that is acceptable to the residents I represent and I put it to this council to try and get something done about it and all I get from the chairman of the committee is the officer 's comments pushed back down my throat .
I do think er councillor , that you have got a duty to listen to all sides of the argument and not just repeat willy nilly what the officers tell you .
That is not the way that we should be running this council .
All we 're asking for , as I think perhaps the council will knock it down anyway in all the letters they 've written you don't .
get to councillor it is it is the procedures of the council that you are perfectly entitled to go to the committee itself and place this on the agenda for the committee .
In that respect it seems to me that it is not something that is necessary to come through the full procedure of the council in order for you to do and I I thought that would would deal er establish .
Erm I I hope that is at least of some help erm in dealing with a resolution to this problem .
Could we see those in favour of the motion , and those against .
Eighteen against .
I think we 'll .
Have it again please , those in favour of the motion , Nineteen
Nineteen .
And those against .
Are you voting .
Hang on and I 'll tell you .
Nineteen .
On the mayor 's , on the mayor 's casting vote I vote this in favour of the motion .
I call upon councillor to bring this motion .
Thank you Mr Mayor .
Erm we we are I will be er as brief as I possibly can be on this one .
Erm , clearly we are in a room full of people who have a more than marginal interest in the political process erm and that goes for your boundaries of Cambridge city councils er remit and clearly contains also to parliamentary methods erm I'm trying not to be desperately partisan about this , I don't expect anybody erm but a phrase has been used earlier this evening from another quarter about if it 's not broke don't fix it , erm the boundary commission have looked at the boundaries of the Cambridge city constituency have found that it is up to ninety nine percent of the right and proper er number of electors .
It has changed relatively .
People have just about got used to the new structure and it seems to me that it would behove us all to leave well alone .
I'm feel that it is the remit of this council , or indeed other district councils to talk about the whole of the county of Cambridgeshire , particularly when they start mucking around with issues well outside their own geographical area .
I can see that perhaps if they want to have a er they may feel they need to stray into other boundaries but I did feel that when I read what Huntingdon district council proposed which was if you like , to completely re-drawing the electoral map for the entire county I wasn't actually looking at something that was designed to deal with the interests of the citizens of Huntingdon district council , I was looking at the straightforward political proposal which would be far better to come from a political party than from a district council .
What I'm arguing for tonight is that given that we 've relatively recent boundary change , the people have just about got used to it , so by and large er it doesn't seem to have huge numbers of demerits as far as the city is concerned and that we are now very , very close , as close as is possible to the norm for the average constituency size that we actually endorse the boundary commissions proposals and leave well alone and the second part of the motion merely says to a neighbouring authority , y'know , please in some senses be punctilious about not to suddenly decide to poke your noses into something way beyond your it 's not just a couple of parishes on the south boundary , a couple of parishes from from the north of their but actually way to our area but what candidly I can only see as a rather partisan er er

Oh
Well you took
apologize .
But do you know who 's following on from cos I 'd take it upon myself
Seems reasonable Ian .
Aye .
Well just for the tape purposes I'm not actually from Northumberland .
I'm I'm from the north east if that 's good enough
You 're from Darlington or somewhere .
That 's
Darlington yeah , on the
that 's the deep south thought innit ?
Durham Durham stroke Yorkshire border .
So I'm not Northumberland .
Erm We haven't I don't think got minutes of the previous , I don't think we were keeping minutes of these meetings .
Mm .
Erm
But now that we 're getting or going to get presumably more involved in union matters it might be advantageous if we could have a minute taker .
Er Lisa 's there .
don't know whether she 's
I'm just putting a t-shirt on .
A volunteer for taking and compiling of the minutes and producing of them .
Would it be handy er to , to reproduce to give to anybody who either say NALGO or NUPE who was discussing them .
Well I think it 's going to be essential isn't it ?
We 're going to be meeting more regularly in the next er few month and we want to know what
I think , yeah
we discussed at the previous meeting .
Thr through you chairman I think also it 's erm it would , er apart from it being er erm a minute for , for us here erm in relation to , you know , what we 're looking to er to er apply , er it also would be useful er in relation to the Regional Liaison Group er of the tripartite er unison unions erm so as to er actually circulate it to them and that 's , that tends to be made up of of er officers , full time officers er and , and er the three kingpins that 's Gill and er Phil as well so it er it lets them know er
As a progress report
Yeah that 's right .
What , what , what , what you 're , what we 're doing erm and hopefully seek their support on , on some areas that literally falls within the Regional er Liaison Group 's remit anyway .
So
Does that mean you are volunteering Lisa ?
Well I thought it was done like the army , army volunteer line so let 's get on
let 's get on with the business .
So you , you 've now become secretary of the Northumberland Liaison Group .
Do I get paid ?
No .
You don't get any to do it .
Right .
Okay .
Well you , you 're on that Regional Liaison Group in fact then
Yes I am , yeah .
Lisa so you 're , you 're the natural person
Yeah .
Oh thank you Don , it 's really
Good .
very
Well I think what we 'll , she 'll have to do
erm what we 'll have to do , I , I 'll put this attendance put an
I was just
attendance sheet
Yeah I 've
You 've got one have you ?
Good .
Er good , from memory of the previous meeting , there , one of the items I recall at er I was left to do was contact the our Education Officer erm namely Keith er to see if er a one day seminar or a one day school or whatever you 'd like to call it , er could be held prior to the , the ballot .
Well I 've had a word with Keith and he will be available and , and very willing to do a one day seminar of that nature basically on why unison how we should go about convincing the , the membership at large how we should er conduct the free ballot campaign as it were .
Er he will be quite will willing and happy to do that on behalf of the three organizations erm here in County Hall one day in the first week in October well any day barring Thursday of that week .
So we 're in your hands as to what date you would prefer to hold it and who we would want to invite .
Erm probably a larger group than those assembled here .
So I have undertook to do that , I 've done it and er I mean it 's up to you as to which date you choose .
Erm we 're talking about week commencing the fifth , fifth of October .
So it could either be fifth , sixth , seventh or ninth
What 's the fifth ?
What day is it er offhand ?
Er Monday the fifth of October .
But I would suggest er Wednesday the seventh .
I don't know whether anybody would disagree with that .
Of October ?
Mm .
Wednesday the seventh .
Would that be everybody happy with that date ?
It 's the feast of Yom or whatever way you pronounce it ,
Would you be having that at County Hall ?
Yes .
Because I think you 'll have to check availabilities for accommodation in here before you made a decision because the
A firm date ?
Mm .
Yeah because the erm it 's very difficult to get rooms at the minute .
Right .
Well can , can we leave it that erm
Well I mean I 'll check now if you want
Can you ?
cos
Oh that , that would be
That would wouldn't it ?
That would be very useful .
Chairman could I just ask as the minute taker to er clarify the , the remit of the er educational seminar ?
Yeah .
Er any day ba barring Thursday the eighth .
Er the remit
Wednesdays between now and Christmas .
I , I 've just suggested Wednesday , it could be any day now
No I'm saying that it 's , it 's between now and Christmas Wednesdays , got ta keep them clear .
Oh that 's right , aye , yeah .
So you 're you 're
That 's right I'm a bit dodgy on a Wednesday , yeah .
Anyway we 'll see
See what date
see the availability of rooms and then we 'll make a firm decision .
The remit with regard to the er one day seminar , it was suggested at the last meeting er that it would be useful if the activists of the free union actually got together held a one day seminar or training course whatever terminology you like to put on it er to actually educate ourselves on how we should be conducting the campaign basically .
Erm how we would go about going outside into the workplaces in the various parts of the county convincing the members er to vote yes .
Erm what kind of publicity material we require , and we 'll come on to that later because we did elect a publicity sub group I remember .
Erm and how we would generally distribute all this stuff that we 're going to get from the respective head offices , which is now filtering into our office , we 've got leaflets er car stickers question and answer booklets , that kind of stuff .
Er and obviously if we 've got thousands of those coming to each three regional offices we 've got to find some method of distributing them , we don't want them left in the office do we ?
So I think the , the whole idea of the , the seminar was to kind of basically get ourselves organized but have it in a kind of er seminar format .
Does that
Yes .
that 's about the remit isn't it ?
As far as I recall from the last meeting .
Er that
I think the intention if I recall correctly was to give er stewards
Yeah
as the key people
Aha
Yes
the the sort of arguments really
Aha
for , for er cos they 're , they 're the key people that in of workplaces
and getting the arguments across .
Erm well our branch secretaries are , are the main people who pass on to stewards , who would in turn pass all this literature and things like that on , on the NUPE side
Yeah .
as far as we 're concerned .
We , we distributed cos we 're lucky we 've just got schools in and around you know ?
I mean the members who
Mm .
I think a as far as this group is concerned it will be up to each respective union , er I think of who they invited to that seminar .
I think , I mean some unions might want the branch secretaries but some might want all branch officials , some might want all shop stewards or senior shop stewards or convenors or whatever terminology we have , have in the respective unions for , for their positions .
I mean I think as far as NUPE 's concerned we would want our branch secretaries or a branch official and probably senior senior shop stewards I would think .
Yeah
wouldn't we ?
?
Yeah .
You know ?
Er cos we 're talking about , you see we 're talking about nine branches aren't we in er Northumberland ?
Far flung throughout the county as it were .
So from our point of view , certainly from NUPE 's point of view it would be a good thing .
In fact if we were n't doing it as a unison group we 'd probably do it ourselves anyway because of the fact that we 've got nine separate branches and we 'd want to have a bit of erm common , common strategy if you like between the branches anyway .
Erm chairman could I just ask a question in relation to that ?
Er we 're talking about er for example er NUPE have nine branches erm i i is that all Local Authority , Health Service er and the , the er Educational
They 're all
Well no we 're just talking purely and simply about Local Authority here .
Just Local Authority ?
Yeah .
Right .
I just wanted to clarify that .
Basically our branches are based on the district but with a slight variation or two , not exactly district .
The only thing that 's different with the branches is the health segment .
The health ?
Yeah , well we 're not concerned with the health yeah .
I mean the health different completely but the rest , everybody 's incorporated , each branch to what area they are .
Irrespective of what they work at .
Mm .
I thi I think they 're , the the NALGO COHSE and NUPE health branches are making their own arrangements in Northumberland as far as I know .
They 're not part of this liaison group .
So they 'll be doing something similar I should imagine Er
We we 're , we 're , we 'd be likely to invite all of our stewards really I think from the point of view , the County Branch up to now with these meetings it 's just been our County Branch er that 's been
Mhm
well the County Branch initiation er but I think I 'd be inclined also to spread that to our six district branches as well .
Because our organization is entirely employer based .
Er you know , one in each of the six districts at the County Branch .
Yeah .
And I , I , I 'd be inclined from point of view to invite all of our stewards , not just in the county , but in all the district branches as well .
Yeah .
To make it fair
Can I make it fair Mr chairman that erm obviously with all ours being mainly caretakers , it would only be fair to , to the actual caretaker erm person who looks after caretaking , to only invite cos otherwise you 've got ta get stand in for school which will cause problems .
Yeah .
Say four or five people come to that meeting
Mm
from one area , you 'd have to find four or five caretakers , which is impossible .
I mean
Ah well
schools have still got to be covered .
that 'll be the next hurdle , I mean we haven't got to that hurdle .
No I'm just saying though it 's
Nor the hurdle of getting paid release .
I hoping we 'll will get it
Aha .
Well there 's no problem
without any problem but you never know , do you ?
He 's nodding , we , we might not get it .
Can I ask question chairman ?
Yes
What is the situation with , I know they 're private now , but er the situation with the River Authorities , the Water Authorities ?
Cos we have a tremendous lot of NUPE members .
Not er not so many now but it 's er we 've still got members but I mean we well we 're you know all about that you 're the front
Yes I , yes I know all about that
front runner erm but I mean er all I know about from the NUPE point of view is that since the kind of can we call it , semi , semi de-recognition ?
Or can we call it totally de-recognition ?
Mm .
Erm er our membership slid somewhat and we haven't got a very big membership in er Water now .
We 've got a hundred members
Well er in the River 's we we 've got a Rivers Authority Branch which is well a hundred and twenty , hundred and thirty strong that 's not a Northumberland branch , it stretches from the Tweed to the Humber I think but
Yeah
certainly the Tees .
So the , the Water membership wouldn't concern us here .
So it wouldn't involve us , that 's right yeah .
No I think we should stick to local government branches in the county of Northumberland .
And you know I think if we can , that 's a big enough task for us to take on here .
Oh yes I appreciate but I were just wondering what branches they were in , you 've explained that , that .
So it 's like a national branch , forget it .
as far we 're concerned this day 's seminar that we 're organizing , it will be purely and simply local government branches of the three organized regions in Northumberland .
That 's it .
Is that ?
That 's it , we won't widen it anywhere beyond that .
And I think we it was poin pointed out that we 've got enough to do er sorting out the local government situation in Northumberland and I don't disturb the other other industries as it were .
Did we get a date ?
The only room available is this one on Friday the ninth .
Of October ?
Yes .
Well it 's , it 's going to need th this size of room anyway I should imagine
Oh
If everybody we invite turns up .
Mm .
Friday the ninth .
Everybody happy with that ?
No , sorry can't make it .
can't make Friday the ninth .
Friday the ninth .
Well
At ?
At ten A M .
Ten A M .
Ten till four ?
That 's a full day 's work
Ten till four Council Chamber
What time , ten to what ?
Ten A M
Till four .
need access to the room before that ?
Will we need access ?
Mm .
Well only for the tutor to come in with his er overhead projector or whatever he 's got .
I 'll try and get time for that .
Would we need , we 'd also need some kind of refreshments and er we 'll have to make a decision about lunch .
Can I put in excellent restaurant that exists right here in County
Yes .
Yes exactly
Er no I mean normally when most organizations when they call members together for a seminar , or a training course provide subsistence for lunch and we usually have tea and coffee don't we ?
Could I , could I just raise an issue
Are we going to have that ?
erm in , I mean obviously there 's gonna be some of our some of our members I mean if I identify one Ros from , from COHSE , but I daresay other , other unions er have erm have one or two members who actually work night duty .
And Ros was just saying I mean sh on that , on that Friday she 's due to be in work on that Friday night and it comes on a day she 'll paid time off aspect .
Erm she 's due in at work on that Friday night er we 've encountered problems before whereby we 've asked for I E the Friday night off because there 's been an educational seminar on on the day as it were er and that , that 's been , that 's been de er
Refused .
refused as it were .
So I mean
In the past it 's been refused ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
Yes .
That , that might be a problem area particularly where we 've got reps who work night
Well
who work nights .
it 'll , it 'll apply to nights and days that won't it ?
I mean we might find that we 've got a problem with members generally getting paid
I 'll be astonished if we get paid time off for this .
Our , we haven't got a problem .
As long as we can possibly get someone to replace them with .
Yeah somebody trustworthy to replace them or erm they will allow so many in actually erm be off at one given time .
I think yeah .
but erm
I , I think chairman in relation to the time off , I think erm I think that 's , that 's one thing we need to as area organizers , to actually try and er clarify
I thought
er as soon as possible .
I thought this was supposed to be
I thought this was
at the last meeting ?
No all , all that , all that was going to be done was to see about as far as I'm aware , the feasibility of get getting one of the Education Officers and one of the
to actually put a course on .
Details of when and where will be discussed at the next meeting as far as I
Ah in my notes here I 've got paid leave
Oh
But there , there is an agreement actually er with employers stating that they , they will give time off for erm that 's what
Training courses .
But for training courses and , and , and meetings .
Er they recognize the unions so the , the , they there is an agreement
Yeah .
Well , well i if
Yeah but if they 're if they 're , if they 're at work during that period of time
Aha ?
my argument is I'm not at work between the hours of ten to four .
No .
No that 's a point .
I start work at night
Yeah .
and I 'll be you won't be qualified for paid time off .
Well what 's , what 's your gaffer like ?
Is he sympathetic or is he ?
Yeah .
Well th they follow the rules laid down by er
Mm
I mean it , we may find yet , we don't know we haven't applied , we , cos the reason that we haven't applied cos we didn't know until today exactly who we were going to invite and when we were going to hold it er so it would be ludicrous to apply for time off when you didn't even know the date you were holding it and who you were going to invite .
Erm so , and we will do that now but I mean it may transpire that the employer might say no to paid time off er for the people who are on days as , as well as
Er and I would guess then we would have to switch it to a , a Saturday .
If , I mean if we can only , if we can only invite the , the people that are he I mean the , they allow us release for this type of meeting mind you .
So I can't see why they should n't allow
But er er sorry I mean I'm , I don't deliberately want to labour the point in relation to the night staff , right ?
But then the same problem applies because you 'll have had the night staff working all day Friday night , come off duty about seven , eight o'clock in the morning .
Erm they 're gonna be bushed
Yeah .
Well I
to say the least .
well personally I 've , I 've never had a problem getting members who are on nights their night off to go on a training course , never .
Well all I'm saying is mr chairman is
Because they 've always said it 's exactly the same as a day worker and yes you have either the shift off before the night shift off before you go on the course or the one after .
I think with regard to er I mean the , the general rule of things with regard to educational er issues and time off for them , erm they tend to be let 's say reasonable er about it er but that 's been literally on educational issues .
I think the subject matter of this seminar is slightly away from that and therefore we may we may find some er some er problems in that .
I mean then we might not .
All , all I'm saying is that we need to , before we literally start dotting I 's and crossing T 's in any literal sense is to sussed out whether that 's gonna , whether they 're going to be receptive to the subject matter .
I can't see the problem here .
You see the , the employees recognize the unions , they ask , they join the unions right ?
And wh whether it 's NUPE , COHSE erm erm NALGO it is a union unison which will be one if it , if it comes about .
Now if they recognize the unions it doesn't matter which one it is , they didn't erm differentiate between any unions do they ?
Mm .
I mean they recognize COHSE , they recognize NUPE NALGO they 've got to recognize unison .
Because it 's , it 's the
I think , I think the point Ronnie was making before was that er there is an agreement for shop stewards to have paid release to attend training courses .
That is agreed isn't it ?
Aye .
Aye .
Somebody nodded and s that way and said it wasn't agreed but er it is actually anybody who 's going on a bona fide training course organized by their respective union , the T U C er a local college or whatever , a shop , a shop registered shop steward does get paid release for that er training .
So what we 've got to say to the County Council I would suggest is that this is a training course similar to those we always got release for branch officials and shop stewards so why should you turn your nose up at this training course ?
I think in the past the , the response from the County Council would be that it wasn't directly related to industrial relations .
Because we , we had this when , when we carried out a political fund ballot erm and we asked for time off for stewards to go and talk to members and we asked for time off for a seminar , for a one day seminar .
And which we , we were n't granted the time off , we were granted time off without pay but not paid leave .
Yeah .
Well if we were granted time off without pay then , which is , this is a distinct possibility yeah , er would the respective unions present here be reimbursing their members for loss of earnings ?
Well it 's , it 's for their benefit in , in the long run .
I mean we 're not doing it for our own good .
Are we ?
Would do that ?
I , I s I can't , I can't make that decision .
Oh .
I 'd have to , I 'd have to erm I 'd have to raise it er and I think to be quite honest the er I mean fortunately as I said earlier on Mr chairman there is a Regional Liaison Group meeting on , on Monday er and I have a captive audience of three budget holders , Doug Gill and Phil , erm and raise this with them .
Er and obviously we 'll , we 'll we 'll get the response erm a a as it were but erm that 's something I could n't , I could n't answer at this particular time .
Mm .
It 's a last resort but then again we might not need it but if we do
Well it looks as if what we 're doing now , we 're having a discussion , we 're like counting chickens before they 're hatched , we haven't erm actually had a refusal .
We haven't even applied yet er for , for release .
Er we 've got one month in which to do it basically erm so what I would suggest is that the officers of the three unions represented here apply for paid release first of all to or , presumably it will be Geoff the Chief Personnel Officer .
Erm whether we want to add something on to the agenda that would make it more acceptable to them like health and safety or whatever .
And that
Local government finances
one of getting round er the problem we seem to have .
You know you can , you can work a bit of a flanker and put something on that 's more or less acceptable to them .
We could say , we could entitle it industrial relations in Northumberland ?
Yeah .
Changes in their industrial relation 's seat in the county .
Changes .
Mm , changes
Changes .
I think with regard to that Mr chairman if , if , if local representatives
There 's a hand up at
are going to actually apply , sorry
there 's a ha hand up at the back .
Yeah I mean you , you could do that .
I mean I , I , I think that 's a good tactical ploy even though it 's tongue in cheek .
The only other difficulty that you 've , you 've got a need to know what sort of numbers we 're talking about .
I mean are you talking about a hundred and fifty ?
Which is I think the capacity of this room .
No
Because it 's all going to come out of their budget isn't it ?
It 's , I mean they 're , okay you 're applying from three different standpoints but it 's coming out of one well budgetholder 's erm kitty .
I think , you know , you say you 've got a month , I think you 're gonna need also to try and find out from your membership as to whether in fact they 're prepared to turn up on a Saturday as well .
Because I think you could , you could come back here in three weeks time and find that you , you 've got , you 're not gonna get time off on a Friday , you haven't got enough and then you 're going to have to start all over again .
Mm .
Ah .
So I think you 've , both those questions have got ta be addressed by the , the unions that the s , that the , the second one in terms of turning up on a Saturday .
Mr Chairman the , certainly with they 'd still have a problem with a Friday night .
time off .
Because if you work Friday night you know they 're not going to come in on
Mm
the Saturday are they ?
Realistically are we looking at Sunday ?
Rather than Saturday .
Well there 's , no I mean surely the same will apply on a Sunday ?
I mean night workers situation
So Friday night 's not your normal
I don't think we 'd get many members turning up on Sunday .
No .
Well let 's stick to Friday then and let 's
Well let 's let 's
chairman .
Two things .
Firstly NUPE has never had difficulty with Northumberland County Council getting time off for anyone .
No .
In all the years , and I 've been it 's secretary now for fifteen years and I haven't had any trouble .
And neither has my stewards .
Dennis years ago did a deal with by we had so many days a year and any extra you applied for them , there was never any trouble .
And the second issue is in my experience if you have a seven hour on a Saturday or a Sunday you get a poor turn out .
You get no-one
Always been the same , so if we 're gonna do this , let 's do it right , let 's have it through the week .
Yeah .
I think , I think yes , I think the consensus is that we hold it on Friday the ninth erm and we 're going to apply , the three full time officers will apply for those in their organization that they want to attend , apply for paid release .
The three officers will agree the terminology of the request .
You know , industrial relations or whatever is going to be on the agenda .
Er it 's not just a unison liaison seminar .
Er we , we 'll agree that between the three of us and make sure we have the exact wording , cos we wouldn't want three three subjects would we ?
Well
Just , can I just remind you that the request for paid time will need to go to seven Authorities in the county .
They could n't go to central personnel ?
No , no .
There are six district councils in the county and we 're proposing to invite our own
Oh yes district councils , oh yes .
district branches to , to send people as well .
Er I , I think the , the way the request is presented to Northumberland might be different to the way it 's presented in or Tynedale or somewhere like that .
Er I 'd prefer to tailor it maybe to er suit each employer and to ask permission from er the other six branches as well first .
Mm .
Well can we
But er er going beyond that , I think it would be wise for us to assume that we will not get paid time off for this even if we do attempt to disguise it as something else .
And you know I 'd prefer not to do that .
I , I think that we should assume that we would not get paid time .
Er I think we should also assume that the regional er budgetholders will not make a contribution to any costs we might incur cos I don't think any budget they 'll have will be intended to cater for er you know , paying people 's wages for them getting unpaid time off .
I think it will be intended for things other than that .
And as somebody mentioned earlier , again I think it would be wise to , was it Steve ?
To , to make contingency plans to hold it on a day when we don't need the cooperation of the employers in terms of time off
Er are we all agreed then we 'll put down that there 's a third
Can I just point out though you see this , the difference between NUPE and NALGO and that , we haven't got a problem .
With time off ?
We definitely have not got a problem .
Cos we , we will get it , we know we will cos it 's an agreement you see .
Your only problem it seems is erm you 're not sure whether you 're gonna get paid or time off or not .
You know , all this is I mean we 've got a month actually which is a good thing but erm surely you must have some sort of agreements with the union and your and
We have we have an agreement relating to time off and time off with pay .
Mhm .
And our agreement does not provide us for time off with pay for an event such as this .
And yet they recognize unions and they ask you to apply your , er to yourself .
And you 're trying to amalgamate all the unions together to make it easier for them .
They 're not prepared to er to make allowances for that ? disgraceful .
The agreements that we have will not provide us with time off with pay for this purpose .
Well I appreciate what you 're saying but
your agreement may be different from ours
Aye aye
but
well it is erm
Right .
So I think we seem to be agreed that there , we 'll attempt to hold a seminar on Friday the ninth here in this Council chamber .
Each official will apply for time off their me members that they wish to attend .
Er if we find that we get a , a , a no answer from the employer in terms of paid release , er the first reserve date will be Saturday the tenth and we 'll switch it to Saturday if we if we can leave it in the hands of the three officers to get together on that without calling another meeting of the group , I think might be better .
just to make you again so it 's not just the counties that I 'll need to ask
That 's right .
it 's the other six district councils as well .
Yes .
Mm .
Mm .
So it 's going to be erm you might only get a week 's notice if it 's going to be switched to the Saturday then I would guess .
Cos it 's gonna be three weeks before I get the replies from some of them isn't it ?
There is another small point .
Even though the county may say that staff can have paid release , governors at schools can say no .
And there 's nothing the county can say about it .
Oh a school out on it 's
Yes .
oh under L M S ?
Yes .
That 's individuals , yeah .
individual school management isn't it ?
Yes .
But in our , our circumstances erm they wouldn't say no because obviously they 're covered .
There 's somebody in there
Yeah .
doing the job I would be doing .
I mean I'm not saying that would happen in every school cos they , they wouldn't , they wouldn't get it anyway .
I 've never been to the head , I 've never been to the governors .
know and she says okay Ron , yeah .
No but caretakers at the moment are in a different position .
Mm , there 's too many .
The rest of the staff are still under the
er auspices of the governing body
Can you switch it off ?
Are you on or off ?
Oh .
Why don't we leave this ?
You know I think we 've gone over it long enough and leave it to see the er
Yeah .
leave the three officers to sort it out
Anyway I don't think we , it 's , we don't get any , anywhere debating the , the why 's and wherefore 's .
I mean we haven't actually had a knock back , we haven't actually put the request in yet so if we can proceed on that format of applying
Yes that 's what we 're saying Mr chairman , we , we needed to , we , particularly would
Tentatively test the water on that ?
Yeah .
Er this week .
Tentatively .
I think it would have to be some time this week .
Yes .
Right .
Chairman could I also mention that the county council has a conference centre down in Havstock Park which I think is probably bigger er than this particular room erm may well also have catering facilities .
The other aspect is of course catering facilities here on a Saturday may not be the same as what they are during the week .
Yeah .
That 's true .
It may involve additional cost if you 're going to have the er chefs coming in for a Saturday .
Specifically yeah .
That , that 's a good suggestion .
So , I think what you 're suggesting , if we , if we are moving it to Saturday which er is likely erm we could switch the venue to Havstock Park But
I'm not suggesting you know the switch
just because of the weekend , I'm suggesting it may be bigger .
Yeah .
It may accommodate more people .
Yeah .
Er facilities er exist for parking and so on and the only thing is , er I'm talking about catering in the sense of a Saturday whether it 's here or there .
Yeah .
Er I don't know what the catering facilities are on , on , on a weekend .
In either location .
Yes .
Yes .
Er I mean I , I mean have we really thought this through because er if we 're an anticipating having hundred , hundred and fifty people here which I suppose is of course about what we would hope for , the response that NUPE er as you know they would need to actually achieve the yes vote , I mean we need this sort of room full er wouldn't it not be more sensible to split up between co or not , would it not be normal for the tutor to expect the group to split up to address specific areas like , I don't know , Labour Party membership , erm finance , I don't know , whatever
Mm .
Now you 've got a real problem here because you just er you know that this is the only room available .
There 's no other committee room available on that Friday .
Er admittedly they 'll all be available on the Saturday but perhaps we would need , you know , we 've perhaps a little bit more more work to be done .
Mm .
And that would be a s severe limitation if you 're gonna have , you know , hundred , hundred and , hundred to hundred and fifty people in here from ten to four I would
the suggestion you 're not gonna get the benefit that you know those who not particularly wanna come forward or those of us who shout our mouths off will get the eye of the chairman
Mm .
but there are others who won't .
Yeah er very good point that , yeah .
I I hadn't thought of that but er I mean it will be the group kind of er lecturing I mean it won't be lecturing to er a full meeting all day .
So on that basis maybe Havstock Park would be a better venue cos there would be rooms adjacent I , I should imagine , I haven't been in to Havstock Park .
Is there ?
Rooms adjacent
to the main
So I'm lead to believe , I haven't been to
I 've been to it .
Yes there are plenty of rooms .
And it would be more fitting for group work would it ?
Yes I think so .
And they do catering there .
Yeah .
But whether they do it on a Saturday I don't know .
Right .
Right , well we 're not there 's nothing firmed up as it were .
Well it could , it could be
either the ninth or the tenth , it could be held here it could be held at Havstock Park .
We might get paid release we might not erm and I think we 're gonna have to leave it and make some further enquiries and get back .
And the commercial services group here are hugely expensive for putting on Saturday lunches .
Yeah .
Yeah .
We may be better getting outside caterers .
Yeah .
Oh dear .
Right I think we 'll
They are hugely expensive
Yeah .
We 'll leave it , we 'll leave it at that .
I mean there 's nothing firmed up but
Yeah two obviously we , we , we we do need to , to clarify before the end of this week is , one is in relation to the paid time off a and two is the accessibility stroke suitability of the particular venue .
Er and that also envelops the would it be a Friday or would it be a Saturday set up .
I think that , those need to be clarified by I would say , I'm saying well it 's Tuesday today , definitely by the end of this week .
Mm .
Right
Does it have to be in ?
Mm ?
Does it have to be in ?
Because for some people it 's as easy to get into Newcastle as it is into .
Yeah .
It 's a six and two threes we 've had a number of times .
Yeah .
I think that I don't mind
I think better for parking
Well check check all the options open to us and then
Yeah .
Well it 's just , it 's just something to bear in mind .
Er yeah .
I think , I think I just had the feeling that the Northumberland Liaison Group yeah meeting in Northumberland you know ?
More more fitting .
Erm I mean we 'll put that down as a third reserve .
If we can't get Havstock Park we 'll move
We 'll be on that boat up and down the River Tyne at the finish , that 's were we 'll end up I think .
Now the , the other thing I recall from the previous meeting , Rod seems to have minutes I think , well he was looking at them before .
Yeah .
Erm was that we did elect , I recall , a local publicity group , one representative from each union didn't we ?
Yeah .
Has the group met yet ?
Well we were supposed to meet after the last meeting which was cancelled .
Yes that 's right .
Oh .
That was cancelled because of the holidays .
Yeah .
It was too close .
So we haven't actually met yet .
Right .
So I mean I think what we envisaged though was that the local publicity group erm would meet and see if the well first of all I suppose was there a , a necessity having seen what we 've got from national level er necessity to produce a kind of newsletter , a joint unison newsletter specific to Northumberland , that 's what the group was going to have a look at wasn't it ?
So probably we can widen it out and have a discussion here this morning now that we have seen some if not all of the stuff that 's coming from the respective head offices .
Would it be necessary and would we want er to supplement that with something No with Northumberland in it or on it .
You know like a Northumberland type newsletter from the three organizations .
Well I , I think there is still some , quite a number of questions that members are asking .
As the ballot papers are going out on the twenty sixth ?
Mhm .
Distribution of ballot papers on the twenty sixth of October , about subscription .
And nobody seems to be , give us any answer to that .
Subscription level ?
Yeah .
Contributions , yeah .
Yeah .
Well
Johnny
John ?
John .
Mm .
John ?
no he 's not here , I think he 's on the sick .
He 's not here ?
I think he 's on the sick .
Oh .
Er I think that , that my recollection of the last meeting was that if we could just knock together a Northumberland newsletter a unison newsletter that 's quite clearly coming from the three organizations that represent the membership in Northumberland it would be better than th this national stuff has one union on it , as I see it at the moment .
I haven't seen anything that all three erm may maybe that 's yet to come .
Erm but I mean there 's nothing in , in that that we get from national level that has anything at all appertaining to Northumberland in it or on it , has it ?
And I think that that 's what we were envisaging .
We needed something to go round the various workplaces in Northumberland that actually appertained a bit more to Northumberland than the stuff we 're going to get from national level .
And from the branches of NALGO , NUPE and COHSE within Northumberland had produced it under this kind of joint format .
So , I mean what I would suggest is er I don't know is John anticipated to be off for some time do you think ?
I don't really , he was o he went off on Friday .
Right .
Erm wh what I would suggest is the three that are on the group and if John 's going to be off maybe somebody else from NALGO would , would er step in to the group , get together over the next two weeks or so and er try to jointly produce a Northumberland newsletter ?
I think that 's would be the only call on the publicity group really , cos we 'll have enough , enough stuff from national level for the rest of the distribution won't we ?
I mean correct me if I'm wrong , that 's the way I look at it .
I 've drawn that up from the information I was given , I don't know whether could you pass that on to
But again the u the information is is erm needs to be updated .
These are all the same , we hand them round can we ?
No that 's , there are just
Oh they 're all different .
three sets because
Oh , oh yeah .
But I , I didn't know whether that was something that you were looking for , something more local .
Well I like that on the bottom .
COHSE , NALGO , NUPE working together in Northumberland .
Yeah .
That 's good .
It personalizes it .
Yes er yeah .
Yeah that 's exactly what we 're looking for isn't it ?
Very good these , yeah .
Unfortunately everybody has n't got one .
Oh we 've got
I can alter them quite easily you see
Yeah .
Yeah .
Erm have we got the facility
I , I 've got the I , I do , I 've got a desktop publishing
Yeah .
package at home you see .
I'm just thinking for this meeting if we could photocopy some
Yes .
everybody can have a look at them .
Any we 've lost our secretary .
That would be a start .
I isn't there a danger of us becoming a committee , a publicity committee you know ?
I 'd hate to try and work out a leaflet in a committee this size .
Impossibility .
Oh yeah n no we 're just more or less
Oh I see
for information today
just for information , right .
I mean one member of the committee has produced something which I rather think you might all like to have a look at it .
As opposed to just three of us looking at it .
Yes chair in , in relation to publicity I mean th there 's one sole objective and that 's in relation to the ballot concerning unison .
Mm .
And I think if we concentrated on that , otherwise even with the publicity group , you 'd end up with them saying well what
Yes , yes
what use can we put all this
Yes .
you know ?
And it , it becomes you 'd never actually get the thing printed and you 'd never actually get the thing distributed because you , you , you 're wondering what to put in , what not to put in as it were and sticking to the specifics er at least it 's getting it 's getting something out and I don't , personally I don't see any , any real problem in personalizing it further and as much to indicate , right , without obvious prejudice to the new union erm to indicate er in , in some general or specific sense , if that doesn't sound like sort of like contradictory , on on the , the , the betterment of , of representation for members within , within Northumberland come unison .
You know , bring that in as , as Mary 's put in , in this stuff there .
She 's talking about improved representation and personalize that in relation to the Northumberland area , which wouldn't contradict what , whatever flows from structures and branch structures in the transitional period er which is you know good six months to a , a , a year away as it were .
Yes but I 've got a thousand members in my , I'm district secretary , I 've got a thousand members at least
Mhm ?
who don't really know what unison is .
Yes well yes it 's
They 'll just think it 's a pair of boots er haven't got a clue what , what unison is or what it 's gon they know they 're gonna try and amalgamate the unions to strengthen that 's what I never managed to get through .
Very good Mary .
But they 're not prepared to , to leave NUPE , let go of something you know unless it 's better than what they 've had .
And the past few years have been good years of course
Erm since we 've got we , we are on top of the world .
You know erm we 've recruited more , we 've we 've enjoyed it more .
Erm and they 're , they 're more inclined to listen shop stewards and believe the lies we tell them , you know ?
And a lot of kids just think oh erm well they 're not full lies but they 're it will be , will be better cos we don't even know ourselves do we ?
Can you erase the lies from the tape
I , I mean in some respects this , this , this is very good Mary .
I mean I th I think in some respects
Some of it 's , it 's some of it is out of date .
Yeah .
Yes .
Yeah well I , I think er of more value would be just to people here present going away , and between now and the seminar on the eighth or ninth is actually trying to get the negatives .
Because if we actually can address th those real concerns , you know , you know the point that brother just made about why should he leave you to join unison try and crystallize that out in a Northumberland way , if that 's possible , it may not be , it may be difficult on , on a short punchy A five leaflet it will probably service because I mean it c it can be photocopied , there 's nothing wonderful , I mean it doesn't have to be sort of the most wonderful printing techniques and giving them desktop publishing .
All , all , all I was doing there Steven
Yeah
was to try to see how things could be reduced and enlarged .
Right , right , yeah that 's fine .
But I mean I think if we can actually feed some information through on that , on that weekend
Yeah
that Friday or that Saturday
yeah
that could be as valu those issues which have come from members could be addressed I think we might achieve what we 're after .
You know things like uppermost in people 's minds , I don't know whether I suppose this question of fees might still be , I don't know , it depends what the national executive say , but I mean I think it 's those issues and the fact we can respond quickly is , will be an advantage .
I mean then , we 've then have what , two weeks to produce a leaflet which which should be quite easy to achieve .
Well yes because thanks , thanks to Mary we 've got the erm we 've got a , a good backcloth
Mm .
which just would need to be you know , as I call it , personalized a little bit more .
Erm you know , hopefully by that time will be clarified .
But we could easily
It 's it 's something that 's better than nothing
you know , er briefly er a amend er on to using this as a backcloth as it were .
So mai you , you 're main , you 're main work 's actually done , isn't it ?
Aye
I think we 've go I think we 've got to get through to the members actually that together as a , we 're gonna be a cohesive force for the benefit of the members .
Cos let 's face it , the
the , the authorities are , or the employers , are gonna gain from the fact that we 're gonna be a new union that at first we 're gonna be trying you know to you know you 've got to walk before you run , haven't we ?
They 're gonna gain from that or they 're gonna be seeing that they think they gain from that and all you 've got ta get over to the members we 're gonna be a cohesive force and that we 're going , we are going to fight some day together for them .
You see Donny suggested at that last meeting that we had just small leaflets that we could give to all members .
You know the publicity from us would be like a small I don't know what size , just a small leaflet .
A five .
A five that you can give to each individual member .
Well that would be better I think , this approach wouldn't it ?
But the point is at the end of the day they 've got to be approached in a just giving them a bit of paper
Right
to run away .
I think , I to be quite honest , correct me if I'm wrong , with regard to the publicity group , that the publicity group really was to get something out that was going to act as an icebreaker to the members .
I mean you identify ones who never heard the word
etcetera .
Right erm now that 's understandable er even , even members who get stuff posted directly such as , you know , we 've had a direct mailing system for quite a few years now , when you meet them you say what about I don't know what you 're talking about ?
And you know they 've had the book !
yeah .
You know I mean you er er it 's al I , I think the same would happen if you put a five note in inside it would get thrown out with the rubbish but erm the thing is that obviously some , some early day , if one can say in inverted commas early day publicity erm from the Northumberland side of things could a and I mean my view when , when Ros was telling me what happened at the last meeting erm was that was gonna be acting as an icebreaker as opposed waiting till the last minute somebody 's gonna and they think erm as it were , a and build up from , from that because there 's obviously gonna be one or two other things coming directly from national level .
Not a lot , but one or two things direct from national level .
Er but as I say if , if we can do it on a personalized basis er personalized geographic basis , it gives it more identity er then what , what you produced certainly i is halfway there to the issues that Steve mentioned earlier on .
We could slot in our ag our agreed words erm that wouldn't , wouldn't have to wait till the Regional Liaison Group met because we 've just got the three kingp king kingpins hopefully er and , and try and er you know circumvent that .
You see most of us er in the union have got a , like a branch meeting next Wednesday right ?
It 's an ideal opportunity to get people , right ?
Or you know whatever turns up .
I 'll pass on this information I 've received which I normally do .
Then I 'll call a district meeting where I 'll get other branches together erm shop stewards and that , and I 'll pass this information , I 've let them know there 's such a thing as .
I 've let them know it 's , it 's going ahead erm and that the vote is coming off .
But it 's up to us now to sweeten it before the actual vote otherwise they 're just gonna throw their ballot papers away , they 're not even gonna bother voting .
And the ones that do that voting against .
Cos that would , that would be the hard part
Mm ?
the hard part would be sweeping up after
Mhm
because if you have a group of workers , or individual workers who are immediately faced with a steep rise in contributions
Oh yeah
without any tangible benefit starting at the same day that is your , that is your problem .
But you see
the , the way we , the way I look it see , the way we 've been cut and slashed , and I'm not just talking about high schools and first schools or anything right we 've been destroyed , we 've been literally thumped into the deck .
And the union , I mean I'm not blaming just NUPE I mean every union but we seem to have stood still and nothing 's happened and th and , and the m , and the members are actually sick of their lies about what , what am I paying all this money for then ?
Now I would approach it on the lines of here 's your opportunity , it 's not just erm NUPE mind , NALGO 's joining er COHSE 's joining and we 're gonna be one hell of a force .
had one at a time to contend with before .
Now it 's got the three and we 're batting for each other , you know playing on the same side .
Erm conditions can not get worse now , they 'll only get better .
And that 's the way to look at it , that 's the way to put it to them .
And to the normal layman that sounds better than not say nothing at all .
Now you can say to them well we 're gonna be struggling we we well we must be , we 've got three voices .
will be .
We will be bigger , we will be stronger .
Well that 's it , you 've got to be def aha
Therefore we will in future be able to negotiate better .
But it 's always will , will , will in advance but you 're asking them immediately for more money .
Well no not er not in the cases of er , Lisa mentioned there , because quite honestly some of them will be paying less especially
Some will yeah but I'm thinking about the people who
A lot of your caretakers might be
Well a caretaker gets a hundred and ten pound a week , he 's not gonna pay more than a hundred and twenty one pence which he 's paying now .
And I mean to say that 's in all honestly , that 's what 'll happen , they 'll pay less I should imagine .
can't imagine somebody on a hundred and ten that will be paying more than a hundred and twenty one pence .
I mean I can understand the point of will , will , will
Mhm .
you know etce but you erm you , you , you can't use the word now , now , now .
It 's , it 's the same in the majority er of , of major issues in life like er erm like when you get married you 're promising I will always love drop the honour er
and it 's , it 's the same at a general election or local election , you know , when we get into power we will .
So you , you , you I , I know what you 're saying but I mean it 's , it 's plain
I mean is it Ian ?
Is it Ian ?
Ian , yeah .
Ian said that judging from the basis of the that some of the nurses there are gonna be paying a hundred and twenty percent more , whatever it was , in contributions .
That 's based on each individual er at the , at the moment .
Right , good .
H how would you go to somebody like that and say well yeah we , we 'll be able to negotiate for you better in the future and we might be able to get more er be better conditions of service than you 've got now but as of now you 're gonna be paying this much more in contributions .
You haven't anything tangible to give them back in return on the extra money , straight away .
This is gonna be the hard part , to get it
You see you 're you 're all talking about contributions in or an ability to pay but based on what ?
Where , there has to be a starting figure and it 's never come out .
And I'm asked every well not say every day of the week but most weeks I'm asked somewhere well where are you gonna start from ?
Are you gonna take the figure starting from one twenty and take it up from there and down from there ?
Or ?
There 's nobody .
Er quite right , the people want to know .
This is what we 're talking about , forget about all , everything else , that 's basically want to know .
Plus they want to know how the branches is gonna operate .
Nobody 's said how the branches is gonna operate .
Are the branches gonna remain the
same way , the same set up ?
They want to know .
And they don't get the answers .
And this is gonna a big no .
natural and I'm and I never was , but I like to know what I'm voting for and I like to tell the people who I'm responsible for what they are voting for .
And so far it 's .
I think that
Yeah I think
we 're just running round in circles .
Yeah I think on the er i it isn't for us here to decide the level of contributions .
Er and we I thought we 'd agreed earlier
we are going to get from the three national executives erm a list of what the contributions are going to be .
It 's in their hands at the moment er as far as I know they are going to let us know that in the very near future , certainly long before the ballot papers are actually distributed to members .
So we will know what the contribution levels are going to be .
It is er as I see it they 've gone back to the drawing board with where the bands are actually how it 's banded .
And I , I recall seeing the lowest contribution I think was fifty pence , wasn't it ?
You know for a part time worker on on low earnings .
What ranges from fifty pence to two pound fifty a week .
That 's , that 's what they were were n't they ?
Well they were sort of like rough , rough figures given in relation to er
You s you see you can not deal with rough
pending discussions but the whole thing Mr chairman really has n't erm has n't been decided to you know er a few colleagues point er I mean there 's nothing we can actually start and you can put pencil to paper on at the present time .
Erm I think what we have to do in particular as , as , as full time officers is , is probably try and er and erm chase things up although they they 're within the realms of the respo the respective LEC 's but to try and make sure that they do get some clearer , if not confirmed , insight into re in relation to the contribution aspect .
Erm so as we could possibly erm lend it to er a pending news newssheet that , that would come out in relation to Northumberland .
I think and that really is about as much as any of us can say .
I mean we could all spend all day discussing that particular issue but up until the decision is made and which road they 're gonna go down we do know it 's gonna be banding but on what on what basis is it gonna be ?
That 's the thing .
You know we , we , we could spend , we could spend a month I know there 's a lot of figures floating around
No , no
you know and various things like that but none of them actually mean any concrete decision on that .
Mm .
Well I think if , yes ?
As important as the , the erm subscriptions in the new union will be , I think we need to also address the fact that we are saying we 're gonna fall for members aren't we ?
We can't say now , now , now we can give you these new services and we can't say we will give you the services as , as we 're just promising .
I think we 're gonna have , we 've all got and face the fact that we 've got ta give them increased union activity before the ballot .
Mm .
To , to high , to give them high profile anyway .
Cos you know
Yeah .
I mean can anybody answer that ?
I don't know and I'm
Er Phoebe er
Who ?
It 's Phoebe ?
The thing is yes , we we 've got a ballot out on , on a pay increase .
Now , now we actually here and we 've only got erm a short time to get round these people , very very short time , erm and get this back in otherwise the ballot will go against or for with no members voting .
Now we 've got to race against time again , this is not just happening in NUPE it 's happened all over and it 's gonna it 's happening in this union before it starts .
The protection clause will .
There 's nice little things like that , sick pay er major breakthrough and all this .
You know that this is telling the members , it 's reassuring the members before they sign it , you wanna accept that pay rise or not .
It 's a pittance , four percent but you 've got to try to get them to accept training and and consultation .
And it 's exactly the same with joining this , in fact it 's more important joining this union as it is a different union altogether .
It 's more important than just one , one year 's pay rise .
It 's your future .
It 's your defence .
Mm I think er what this stuff that I'm er knocking together here into a pack for each of you is a step in the right direction , I think Mary 's done a , a good job here on this er
But some of it 's out of date , you know .
Yes but it 's a start .
It 's a start .
Yeah .
I mean this is exactly the , the type of material that we , we 're going to need to put out in Northumberland .
I mean p and if every leaflet I think has that slogan on COHSE NALGO and NUPE working together in Northumberland , that gets the message across to the members .
You 'll be , you 'll be getting a copy of this in , in the minute .
Can , can we Mr chairman can we not suggest erm the fact that , to the three executives , that the subscription stay the same for three or six month period until unison and members are balloted on
subscriptions .
er everybody stays as they are for three or six months .
Well we , we can't because the thing is the , the national decision has been made and within the final report to , to all the conferences this year .
Erm and it 's been accepted and endorsed by three conferences , right ?
So it 's too late .
I mean I don't know , I mean somebody er our respective conferences could have raised that er and the debate 's gone ahead and it 's been voted on and said no , I mean I don't know .
Erm but it 's too late for that .
I it 's too late for that .
I think in addition to that erm well I wouldn't want to say too much
other than in that respect it would erm it would reduce representation to mem members I would say by about forty percent at the present time before structures etcetera etcetera were sorted out .
I mean I may have been being a bit naive as a general sort of , just a rep within NALGO , I'm not I'm not , although I 've had all the publicity , and yes I'm , sometimes you do not the course .
And they 're all genuinely things apology or or whatever reason , there are things that I genuinely don't know .
That 's what I think .
And I think you 've got ta address my doubts because if I have doubts how am I going to stand in front of members and say hang on a minute , I can give you all of these answers , I can tell you what unison 's going to be like and this is what 's been decided , now come back to me and give me your fears , give me your doubts and I 'll go and take them on to represent you .
How can I do that ?
How can I stand up and do that ?
I don't know
I think that 's one of the purposes Mr chairman also of the , of the educational seminar that we 're in the throes of organizing , to actually to do that .
To , to educate , advise
Th a after the seminar
the , the activists who then can go out I , like the disciples in a sense erm to , to the , to the new membership .
If you don't mind me saying I think it 's a little bit late in the day .
I said this all along unfortunate fell holiday time
I'm sorry to say but I think that we 're talking about this education day at the beginning of October and I mean god knows we 've known this is coming for , it 's almost as if we 've got to the brink of , you know like lemmings just about to throw ourselves off the cliff and we don't know why we 're going to do it .
We , we can't stand there in front of members and put ourselves in the firing line if we don't know the answers to their questions .
Yeah .
Well
Th this has been foisted on you by a group of activists sort of
Mm
and , and
the problem has not been a lack of information the problem has been a saturation of information
NUPE and COHSE but certainly in NALGO Scandinavian forests have bit the dust
er and it 's written in a language that hardly anybody can understand anyway .
Yeah .
Er you , you know it 's , it 's not plain English , it certainly wouldn't
and I think the task really is to try to translate some of that stuff into English
Mm
er you , you know er Northumbrian perhaps er or , or whatever .
I mean
There is a further diffi difficulty is , as an erstwhile activist
jaundiced , jaundiced activist shall I call myself I mean a point of view mentioned recognition of the River Authorities , I mean erm the latest pay awards I mean we haven't had too much to gloat about have we ? this , this is what the m this is what we can do for the members .
I mean we 're up against a wall .
I mean increasingly small authorities are effectively opting out of the national negotiat now we can't ignore th

if you say and it 's true because right erm , the er that was talking about yesterday in lecture involves erm the notion of selfhood in and erm seems to be er a very very deeply complicated er topic , so erm I imagine there are questions that you folks had .
There were certainly questions that I had in listening to the lecture and reading of the material and erm as herself said , there does seem to be something of an in own thinking about this .
Erm , would be erm as follows .
We are aware that there are lots of individuals around us , individual people like Socrates erm and erm Plato , erm and then there is the possibility that in addition to these individual people er at the level of there are corresponding to these individual people at the level of intellect erm there are forms of these individuals .
like there is also the level of .
Forms for all sorts of , forms for all sorts of things erm the , the normal Platonic range of forms plus possibly in addition forms for Socrates and forms for Plato .
Erm , and the introduction of these forms of individuals erm might have arisen as the one passage that showed us might suggest , the passage from five seven on page three of her handout number eleven there , the need for forms of individuals might have arisen from the following .
We are enjoined to transcend our bodily selves and we are enjoined to erm move to the level of intellect through contemplation , that is by pursuing philosophy we will withdraw ourselves from our mere bodily selves and be elevated to the realm of intellect .
Erm , and one thing that you might worry about is , okay , once I get up there , how do I get back down again ?
Erm , that worry might come in two different ways .
Er , how do I get down at all , erm , of course that might not be a worry , you might and just remain in the realm for all eternity .
But then you might worry , if I'm bound to come back down again , how can I guarantee that I come back down into the right erm body again .
That is , how can I guarantee that I will remain erm being me after my ascent from the level of the forms .
And the erm construction of forms for individuals might be an answer to that problem .
That is , when Socrates retreats from his body to the level of intellect , erm , he 's represented by proxy in the erm divine light by the form of Socrates .
Erm , and then erm he returns from the form of Socrates to being Socrates again and is not either er lost up in the soul erm or somehow tragically transported downward from the level of intellect into the wrong body .
Erm , Socrates does some contemplation er , withdraws from his empirical self , becomes intellect and then afterwards er drops into the wrong empirical er self and turns into well , some erm some ho hideous beast .
Erm , who knows ?
He might turn into .
Think , think of the person you 'd least like to find yourself becoming .
Is he actually intimating here , erm , I'm not , we use the word forms here , but in a more active modern sense to say
Could be
It seems that that would really more easily .
Well , what 's the contrast here ?
Remaining an identity .
Right , what 's , perhaps I should have started with , with the contrasting picture in which , at the level of intellect , erm , there would be no individual forms , but only forms say for human beings .
Erm , and another form over here for a horse erm and then when I found my true self erm , here I am , Socrates , and I'm trying to withdraw from my erm what erm called the empirical self .
I'm trying to withdraw from the empirical self and erm return to the level of forms .
And the form that I return to is the form of human being , erm , that 's the form that I have and whatever individuates Socrates from Plato erm is not a matter of the form because they have exactly the same form .
In fact , whatever individuates these two happens only at the level of matter or the soul bodily things .
Now , if that were right , that is , here 's our bodily bit here , that 's what individuates them , right , Socrates is shorter than Plato , Plato is a bit taller than Socrates , Socrates has funny bulgy eyes , erm Plato must have been rather a normal looking person , a variety of things that differentiate them , but they 're not different in respect of being human beings .
Erm , but we 're told this interesting thing about them , mainly that , er about them and about us as well , that their true self is not their current bodily condition .
Their true self is more truly erm at the level of intellect or forms .
Right , that 's the whole part about one 's true self .
Again one could draw as it were a sort of a picture of erm one 's true self as a sort of largish lump , er much of which was the body and then within this smaller portion which is the soul , and within that a still smaller portion which is the mind , and then in all of us there is present to us the one , and we 're told that we ought to think about our body , that it is not our true self .
Erm , that this is a merely transient and accidental something that erm somehow as it were has stuck on to us , rather like some disagreeable substance on the sole of one 's shoe .
Erm , and so too our body has got stuck on our soul erm but we can shed it again erm to find our inner self .
And in turn we can shed the soul to find our true self with the mind .
There 's tension here .
Erm , the closer we get to our true self , seems to be saying , erm the less there is to distinguish er Socrates ' true self from Plato 's true self erm so it 's a little bit dicey about what he 's gonna say .
How , if , if Socrates ' true self is the form of human being and Plato 's true self is the form of human being erm then how can we tell their true selves apart ?
Yeah ?
Okay .
So , erm , your point is that erm you move upward from your body to a level of intellect and then at the level there 's still a further journey to go , up to no one , and that 's our true self .
There 's a fascinating journey here , isn't there ?
Because one gets the impression that it 's an upward journey
Aha
but I think myself it 's an internal journey .
So then it 's an internal journey , you 've done it then , you keep your identity because your journey is into the deepest self where you find you you go through these levels
Right
but not , not out there , but in there .
Yeah , there 's no doubt that the one is in each of us .
Yeah , so I mean it 's an inward journey .
Right , right .
So , if that is the case how can we possibly lose our identity because we haven't , we 're not , there 's no suggestion if we go on an inward journey , the inward journey must be within our selves , within our individuality , not , not jumping out into some form of spacial context .
Well , except that , that erm I think that even in defending our idea that we retain our individuality you relied on spacial movement , that is when you say that , or when I say that the one is within us , clearly you must be speaking metaphorically .
Because the one doesn't have any location whatsoever , nor for that matter do the forms , even the matter of intellect is non-spacial and non-locational .
Erm , so I agree with you that the metaphor of ascent is only a metaphor .
It can't really be a matter of changing one 's altitude .
Erm er there 's no lift alas .
But neither can the idea of going inward being metaphorical either , it 's not as though there 's any location within my body erm which is the location of the one .
Nor , if the four of us get into your car , are there four locations within the car location of the one .
One of the problems it seems , that I can see about this , is that the little sort of semi- diagram , you could almost reverse the , the and have the same sort of problem in other words .
And that seems to be more along the lines of a view er
Yeah , so this is , this a little picture of what Socrates looks like but as you 're pointing out erm er also sometimes likes to discredit the whole cosmos in the other direction .
It 's the one that 's all embracing or all encompassing .
Erm , and the intellect is within the one somehow .
Cos now of course we 're talking about the whole cosmos , the everything that there is , the all , the whole erm and then , you 're right , he does talk about erm erm body at one er extraordinary point he talks about body , the relation of body and soul being that of a er fishing net er floating through the ocean and erm the ocean is soul and this fishing net is er body floating erm through it .
Very very erm suggestive metaphor although I don't know exactly what it 's extraordinary one , erm erm erm , the , perhaps we should begin to step back a second here , to think about how we normally individuate things .
Erm , that is , normally we think that we and lots of things around us are susceptible to change .
Erm , er for instance this book could be changed by tearing a page out of it .
Erm and that would alter the book but nevertheless we would want to say , what I did was to alter the book .
It was the book that I altered .
It 's the same book which now is slightly different .
That 's very different from say er destroying this book and replacing it with this book .
Erm , that 's not a change of any one book , that 's just a replacement of one book by another .
Similarly , if I tell you that I am going to move this piece of chalk in front of me , and I demonstrate look here goes right okay , same piece of chalk has moved across in front of me .
That 's rather different from saying here is the motion of a piece of chalk .
Okay .
Sorry that 's not the motion of a piece of chalk , that 's the replacement of one piece of chalk by another .
No piece of chalk had moved across the front of me .
Rather , erm , one was in one position and then a second took up a different position .
In order that is for there to be some change , whether er change er like having a page torn out or a change like moving from one location to another , there also has to be something that stays the same , mainly the subject of change .
The thing of which I say the it changes .
Erm , so how do we do that with people ?
Er , I can say for instance that I'm changing because I'm er getting older , I'm getting tireder erm all sorts of things can be said about me .
Erm , but they 're still being said about me .
Er , there 's something that 's me that survives these different changes of location erm age and size erm all kinds of things are consistent with it still being me that 's doing the changing rather than my having been replaced by something else .
Well , erm , what kinds of changes can be performed on me and still it would be the case that it 's me ?
That the end be changed and has now been changed .
What are those kind of changes on one hand .
And on the other hand , what are changes such that we want to say that at the end of the change there is just no me left there at all and I 've been replaced by something else .
Erm , I take it this is to ask the question , what 's essential to me and what 's accidental to me ?
Really this is not er a new division , this is just oral distinction of essential and accidental properties .
Erm , so right now I'm wearing a tweed jacket .
Erm , having changed my jacket to a blue jacket I 'll still nevertheless be me .
Because even if I were n't wearing the tweed jacket I 'd still be me .
If I were no longer a human being then one might wonder whether I was still me at all .
If I were no longer er an animal of any kind , one might be quite disinclined to think that one could still talk about any of me surviving .
And so on and so forth .
We 'd make different judgments about this .
I'm not saying that there 's any strict word answers to these questions , but these are the questions we 're asking when we think about what 's erm accidental and what 's essential to someone .
The claim that 's being made here is that no one 's body is at all essential to them .
Erm , I'm perfectly comfortable that any bit of my fingernail is completely accidental to me , that I can lose it without losing my arm , but the finger is rather stronger .
There 's nothing about me that erm , excuse me , there 's nothing about my body that is essential to me , nothing about my body that individuates me and that 's why erm I take it one might think that erm I could actually be changed into a different body , so .
Right , any time you read a story , whether it be religious or science fiction , or whatever , in which somebody is taken out of one body and put into another body erm and the story goes , and then was turned into a pig , or whatever , erm , presumably that author has it in mind that you can still identify , that same guy , first in one body and then in the body of a pig .
That author presumably thinks that being in a human body is not essential to .
You can agree with that , or disagree with that or whatever , but that 's part of the defence being made here by erm .
This is no part of our true self .
Yeah ?
This , I was just gonna say , this sounds remarkably like the origins of
Well , erm , I don't
I don't know whether he got it from here , or from another source , but it 's very strikingly similar .
That the , that the erm , right , erm , you can go back a fair ways earlier and already find people thinking that you can be transported from one body to another , or even from one species to another .
Transmigration .
Right , right .
There 's a story about er Pythagoras which is actually the earliest and strongest evidence that the historical Pythagoras actually believed in , changing erm dating from the five twenties or so .
It 's a bit of poetry by the poet in which he er says that Pythagoras once saw a puppy being beaten and said er , don't beat that puppy , that 's a good friend of mine , I recognize his voice .
Erm , and so I think that even at that early age , er in the five twenties or earlier , somebody already there is saying we can track personal identity throughout change of not only body but change of species , erm , with these .
And the same picture or a similar picture has as well
Continuing that theme , would it not be right to say though that Plato only gave to come back into human form to those people such as philosophers and that most other people would come back as some other form .
doesn't actually say
is not over worried about the body .
but the state of , of the soul , the personality , wouldn't change
Hmm , right
He doesn't really actually , does he ?
He doesn't actually discuss the body as individuality .
I think he 's discussing our character and our personality rather than our body .
Would you not ?
I mean I don't know .
I mean , I get that impression .
He doesn't , he 's not concerned about the individuality of the body but concerned about the surv in individuality of our personality as it was before we ca we went on this journey to the one .
Am I right ?
I dunno .
Am I ?
Yes , right .
And the body is completely trivial .
It 's no more than a change of clothing .
It , it just doesn't tell you anything interesting about the person , that very , that very same person .
Yeah , I agree with all of that .
I don't know , I , I
When we tell them in the , what we say is that erm that very same person came back as a fox , or you know , that very same person came back as er you know ge goose or whatever animal it might be .
That is , even in a different body , in a different species , we can still say that person , that soul .
And that 's because Plato would be locating the individuation in the soul and not in the body .
Erm , soul , as you 'll recollect , stands in this funny relation erm between body and and when we get up to intellect we 're actually transcending the soul as well .
D d this is ever so important .
I mean , do you think that perhaps is , is more advanced than Plato , because Plato on this incredible myth of his of going on this journey where ordinary people 's view of the form wasn't very good so they would come back in an inf perhaps in an inferior form , but I get the feeling that with we have the opportunity of seeing something that is going to improve us anyway , that we 've all got an equal chance of some kind of improvement .
Different to the Platonic myth of the journey across the universe like in .
It seems to me an advancement .
Am I right ?
I mean I sense that it is .
I sense that it is an improvement ?
It seems to me we 're also coming across some sort of Eastern influence here as well .
It could be but I think that the question is asking is , in Plato 's view , do each of us have an equal chance of performing this transcendence , or in view do we each have an equal chance of performing this transcendence ?
I , I don't know the answer to that offhand , but it 's , I'm inclined to think that erm at least by the time of the Republic there are things that some people are more naturally predisposed towards philosophy and other people are less naturally predisposed towards philosophy .
I am also inclined to imagine that would say something like that .
Now , he does think that the one and the mind is present to every one of us , erm , but I also take it that erm he er thought that he himself , had been able to ascend to the one er four times in the course of his life and that he also thought that some of his students were of better contemplation than others and erm so he may also have thought as Plato did , that some people are more inclined towards philosophy than others .
Erm
would have thought that the cow down the road had the same chance of getting to the one that he had .
You know , I just don't know .
In some way the one is in both of them equally .
Yeah
Of course , the one is also in this piece of chalk too .
I mean , the one is just , so it may not be any great compliment to say that the cow has an equal chance erm but , but I , I actually don't know the answer to that one , whether thought that
Apart from the fact that I mean , aren't we actually looking at something similar to erm erm here , in that most of these things were organized , as far as I can work out , was the one that organized all these lectures into but they were originally lectures .
Yeah , I don't know , how might that affect what we are ?
Well , in that we 're , I'm just , I'm just bringing up a point that yes he , he , it seems that he could well say something like well , the cow herder or the shepherd down the road has got as much of the right as anybody else .
The difference is that the cow , the cow herder or the shepherd is not particularly interested in consciously realizing that , whereas it seems to me that what you 're saying is that he is .
That pl that he is in
Yes .
Erm , and that , this is a sort of a difference between
The cow herder and
Yes , and also assume thereby the difference between a cow herder , and a student of his or whatever
Yeah were right then that might push us back towards the Platonic view , that some people are more .
I 'd like to get back to what was saying about how it 's soul that really characterizes us , it 's soul that carries out individuality , and , and not the body .
I mean that does have a lot of resonance for all of us. feel that erm I could have been the same person erm with lots of different changes to my body .
I could have had erm brown eyes instead of blue , I could have been taller or shorter , I could have been lots of different erm bodily arrangements erm and still be me , just be the same er person .
One may say that , one may say well it 's really your soul or your character that makes you who you are .
What kinds of features are we pointing to there ?
Erm , for instance , suppose that I think that one of the things that er makes me who I am is erm that I have a good head for numbers .
Erm , not that that 's true .
Erm , but someone else might think this erm about themselves .
Then would having a good head for numbers be the sort of thing that would individuate them at the level of their soul ?
Would that be the sort of thing that ?
Or perhaps
Looking for truths .
I mean , mathematicians are looking for truths , aren't they , in a way ?
So , so being desirous of the truth would be the sort of thing that would
Yeah
distinguish one person from another ?
I 'd have thought so .
A good memory or a bad memory would be , oh sorry
I see , so memory of your personal life history .
Yeah , that does
Sure , it does seem that memory has a role in it .
And yet it also seems that er I , I can also make this statement .
Erm , here is a complete list of the contents of my memory right now .
Erm , a slightly different set of things that happened to me .
Then the contents of my memory would be this rather than this .
Erm , I wouldn't er remember having erm broken my arm on this date erm I remember rather having broken my leg on this date .
Erm , so the contents of my memory would differ and yet that doesn't seem yet to individuate me from someone else .
Erm , it 's true that in general we do have different memories than other people do er but it doesn't seem to be fully individuating in that any change in the contents of the memory would produce a change in .
But yeah , certainly that 's one of the things that we think , is that our , er it 's our memory of our own historical life events is part of what makes us who we are .
Erm , another reason why I can't give you the whole story of course is because then there 'd be no reason to take this baby rather than this baby at the hospital , you know , so their histories are exactly identical , I E nil , erm , nothing individuates them on that account .
Erm , one reason why can't help himself to that is because that would be a history of change , that would be a history of the body , and that is not intrinsic to us .
That , he seemed to insist , can not be the locust of our individuation .
Erm , can we link it up to any earlier pattern ?
I'm thinking now in particular of Plato 's four so if that particular inclination to be , I dunno , poetical or philosopher , then that would be a kind of individuation of us .
Yeah so , so perhaps the things that , the things that erm seem to us more important than your bodily configuration , whether I have blue eyes or brown eyes , something that 's more important seems to be the sorts of desires I have .
Do I want the truth , or do I want money ?
The sorts of capacities that I have .
Erm , am I good at this or am I good at that ?
Erm , perhaps my tastes .
Erm , there 's some plasticity to all these things , right ?
I take it that I don't like modern art and yet I can imagine that while being the same person that I am I might have liked modern art .
That 's not er incomprehensible , it wouldn't involve a complete change of personality , well some of it .
So , those are the sorts of things I take it that , that er we do think are a more interesting way of individuating people than their bodily .
And I'm sure that that 's part of why sounds pretty good when he 's saying that it 's not the body that makes us who we are , it 's not the body that matters .
Erm , to the kind of soul that I have right now erm , drag that out of my body erm , make sure that it 's the same soul that I started with , drop it into some other body and you 'll still be able to tell the story that I , still me , am now in a different body .
Erm , that seems like the right sort of thing to say .
What though if we wanted to make a further move of abstraction ?
What if we wanted to say that our true self was not even our desires or inclinations or capacities ?
Because our true self isn't the soul , that 's not our true self either .
That 's a mere er .
Our true self is mind .
Erm , or at least mind is our truer self .
The sorts of things I happen to like , the sorts of things I happen to be good at or bad at .
Those really are not any part of my true self either , tells us .
Erm , my true self is merely the part that does intellectual contemplation .
Erm , so that I apparently would be still me even if I had completely different desires , tastes , er preferences er so on and so forth .
Now it 's gonna be a , a bit harder to hang on to the thought here .
Erm , can I imagine erm two abstracted intellects , each of them doing geometrical proofs and say about the two of them is they go through the group of er the infinity of prime numbers , each of them is working that through .
Can I say about them er now that one , that is clearly Fred , erm , you know just look at the way he does that proof , erm , oh well now , that one , that 's clearly Ned , erm that 's the way Ned does a proof .
Erm , you know people do say these things about computer codes .
I 've heard people say that erm er software writers have certain individual styles .
You can sometimes you know tell one person writes software in this way and another
They used to have that in , in er when they put
some people 's hands , right right right .
Yeah , same thought .
And yet erm what er what seems to have be going against that is that erm at least so far as is concerned , the proof is any theorem is a unique pathway .
Erm there are not too often proofs for any theorem .
There 's a proof because so if two people were contemplating the proof of the infinity of primes they wouldn't be going about it in different ways , erm , if they 're contemplating the proof , they 'd be contemplating exactly the same steps in the same order .
It 's getting rather hard to think about what it is that lets me see them as distinct individuals if all that they 're doing are
What happens if one of them 's looking at it from a viewpoint and the other one 's looking at it from a viewpoint ?
Would that not ? same kind of theorem
Okay , or for instance erm I could write up the theory , excuse me , I could write up the proof of the infinity of primes for a variety of reasons .
I might be teaching you some er number theory , or I might be teaching you the structure of number theory .
I might be saying , look , it doesn't matter what proof I choose but you know , here is an interesting example of it .
Or I might be saying , here 's an example of a derivation .
Or I might be saying , here 's the sort of silly thing I was taught when I was at kindergarten .
Erm , and what and the these er for a different reason erm .
I guess my inclination would be to say that there 's only one of those in which we are actually doing the proof .
There 's only actually one of those which we 're thinking about the proof as a proof .
But what I'm saying is that there may only be one proof sense is what we as individuals derive from that proof .
It somehow becomes coloured into
Right now , so that 's where we need to get , that 's what we need to push for .
How can we think about something colouring our that doesn't have anything to do with our bodies , nothing to do with our history , nothing to do with a particular that we 've gone through , nothing to do with our soul faculties .
Erm , some coloration that would make it still ours .
Terrific .
Say something completely different .
Well no , but and I were just thinking well why can't it just be all things together that make us what we are and when you 're trying to find a single thing , the only single thing is the one , which is the unity and then there 's no differentiation but I don't think that , that we are , we are our body as well and that then can affect the soul you know , if you , if you 've got a big nose and all your life people stare at you you 're gonna , you 're not going to be unaffected by it .
Sure
So , I don't know .
But then when you do peel them away , whether you can have a potentiality , like the when talked about he talked about either side of his face timeless void that you had to see the limit of it so that you could have erm that that I was in this body and there 's something about this body that I'm going to go back into the body and then that could differentiate perhaps .
Erm , otherwise I just think it 's very tricky when you , when you , when you try and take away the layers that you 're going to just end up with the one that you can't talk about anyway .
Mhm , yeah , I think , I actually think you 've made an excellent methodological point about philosophy in general .
That is erm whenever people look for an analysis of something , here I 've been looking for an analysis of individuation , there 's a tendency to consider candidate analyses one by one , singulatum .
Erm , it does this er by individuation ?
Erm , well no .
Well , let me throw that aside .
Erm , does this suffice for individuation ?
No , well , toss that aside .
And your point , which I think is very important , is erm maybe this is an analysis that has to be given erm by a multiplicity of necessary conditions , none of which is singularly sufficient , but all of which are jointly necessary and sufficial .
So erm , for instance , if I were to say , gee what is the essence of balm cake ?
Erm , is it flour ?
Er , no , we 'll toss that aside .
Is it eggs ?
No , can't be eggs , throw those out .
Er , you know , go through all the ingredient .
Gosh , balm cake doesn't have any essence at all , you know , erm that 'll be astonishing finding is , whereas your point is , look it might just be some of all these things in some proportion or some ratio .
Right but then I suppose that you could say that it 's the idea of the balm cake which it would be on the level of the , in , in intellect
Mhm mhm
so the essence of balm cake so it 's alright to go from the body to intellect , maybe that is alright , if you just forget the body .
But then it 's the per it 's the , if you 're going to the union with the one , it 's that coming back
I take it that our explanation , you and I who are the children of the children of Freud , do think that our body erm adds a great contribution to our individuation ?
That brief story you told about how my physical appearance might affect my social interactions and my social interactions might affect my psychic make up .
Erm , that sounds very persuasive to all of us nowadays and I fully believe it , that part of what makes me me is in fact er the fact that I'm this shape and this size
Yeah , yeah except that that is just nothing in the end .
That in the end it doesn't make , it doesn't mean anything .
Well as far as thinks , it sure doesn't that 's the big difference between us right ?
No , .
I mean , I mean , lots of different pupils would say that it doesn't mean anything in the end because erm you know , what are we here for , what can we do , you know , and like why you know , I mean I , I'm sure it doesn't mean very much .
In fact this is what Socrates is going when he 's asked , well what do you want us to do with your body , he said you can do what you like , I won't be in it anyway .
Right , r right , mhm mhm
I think , I think it 's important to remember what said about the body .
I think , I mean , he makes the emphasis here that the body is not any more than a tool
Ya , that 's right
and I think , you know , I mean , it 's not how we feel , we 're trying to understand what is saying to us
And that 's a real
that 's a real deep difference , that we 're inclined to suppose that the body does have some role in individuation and clearly , as you 're pointing out , doesn't .
That is , when you ask erm er who are we , is any part of what we are made up by the body , the answer 's quite straightforwardly no , we er already identified use the body , this other thing .
Erm , the body is something else from us and we are the things erm not that are made up of our body but that merely use our body .
Erm , popping out of your body is no different I think in from erm driving along in your car and er turning off and hopping out of the car .
You know , you 're not using that particular tool any more and you hop out of it and walk away .
Erm , the body 's rather like that I suppose .
It makes it quite clear that we should be in charge of the tool .
Sure , no problem there .
You certainly don't want your tools running you , but the , the crucial is that the tool is a completely separate thing from us .
When I try to give up who I am erm none of who I am has to do with this external er additional tool .
Yeah ?
Erm , if you 're trying to individuate intellects , erm , rather than take a proof
Mhm
take an argument or a problem .
I mean , no two philosophers would give you a sort of similar approach , would they ?
Right , right , yeah , no it 's a very
I mean , you can a completely different viewpoint
Right , right .
Erm , but I think that we also think this is in an in the state of philosophy nowadays .
That is one of the reasons why I think that man is in much better shape than I think philosophy 's in .
Because , if I go to two different mathematicians and I say erm , can you work these sums for me ?
Generally and for the most part they 'll come up with the same sum at the end of the day and if I go to two different philosophers and say , erm can you tell me about free will ?
Er , generally and for the most part and for the most part at the end of the day they 'll come up with completely irrelevant er things .
Erm and
isn't this just the difference between a theorem and concepts ?
Could be , but I guess my , my thought was that
I mean , why do we need two mathematicians ?
We obviously need more philosophers .
I guess my thought was that , was that in view that there we were doing philosophy the more convergence there would be if we really knew what we were about as philosophers .
We would not be disagreeing with one another any more .
Erm , and that er what causes erm David Lewis to tell the sorts of stories about he tells is this kind of hideous accident that happened to him when he was three years old and then was exaggerated by his
having the beard that he does .
Erm , and what causes erm you know , so tells is another series of accidents that , that are completely at the level of , of historical and bodily erm .
Erm , if er , if they had been , erm , all along they would be telling the same story as , if they really could do their in intellectualizing properly
But if you 're not trying to
That , th so that 's what you need to get a hold of , that 's when you need to think , how can we cash that out , how can we give that some content ?
Does the idea of there being a colouring to
I , I don't wanna stray that much erm from the text we 've got but there is some text that has written , namely the one on intelligible beauty
Mhm mhm
where he seems to indicate that erm , for example , he says in there that he , he ascends to the intelligible heaven , wherever that is , I assume intellect .
Erm and he says there all things are in all things but each is coloured according to the host .
Their host , I suspect .
So , in other words
The one
Well , or the individual
There
You 're talking about a group of individual things
Right , we 'd have to take a look at that cos I suspect that if he says each is coloured by the host
No no no no , by the host in which the things are .
He 's talking about a multitude
Mhm mhm
each the same sort of components , the same components are each colour say in a red individual they 'd all be pinky red colours and in a blue individual they 'd all be a blue colour
But there is this thing that all of the forms are in the intellect and all of the forms ah are in the intellect and all of the forms do somehow weave together into some sort of unitary thing .
There 's some sort of er unity and multiplicity at the level intellect , erm
The , the point I'm raising with this is that he does seem , in that particular piece , he does quite strongly , to me anyway , that that individuation is still very strong
Sorry , I thought you said that each of them was in all the rest of them and each of them was coloured by the host .
No no no no , it was the other way round .
Rather like the sort of , there , there are various glasses full of different marbles
Is this something we could look up cos , cos
Yeah , it 's intelli it 's the one on individual .
I can't remember what the erm , is it one six ?
Yeah , it 's really quite an amazing
One six , is it ?
Yeah , great .
Erm , which , which
it 's quite an amazing er dialogue
I wonder if I have er
the , the , the analogies he uses , he is using there , he says that the sun the moon and the stars are all there
Aha
and in each of the stars are all the sun the moon and the stars
Mhm mhm
but , each star contains the sun the moon and the stars according to its own coloration of them .
Right , sorry , one six is on beauty and five eight is on intelligible beauty .
Which one of those ?
It would be five eight .
Probably five eight rather than cos yeah I erm okay see erm right right right erm , so the thing that I would be looking for , if I could find this , would be what 's doing the colouring and how , how does that work ?
That is , is the colour rising up from underneath in an individuating way , or is it a light cast from down er from on top by the one , which then could n't individuate them with respect to people for instance .
It would be , as it were , a diffused light .
Erm , so that 's just a question to ask when you next come to erm this passage .
Er , if I can't find it right now , which
Yeah , the other phrase he uses is something like all is in each
Yeah
and each is in the all
Oh sure
So all orange in I assume the one but also the one is in all in each of the
Even at the level of forms they 're all in each
Even at the level of forms
yeah , yeah .
This is , this notion of they 're all being woven together .
Erm in Plato talks about the , the weaving together of forms and it says erm er it 's it 's er through the weaving together of forms that reason arises in us and but then again this is the level of as well so I think that this is the , the origin of this notion that all the forms are in each , they 're all woven together somehow .
Erm , but erm will that help us ?
Think about two people 's abstract contemplation would still be the contemplation of two different people .
Erm , and then , once we sort that all out , what will we say again at the level of the one ?
Erm , that is , how can we make sure that erm Plato , or Socrates , doesn't descend to this level and then ascend to the one , as everyone else is , erm and then having got up this side somehow come down this ?
Erm what , when one is at the level of the one , what makes you who you are ?
How can you guarantee that you will be restored to your proper un-self ?
How can you trap that individual through their ascent and descent ? that is .
Erm well I mean he seems to be implicating somehow here that the more that you go up to soul and intellect to the one , the more you properly become your true self .
Therefore , yourself , your individuality , is somehow enhanced by this
Yes , there 's no doubt he says all that , right
and , and that really would lead to the of self not of detriment of self
Yes , there 's no doubt that that 's exactly what he thinks
and yes , well , I don't see what the problem is , I mean you become properly yourself in that case , so what 's the problem ?
Perhaps this is a limited individual problem .
I can't make any sense of what he 's saying because it seems to me that erm our common and everyday and perhaps very deficient notion of individuation is , what makes me different from the rest of you ?
Okay so , so look at two individuals in two different ways .
Take a pencil X and say , what is it that makes X a separate individual from Y , okay ? that 'd be a different thing .
Now take a and say , what is it that allows me to say that the individual X in this s erm cell of the film is the same individual X as in this cell of the film .
That is , what is the underlying subject of change ?
Think of those as the two deep questions about individuation .
How can you tell X from Y and how can you tell that X is still X , that it 's still the same thing it was ?
When we think about those questions of individ individuation in our normal affairs , the best we can do is to say that what individuates us and also what makes us the same person through changes over time , is a great medley of factors , some of which are bodily , some of which involve our souls
Yeah , but he would say that you can't do it in terms of space and time .
He certainly would , but what in heaven 's name is he talking about ?
If it 's some notion of individuation which has nothing to do with the body , nothing to do with the soul and nothing to do , ultimately , with the intellect either .
Yeah , that 's why it 's an .
I mean th this is , this is exactly what was saying , he owes us more of an account .
Erm , he has stripped away from these true selves everything that we normally think of as institute of , of a self .
In a sense and a I'm not sure if it 's only in a sense , that , that when we talk now of say aren't we trying to approach the same ?
Erm , could be
Well I mean , if we 're talking about sort of and they 're looking for a sense of identity of whatever it is that they 're having of
That is I think that when I refer to and when I refer to I am referring to the same thing
Yeah
and that each remain the same thing although being described by a variety of different er descriptions .
Er , just as I think that erm a variety of descriptions can pick out me .
Erm , the only person in the room standing , er the only person in the room holding a book , erm you know , the , the , the er sole American in the room .
Lots of different descriptions always pick out the same me .
Erm , and all of which , in that case , seem to me completely and have nothing really to do with me .
That is , I , I take it would still be me even if I were seated , I would still be me even if I were n't holding a book , possibly I 'd still be me even if I were n't American .
Chances are
In all possible worlds you 'd still be you
Nevertheless , right , there seems to be something that , that , that survives all of those changes er that we can talk about and still me .
I mean , it does seem on page three nine really what we 're talking about , trying to get some sense into that
Right right
Er , I dunno what you think but I mean it does state there , it 's quite interesting if one reads it out
Mhm mhm
what we 're trying to address now
definitely , this is the crux .
that is the crux of the whole of that lecture really number nine
Yes , yes , I agree , I agree , right
so
I don't know how to interpret that .
I mean , you can understand it , but then you get his , but now another man wishes to exist
Yes
you see , I mean , how can you interpret that ?
I don't know , I don't know , although I ought to warn you that another way of interpreting the Greek would be , but now a man wishes to be another approached that man .
Erm , you could take the as one unit and say , but now a man , wishing to be another , approached that man , and when he found us , for we were not outside the all , he wound himself round us and attached himself to that man who was then each one of us .
That man , okay , singular , who was then each one of us , plural , erm erm , I take it that , that erm one of the things that we could conclude from this entire discussion is that our notion of selfhood erm which is our modern notion of selfhood , deeply bound up with erm personal history , you know , Locke 's erm , what is Locke 's example ?
The dashing cavalier , er the , Locke tells a story about someone who in their youth was a k a cavalry officer erm and how this person in later life , their memory of being a cavally off cavalry officer is part of what individuates them .
Erm , so in individuation has lots to do with physical attributes , lots to do with personal history and memory , lots to do with psychic characteristics such as desires , capacities , abilities , preferences , tastes and so on and so forth .
Maybe what we should say at the end of the day is erm just isn't talking about that , he 's on about a completely different subject and we really should n't erm we should n't beat over the head for having a bad theory of the self .
Maybe he just doesn't , you know , he doesn't wanna talk about the self .
Maybe he 's talking about it all .
Maybe he 's under a different notion .
Erm , er he might be doing a very good job of explaining some other notion , not the notion of a self or an individual , but er something else .
Erm , maybe that would be the more fair thing to say at the end of the day .
Erm
Well , when she , when it was , but now another man wishing to exist approaches that man , did she say that man was the intellect ?
It 's tough , I don't know erm take , take a look about four lines above .
Now even if or erm er let 's start from the top .
But we , who are we ?
Are we , two choices , that which draws nearer and comes to be in time , that 's the first choice .
No , even before this coming to be er came to be we were there and we were men who were different and some of us were even gods and we were pure souls and intellects .
Okay , so apparently that original we had something to do with intellects united with the whole of reality .
Reality 's a bad translation .
United with the whole of being .
Remember being is a level of intellect , whereas the one is above being .
So it says united with the whole of reality , that means at the level of intellect , being .
What are we t where are we going to face reality then ?
being or intellect is , is reality .
Reality is at the level of , of er intellect .
Erm , we were pure souls and intellect united with the whole of being .
We were parts of the intelligible .
Not marked off , or cut off , but belonging to the whole .
Erm , I should also say that bit about some of us were even gods , erm that also is erm there are some options there on translation erm you could also say men who were different and particular , that is we were and erm particular humans and we were gods .
That would be to say not some of us were gods but all of us were gods .
Erm so that 's another possibility .
Er men who were different and particular and gods .
Erm , so we were pure souls and we were intellects , united with the whole of being , I E the forms .
We were parts of the intelligible , not marked off or cut off , but belonging to the whole .
Er I take it to the whole of reality er or being
Not , not , not the one ?
Er , not if the
Not embraced in the one ?
er , if the whole there in the sixth line refers back to the whole of being in the fourth line then it would be erm not the one but intellect .
Erm but now another man erm wishing to exist or perhaps , but not a man wishing to be other erm approached them er and when he found us , for we were not outside the all
Not outside the all ?
Mhm mhm , although I take it that we 're in fact
What does he mean by the all ?
Not the one ?
In other words , is that another way of saying the one ?
I don't think so because
What does he mean by the all then ?
Could be again the level of intellect erm
Yes
erm because I , you might er
It 's the interchangeableness of this , these words that makes it difficult to understand
Terribly difficult yeah , it 's just , it 's just miserable stuff erm to try to make sense of .
Erm , another er , the translator makes the comment on this particular , that in no other is as casual about not distinguishing the three highest hypotheses .
He doesn't really seem to be very careful about distinguishing intellect from the one and , and so forth , doesn't really , he 's not , he 's not really focusing on that difference and so seems to let it lapse in a less than useful way .
Erm
He says , he woun he wound himself round us , now who 's he referring to he ?
It 's this other man apparently .
Erm
the intellectual man , the intellectual , we 're talking about , we 're not talking about a man in body , we 're talking about intellect ?
Yeah , although the one who , who wraps himself around might be a bodily man .
Do come in .
Erm erm yes it 's just a desperately difficult passage .
Yeah , no , no it 's tough stuff .
Yes indeed .

So we can read that and just put the towel on the table .
Right .
If you 'd like to tell me how many how many sixths you think there would be in a whole one .
erm
How many fourths would there be in a whole one ?
Erm
How many how many halves ?
Halves erm two .
Right two so is you shared it out between two people you get a half , one , twoth , one over two .
If you shared it out between three people how many so they all got the same how many would they get ?
Can you show me how much they 'd get ?
Yes .
If you shared it out between three .
Mm .
Should I put it together first and then
That 's it
Three .
So which piece if there were just three of us , you and me and the dog
sharing out a pizza how big a piece would we get .
A third .
A third .
So share it out between three you get a third .
If you share it out between four people how much would we get each ?
A quarter .
Good a quarter .
Share it out between six people ?
A sixth .
A sixth good .
Share it out between ten people ?
A twelfth .
How about
Mm
Ah okay share it out between twelve people .
A twelfth .
Have a guess share it out between ten people .
A tenth .
That 's it .
Share it out between twenty people .
A twentieth .
Good er share it out between five hundred people .
Or between a hundred people .
A hundredth .
A hundredth .
Share it out between a thousand people .
A thousandth .
That 's it .
So you 've got it haven't you you know that 's that 's all it means .
All a third means is that 's what you get if you share one between three so they all get the same .
Er what does a sixth mean ?
That there are six people there are six of us could have a maybe
Between six people and they 're gonna get the same that 's all a sixth means .
And which one of those is a sixth ?
That 's it okay .
What does a twelfth mean ?
Erm that if there was twelve people they 'd all get the same piece each .
That 's it that 's all there is to fractions .
And which one 's a twelfth .
That one .
Well I think you 're doing very well on the fractions .
Okay we 'll leave that for a minute and we 'll have a look so you can forget all about it right then I 'll ask you later when you 've forgotten okay .
Let 's have a look at erm what you did with the the numbers then .
I 've done I 've done the ten one .
Okay .
Erm now do you know any of these ?
You know five add five don't you .
Yeah .
Erm I 'll turn that over erm right and I 'll say a number and you tell me what number you 'd have to add to it to make it up to ten .
Erm seven .
Erm four .
Oh seven and two seven and three .
Seven add three good .
Erm nine add ?
Oh nine erm one .
Good .
One add ?
Nothing .
One one add what would
Oh zero .
One add what would make ten
Oh one add nine .
That 's it one add nine .
We 'd write a one and a zero
Yes .
but we 'd have to add another if we only had one penny we 'd have to add another nine to get ten P .
you 're doing well on these .
Eight add ?
Eight add two .
Good erm let 's think of a hard one six add ?
Six add four .
Good .
Four add ?
Four add eight .
Six add four .
Six add four makes ten .
So four add six .
Good .
Four add six makes ten .
Erm you did eight didn't you what was that ?
Eight add ?
Eight add three er eight add two .
Good eight add two .
So two add what would make ten ?
Two add eight .
Good .
So have a look at the ones you 've done here right .
Five add five
Five .
Nine add one .
let 's see You know five add five don't you .
Yeah .
Nine add one you know that one that 's that 's not hard .
So if someone says one add ?
Nine .
you could work that one out .
So you only have to learn half of these you don't have to learn all of them cos you can always switch it round .
If you Just what you were doing what you worked out isn't it .
So eight add two eight nine ten .
It 's just eight add two .
So what would two add eight
Two add eight .
What would that come to ?
Ten .
Yeah .
Erm seven eight nine ten .
Nine ten .
Three .
Do you think I 'll tell you not to count on your fingers ?
Well it 's better if you can do it in your head it means okay you 're a bit cleverer cos you can do it in your head .
But if you can't do it in your head what you going to do ?
You 've got to use your fingers haven't you or get some pennies out and count them .
Or write it down and put little dots and count up the dots or something it 's a erm a lot of the Who tells you not to count on your fingers ?
Me headmaster or sometimes me teacher .
Mm sometimes the teacher but more the headmaster .
Yeah .
Mm .
don't like getting into disputes into arguments with schools but in our lessons I don't mind if you count on your fingers .
After a while you get when you first start the first time you ever ride a two wheeler and you have someone holding it or you have some stabilizers on till you know what you 're doing .
And then when you 're okay when you 've been riding round a bit you take them off .
And you 're , Ooh stabilizers. you say to the other kids , Ooh you don't need stabilizers .
But when you first started when you 're not quite sure what 's happening you can't be expected to be perfect the first time you have a go at something can you .
So use your fingers write down bits and more and more you 'll be able to start doing it in your head then .
Erm I reckon you could probably So if you keep practising these .
You can practise them on our fingers .
So if I say seven add you could go eight , nine , ten three .
Three .
Yeah and after a while you won't need to do that .
You 'll know them then and you won't need to use your fingers but while you 're learning I don't see why you know why you can't use them do you .
And if they say you can't at school well alright close you eyes and count , pretend there are some fingers there like that .
That 's good .
That 's very good numbers that add up to twelve okay .
Erm that 's that 's really good again you 'd only have to learn up to six add six wouldn't you .
Yeah .
Cos five add seven seven add five would come to twelve .
Now
Twenty four .
add up to twenty four okay and right okay
And there 's thirty six there .
So you had a lot of practice adding there .
Now what I want you to do I want to just have a look at it now and I want you to play with it over the holiday on your own .
Have you got you your pennies ?
Yeah I 'll go and get them .
Okay let 's have a look at those .
Okay so
Right Cor !
Gracious they 're a weight aren't they .
They really are a weight .
Okay you 've got a fortune in here .
What have we got Can you sort out ooh just the pennies .
Yeah .
Okay how many have we got there roughly ?
Erm two three four five six seven six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve
Okay stop at twelve for a minute .
And keep those that 's it keep those pennies separate .
Now let 's put some of these back
seven eight nine ten
just sort out another set of twelve .
eleven .
Okay .
Stand these up .
Another set of you just sort out another set of twelve pennies then we 'll .
Twelve .
Okay .
Yeah .
Twelve six seven eight eight nine ten eleven
Okay that 's lovely .
Six seven eight nine ten eleven
So how many have you got altogether ?
Could you do it without counting them ?
You 've got two sets of twelve .
How much would that come to .
Two times twelve
Could you do it by adding up on paper ?
Erm
It was twelve add twelve wasn't it ?
Oh yeah .
Two ti two times twelve is that the same as two add twelve ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
Two sets of twelve so we could say two times it or we could add twelve to twelve .
Which which would be easier do you think ?
Erm me tables 'd be much quicker .
If you knew your twelve times or your two times up to twelve that would be quicker but if you don't
I 've done the answer .
Oh brilliant now how did you do it ?
Mm used me two times table .
You used your two times table good .
So you had you had twelve pennies in one pile and twelve in another and you 're doing twelve add twelve now you could have done counted the whole lot could n't you ?
One two three four
That 's take ages .
Or you could take a bit of a short cut say well we 've already got twelve there thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen and so on .
But that 's a quicker way .
That 's really all we 're doing we 're just sort of counting how many would we have if we have twelve add twelve .
Now if I 'd said how about if you had erm sixty add sixty do you think you could do that ?
Sixty er
Have a have a go at that it 's sixty add sixty .
Now is it easier if you write you them one under the other do you think ?
Yeah ?
Yeah most people find it a lot easier if you write them one underneath the other one .
Right good yeah that 's correct .
A hundred and twenty .
Now that 's much easier to do it on paper than if I say well the only way to find is let 's get sixty pennies out , you count sixty I 'll count another sixty then we 'll see how many we 've got .
So it 's just a quick way of doing counting really .
A quick way of doing adding .
When we do adding up , if we add two numbers together , we 'll always get another number .
Yeah ?
You 've been doing quite a bit with things that add up to ten haven't you and you 've been doing things like seven add three comes to ten and three add seven can you read my figures ?
Yeah .
Three add seven makes ten .
It always gives you another number another counting number that you could use for counting your pennies .
Now these counting numbers they 're okay aren't they you know where you are with those no problem .
So adding is okay when we add that 's no problem .
Now what about when we take away ?
It goes a bit weird so we 'll leave that for a while let 's have a look at erm what happens when we 're doing times .
What happens when we 're doing times now you did two sets of twelve didn't you ?
Yeah .
And you did that with your two times table so because times means the same as sets of or lots of .
It doesn't make any difference whether you say two times twelve ,
two lots of twelve , two sets of twelve , two piles of twelve does it it 's all the same .
So times multiplication is the fancy word for it but times is good enough .
That 'll always give you another counting number wouldn't it because it 's the same as adding really .
Say there we are you can add twelve add twelve or you can do two times
Twelve .
two times twelve .
Okay sixty add sixty or you could do
Sixty you could do six times six two sixes .
You could do two times sixty .
That 's it two times sixty .
If if you had erm eight eight add eight eight add eight add eight .
Eight .
How can you do it ?
Erm
Using your tables .
Three times eight .
Three times eight or eight times times three doesn't matter which way you do it , it 'd come to the same thing .
Three times eight 's better that 's the the right way to do it .
So really when you 're doing times when you 're doing your tables you 're just doing adding aren't you .
Adding lots of different l lots of things that are the same .
So times is okay .
Three times four or four times three they just give us counting numbers again .
Nice numbers that are easy to work with we can count out the pennies , count on our fingers , let you .
Okay you can sort those out but when we get to take aways it goes a little bit odd doesn't it .
So let 's see , you 've got just check and see if you 've got ten in that pile .
Yeah .
Okay so if I do ten take away seven what do you think that will come to ?
Ten take away seven is three .
Good now how did you get it ?
Erm
How did you work it out .
Cos you did that in your head you didn't use your fingers or anything how did you do it ?
Er I u used like I did with the adds and
Alright .
and then and then I s and then in me head I did erm seven take away ten and then I worked it out and it turned out to be three .
I had I had eight nine ten left in me head to make three .
Mm good so if you know what adds up to make ten
Ten .
if you know seven add three make ten then you can work it out just in your head .
Ten take away seven makes three .
Okay so we can do things like that and we get counting numbers and we 're quite happy with those .
So it works sometimes take away but sometimes you get things like ooh let 's see er I'm making a mess of this you can write it out nicely .
Seven
Take away
take away ten .
ten .
So I 'll say there we are you 've got seven pennies there now take ten away .
You can't .
You can't you can't and that 's what people thought for thousands of years lots of years .
They thought you can't do it .
But we we have these have you come across negative numbers ?
Directed numbers ?
On the number line ?
Erm yeah .
Yeah what did you think of them ?
A bit confusing .
They can be very confusing if you don't know what it 's about .
Let 's say I owed you erm ten P .
And I said , Oh well there we are take it If I gave you a pound
Yeah .
and said take that ten P out of that how much change would you give me ?
Erm ten pence out of a pound ninety pence .
Good you 're very quick on money .
Now if I said you know that ten P I owe you well there you are take it out of that seven pence .
And keep the change .
How much more would you want ?
Erm three pence .
Three pence .
So we call it minus three .
We call it minus three I still owe you
Three pence .
still owe you three .
Okay if you try to take you 've still got three to come
Mm .
that means .
Erm we 'll look at that then we 'll look at the nu we 'll have a look at the number line and we 'll look at temperatures .
Have you done do you remember looking at those .
Do you ever watch the weather forecast and it says especially last or a few months ago say it 'll be minus three tonight ?
Er no .
No well it 's nought zero that 's the temperature where water freezes .
And if it 's about four it 's up here the normal four .
So it 'd go went down one it 'd go to three , went down again it 'd go to two .
Went down another one what would it go to ?
One .
And then if it went down another one ?
Zero .
And if it goes down another one ?
Erm
It 's gone below zero .
You just say it 's gone to minus one .
Minus one .
And then if it went down another one ?
Minus two .
And another one ?
Minus three .
Aha you 've got it .
Okay that 's all that 's all these minus numbers are about .
Negative numbers , directed numbers all sorts of funny names for them and people get very confused about them but we 'll sort those out we 'll have a look at the number line which is a good way of doing it .
So take aways sometimes they work and sometimes they give you a nice counting number and sometimes they give you this thing .
Ooh what 's this .
Really it means we can't do it so we 'll we make it up we 've made up these funny numbers so that it 'll always work .
Cos we don't we don't like to say in maths we don't like to say we can't do it .
And the same happens with sharing sometimes doesn't it erm how many have you got there let 's see ?
Seven .
Right there 's twelve I 'd like you to share that out between three people please .
Three people .
Twelve shared out between
Three people .
Okay we 'll leave these out like that so we can see how many we 're getting .
That 's it that 's very good okay .
and how many would they get each ?
Four pence each .
They 'd get four each .
Twelve twelve anything it could be twelve
Mm .
twelve cups of tea .
Right twelve shared out between they 'll get four each .
Now how about this one then ?
Okay there 's three let 's pretend they 're pizzas say three pizzas share that out between twelve people .
Er twelve people
Mm .
Most people say say you can't do it you can't do that can you go on .
Hey with twelve people and only three pi
You 'd have to cut it into twelfths .
Yes go on .
You cut it into twelfths and then you erm
Good so if we cut the first into twelfth what how many pieces would they get out of that 's be twelve pieces altogether okay .
And they 'd get one of those each wouldn't they .
Yeah .
And then what would we do with so that 's the first pizza that 's dealt with and they got a piece like that out of the first one .
What would they do out of the second pizza ?
Erm
What would we do with that ?
Cut it into another twelve .
Cut it into twelfths again .
Give them another piece .
There they are with another twelfth for you .
Another twelfth .
And the same for the last one brilliant .
So they 'd finish up with three pieces like that .
Three twelfths and we know what three twelfths looks like .
Three twelfths 'd be one two three
Two three
would be ?
Er a fourth .
A fourth a quarter .
So they 're going to finish u they should finish up with a quarter so again this sharing sometimes it works okay and we just get a normal counting number .
Say well that 's okay .
And sometimes we go , ooh no we 've got fractions .
That doesn't matter .
That 's interesting isn't it .
Twelve shared out between three you get four .
Three shared out between twelve you get a fourth .
Three between twelve you get a quarter .
Or a quarter as you say .
How about this one how about twelve shared out between four how many would they get each ?
Twelve shared out er
Try those share those twelve out between four people .
Mm one two three You get three pence each .
You get three pence each .
Cos when we shared it out between three it was like if you just stand up and have a look along there .
Okay ?
Mm .
There you are well you stand there that 's a person standing there .
Yeah .
And the dog can stand there and then that 's there 's the three people and they get four each .
But if you look at it from this way four people standing there they 'll get three each .
So twelve shared out between four they get three .
Three .
Right how about four shared out between twelve people ?
How would you do that ?
Four shared out between
What will that come to ?
That 's that 's not going to be as easy as the last one .
How would you do it then ?
Er Use them as pizzas maybe ?
Yeah brilliant and what would you do with the first one ?
Erm cut it into twelve .
Cut it into twelve so they get one twelfth from the first one .
Carry on you tell me what
Another twelve another twelve from the
Yeah .
second one .
And another twelfth for the third one and another twelfth from the fourth .
So how many twelfths would they get altogether ?
Erm four erm
Four they 'd get four twelfths .
Well that was three wasn't it ?
Yeah .
And another one that 's four and that would make how many how many twelfths in that ?
Erm three three .
One two three
Two three four .
Four .
Four .
Four twelfths .
So four well that 's interesting isn't it ?
Look four shared out between twelve
Between twelve .
You get four twelfths .
Four twelfths .
That 's that 's just another way of writing it .
That 's just the same thing it 's not really answer you just say four shared out between twelve .
And the same here three shared out between twelve it came to three over twelve didn't it ?
Yeah .
And that was the way you did it first .
Your idea cut it into twelfths .
Brilliant and that came to the same as one quarter .
And four twelfths came to the same as ?
One third .
One third .
So twelve shared out between three no problem there we get four .
Three shared out between twelves it comes to ?
Between twelve comes to a quarter .
One fourth a quarter .
That was four that 's one fourth .
Mm .
Four shared out between twelve
Between twelve .
Sorry twelve shared between four ?
Between four is three .
But ?
Twelve divided by
Four .
Four divided by twelve
That 's it four shared out between twelve people
Twelve comes to one third .
One over three .
That was four and that 's one over four .
This was three and that 's one over three .
Mm .
How about this one ?
What would six shared out between two people give you ?
Shared out erm
How many twos make six ?
Mm .
Two two whats would make six ?
Three .
Two threes are six so what we 'll do is we 'll say let 's say how would you make six ?
You 'd make it with two two lots of three .
Three .
like that two lots of three .
So six shared out between two we 've shared it between two people they 'd get three each .
So the sharing 's a bit like doing the times only the other way round isn't it like doing it backwards .
That 's the answer now what was the question .
Yeah so sh six shared out between two is ?
Three .
Three .
Have a guess at two shared out between six ?
Just have a guess at it .
Two shared out
From what was happening here .
We did twelve shared out between four was three .
Four shared out between twelve was one over three .
Have a guess .
Two .
Er two shared out between six people .
Here we are there 's your two pi two pizzas now share that out between the six of us .
Cut it into twelfths
Yeah we could use twelfths we could use we definitely use no no that 'd be good .
Right that 'll work very well .
Erm let 's say you and erm and who 's the other girl ?
Natalie and
And
Gemma
And Natalie .
and Joanne .
Joanne Okay well let 's say you and Joanne and Jemma .
You could share that one .
And I 'll share the other pizza with your mum and is that your auntie so
Yeah .
with your mum and your auntie .
Okay so how many will you get when you share that with Gemma and Natalie and you ?
Mm
How many people are there ?
Three
Three
Yeah .
so you 're gonna get one shared out between three which is ?
Three three is
You just you just write it like that one over three .
A third a third .
So it comes to a third .
Let 's see if we can do it a different way .
Now you suggested you had a very good idea you said we could cut it up into twelfths .
Okay cut the first one up into twelve twelfths .
Okay now there are six of us how many twelfths will we get there are twelve of them .
Twelve twelfths out of that out of that first pizza .
Mm .
We didn't really need to cut it up into so many small pieces i would work but we 'd get two of these each cos we 've got twelve little pieces now and there are only six of us to share it out so we 'd say , Oh well have er we 'll we 'll have two pieces each two twelfths .
that 'd be er a sixth .
Good .
That 'd be a sixth .
Okay so we could do that in the first place we could say one pizza there well we 've got two pizzas but we 'll let 's just concentrate on one , share it between six people .
We 'll we get sixths .
We 'll all get one sixth that 's dealt with one pizza what about the next pizza ?
Erm cut it up again .
Exactly same with that cut it into sixths .
So we get another sixth .
So how many sixths would we have altogether ?
Erm
As there are two pizzas .
Two .
Two sixths oh well there 's one sixth for you let 's find the other one .
That 's how much that would be your share if we shared six pizzas between two of us and it 's going to be the same as I said when i said well you share with your mum and Natalie .
Because two sixths is the same as ?
Erm fo a quarter third .
A third .
That one 's the quarter it 's the one with the corner on .
Okay it 's a half of a half .
It takes two of those to make a half .
And there 's the third same as two sixths .
So it doesn't matter whether we look at it as whether you 'd get a third or whether you say you 'd get two sixths well it doesn't matter cos it 's the same size it 's just it 's cut into two pieces or the way you wanted to do it which was a good way with the first pizza .
Cut it into twelfths .
Into twelfths .
And how many would you get you 'd get two twelfths .
Two twelfths .
Right you 'd get two twelfths out of the second pizza as well there 's another two twelfths so you 'd have four twelfths all together .
So it doesn't matter which way you do it whether you get four twelfths , two sixths , or one third , they 're all the same they all comes to the same thing .
So four twelfths , two sixths , one s one third .
If you share two between three of you which is what we 've just done right ?
Yeah .
Let 's just write down here I think what we 've got hey ?
What did we do ?
We shared out share out two between six .
Two shared out between six is So that 's one of the answers that we got .
Two sixths .
You did it by twelfths and we got four twelfths and the other answer we got was one third .
So if we sort of put in here one one third what does it mean ?
Well it means just one shared out between three of you doesn't it ?
What does four twelfths mean ?
Means shared out between four of us .
The the people always go under the table okay .
shared it between twelve of us .
That 's right and how many did we share out ?
It goes on top of the table .
A quarter four .
Four when they 're on top of the table it 's just a number four okay .
So that was four shared out between ?
Twelve .
Twelve of us .
So it doesn't these are all the same all comes to the same amount doesn't it .
You get the same piece of pizza whether it 's two shared out between six , four shared out between twelve or one shared out between three or twenty four shared out between a lot of people .
We could maybe work it out .
So we 've had a look at some of the numbers now haven't we and some of the things you can do with them .
Adding up that 's no problem you never get any surprises do we we all get another we always get sometimes it 's hard but we always finish up with another counting number .
Times sets of and lots of , that 's the sam it 's like counting in threes or counting in let 's add another three , add another three add another three .
Okay or add another six .
So it 's a bit like counting and we keep getting the same counting numbers that we 're happy with .
Take away what happened there ?
Well sometimes it works .
When doesn't it work ?
When do we get these funny numbers ?
When erm you have a lower number .
Very good very mathematical .
Yes yes yeah when the first number is smaller than the second one .
When you try and take away more than you 've got .
If I say there you are there 's there 's two P take five P out of that .
can't do that .
It 's when you you tend to say first thing you say is can't do that then you think , Oh well we get the we have to do it just playing silly game we get these funny numbers .
It 's just a game so that we can so that they can't say there caught you out .
You have to say you can't do that I 'll make up a new game to play .
So they make up this game with negative numbers but it works very well it 's very useful .
Erm we need things like that for windows and building bridges and things like that .
Sharing sometimes no problem .
When when do we get the problems with the sharing when does it go into fractions ?
Erm when you have a lower number .
Right very good yes .
When the number that we 're sharing out when that 's less than the number of people .
And there 's another there 's a really awkward one .
Do you want to go for it yes let 's try it .
A really awkward one you can get in sharing .
Let 's say if we had erm six shared out between four okay ?
One two three four five
Six .
six .
Okay share it out between four mm .
How many are we going to get ?
Well let 's do it .
Right give them one each to start with and then you 've got two left over .
Mm put them in your pocket .
What are we going to do ?
It 's awkward isn't it .
Yeah .
Well let 's say there was Joanne and Natalie sitting there and you and me say .
That 's one for Joanne , one for Natalie , one for Kerry Now what would you do with the two that you 've got left over ?
Er
What could you do ?
If we were sitting together here and Joanne and N Natalie were sitting over there and we 've got these two pennies ?
We could maybe if we have Joanne , Gemma , Natalie , me , you
Mhm .
No we 've just got the four of us .
Just got the four of us .
Erm
How about forgot about one of the pennies for a minute this one if we shared that out between two of us .
How if you get one each and then you get a half share in that .
Mm .
So how much would you get out of this bit ?
What fraction would you get out of this if it was shared between two of us ?
A twelfth .
Just just between the two of us .
Erm a sixth .
So it 's it 's one one pizza .
Your mum brings the pizzas in she brings six pizzas in right great big ones .
And she said Oh I thought there was supposed to be six of you here today , some didn't turn up .
Okay so we 've got six pizzas only four of us .
So she goes round right there 's a whole for you , and one for , one for you , one for you and she says , And you won't want any more will you ?
And everyone says , Ooh yes yes lovely pizza this yes .
Oh so she 's got to share it out evenly .
So she could say How could she do it how would you do it ?
Erm
If you were the mum and you brought these pizzas in and there was four people sitting there when you 've got six pizzas and they all want the same size .
Now we 've done one each and we 've got two now to share out between
erm
these four people .
Cut it into
Cut it into what size pieces would we cut it into ?
A twelfth .
Yeah we could cut it into twelfths but there are only two people so they 're gonna finish up with lots of little bits aren't they if we cut it
Yeah .
into twelfths .
What do you
Could cut it into er
What could we cut it into ?
Oh half .
Right good so we could just cut it into a half .
We could say well there 's our it 's a half for you and a half for you and we cut the other one and they get a half each .
If we if they were n't as quick as you are like that working that out what you could try is say well I 've given them one each there 's the four people one two three four right you 've all got a whole one so you can start eating that while I sort out how I'm gonna share this out .
Now this is the fifth pizza now how am I gonna share it out .
Oh well there are four of them there so why not give them all and I 'll cut this pizza into
Erm quarters
Into quarters exactly cut it into four .
So there they are while you 're eating that another quarter each .
And what shall we do with the last pizza so that
Erm cut it into half again and
Cut it into ?
erm quarters .
Quarters again yeah and give them another quarter out of this so they get they 've got a whole one each and then we 've got two left over .
Now out of that two we 'll say well share it out between the four of you take a quarter each .
Out of this one take a quarter each so how many quarters would they get ?
Erm two quarters .
Two two quarters .
There 's two pizzas shared out between four so they 're going to get ?
Two quarters .
I think you 're doing very well on this by the we 're getting through an awful lot here it 's usually even with very much older children they take a lot longer to get this .
So sharing out two six shared out between four what you 'd normally write if you can't do fractions you 'd say once remainder two wouldn't you .
Mm .
You 'd say once and two left over .
You say well what are we going to do with those two left over ?
Well hide them .
But now we want them all shared out so instead of saying one remainder two we writ it like this now .
Six divided by four is one and two left over we won't get two whole pizzas each we 'll get
Mm .
two quarters two quarters .
And what does two quarters come to ?
A whole ?
one quarter
A half .
is a half okay .
Which is what you said earlier when you were working them out you said , Oh so they get one and a half each .
one and a half .
Now those I think and quite a lot of other people do are probably the most awkward ones .
They 're not hard once you understand what you 're doing how you get it because you 're sharing out but they 're probably the most awkward when you 've got mixed whole numbers counting numbers and fractions all in together .
Erm then they get a bit awkward .
So what I 'd like you to do when you get some get a cardboard cutout .
Yeah .
okay when you get those cut out you can just play with them just get used to the sizes and the shapes and erm make sure that you ask someone .
the erm
Right so if someone holds up this piece and you hold up this piece to your mum and you say what sort of fraction is this ?
She says I don't know .
You 'll have to wait and ask John when he comes .
Well let 's work it out .
How how could you work out ?
Erm
Now this is this is the answer really what was the question .
this is what we finished up with ?
Now what were we doing to finish up with a piece like that ?
We had a pizza and we were going to share it out between how many people ?
Erm three .
Three so good you should find that three pieces just like that the same size as that would all just fit together to make a whole .
Right so that must be ?
A quarter oh a third .
A third .
Nearly you were going right all the way along there .
right so that must be a third okay and someone holds this up and says , What 's that ?
A sixth .
Good .
And just check it to make sure .
Go all the way round and make sure you need six like that .
How did we get this piece .
What were we doing to get that ?
Erm got the corner
Mhm .
It 's a fourth a quarter .
That 's it it 's a quarter .
We were sharing it out between four so we got we we always say a quarter I think I think it 's a good idea the way the Americans say a fourth cos you can it ties it up with the four shared out between four people .
And you could do the same for the
A twelfth .
Take you all day going all round with a twelfth wouldn't it .
There 's a slightly quicker way .
You 're happy with the sixth aren't you .
There 's a sixth .
That was shared out between six people .
If there were twice as many people
You 'd get
Just go on .
two out of the s
You 's have to get two pieces out of every sixth you 'd have to cut that down the middle .
So you 'd just You 'd just put the sixth if you know that there 's two twelfth you just like that and then the twelve and then you could count round like that
Right you could you can count round any way you like and the quickest way the easiest way that you 're sure works that 's the best for you .
Is to work out how many sixths how many twelfths are in sixth
Right .
and come round .
Right now I want you to do a bit of adding up okay .
Erm what would a third add a sixth make ?
A third add a sixth put three add six down and then maybe
One one third just write down one third add one sixth .
One third add one sixth .
Now I 'll tell you the tell you the trick of what goes on here .
You can't when you 've got the numbers just like this it doesn't seem to work out so we 've got to go back to find out what it means .
Erm well you could change them both into
Sixths .
Into sixths very good .
How many sixths there ?
Two .
And how many here ?
One .
So right so that 's brilliant so underneath that third how many sixths is it
Two .
Two .
So you could just write two sixths instead of that and it 's the same .
It doesn't matter whether it 's one pizza shared out between three of us or as we tried earlier two shared out between six of us .
You still finish up with the same amount .
One third , two sixths , four twelfths all the same thing .
Add one sixth okay .
So just copy that one down underneath .
Er two sixths add one sixth is going to come to how many sixths would you have ?
Three .
Three sixths okay so .
You can just put your add in there as well .
That 's it .
Equals three sixths .
And three sixths makes ?
A half .
Okay .
You could put there equals a half .
Three shared out between six we 'd get a half .
We could put ourselves in three lots of two and your mum came in with the three pizzas we 'd get one between us so we get a half .
Those two get one between none none for people peeping through the door though .
Okay .
I think we 're getting very very well .
What about a a very awkward take away then if you 're doing so well how about this there we are .
A third take away a quarter .
Quarter .
Er
Let 's see what it does come to ?
What do you think it comes to ?
Erm comes to a twelfth .
Yep very good it comes to a twelfth .
Now we 've got to make that 's what really happens that 's real .
This is just playing games with the numbers to see if we can get the right answer .
So how are we going to get the right answer ?
Well any suggestion if you 'd like to write it down one third take away a quarter .
Mm any ideas ?
Erm see how many quarters we 've got there .
Mm have any quarters I mean you 'd get one and a bit .
Anything else we could try to see what 're in a third ?
How many twelfths .
That sounds like a brilliant idea .
Okay and how many twelfths ?
Er
Instead of finding out how many twelfths in a third we could find out how many twelfths in two sixths could n't we that 'd be a bit easier .
Four .
Four okay so underneath the one third you can write four twelfths .
Just pick up my top
Okay .
Right mind you don't stand on it .
Where 's it gone ?
Where 's it one .
Patterned carpets are hard aren't they to find things in .
Oh well I won't move in case I tread on .
Oh you 've got it .
It was by the door .
Right and how many twelfths in the quarter ?
Erm one two three .
So it 's four twelfths
A third and third three twelfths and a fourth .
That 's it so it 's four twelfths take away three twelfths .
Three twelfths equals
How many twelfths would you have left if you started off with four twelfths then you took away three twelfths ?
Er one .
One twelfth left .
And that 's what we got with this .
So that idea of yours change them all into twelfths it 's a brilliant one .
That 's that 's the way we do fractions that 's the way you do adding up fractions or taking away fractions you change them to the same .
Okay .
Changed if that 's one third it 's four twelfths one , two , three , four .
Three , four .
How about this one ?
One th you try this one on your own .
One third take away one twelfth .
One third one third take away
Take away one twelfth .
one twelfth .
Er so you take away twelve ?
Well what are you going to do with that one third what are you going to change that into ?
Erm twelfths so that 'd be four twelve twelfths .
Four twelfths good .
That 's fours twelfths and
Hang on hang on you 've just written a quarter you said four twelfths .
Oh .
Okay four twelfths take away
Take away one twelfth .
Take away one twelfth okay just write that down that you 've got to take away the one twelfth .
One twelfth erm
One twelfth
Right so four twelfths and then you take away one twelfth .
There 's the four twelfths take away one twelfth .
How many twelfths do we have left ?
We had four took away one twelfth
three .
Three twelfths left .
Equals three twelfths .
And three twelfths is the same as ?
A quarter .
A quarter .
So we can say that many that equals a quarter .
Right now have you done cancelling fractions ?
No .
No .
Cancelling fractions is when somebody ha gives you somebody says erm you say , How much pizza did you get ? three twelfths. three twelfths make it a bit more simple oh well it 's just the same as three three twelfths is
Same as a quarter .
A quarter .
Okay if they said they got four twelfths .
same as a third .
Same as a third exactly .
If they said they got six twelfths ?
same as a half .
Very good okay try this one .
A hard one nine twelfths .
Twelfths same as a whole .
Twelve twelfths would make a whole wouldn't it .
Now nine twelfths
Twelfths .
What would six twelfths be ?
Six er erm qua a half and a sixth .
A half A half good and then you 'd have but we started off with nine twelfths so we 'd have three other twelfths and three twelfths is the same as ?
A quarter .
Okay so nine twelfths would be enough to make make a half out of the six twelfths .
two sixths .
Make a half we 'd make a half out of the six twelfths and then we 'd have three left over make a quarter so it 'd be a half add a quarter that 's what nine twelfths would come to .
There 's the half it 'd be the same as a half add a quarter .
What does a half add a quarter come to ?
Erm
Well we usually change them into the same thing don't we if we 're going to add them .
So if we change them all into quarters how many quarters would there be in a half ?
Two .
Two .
Two quarters add one quarter how many quarters altogether ?
So three .
Three quarters three quarters .
Okay I think you 're doing very very well on the fractions actually how do you feel ?
Do you think you know what they 're about don't you .
Yes .
You 're getting the hang of it .
Now you need quite a bit of practice .
You 're understanding them now very well erm if you don't practise them a bit well this is what happens .
You next time you come to do it you 'll be doing you 'll remember nearly as much as we 're doing today but perhaps some odd little bits you 'll think , ooh now how did we do that I can't quite work out .
Cos we 've done a lot haven't we .
We 've done a lot today .
So some odd bits you might think , I'm not quite sure how you work that out .
Not quite sure how you do that .
So you might have to try and a try and find out again .
Play with the fractions .
Last night mister mister does those fractions
Okay now some people you mention fractions and they scream and run and , Ah no no hate fractions .
and it 's cos they don't understand them but you 're understanding them I think very well now so you 're going to like them .
You get someone with a sharp knife
Yeah .
to cut that out .
Mm .
And then you can have your own fractions and you can just play with them and erm I 'll give you some sums to do with your own fractions .
Now we we 'll have done some of them there and I don't want you to look there okay I want you to just try it
I 've got another book in me in me room .
Quite a big book that I could use for doing me homework .
With fractions okay if you like to get that and I 'll Right
Do you take sugar in our coffee ?
Er no sugar no milk .
No sugar no milk
okay just the coffee that 's lovely she 's just gone to get a book for some homework .
She 's just popped up to get a book for some homework .
Aha right okay that 's lovely .
Now you haven't got any schoolbooks with you have you
No .
the work that you 're doing at school .
No because when you when you are back at school erm
We bought a sheet home fractions on .
Did you could you could you find it fairly quickly do you think ?
Yeah .
Okay great .
I 'll write some of these out for you .
Er there
Aha let 's have a look .
Mhm .
Right so you don't know you 're not too sure about centimetres and millimetres hey ?
No .
We 'll look at that some time .
Do you know how to multiply by ten normally ?
Yeah but I got a bit stuck on that one
Mm it 's a decimal thirty six point nine .
How about this one ?
Fifty nine divided by ten .
How many would you have left over ?
Oh lovely thanks very much .
Okay .
Erm
How much how much would you have left over here ?
Ten er
Are you any good with money ?
I think you are .
Sixty pence sixty pence divided by ten how many tens ?
It 's divided by ten
How many ten Ps could you get out of sixty pence ?
Six .
That was quick it 's the same yeah .
Now if you only had fifty nine pence
Fifty nine pence .
How many ten Ps could you get out of it ?
Er five and then nine
And nine left over .
Okay so that one 's five remainder nine isn't it you can change that one later .
Okay .
What decimal fraction of the circle is shaded ?
Shaded .
Erm one two three four five six erm four
From six whats how many what are these pieces .
How many pieces to go all the way round .
One two three four five six seven
Three four five six seven eight nine ten
Right so they 're tenths .
So this was so they had a pizza sort of shared it out between ten people .
Okay so it 's not just six that 's that 's shaded it 's six tenths six out of ten okay .
So that one 'll be six six over ten .
And that 's a decimal fraction okay .
And we 'll have to change that to we 'll write it as six over ten then we 'll write it as point six .
We 'll have a look at decimals because you need to need to know what you 're doing with decimals but decimals are fractions and until you I mean I think you 're very happy with fractions now you 're probably ready to go on to decimals .
Erm we are I think do you .
We 'll sort them out cos they 're just they 're easy really .
They 're erm they 're just fractions where the bottom is always tens or hundreds or something like that so they 're easier than some of the other fractions .
So we 'll have a look at those .
Now which of these fractions , three tenths , point five , a quarter , point two .
Well you can't which is the largest ?
Erm
I think you need to know that nought point five is five tenth five out of ten which is a half .
So that 's quite a big one so we don't don't bother about any of these the ones that have got tenths or decimals in we 'll have a look at that .
The difference between okay .
Now are you supposed to be doing all of these ?
No this sheet 's from ages ago I found it in me desk when I was tidying it and er I asked me teacher if it
Mhm .
was any good and she went , If you want to take it home and
Mm okay cos I see I 'd like to know whether you 're supposed to be doing decimals and things at the moment .
It doesn't matter if we do it a little bit before you do it at school because when you do it you 'll understand then and you can get a lot from it you can ask
I think we 're doing decimals in schools at the moment .
You are okay .
Well we 'll have a look at that then .
Erm now this is this this is very tricky these are erm mm aren't they ?
Hey some of these John 's got forty pence and Paul 's got two fifths of it .
Hey and a cyclists speed She bought a book for one seventy five she gets seven fives
to the rest of the rest of the
How would she do that then ?
How much would seven five come to ?
Seven five Ps .
Seven five Ps
Let 's have a look at number five If she did something like this how much has she got to start to give .
One seventy five
One seventy five .
okay .
Now she 's going to give five Ps .
Seven five Ps .
You 've got a lot of really useful money here haven't you so you can you can work these out .
Two three four five six seven
Four five six seven .
Right seven five Ps how much will that come to ?
Erm ten twenty thirty five .
Thirty five okay .
Thirty five so we better take thirty five off cos she 's already got thirty five has n't she ?
Mm .
And how much would she have left if you took thirty five pence away
away from one pound seventy five .
How much would she have ?
Er
You can just do it like a normal take away .
It 's thirty five
From
take away
Forget about the pound thi seventy five take away the thirty five
Seventy five take away thirty five .
So she 'd have one pound forty left so that 's in five Ps .
In five Ps thirty five .
So you got one forty left how many tens would she need to make one forty ?
One forty erm
One pound forty .
Fourteen .
Good yeah fourteen great .
Very good okay that 's good .
So that 's how to do that one we could have a look at that .
Mm a week later than Christmas Day Do you know about angles making right angles ?
Mm
No .
You maybe you 've done it but have forgotten .
That 's a right angle when it 's like a like the corner of a square .
A right angle ninety degrees .
And have you done area and perimeter ?
How long is it all the way round something ?
Erm
No possibly not doesn't matter .
I'm not too sure .
Now we 'll we 'll we 'll concentrate on some see with maths you have to do things in certain Are we supposed to be doing maths today are we supposed to be doing English ?
I'm not too sure .
Well we 'll conc best to concentrate on the just on the fractions .
Erm
But you said you were gonna bring me some erm these special tables .
Did I ooh well I haven't I'm sorry to say .
Erm right er now definitely by the time I see you next time if not before erm I 'll get them okay .
If I 've got to print them off from my computer and the computer 's er not exactly in bits but it 's just taken apart a bit at the moment so I need to put it back together again and print them off .
So I 'll do that very soon .
Now let 's sort you out some fractions .
So before adding or taking away fractions okay .
Before adding or taking away we get the number on the bottom to be the same right .
And how do we do that ?
It 's easy enough saying it isn't it .
Okay erm I'm just trying to think what I'm doing later .
I 'll get those fractions those multiplication tables printed out and get you a copy in the next few days okay .
The bottom 's the same on both fractions .
How d how do we make sure that the number on the bottom is the same ?
Erm
How did we do it when we doing some of these back here ?
For example when we had erm When you were doing these tricky things .
Like a third take away a quarter how did you do it ?
Three You put the fractions
Okay so you change the fractions you change the one third and you change the one quarter into into what ?
Twelfths .
Into twelfths in this case you change them into twelfths to see how many twelfths it would be .
And erm with these you changed them both into sixths didn't you could have changed them both into twelfths and it would have work but then we 'll get an answer that needs we would have got sixth twelfths well it still comes to a half .
But it 's just a bit more awkward to work out what six twelfths is maybe .
So I 'll give you some here to do .
Some of them will be the same ones that we 've already done so don't look at the don't look at these just try them on your own try and remember how you did them .
And if you get stuck go back and have a look how you did them here .
So I'm going to do erm a half add a third okay and a third add a quarter and a half take away a third okay and I 'll give you another one to do How about this one .
I 'll leave you to sort out you 're own own way of doing this .
Two thirds add a quarter .
Okay ?
I haven't told you how to d I 've told you how to change one third we 've looked at that haven't we and we and we 've worked out sort of how many twelfths would be in it and things like that .
I 'll leave you to work out on your own .
don't worry if you can't do it if you can't any of these any of these exercises that I give you by the way it 's not like homework it 's just for you to play with them to get the do them at your own pace .
So that you feel happy with it so that you , Oh yeah now I understand what he 's talking about .
Now I can do it myself .
That 's the idea cos when it 's the exam I can't come in and do it for you or show you how to do it .
You 'll be doing it on your own so that 's what I want you to do to get so you can do it on your own .
Try those erm and with the with the coins what I 'd like you to do now is not find out all the things that add up to twelve .
Find out what numbers times what other numbers would make twelve .
So can you g tell me any numbers that you could any two numbers you could multiply together to make twelve .
Er erm eleven and one .
Those are adding .
Oh .
Okay good yeah they are that 's good that would add together to make twelve but how about some number times another number .
One times twelve .
Good okay so twelve we could have one times twelve right .
Five times two .
well let 's see .
Let 's get twelve coins this is the easy way to do it I think .
One two three one two three four five six seven eight nine ten how many more do we need ?
Er .
I want twelve I 've got ten there .
How many more do I need
three
Another I 've got ten
Two .
eleven
Twelve .
twelve okay so it needs another two .
So there we are we 've got one lot of twelve or we might be able to have two lots of what see what you can make with it for two lots .
Two lots of mm .
Two lots of five .
Six .
Okay so we could make one lot of twelve we could make two lots of six .
See if you could make three lots of something .
Three lots of four .
Aha .
Three lot of four .
Okay and could you make four lots of something .
You 've already you 're doing very good .
Four lots of three .
Four lots of three I haven't got time to write that down that was very quick .
Good four lots of three and could you make five lots of anything ?
Erm
No .
No .
You could make five lots of two but you 'd two left over so it wouldn't go evenly okay .
So you can't do five lots okay that was you that was trying five that didn't work so try six what will happen there .
Er
So you 're going you got okay now we 've got six lots of
Twos .
Two okay six lots of two .
Six times two .
And then you could have twelve lots of
One .
Twelve lots of one .
Right so I think that you 've done twelve right just now showed me how to do it .
I want you to do the same for twenty four and you won't get it all on one line there 'll be a lot of them and then try it for thirty six and when you 're really happy with twenty four when you 're happy with twelve and you can write all those out quite happily without looking at this try twenty four see if you know see if threes 'll go fives 'll go and sevens and everything else .
And then try it with thirty six .
And then I don't particularly want you to start yet but if you do get time or if you 're just interested and you don't want to stop and you want to keep going try it with sixty .
Sixty pennies put them out .
Make sure you don't put them straight on the table though .
Newspaper 's fine cos you can slide them about or a towel like this .
Now of what we 've been doing today with fractions was there any of it that you 're not quite sure of and you think , But could you just tell me about that bit again .
Er
How do you feel about it you feel fairly happy with it ?
Yeah .
We 've done a lot today you know we 've done a lot of things about fractions and a lot of things about adding , subtracting , times , sharing quite a lot .
So if you don't remember all of it .
don't worry and always ask me if there 's something that we did last time and I start ta
I start talking about it as though you know
and you 're if you think , Ooh I'm I'm not quite sure what he means by that .
always ask me never never just let it go and think , Oh well perhaps I 'll understand it later .
Cos you 've probably found that already with maths haven't you that once there 's a little bit you don't understand they start putting more and more on that you need to know that little bit for and you you don't know it and you 're getting more and more lost and then it gets a bit late then .
It was only it was only that erm you know erm when you said the sixty pen pence it was the one that was the only one that I seemed to get stuck on .
Okay well I'm not too bothered about adding those up .
Adding up to ten fine , adding up to twelve that 's good that 's useful , adding up to sixty one don't bother doing that again better concentrating on these .
Seeing what things 'll multiply together to make twenty four thirty six and sixty .
Okay.the don't look at these just try them
Yeah .
So it 's just coming up to five to that 's okay .
Erm now would you like to write something for me .
Yeah if you can write erm don't think of it as as homework you might like to writ it in book or something .
When when I 've when I 've gone if you just write about what you think about the lessons .
Whether it 's a good idea me coming here , what are the good things , what are the bad things .
What are the things that you 'd like it if it was a bit different you 'd like it better if it was a bit more of this and not so much of something else in it okay .
Mm .
Erm and I 'll have a look at that and see how your how your writing 's doing .
Okay .
Okay is that alright .
Oh hi .
So And don't forget to put the good things and what are the very good things .
the things that could be better and the things you 'd like more or less of .
I think there could be more of
Erm what thin would you like to do more fractions , more counting or you you think whatever it is that you 'd like to do more of or is there anything you think we do too much of and we don't you don't want to do as much .
Oh dear .
those .
Now what did you think about this lesson was it a bit boring at some time or you think , Oh or did it go too quickly No .
You 'd like to spend a bit more time doing things and not do so much in one go ?
Er it went alright really .
Okay .
If you think we 're doing too much you can sort of say , Ooh hang on .
Because I want to do as much as we can during the holiday so that when you go back you you 're up there with the rest of them okay .
Erm if I try and do too much you might see you might be forgetting as much as you learn might n't you and that 's why it 's important for you to do these do these exercises .
Okay erm if you want to call your mum I 'll just
Yeah .
show her what you 're doing there so that
Okay .
she 'll know as well .
Or you can show her okay .
Hi .
Hi I 'll just just show you what er well Kerry 'll 'll show you she knows what er what we 're what you 're going to do over the next day or so don't you .
Yeah .
We 're just playing with twelve pennies and she 's making patterns out of them to make multiplication tables
Mhm .
really .
So she 's trying to find out well the ones these are all one that Kerry suggested .
Okay you could have one set one set of twelve .
Okay that 's how you could make up twelve coins one set of twelve .
And then what 's the next thing you tried ?
You tried putting them in two two sets of how many .
So she tries that and what does that make ?
Erm two sets of six .
Okay and then carry on Okay so now you 've made three sets of
Sets of four .
Three sets of four okay and you can just turn that round and look at it that way now .
You 've got four sets of three .
Four sets of
Okay and you made six sets of
Twelve .
Six sets of two .
Right didn't you .
Erm
So that 's it just go along the bottom one two three four five six okay , And then you won't move those and what can you do there ?
That 's it six sets of two .
And you tried five didn't you
Yeah .
tried sets of five but it nearly but you two two left over so that 's no good
Mm .
It doesn't go exactly into twelve .
So five won't go .
But we can find all the things that 'll go into twelve .
Well Kerry 's going to do the same thing for twenty four .
And then when she 's really happy with twelve and with twenty four she 's going to try thirty six all the different sets of one times another to make thirty six .
Mhm .
And sixty is a bit much I think but if she you know if you want to go on and you 're really happy you can do anything you like with these thirty six and twenty four no problem there then go on and try sixty .
You 'll need a as I said put er put some paper on the or some newspaper won't scratch it .
Oh she 'll be in the kitchen Yeah
Okay kitchen table 's ideal for sorting your money out on .
So try that and the fractions .
Be best cut out with a sharp knife that something like a Stanley knife
Yeah .
rather than scissors .
But just cut it out and then she 'll just use the back and she 'll play about with some helping to get some answers to these fractions
Mhm .
and then just generally play with it say , Oh I wonder what would happen if you put two thirds together , how many twelfths would that be or what about if you had a third and you wanted to take a quarter away , if you cut a quarter off it .
What would you have left ?
A twelfth .
Brilliant yes really good .
She 's really coming on well
Mm .
with the fractions .
You you like them don't you cos you 're understanding them now .
It 's all about understanding if you understand something you can like it .
Yeah .
But if you don't understand it and you 're lost you just get to hate it you think , Oh no I can't stand that .
So it 's it 's getting but you 're coming along very well aren't you .
I didn't bring the erm multiplication table that I promised either so I was late and I didn't bring that .
I 'll go and stand in the corner I think for being naughty .
But erm I 'll get that to you in the next couple of days or so .
Now what did we say about the next lesson ?
We wanted to g get one or two in during the holiday really I think
Mm .
what you see the idea is to get Kerry getting as much benefit from school as possible so you 're not having to pay me
No .
to do the lessons that Kerry is understanding it so she can .
Once she 's c more or less caught up doesn't have to exactly catch up just have some idea of the basic stuff that they 're talking about
Yeah .
and then you can just when the teacher says that , you know what questions to ask at least .
if you don't if you 're just lost you feel daft don't you .
So you don't ask and you get sort of so that you understand less and less and eventually you think , Oh I don't feel like going to school today it 's fractions again .
Yeah so just to get you so you understand about fractions , you know what 's going on and you can ask intelligent questions and your teacher 'll think , Oh she knows what she 's talking about .
She doesn't know how to do it but she knows what to ask and how to get there .
So erm where are we bank holiday Monday next week I think you probably probably got enough to play with Tuesday .

aware of Graham he might be more receptive .
Who knows ?
As a starting point we could write to er Graham , and invite him to visit
Mm .
either facility .
Mm .
The other thing that 's been done , erm , and has been ongoing now for some months without too much success , but things seem to be moving a little bit , at least we 're told they are , is that I I pressed for , not really a presentation but a technical meeting , I wanted to get there there product engineers
Yeah .
around a table so that we could get to know , er , well , I could get to know the way they do things
Yes .
er and to try and explain
Yes .
erm how we could fit into that , make them more aware of , of , perhaps which bearings are the better , price ways which are the better bearings to go for
Mm .
make them more aware ba basically about bearings and , and erm the popularity of certain sorts of bearings
Mm .
As you 're aware , we 've been trying to or organize this sort of open forum , engineering in the house in September
Yeah .
and we were informed last week that
It may happen February .
It may happen in February .
It 's been dropping out .
You , you 've been there when we 've had
discussions with Jonathan .
Well I think , I think what you what you got to do , and it 's between you two to continue to press that , and and chivvy Bill erm erm er
and push and cajole , and it may mean that you need to erm over visit er
Yes .
erm Clevedon , or wherever it is that these guys hang out .
Most of them are at still at and there 's a few applications
Are they ?
Well , erm
at Clevedon but they don't seem to have much .
them then , and and just keep pressing , keep keep pushing away
Mm .
erm
I think it would also be appropriate at some point in the near future to visit the valve engineering in Dunstable er we 've got the names of chief engineers .
Yeah , we 've got the
Yeah .
There 's this guy there called Les , now it was put to us when we were down there last time that erm , attending this meeting when it happens would be er one Nigel , who 's , I don't quite , I can't remember what he 's picked for , erm he 's actually been promoted , he 's pretty senior , he was basically in charge of the product engineering at , and he 's now been promoted so that puts him even further up the ladder
Yes .
and he 's supposed to be obtaining initials with the
Should it ever takes place .
if it ever takes place , and also Les who 's the chief engineer effectively at Dunstable .
Ha have you , have you got a a , have you laid out an agenda , for f that meeting ?
I haven't yet , no .
We didn't want
Cos I think , what ?
We didn't want to be too specific at the moment .
No , I
Er , it
I really want to get , I er , I I want you to , I didn't really want to make it to four , I didn't want to get it too formalized because I think that sometimes gets in the way of real information .
Yes , but the trouble is they don't know what they 're going to get out of it , you 've got to
No .
in order to get them , in order to get them to come , surely you 've got to sell them the idea that they 're going to get something useful out of it
We 've been doing this
and make it worth our while .
Yeah .
We 've been doing this for sometime , it doesn't really seem to have taken too much effect , now at the moment we 've been channelling everything through Julian and Jonathan .
I don't know what the reasons why there 's always been a month on month cancellation , maybe it 's difficult to get people together there , maybe there not too enthusiastic .
Well , no they 're not
Could , could we get , could we get Tony , could you write to this new chap Graham , and say , you know , congratulations on your new appointment
I think as a starting point
er and and and nice to know that we want to establish contact and you may be aware that we 've had this plan , and , and what we want it to achieve is so and so , and we 'd like to set it up in this way .
We could do that , I think perhaps , at the moment it 's ongoing , I think perhaps we ought to wait until , see what Julian and Jonathan come up with in February in perhaps .
I think if it becomes clear that if it doesn't happen in February we 're going to have to really reappraise the situation ,
Mm .
but in any event , I think you ought
Right , I'm , I'm prepared to bet a fiver that it won't happen in February , through Julian and Jonathan .
I 'd be prepared to go along with that as well .
Do you take me on ?
No , I won't take you on
Right .
I think it 's a sure fire bet at getting a fiver , what I think we ought to do immediately
Exactly , so
what I think we ought to do immediately , however , is to write to Graham , inviting him to , let 's see
him .
Yes .
if we can kick things off in that , er from that sphere .
That , that could be quite a good opportunity actually actually , could n't it .
You 've got an opportunity now because he 's just been appointed to make contact with him , you don't need any other excuse to make contact with him
No .
and sew the seeds that there has been procrastination going along , and we 've got some very good ideas to offer his people , and we would like to er er and hope that he he will erm encourage his people to erm , get along and meet us .
Mm .
On a technical basis sooner than later , and what you 're trying to do is to understand the design and development process
Alright .
and for them to understand erm the the er bearings selection issues .
Yeah , I think when it comes to bearing selection issues we ought to be clear in which direction we 're going in , now , it 's in our interests at the moment , as we 're unable to produce a larger series of airings in the U K or in Europe , to steer them away from those sort of design , but it seems also to be fairly clear that demands for packaging and compact design for steering gear , tend to be favouring the =mote , remote valve arrangement , therefore putting a considerable advantage
Mm .
with .
In trying to persuade to move away from arrangements which utilize those bearings we 're effectively trying to do ourselves a favour , because we can not provide those bearings , but we 're not necessarily offering the optimum engineering solution , or maybe even the total cost solution in certain applications
Mm .
Well
because of the actual costing input in implications in growing the gear to such an extent you can , to actually utilize
Yes .
popular metric measurements .
But , but this is where you , where we 've got to strike the appropriate balance between doing what is best for the customer and what is best for us .
Now I would see as one of the erm powerful reasons for being in the leading position that if we are in the leading position , and we know that the right solution from a technical , and probably from an overall cost point of view is the sixteen double O three , or a six eight O seven , come to that , and we know it far enough ahead ,
But you see we can't
then we stand the possibility of being able to influence our own purchasing issues in order to er er to to make it happen .
You see , we can't really know , that erm , we can't really know what is the most cost effective solution , can we ?
We can only go by what they , overall costing effective solution , we can only go by what they tell us , I mean we we just have to believe what they tell us , don't we ?
We
Well this is , this is where , this is , I mean this is one of the issues that has to be brought out in any discussions concerning partnership .
Yeah .
We 've got to get more
If we don't have things like that on the table , and if we don't have , I mean there there are issues like , like , what are localization intentions ?
If the choice of bearing is between a sixteen double O four and a six double O four , it may hang , for us it may hang on whether , er , whether we can localize the sixteen double O four
Yep .
for them it may be that the sixteen double O four has a more expensive housing arrangement anyway , or under that purpose
Right , I see that 's the
they may be cheaper , I don't know , but but that was one of the issues that 's got to be taken into , into
That 's the raw line , yeah .
consideration , but if we 're not there having the conversation we won't even know that the conversations been l
No .
going on , so we won't be in a position to estimate and forecast for our own benefit
Yeah .
that the sixteen double O four is likely to be the item used in this new gear
Hmm .
and it 's likely to be at half a million a year , and the production will start in nineteen
Yeah .
ninety six , and therefore we 've got time to do it .
yeah .
But if we don't get into that position in the first place we 'll be out .
You are only looking at it from our point of view though aren't you , I mean they , they 're going to look at it from the point of view that they can possibly obtain sixteen zero zero fours , although they 'd obviously like to get them cheaper , but at a price that makes the the overall package that contains that bearing and a six eight O seven cheaper than than the package that we would like them to use which inc would incorporate six zero zero fours , and er whatever after .
Whatever .
Abso absolutely John ,
See
John , but you you miss my point
Just give me two
I'm sorry you , I haven't explained myself clearly .
If we are not having that conversation at the initial design stage when the total project for production is certainly many months ahead if not years ahead .
Yeah , I didn't , I did understand what
Then
you were saying , yeah , but we 've got to know , basically what they need to be paying
Well
for the sixteen zero zero four , aren't we ?
But no , no , because we can make the assump , we can make the assumption that it that the that they could get it , if they don't get it from us they 'll get it from whatever the prices .
You see at the moment
So we know that .
we 're so far out that we 're not anywhere near , you can't
Yeah , but we know where they 're getting it from , so we know what , we know what it 's costing them
Yeah .
that 's not a problem .
I don't , I can just see , just isn't a problem .
Well we have , we 've act , we 've actually ow ow opened the , we 've started open again there , haven't we ?
We 've gone in
Right .
We 've talked to them at length
That , that game has got to be continued .
Yeah .
And it 's got to be continued not on the subject of existing gears , which is what it this last conversation is about
Short
is got to , they 've got to be talking about
Yeah .
next generation or next but one generations .
Those are the ones that are really going to matter , it 's too late to talk about an existing gear once it 's in production ,
But I think what you see
the moment , the moment 's gone .
The thing is
The thing at the moment , the seeds have already been sown
Yeah .
in terms of the actual favourite
Yeah .
of being shown to the remote valve arrangement , and the fact that they already want to carry over R eight onto R three with minimal changes
Yeah .
whatever replaces R three and R three , and R three will have a product line for seven or eight years , we 're talking about quite a long time away .
In that period of time we 'd have dropped from being the largest and preferred supplier to a minority supplier
Mm .
therefore letting , opening the door wide open to , who are able at the moment on the current generation of platforms , and the next generation .
Get the figures , get the figures ,
Yeah .
get the figures out of them ,
See
get the figures , do I mean , we 're talking generalities , if you 're saying from what you know already the , the remote control gear is going to be sixteen double O four six eight O seven , and that is the best bearing arrangement that anybody could , anybody could produce , then , if that 's the answer , then for goodness sake get the figures , stick 'em in a memo so we can go and hit Peter , and make it quite clear to them that over the next year they 're going to lose half a million six double O ones , or whatever it is
One
six two O twos , and we 're not going to replace it with anything , and we have an opportunity if we go for it now that we could replace them with sixteen double O fours and the projections are
Well that 's it
right
Yeah .
if , if , that is the situation that you are saying now , from what you know now ,
Yeah .
then don't let 's beat about the bush any more , if that 's what we know , and that is our strong belief that that 's
That
what 's going to happen
that is
let 's , let 's go specific on it , let 's tell 'em , let 's , let 's tell the factory people that this is what it 's going to be .
That 's what we wanted , I wanted to hear really .
Not as clear as that , it 's not a ris , it 's not that they 're either going to lose the six double O one and half a million , it 's the thing that 's , admit that they might , and it weakens our position .
One doesn't replace the other .
Six double O ones in the gear , the six eight O seven and the one six double O fours in the valve , that basically that drives the gear if you like , in simple terms , and a David 's point was that if we 're allowing to further develop the valve business , and we 're just standing still say , on the gear business , and ultimately they have a bigger supplier , and ultimately put either gear business under more and more pressure , yeah ?
Yep .
And the likelihood is that in the fullness of time they 'll be the preferred supplier , and they 'll be also supplying the gear bearing .
It 's a go to
Can I just
Peter and say that if you don't do this you 're going to lose that , because that wouldn't be being
So
honest with them .
so
we have gone to them and said look it 's six eight or seven
But it ca , it 's a duel , it 's
and look at what 's
duel pronged attack isn't it ?
You 've got the situation where you 've got remote gears , and you 've got a situation where you , sorry , remote valves , and you 've got a situation when you 've got standard valves and also a small
Yeah .
amount of manual gears , now what we 're doing at the mo
Hang on to David
But who 's to say that they don't redesign the standard valve ?
No they don't get any standard valves , but what I'm saying is if there 's a clear indication that the trend is away in future direc generations from standard valves to remote valves .
I can believe it is .
I believe it is .
Also , not only does it expose , er , our weakness on the fact that we can't supply the bearings for remote valves , it also opens the door to whatever standard valve business will continue in the future .
Two .
Right .
We , we , it 's fairly clear that the manual gears is virtually , within five or six years it 's going to be very , very , very small .
Yeah , and that used to be our strength before , er that 's the sphere of operations done before the there was more , if you like , , technology , shall we say , associated with varying sort of manual valves than what there is power valves , in other words power valves offers it up to people like , or
Yeah , there 's no know how required really is there ?
I mean it 's just bog standard bearings now .
I'm sorry , I I 've obviously misunderstood something , because I was under the impression that in this er er steering gear there is only the sixteen double O four and the six eight O seven .
There is .
valve , there 's a valve
But what you 're saying to me is that there are six double O ones and
There 's
six two O twos in
There 's
that as well ?
There 's six , er , the six , hang on , the sixteen zero zero four supports the pinion at the top , above the pinion , and there 's a needle roller bearing below it , erm
There are no other D group nor bearings
No , I know .
in the gear .
It 's six eight O seven .
No , no , no .
You , you 're right , what I
It 's six eight O seven .
I , I , dropped somebody up a little bit , so there 's the one six double O four and the six eight O seven .
That 's .
Yeah .
Mm .
And that 's the valve , we , we , call it valve business basic , it 's done at Dunstable , it 's not the same as the sort of resolving style er gears , even though it has got a gear to produce a and it joins it later on , so there 's the other ball bearings business for the gears , yeah ?
The conventional style , gears , whether they 've been power or or manual , as develops erm more of the sort of business on those type applications , yeah , then basically it increases overall share and then it puts pressure on the business that we 've got on the other D group ball bearings .
Right , okay ,
Cos we 're not even saying that
look , look , I , I , I 've got to go because I 've got another meeting to go to this evening , erm , what , what I , er what we need to do is to get this laid out clearly as to what our projections ar are
That 's what we 've got
we 've got the technical input , we 've got a technical understanding of what 's going on , let 's have a paper on it , and put out some figures , and put out some projections as to what we believe , pooling the knowledge that you guys have got , let 's put it together and lay out where we think it 's going to go
Yeah .
and I mean , it doesn't really matter whether I 've understood it correctly or not , because clearly
there , there is an issue ,
To start with
there is an issue and clearly if we are not in the sixteen double O four six eight O seven business we are going to lose share , we may not lose total volume , I am confused about that , but don't try and sort it out now , but those are the issues that need to be tackled , and you need to produce between you some sort of projection paper which lays out the way that you see this bit of the steering business going in the future , and recommends what we should be doing , and what the volumes are to support that , and what the volumes are likely to be .
That 's exactly why I
To support that .
Okay ?
wanted this meeting to take place , I want to find out what the design philosophy is , long-term future-wise , and also , I want to get into their detailed design , so to try and establish how they determine the size of sh even simple things like pinion carved diameter , which dictates
Yeah .
basically the ball
The ball .
you know , you start from there , how they do that , can can we get in perhaps something a little down there
Right .
Okay .
that sort
Look
of stuff .
what , what you need to do , and the sooner you do it the better , the sooner you can get the information the better , is to set out those sort of philosophical issues
Mm .
those long-term projection type issues as to what is the general vision , direction that they 're going in , and therefore what should we as a group be recommending to our manufacturing colleagues that they should be manufacturing .
If we conclude that it becomes clear that the trend , long-term , is away from the conventional type of power steering , with a valve mounted er in line with the input car
That , that 's coming ,
away from that .
Okay , if that 's what you want to recommend , recommend it .
I
We don't have to get onto thin section , to larger section bearings .
Okay , okay , you 're making that assumption you 're making , drawing that
I know I'm making assumptions .
conclusion .
But were n't you getting fixed up
That 's
something business .
We can
That 's why you 're going to write the paper on it .
We can make that recommendation Adrian if that 's what we 're going to
Right .
sort of make a recommendation
Yeah , yeah .
in writing , yeah , if we think that 's the way it 's going to go , so we 've got to get in there and find out .
So I would agree with what Tom said on the sort of , things , yeah , you know , knock that together , we 've got that on one piece of paper already that 's about two years out of date , well , was up to date two years ago , which I could probably dig out for you , and then erm we 've got , we can even do it from a European sort of view point , which just has a few things there that need taking up .
But j just before you go , Tom , the issue on whether or not Peter or or it lets the thinner section deep groove ball bearings , isn't going to rest on .
No .
One six zero zero four are not even anything you want to rest on , fundamental problems are each treatment , the processes , and erm distortion of thin rings , which as them er , er , er , an issue when it goes to face grinding , in as much as because of the distortion you get all those lever locks stuck on , and you got to do about twenty passes on t ' face grinder rather than two , and that means that we 've got an equipment out of balance in the factory , because er , it 's got , you know , so there 's quite a lot of investment
Right .
and what we 've got to do is er er as I said to Ed a little while ago , I mentioned a little while ago , we need to gather the other thin section
Ha .
bearing demand together .
In other words
That is , that is something ,
We need to research the market .
that is , that is what , that is what exists to do , or one of the things that exists to do as the U K sales company our business is to give the projections for a particular piece of business , and if we see any other similar bits of business around it that 's fine , that 's , that needs to be added to it , but to give our vision of that particular piece of business , feed that into the marketing people in , and say , look , this is the situation if we go this way , this is what we think is going to happen , if we do this , this is going to happen , if we don't do this , this is what 's going to happen , so that that can be fed into an overall picture , and they will come back , I presume , and say , right , we now have enough information to know that it 's going to be worth =vesting , investing in production of sixteen double O fours in er Peter .
Or we can put this together with the American bid , and we 'll produce them in in the States , or whatever , whatever the outcome is , I would have
don't let 's , don't let 's try and assume the , all we 're , all we 're trying to do is to gather together the bit that we can put into the pot , and to present it in a logical fashion , to say , if this , then we belief that , and if that , then we believe the other ,
's
Right , and this is this little bit of it , now , made them come back to us and say , well but yes , that 's not enough on its own , or that 's too much on its own , or whatever , or there is no hope , you may as well forget about this because we 've already done the study , or somebody in Japan 's already written off , whatever , but from this point in time , let us , as the sales company , get the information together as it relates to .
In conclusion then , let let 's do the background work
Yeah .
do the research , and we 'll put together a paper stating clearly where the fundamental trends are going to go .
Right , yeah .
And let 's aim to have that by the end of February .
Right .
Yeah ?
Is that reasonable ?
Yes .
You can go now .
Have you checked with erm , oh I can check if you want , with er , you see the problem is they don't visit don't really know what 's going on , it 's basically
Mm .
all
Mm .
over there , but somebody can perhaps
Okay .
what the situation is , if you go in .
Erm , David , that really er is about er four point four , the parallel activity necessary sister companies er to erm make sure that the same message is getting across , and that whatever they are saying to the continental is actually supporting our attempts to er erm become the preferred supplier .
What we 've got to do is , or I 've got to do is to get our sister companies to visit the buggers .
Right .
It just erm
Well , okay , now it it may be that one of the things that that relates to again is the meeting that we talked about , erm and the need to get them around the table and begin to talk about those sort of things .
Show a bit of esprit de corps
Yeah .
and I think , if if we have to do we 've got a , a , we 've got a sign that er aren't going to do the sort of er so they contact technically with in Germany , then if we have to do we will .
Right , yeah .
And er yes , they only take that .
Mm .
If , if that , if that happens , but clearly
Yeah the firework systems supposed to be the centre of the Red Vase designs , we 're putting ourselves in a considerable disadvantage in not visiting and influencing these Red Vase Designs .
Yes , yes , if , if , if won't go to them , then you 'll have to learn German and get over there John .
Jahwohl .
Maria .
And how mu
Can you , can you find that out , David ?
Not in
From , what the situation is ?
That sounds alright to me .
They 'd say it was a business proposal .
Yeah .
Not .
How do I get the honest answer and that is another matter , I , I , I 'll find out what they say , but er I suspect that they will erm not be doing an awful lot , I suspect they 'll pretend , er that they will erm be helpful , and then they won't do an awful lot ,
Er
Because I ai n't got no belief .
Right .
I 'll just have to keep an an
Okay .
eye on them , somehow .
Well , anything that you can do there , erm in in the immediate future would obviously be helpful , to support our case for being considered as the er the er European supplier , erm , and likewise with Italy , Spain , and France , not withstanding that at the moment they don't do a great deal of business , well Spain does a great deal of business , but I don't suppose is in a position to do much in in the way of technical support , erm , right ,
Well , it 's a perfectly good
Okay .
it doesn't matter others er there 's also some situations in the States , until that operation in June becomes er self sufficient , there 's a lot of design work goes with the States , those V W and gears .
Well I
high in the States .
It may
Mm .
be , it may be that we need to get over to the States , to , to , erm pick up the technical vibes from there , but is the state , er our people in the States aren't in with .
No .
No .
are preferred supplier , for basically we got a hundred percent of the business in the States .
Er
And er
right , that is something else to pursue in your technical contacts here , as to how much influence the States side has on the gears , the bearing design , the di , the the gear design in Europe .
You get the impression not a lot don't you ?
I get the impression not a lot .
So that we can go and put our effort in the right places , I'm awfully sorry to be erm having to push off er in a hurry , but , you know it 's partly my fault for having delayed the start , er
but I 've got to be back
Thanks for attending anyway .
by half past seven , and I'm already not going to make it .

One piece .
Okay let 's see your essays spend er twenty or thirty minutes talking about the essays and the remainder of the tutorial talking about er the exams because this is the last time I see you before your exams in the tutorial anyway erm so just a few hints and tips on exam technique .
Right .
Right , by the way are your aware of erm Professor , erm which visited Nottingham at the moment .
Tony is er Professor of Economics at Cambridge and is a world renowned luminary in economic circles and er he 's , he 's here for the next week as a special professor and er is giving a number of lectures er most of which are open to , to all , to all students and he is a very famous economist , very clever chap you know if you can get to see him I , I 'd reco I 'd recommend it erm presuma there may be a sort of programme of his visit stuck up on the student notice boards erm , if there isn't er he 's giving a , a lecture tomorrow two o'clock in B seventy four and that 's , that 's if , he is going to be talking to the M A students er taking Economic Development and Policy Analysis and his topic there is comparing income inequality and poverty in Europe erm so if you , you know , if you are free tomorrow at two it just might be interesting to go along to , feel free to go to B seventy four tomorrow at two o'clock .
Erm there 's another Econ Soc the Economic Society putting on a lecture at five o'clock on Wednesday er in A forty two and the topic there is What 's Happening to the Distribution of Income in Britain and he is also talking to the Public Sector .
Take Public Sector Economics and also taking a couple of lectures there , one on Targeting Social Security and er another lecture on An Inefficient on the Official Poverty Line , erm if you want er , well you can get the details from , from me afterwards but something like that could well be on the notice board if you want to go along and see him .
He is a famous chap Dick .
If you 've got time it might be worth spending an hour listening to him .
See what he s has to say .
C can we see his ?
Yeah sure .
Thanks .
He 's a Professor of Economics at Cambridge and er
It 's very big and cos he 's in the office next door .
Er er right amazing .
Anything else ?
Did you get my instruction junc adjustment ?
Yes that 's hello this is just an article that we went through last tutorial adjustment developing countries .
Has everybody got one on this stage ?
That will just save you er copying that yourselves library .
Right let 's just briefly run through this er essay on migration that so some of you answered , can't remember , would somebody tell me the title of it again ?
It was er what are the major factors influencing migration decisions in less developed countries and how might this affect the urban unemployment .
Okay so er where shall we start ?
Is migration , just generally , is migration a good or a bad , bad thing ?
I mean well , why do people migrate ?
Getting married .
Okay they 're migrating from an area of low incomes to an area of high incomes , right broken the route
migration scenario .
Is that a good or a bad thing ?
Right okay depends whether they can get , they can get the jobs , right erm what was our experience say when er U K , France , Spain was developing ?
There was a lot of rural urban migration then , was that a good thing or a bad thing ?
Does it help or hinder development of those countries ?
Sorry ?
Helped .
Yeah helped yeah , why was that ?
Well you answered it in the first , in the first answer that they got jobs they were employed er the , the rural labourers were able to , to get employment in urban areas er where wages were slightly above those wages that they could reasonably expect in agriculture and because they were actually productive making goods and services they helped the development process .
There , is the same true in countries that are developing at the moment ?
No what 's happening there ?
You get high levels of urban unemployment there so migration to the urban areas and not finding employment situation .
That 's right in , in a current case of in developing countries now
migration is , is hampering the development process and that is quite different from when the now developed countries were de were developing fifty , hundred , hundred years ago .
So how , how can we explain this paradoxical situation of high unemployment in urban areas and rapid rates of er rural to urban migration ?
Why is it happening , it seems paradoxical , I mean in theory erm , you know the migration should be driven by the wage , wage differentials , right and migration will redrit will reduce those , those wage differentials
did a lot of the emphasis on .
That 's right that 's , that 's , that 's the reason why , why they move .
W why do , why do people move , I mean if they know there 's urban unemployment , why , you know , why do they move ?
I mean if you 've got a paradoxical situation here and there is very high unemployment in the urban area , yet migration is still , is still an ongoing phenomenon , wh what may account for , they , they actually again erm a well paid urban job and they migrate .
Right so they may think that , you know , they 're gonna be one of the lucky ones , presumably .
How about if I said well the reason why they migrate is that they don't know about urban unemployment , you know if , you know , it 's a lack of information problem .
If they knew that the unemployment rates were twenty or thirty percent in urban areas that they wouldn't migrate but because they don't have that information that 's , that 's the reason .
I mean does that hold any water , do you accept that ?
I mean it 's a logical , it seems plausible anyway , erm empirical evidence , however , suggests that that isn't why we have rapid migration or such a large degree of migration .
Empirical evidence suggests that erm migrants are reasonably well informed about employment prospects in urban areas .
Right , so why do they , why do they still move ?
Well Tom suggested , well they could be one of the , one of the lucky ones that does get , does get a job , what other factors might account for
Do they see erm , if , if they migrate to the city in the urban areas then they realize they won't get a job , and have a job straight away , er well paying job but by actually living in the area they would and taking in at a job and they get a lot of contacts and then eventually after a period of time they job .
Yeah , I mean that seems a plausible way of getting into the , er the job market , er what would Harrison Todaro erm say , you know , because they were saying that this migration , this migration was perfectly rational , despite there being high levels of unemployment .
What was the basis of their argument ?
Why did they say that migration occurs even when we have high unem unemployment ?
Yeah , yeah okay over oh what century were they
long term short term
That 's right , they say
they say even though unemployment rates are very high now , people are prepared to wait ten years before they get a job .
Current levels of unemployment are relatively unimportant , hopefully some time down the line they will expect to get er as a relatively well paid job erm because agricultural incomes are so very low , you know , and urban incomes are relatively , relatively high , they may be prepared to wait for you know five or six years in the urban area , making what could be sort of a subsistence wage , simply because that 's all that they 're gonna be on anyway if they stay in the rural area , so if there is a higher probability of them getting a well paid job merely by being in the urban area making these contacts then they might as well move to the , to the urban area in the hope of some time in the future obtaining that er er an urban job .
Right okay .
So what , I mean we 've been t talking around it at the moment .
What are the factors that affect the migration decision ?
Does em does empirical evidence , well I think you probably say generally that there is some economic factors and there is some non economic factors , which of those two does er empirical evidence suggest is the main driving force behind migration ?
Is it the lure of the bright lights or is it something more economic .
Yeah econ what appears to be the case is that it 's economic reasons that are the main drive , the main driving factors from er the migrant .
Although there , although there clearly are important non economic factors .
The , the bright city lights that 's not what makes people uproot their , uproot their lives and go and move somewhere else , they are after economic betterment and that 's the driving force er behind migration so just before we leave the non economic factors what might they be ?
The non econo economic factors this er erm infrastructure services .
okay right , anything else ?
just wanting to get away from traditional .
Yeah , they may feel constrained in their very traditional modes of life dominated by religion or some er some restrictive erm
norms of the , of the society .
Anything else you can think of ?
Weather .
Yeah , yeah that 's right , due to s lack of infrastructure in the rural areas , it 's much more lively but erm the disaster of one form or another , of one form or , or another will have a much more important effect , well that 's simply because there 's a flood then you either swim or you sink , you know , there 's no , there 's no help a at hand .
In urban area there may well be mechanisms in place five against , so on and so forth to , to sort out these problems .
Okay right erm , so what seems to emerge is that it 's economic factors that are the most important er determinants affecting the migrant 's decision .
Right so migrants move to the urban areas erm due to the presence of higher wages there .
What are the reason for my account the fact that there , they don't obtain these higher wages because clearly there is this income gap the differential is driving the whole process , yet economic theory tells us that the migration should , should diminish that gap between income in urban and rural areas
jobs to go around the people who do migrate to the urban skilled enough to jobs .
Okay our , our economic theory assumes our economic theory assumes that both labour and capital are perfectly mobile .
are different sectors in urban areas .
One that er they call the that is the state over employed people and the casual and formal sector had wait dates in the formal sector they don't meet and if this sector does not create many many jobs .
Right okay so
formal sector wait
For , for opportunities
Yes .
to , to emerge .
That 's right , all we 've got here is that although there , there is a high degree of migration , the wage differentials are not er diminishing because we don't have perfectly mobile resources , like are theory tells us that we do have .
Clearly the labour is geographically mobile , it 's not occupationally mobile , so the people that move don't necessarily have the skills required to take up these high wages .
You obvious , supposed high wages in the urban area .
What other reasons might account for this urban rural wage differential , just generally higher er standard of living er just cost , just prices er yeah , the cost the cost of living may well be higher and as a result employers have to pay higher wages ,
Train staff slump , trained
Yeah could be important , who are the main employers ?
Who are , who 's offering
Yeah that 's one of the reasons for the , quite an important reason in , in many cases why , why there are ways of large wage differentials that 's because there 's a minimum wage legislation .
Does that , does that
They don't assume it could be one of the factors that leads to the higher , I mean all these things , they don't actually say what cause the differential is to them .
Say there is a differential , what affect does that have on mi on migration , that 's where they sort of start from erm who were the import the employers , because er when it says , you know it says empirically validated , wages are higher er in , in the urban areas partly due to higher costs of living , partly due to the minimum wage legislation , but also another quite important influence .
There are some ways of government on wages .
What do you mean there Martin ?
I mean some , some are better wages because they are subsidized by the government .
Right
Which welfare policy by better wages .
That 's right , it 's erm its empirically verified that in developing countries er the civil service or the , the government sector is very very large relative to the , to the economy , now whereas say U K or somewhere like France the government public and semi public er organizations employ ten percent of the , the workforce , perhaps a bit , bit more in France than the U K erm in developing countries the government sector can be , you know , over half of the total urban , urban employment , in some cases it 's seventy and eighty percent of er employment .
Now it is generally observed that most civil servants whatever country they come from make sure that they er give each other pay rises and I know it happens in this country the Civil Service pay pays quite well and it 's certainly a key erm feature in er pay structure in developing countries that if your , if you work for the government you are very very well paid , like government wages can be , you know , four , five , six , ten , twenty times
of the , the national average and it 's not because erm they 're paying high wages to get the , the most able people , it 's because there are mechanisms , institutional mechanisms that keep wages high , there 's no market in the jobs for , th these are generalizations but I think they are fairly , fairly true erm becau there is no market for er for the jobs , for civil service jobs that appointments are made and it is much more important who you know than , than what , what you know and the old boy network , as it 's called , in this country is fairly important in the English Civil Service but a similar sort of network tends to be far more important in developing countries , something that is euphemistically called patronage erm but we might call the old boy network or er er jobs for the boys whatever , but erm
Do they issue them , part of the reason that of them having higher wages is that part industrials are bias that they , they have a higher wages and they think they will have a stronger growth in the industrial sector
Well because there is er an industrial bias , erm what industrial bias means is that gets subsidized because it 's subsidized they can pay higher wages er erm so it 's not just the government jobs that are well paid it 's the industrial jobs .
Now because the government has a , plays a much bigger role in the economy the government will be in charge of what you might think of as industrial employment so er a lot of manufacturing , heavy industry er mining so on and so forth will be run as a national as a national industry , right and er wages in that nationalized industry will not be er set at market levels but will be set at , by some institutional mechanism that won't reflect demand and supply or reflect the rent seeking and rent server rent preserving behaviour of civil servants and government quangos er so on and so forth but you must bear in mind that the government sector will er the public and semi public sector in developing countries is vast in comparison to er to develop the countries and as a result wages set in er in the government sector er will erm will be the driving force for all industrial employment , so what with wages and industrial employment .
Okay erm
What 's erm , what 's a quango ?
Quango , government appointed body essentially .
Check I'm right , I think I can spell it , it 's a Q isn't it quango ?
Yes
It 's not so accurate .
No I don't really think so , it 's a name given to a body , so semi public body appointed by , by government .
Like the N R A ?
Sorry ?
Like the N R A .
Er are they privatized ?
They regulatory .
Yeah that 's a .
O P Q .
How do you spell that ?
I am just about to tell you Q A P U quan quango , it 's a Q U A N G O semi public body with financial support from and senior appointments made by government .
Yes that 's a semi semi copy body appointed by the government or possibly with financial support from the government .
Right erm okay let 's just er wrap up here .
What was the main er outcome for Harrow Harrison Todaro 's model ?
They could explain why it was rational like for migrants to migrate even in the a even in the presence of high unemployment .
What was the policy and complet
of that analysis ?
Basically government can increase or reduce unemployment by increasing labour demands through just handing out more jobs in the sector .
That will create more migration .
Right , so it will be sel self defeating , job creation in the urban areas will be self defeating and most of the , the reason why that was particularly important because historically most of the job creation schemes that governments have put in place with or without aid in developing countries is in the urban areas , you know , it 's the erm subsidized industrial plants , subsidized erm manu manufacturing industry , right so that the import substitution industries er have been set up with government and or aid money , foreign aid money and what Harrison Todaro was saying you 're wasting your time putting money into these big projects , right , because that only in that only in erm exaggerates th the migration problem because it really will increase people 's perception of er job possibilities in the urban area , they think there are jobs being created by government there , that will happen as another , as another stimulus er let me just draw a little diagram what Harrison Todaro was saying right we 've got time here such to say horizontal axis marks the lifespan of some representative migrant , then you 've got wages , wages in the agricultural area and wages in the urban area like let 's just say that this is the wage rate in agriculture , right .
Now , what the potential migrant will do , Harrison Todaro assumed , was to say , right what they 'll do is that they 'll , these migrants will mentally calculate the present value of receiving W A throughout their lifetime , right , and they 'll discount erm those wages by appropriate discount rate , reflecting the fact that a hundred pounds today is worth a lot more than a hundred pounds twenty years ' time or thirty years ' time .
Right so something like that and so this represent I mean you can figure this line as being sort of the real wage over the time you mention increasing throughout .
Is the real wage over time so at this point let 's just say that 's a hundred , a hundred pounds and this is ten say two , well lifespan is thirty , thirty years and a hundred pounds erm today , today is worth er no
Yes , it 's worth two pounds in thirty years .
What you can buy with one hundred pounds today will buy just two pounds in thirty years ?
No that 's erm , a hundred pounds in thirty years ' time is equivalent to receiving two pounds today , that 's right as you say .
Okay so if we just summoned this area right , that area there represents the present value of the discounted stream of income .
Right over , over a lifetime okay if we could sum this , it seems the time is continuous with the integrate , right , over time , we 'll just get the area of that and that curve .
Now let 's say that urban wages , right are up here and that it 's going to take , it 's like this individual , this amount of time to get er a job at that , at that wage , let 's say that 's the expected wage , of the urban area , okay .
If we again discount this income at the time or get it looks like that .
So this now represents the discounted value of the urban wage overtime .
All this potential migrant has to do is to say well does that area right exceed sorry this area .
chalk
Okay does that area exceed that area , well that 's clear from this little diagram , yes it does .
Well what are the key factors that will affect the relative sizes in these two , in these two erm , these two boxes .
Well the first thing , right the differential differential between agricultural wages and the expected erm urban wage right would create the closer these , these lines are together , right , the erm smaller would be the difference between this area here and that area there .
What other things are are important ?
Well it 's the time taken to gain employment the time taken to gain employment in the urban sector .
What is the expected urban wage ?
Well it 's the , the actual urban wage times by the probability of getting a job , right , therefore , the probability of getting a job is also going , go going , is also going to be important erm erm
this diagram doesn't actually incorporate this but full thing is going to be the initial costs , the costs of moving , okay , so there , there may be actual physical costs involved this diagram .
Right so those are the things that are going to be that will , that will be important .
Right erm , just finally , given that the main conclusion of Harrison Todaro 's model was that there 's no point erm having job creation schemes in urban areas because that just exacerbates the problem of migration .
Right what should we do ?
Migrat if migration is a problem I think you will all agree that it actually hampers the development process , what should we , what should we do ?
Create
Okay creating jobs in that sector or creating .
Okay if that would raise agricultural wages or
Well raise agricultural wages will reduce the number of people wanting to
To migrate ?
to migrate
To migrate to the urban sector .
Okay and hows how best to do that though ?
Because it looks like you are advocating supporting agriculture .
Okay so what , what do rural developments schemes
You will reduce the erm wage differentials as well .
Wi it may well do , it may well produce the
wage differential
Increasing .
Yeah okay I mean this is all what these schemes or what the current school of thought is .
Initially , you know , development meant higher than wages , alright , you know , making these erm er er sort of producing cars and high technology goods in urban , urban areas in developing countries was thought , you know , that 's the way , that 's the way ahead and these big projects , whereas now the thinking has changed and it 's let 's promote infrastructure , education , erm in the rural areas thems rural areas themselves , right , erm , anythi any other policies so yeah you may want to erm invest , invest in agriculture , and I don't mean some agricultural support but erm promote , well yeah make , make roads , educate the population erm disseminate agricultural technologies .
Any other policies that you might think of ?
Compulsory castration that 's the main problem here , too many bloody people about , that 's what 's needed population control well that 's , that 's what 's done , that 's what they er , you know a lot but not compulsory , well sometimes compulsory
but we don't normally get money from the world bank to er er er get the scissors out , erm the note er
population control in terms of sort of contraception awareness , so on and so forth is a major , the it can be a major means of reducing this particular problem .
Because part of the problem is that there are too many people in agriculture and if you can reduce the population threshold allowed , right , wages will virtually rise , because labour productivity will rise because there is less labour on the same amount of land .
Er , any other policies ?
some of these countries in Africa though they 've got like compared with the population , they 've got loads of land , compared with somewhere say like , like U K , so if that 's the case , how come they 've got so much surplus labour ?
Well because the labour in say this country is over productive , this has an awful lot of categories attached to each unit of labour , that 's why labour is very productive , is that you for each unit of labour employed there might be ten units of capital , I E there are chemicals etcetera , the reason why erm this this pressure on the land in say Africa , Africa , even though the density of population was much less and that there 's virtually no capital there , right , so in order to produce the food , you know the labour has to till the soil by hand and spread the seed by hand
Surely , that would require lots and lots of labour though wouldn't it ?
Mm , yes that 's right
So there should be a surplus ?
Well it 's just that for that , I mean that 's all , it 's all relative for those conditions there are , there is too much labour on the land , you erm , if you could increase agricultural productivity in a way that would displace labour and that 's very difficult to do , well you can , you can do it er most , most capital is labour displacing but not all , not all capital , erm so you could , whereas I see , I see what you are saying is that , why well the you could g you could , you could do it right even though that there are a lot of people on the land er you could still make them wholly productive by giving them more capital that wasn't labour that wasn't labour displacing , like you give them better seeds for example , like that would increase the productivity of the land , there wouldn't be so much you know population pressure on the land er because everybody would have enough to eat and we could er actually sell something , right .
Any other any other policies that you might want to pursue ?
Say that 's population control investment in agricultural infrastructure and technology education and what 's causing this problem in the first place ?
Do you have er sort of reduce the industrial .
Yeah , that 's what 's causing the problem , very high urban wage rate but it doesn't reflect market forces , so if you erm reduce the subsidies given to er industry
erm and get rid of any institutional price setting that there may or wage setting that there may be in those in those industries .
You know I hate to say it but privatization might be required , right there 's too much government involvement , there 's too much erm er there 's too much inefficiency , right , by and large there 's an awful lot of er bribery , corruption , patronage in developing countries , their government sectors are very very large .
Okay just before we go first we get a copy of er exam papers , this is from G you may already have a copy oh blast
when you are talking about er public division , does standards er British and with other companies from er Western , Western economies ?
Okay so
There is , there is a gap in technology er now .
That 's right apart from
these government run industries in these developed countries , they are subsidized to a very large extent and they are not competitive on , on the world market .
So privatize this company there , there will er they will fail in competition with erm
They may , they may do .
If that 's the case you know resources should n't be going into , into that particular industry or there is not a direct economic case apart from to the social costs that they be involved in .
That company going out of business , erm because er large scale government subsidization erm is , is so prevalent in developing countries er the a lot of the government 's resource 's being spent on what are inefficient or obsolete industries .
Mm mm .
And that 's hampering the whole development process because it 's high , high wages , high wages creates migration and the whole resource allocation reflects in the economies er are disrupted and because people are moving out of agriculture because they can't make any money from agriculture they think they can make some money in industry like agriculture itself is being starved of capital and er so it hampers the development process , I mean it 's a complicated business but er there may well be some , some sort of strands of sense that we can draw out of this , one of which may be well if the government sectors are too large in these countries essentially it doesn't matter who owns these companies whether it 's , they were privately owned or government , erm if they are inefficient they are inefficient
Yes .
and if that inefficiency was causing the problem it 's not the result of the ownership er , there are inefficient private companies it 's just that inefficient private companies tend to go out of business , whereas inefficient public ones can be maintained with subsidization .
. What I 'll do is that I 'll final of action shortly and I 'll tu
that 's my last copy , that 's what I 'll do , I 'll photocopy it before you go and er give you a copy each
don't worry I the exam , I'm leaving at Christmas time .
Alright , oh I see you are not sitting , you are not taking the exams ?
last year 's exam , they er seems to be exactly the same syllabus more or less , yeah .
Can I just say , just a couple of points before you go erm you are all fairly good at writing long answer essay questions , but you are probably not so good at writing short answer questions , right .
Now it is very important that you write good short answer questions , because you think they 're
in actual fact that 's where most people fall down and last year
Is it marked with a fifty ?
Yes , fifty given it exactly the same way .
It 's much easier to get good marks on a short answer question than it is in theory to but most people don't because they don't apply the correct technique so to writing short answers .
We must have in a short answer like there 's a definition , most of the concepts there will be erm defined effective protection , its optimal , optimal tariff , trained creation , or trained diversion , there will be concepts that need definition , economic jargon , so you must have an equal er definition in there and you must have examples of how this concept is used , right say erm er one of those about don't make reciprocal dumping .
Write a short essay on reciprocal dumping because define what reciprocal dumping is you 've also got to give at least one example of reciprocal dumping , right , so you don't have to give any detailed examples just erm E E C waste er food policy in these days reciprocal dumping would be subsidized after exports in order for America to sell its few exports it has to so it is best subsidised definition define what it is give application of concept erm if the concept involves measurement , say how it , how it can be measured say an effective protection trade , er say how it could , how it could be measured
er and then discuss any problems that there might be , is it a contentious issue ?
Er or are there is there , are there a couple of schools of thought on this particular subject , well essentially what you must do is write something about everything you know , about erm that this particular sort of concept , don't write everything you know on this particular subject , like you have only got fifteen minutes .
So it 's , is it better to write a little bit about a lot of things ?
Yeah .
Rather than a lot about
That 's what you must do , if you get , if you write a lot about a couple of things they 'll say erm this chap 's knowledge is pretty specialized on this area , you know what , what these er short answer questions are picking up right is your , is your general knowledge .
So it has to be sort of like written in comprehensive ?
Oh yeah .
written prose
But you know , so you
it 's like writing an essay , you 've got to try and get as mi many things in as you would do when you if you were writing a full essay but instead of writing a paragraph on each thing you write a sentence on each thing try and cover as many bases , then , that 's how you how you get very good marks , it 's not , they are not trying to test your erm your deep knowledge about any one thing in these short answers they are testing the broad , broad venture of your , of your knowledge , alright , so what you want to try and do is to is a blunderbuss approach when you ans you answer these , these questions .
Yes , this these diagrams .
don't touch it with a barge pole , they take too much time but very very rarely do you need to write , to draw the diagram in the short answer questions .
That 's about the only difference between writing a short answer question than writing a long answer question , is that the long answer is a , is a good idea to have a diagram .
In short answers unless it is crying out for a diagram don't bother because you 'll spend five minutes drawing the diagram , labelling it , explaining what D P and D S means and it just won't work it definition , application , measurement problems , contention ,
Yeah .
is it a contentious issue erm ho how is the criticized , very very short , because you are only going to be writing for about a page , a page and a half , right , so just make sure that every sentence or every other sentence carries a new bit of information and then people say , good , this person knows everything about this subject , full marks and you and er but it 's all too easy to , to focus on one or two aspects of say a question on trade or er er Harrison Todaro model of migration .
If you sp if you spend five minutes drawing a diagram or going through the equations person knows one aspect of this model in great detail , what they want to know is what was the importance of that , of that model , important results of the model .
How can we criticize it , how well does it actually fit into what happened in the real world , they just want little bits of information but not too much depth on anything but always remember empirical evidence examples are very important what I would do is using those examples or la last year 's exam paper , practise , practise the short answers because you can't write very much detail in it so it 's a good idea to have some idea about how much you can write , then your expectations will be changed okay .
Right if you have problems er before you leave or when you 're advising afterwards I 'll be here throughout vacation and before your exams so come along and you go through
holiday are you ?
Yeah .
Full time .
Yeah , if you want to come and see me please , please do .
Yeah , alright .
Cheerio .
next Monday I want to see you have a happy Christmas .
Thank you very much Gabriella , happy Christmas to you .
See you , see you next term .
Okay
If you do have , if you do have any problems
Mm mm .
er come along and see me because I , because it is quite you know likely that you will sort of worry about
Yeah .
the exams and if I can sort of say , you don't need to worry about
Mm mm .
about this you are wasting your time , er then hopefully you if you are having a problem to come and see me and I can tell you if it is a problem or whether it 's not , it 's not particularly a problem , so you know , come along and see me
Thank you very much .
Right but have a lovely holiday , don't forget to have , don't forget to have a holiday , don't revise all the way through .
Okay .
Okay , cheerio Gabriella .

Er , one from Elizabeth and one from Ron .
One from Ron and one from Elizabeth .
I 've got erm , a letter from Ron in addition to his apologies .
Right and you 'll be reading that other report will ya ? .
Yeah , .
Right .
Er , minutes of the last meeting , can we take them as read ?
yes
Thank you Matters arising from that meeting which took place on the thirty first July .
Many of the matters arising will come up in my report of correspondence .
Mm , Mm You might like to , when you come around to it Lilly , say that was on T V , that T V and benefits the er , our campaign .
When 's that ?
We have a few days to go to that looking into it now , so if , you know .
Oh , soon .
Are they ?
Oh .
Yeah , we are doing some good .
Mm .
You know the , coming home to the , it 's all coming home to roost .
On page one Harlow radio , I have written to them and erm with the nomination of Pauline and she has already been communicated with
Have you had the eh chair , have you had any reports on the bus company regarding the hand rails ?
None what 's so ever .
Safety rails , none what 's so ever no .
.
That 's typical , a really smoothy eh ?
I take it you 've all read your minutes ?
Yes .
Are there any further matters arising before we pass onto the next item on the agenda ?
Right , could we have correspondence please secretary .
Er do you want me to stand or can you hear alright ? .
No , no , I think they can hear alright .
It 's necessary for you to stand .
Erm , the first one is a letter from Ron , he , he 's in Milton Keynes with his family at the moment , on holiday , and he will be missing this meeting action tomorrow and unfortunately the September Executive , erm , he 's reported on the erm market stall which I 'll come to a bit later , I ask you for details about that and for the enclose with it erm , a statement issued by the association nationally on pensioner 's and the Poll Tax .
This is er a condemnation of the jailing and threat of jailing of pensioner 's for pay failing to pay the Poll Tax .
The Government has admitted that forcing the poorest of pensioner 's who are on Income Support to pay twenty per cent of the proposed Council Tax would be Tax , would be wrong .
It can not therefore now justify that it was right to cause those same pensioner 's to pay twenty per cent of the Poll Tax .
The association cause for the ending of criminalisa criminalisation , the word , of pensioner 's , who 's only fault is their poverty , it is confident that the British people will support this cause and that their protest will be , speedily bring to an end a situation which is the shame of our Country , that 's signed by the President of the British Pensioner 's and Fred the Secretary .
That 's issued by the General Purposes Committee .
The second , does anyone want to say any about that ? it 's just that they probably sent it to the appropriate people .
There 's another item of news , which erm , er Ron only got on the sixteenth August and it 's about the pre-congress pensioner 's march and rally , now the congress is held in Glasgow , so I think we were n't going to that one anyway , but it just giving details of erm the arrangements for the pensioner 's march which we usually have , we usually attend if it 's in the South anywhere , but that 's just for information .
The second item of erm correspondence is from Bromley 's Bromley 's Social Services , if you remember , we 've got this on going campaign on home helps and along side that we 've got erm , we did hear of t his home shopping erm campaign that Bromley do , apparently quite successfully , the MP has mentioned that , so I thought I 'd get some details of that erm , it gives the whole procedure for , for the er shopping and the delivery and the Social Services pay out for it , they pay a charge , erm if you 'd like this copied , I could get copies for the next meeting , but meanwhile I 'd recommend that erm we take it up with Benefits Action tomorrow on the campaign .
Do , do we agree with that ?
I agree with that , yes .
It 's just a general procedure of er ordering from , it 's , it 's limited to Asda and erm the general helpful way .
They haven't said much about the cost , anything about the cost , and they haven't said whether , well they wouldn't would they ? , , whether anyone was dissatisfied , cos I understand from my family that they have been met you know they have been raised in the press , but it 's not a hundred per cent .
The erm , second is minutes from Health Action , as you know , a lot of our members are concerned of Health Action , and they next meeting will be on the thirtieth September , with the Chief Execu Executive Kath Kathy , er , who will be speaking .
Now with regard to that I 'd rather feel that were gonna be called on before then , because of the rumours about our own hospital .
What about ? .
Which are quite frightening about opting out , erm some of you will remember that we 'd attended Welwyn Garden City on a picket a month ago , and erm as a result of campaigning there , within the hospital , with the press and the Council , they have been turned down so they are not being allowed to opt out .
I also understand that Basildon has erm got the same fate , so you know , it looks as if were in for a campaign there .
Perhaps Pauline you 've got some news on that ?
Yes , erm if I could here , I did want to add some cos obviously I think everybody was taken by surprised .
Come to the front Pauline .
Yeah , we 'd , we 'd like to hear about it cos were all very worried , huh .
Well on the issue of what 's happening in the er Health Authority here , it 's a very much erm a surprise to everybody because those of us who were at the last meeting that we had , only a couple of months ago , to quite categorically saying that , she , that she was just not interested in the .
And apparently her view now is that because the Government ha have said , anybody who is interested in becoming a in nineteen ninety three , must register an interest on sixteenth this year , which is really , that 's , you know , there legislating for what they haven't got any power in nineteen ninety three .
can't rely on that , can't rely on it .
They 've only been elected to nineteen ninety two , so they 're , they 're really , what there doing there forcing people to take some action now , because at Kathy says , she 's afraid of being left out , if there should be a , another Tory Government , so a lot of people are in the same position , they will be putting in eh , I think they just call it best of interest , not a proper application , but then if the whole lot , hundreds of us come along , which is quite likely they will , the Government will say well this proves that everybody wants to become you see , so it 's rather clever move , erm , as , as far as I'm concerned , what 's happening with that she is eh here within the hospital , the consultant 's and the worker 's in the hospital .
Also far as I know , there is no intention of discussion it with members of the public or patient 's or union or anything like that .
So as a result to that , there , there erm , there is going to be a public meeting on the tenth September , which is actually organised by the Labour party , erm , but obviously the who thing very worried about the attendance at that , erm the , have , had to organise it very quickly because he wants to get it in before the sixteenth , we 'll still trying to get erm a National speaker , I'm hoping that Julie from the er , eh National Help Federation will be able to come , but she 's on holiday till Monday erm , I don't .
will go ahead whether we have a National speaker or not ?
I did wonder whether we ought to call a , a , a , sort of emergency meeting of Harlow Health Action , but I was away myself until last few days , so it 's difficult to do that , so what we 've are , I 've agreed with Dave , the secretary , we 've produced a leaflet , which is based on one of the Federations leaflet , it gives the reason to be against opting out .
We just have used a simplified version of that .
The one the Federation produced is very good , but a lot of reading in it , so , we wanted one we could hand out to people and the the intention is that we , we go on the market next week Thursday and Friday to hand out that leaflet , also to advertise the meeting on the tenth , erm , so that really is as far , and obviously the meetings that , that Lilly just said that Kathy 's coming , that would be an opportunity to erm you know , discuss it further with her .
If they do go ahead and put the application in , which I think they will , then , that 's the start of the process , so that 's a good time when we will need to really step up the campaign and we will get National speaker 's to meetings , we will get probably a petition , we will go round the area like we did over the er non funding , but we had to do something quickly , to , to make it clear , you know , we don't want this to go ahead .
Erm , hopefully we 'll have the same effect that 'em they had in Basildon and erm .
Welwyn .
Welwyn .
Welwyn , er because that really is a good example .
I'm actually also hoping to get , someone who was erm concerned at the campaign to come to the meeting , cos I think it would be very useful to have someone who 's been through it and to say how , how they tackled it , so I think it should an interesting meeting , hopefully we 'll get a few , you know interesting people to come along and we can spend from that meeting campaign .
Erm , there 's also , I just wanted to say a bit about the ambulance er .
What , what date next week are they ?
It 's the Thursday and Friday , that 's the fifth and sixth , fifth and sixth ?
Er , yes , that 's right .
Between ten and two .
Ah , that 's , that 's also , that 's also the day the fifth is we , we will be at eh Basildon .
Yeah .
Ah .
Well not all of us .
Not all of us .
Only five of us .
But eh .
Right , well , we 'll have to , but you know if people have to let me know if they can turn up then .
Sixth , yes , I can come on the Friday .
Sixth is the Friday .
Yeah , well I mean I think we need to get as many as possible .
Yeah .
To turn up , who are not going to Basildon .
What car they going in ?
Yes , well eh .
Ten till two , usual ?
Ten till two , yes .
Thursday and Friday .
Thursday and Friday that 's right .
What time is it ?
Ten till two .
The public meeting ?
The public meeting is on the tenth at , here , the Town Hall at eight o'clock .
Town Hall , eight o'clock at night ?
Eight o'clock , yes .
We 've already got that haven't we ? , we 've already been told that haven't we ?
Well I .
Erm , if I .
Do you , do you want me Health Action Banner for that ? cos I 've got it at home .
Ooh , yeah .
The .
I think the more things that .
Only as we 've lost the last one , I'm hanging on to , it 's hanging in my wardrobe , I'm not making a third one
Your hanging onto it Yeah .
No .
Erm , just if I could say about the , there 's something next week also about the ambulance .
The erm , we only just , this week discovered that the Regional Health Authority are going to consider the ambulance proposal next Wednesday .
Ah , yeah .
Were hoping to get a mini bus , I don't think we ought take a bus because we were very badly treated when we did that , we don't to allow ourselves open to that again , but I have written to say were hoping to get enough people to take a mini bus .
If , in the mornings you remember , we , we started to leave , leave quite early about eight o'clock , cos the other bus were late .
So if anyone 's interested in going on that , get in touch with me or Dave , we 'll erm , say we don't need to many but I think we can take a few and we will take our petition with us on that one , the animal petition .
When is that one Pauline ?
That 's next Wednesday , were get the .
Pauline .
Yeah .
They , they will have to pick us up I'm afraid , cos our pass is not valued till nine o'clock .
Six o'clock , I mean it won't be very many people who 's been invited so we can probably arrange that .
Yeah .
Erm , but at the moment were still looking for a driver .
And that 's next Wednesday ?
That 's next Wednesday , if we don't get enough we 'll probably just take a car , but , but anyway , there 's going to be a lot going on actually on this .
Could we indicate that if they can go .
Yeah , anybody interested in , what , on , on Wednesday ?
About Thursday .
Yeah , there 's London .
Eight o'clock in the morning .
eight o'clock in the morning .
Yeah .
Where 's it go ?
Going to London , to Regional Health Authority to attend present petition and to see what they do about the animals petition .
If in fact where they decide whether to pass it on the .
.
Right , there 's , one , two , three , four , five , six .
And the other half , you know .
Well actually that maybe enough because if get say Terry from Waltham Abbey
That 's the misses .
and were hoping to get somebody from Bishop 's Stortford I think it 's important to have a , and I'm also going to ask Bob , the ambulance driver if he 's free to come , I think we can use the .
So I think that cover so if those people can .
What .
Well I think we can arrange to pick you up as we go at that time , you 'll of eh , because I know that bus passes don't cover that .
Dave driving is he ?
Well the problem is he has to say he has a licence for you , he has n't so , it 's possible that Terry will be .
Ah , oh Terry , I see .
Yeah , we 'll still getting , trying to get in touch with him , but we 'll find a driver one way or another .
There 's one from The Stow area .
Yes , yes you , you can see him tomorrow that 's a good idea those who can , can okay .
Right .
Filling up a blank week .
Thank you Pauline , very , that er very good report on the Health Service .
The next item of correspondence is just the minutes of benefits action and I , I think you 'll mostly up to date on those , on that .
At the last meeting erm Sue gave a drafted , an open letter to Jerry Hayes .
This is mainly dealing with the Social Fund which as you know , is erm , go undergoing changes , which means er loss of money and breaking up the fundings to twelve monthly amounts , which is creating great difficulties .
If you apply to the fund at the beginning of the month you 'll likely to get something , but hard luck if you apply later on in the month , but that she 's taken up as an open letter to Jerry Hayes , but so far I haven't seen it in the press .
Erm the budget increase is for Social Fund , for years , eighty seven and eight eight was two ninety five thousand , one hundred and ninety , under the new system in the first year it went down to fifty seven thousand one oh seven .
As you know because of the activities of benefit 's action over a couple of years , Social Fund in Harlow was quite good because we urged people to apply and Social Fund was then based on the year before 's applications , but this doesn't apply now .
Home help 's we like , were meeting tomorrow and were hoping that Renee will come along and eh update us on things so that we can campaign again starting in October .
Erm , mm excuse me .
Now out , outside corres that 's all the correspondence .
Outside correspondence erm , the chairman and Archie have dealt with er erm , complaint from a member er I don't know the outcome of it , but it 's a lady that they have seen .
I have another query on the world women women 's erm work from Margaret who isn't here I don't think this afternoon , and that was about erm you know the female test and the time taken for the results to come through .
Well I , I 've been on to world wom women 's committee and they assure me that they , the hospital says these tests should come through in a week , at the most three week 's , but you can phone them , so that certainly has improved , there doesn't seem to be a back log .
We have another in erm on Thompson 's Directory , we said we were asked if we would like a mention there , and that has been put in hand , with at the moment the Chairman 's name and address and telephone number , but when we get our office I 've no doubt we can change that because we 'll have a rota for the office and probably just morning hours and that can go in another copy .
Now apart from that , we had a phone call from Mrs who 's here at the moment and she 'll probably , and I 'll tell you what I 've got on that .
We had a phone call erm a year or two ago Mrs did a lot of work on this with petition 's and so on about the costs of pensioner 's for animal treatment , because the P D S A no longer operates in Harlow and the nearest one I think is Edmonton , which makes it impossible .
At the time we took up the , the secretary took took up the matter and I got him to send us er a copy of the reply , and it , it appears that , as you know it 's all voluntary and , and it relies charity for individuals , but I noticed , I only got this from Ron yesterday , paragraph here says , where the community demonstrates it 's active support for such adventure , then there is an increase likelihood of the establish of a service , although it has to be said that there already exists a waiting list of communities eager to re receive P D S A support .
Now I think , er and I'm sure that Mrs will , I 've I 've got other information as well , that we could , I , I , I 'd like to recommend that we had an on going petition which could be in Welfare Rights , the Town Hall , The Libraries , but there 's no , I don't think there 's an opposition to such a thing , whereby we ask for a P D S A clinic in Harlow , I'm sure there 's room round where they were sit , sited before , and I don't know , you know , I 'd like to know what Mrs 's thinks , also I 've got information er , a , following lots of phone calls erm there is an organisation called The Blue Cross , they have a clinic in Victoria and they 're , they have a head office in Oxford and they will help if they know the name of the vet and have the invoice and I'm afraid it 's tested , but they will help pensioner 's and other low paid people to meet there bill 's , so that 's another outcome , while were doing the petition .
What do you think of that ? .
Bitchy , bitchy , bitchy .
Beryl are you ?
Is she here ?
Is Mrs in the audience today .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Ah , like , like to see who you are Mrs I see , thank you..
Have you got , have you got anything , you know , think we can take it further than that ?
Do you think we can take it further ?
Or shall , what do you think of haven't it petitioned ?
Well , I , I heard from Inspector yesterday .
Who ?
Inspector .
Yeah , Inspector .
I phoned him yesterday , and er , I ask him whether it was right that er what I suspected , that the er vets , the private vets , there with a union , you will not get the R S P C A , they work on there on behalf .
They beg you .
They have to erm , first of all ask er R S P C A funding it , which is very much against anyway because I , I hate being humiliated by the this way .
So if it 's a P D S A clinic you wouldn't have to do that you can just give er .
No you just contribute mm .
Erm , you 've got that to tend with and erm on top of that erm , you can't ware of if you 've got a pass yes , I , you 've then have to er , get , you know , whether though it 'll be going to a and at the moment there suppose to be very , very low so they can't do that any more and then you 'll have to , the vet will then do the treatment for the animal , but again you don't get the vet you 'll only get the training vet 's to do the job and then they reclaim from the R S P C A , so it , no way that they haven't got any funds .
Oh , see , so that they get there full .
Well there doing this for fund , of course funding for everything even church .
.
Going down , if not stop for the thing .
But what , what do you think about erm demanding er erm a P D S A place in Harlow ?
Well , I , I , I have asked for that , I 've written to the P D S A , I 've written to the .
Well , we have too , yes .
You have also ?
When we , when we first took it up Beryl we did that .
That 's right , I 've , I 've been through over the year 's I 've been doing this and they say , whether it 's because they know if the background at the er vets , the private vets there , you know I don't know , but the information I get from them , that there 'd a , there not prepared to over .
Well this , this was a letter of the , granted it was eighty nine , but I mean this paragraph just said , you know , if we , does say that , you know , if we established a , a demand , and I don't see why we should n't have a bash at .
Well then I have the inspector .
I mean , if we have a petition like they do on the counter in Welfare Rights in the Town Hall , I don't think there be any opposition to that and the Libraries for the setting up of a P D S A branch , you know , I don't see why , why we should n't give it a try .
There is one at the Wych Elm still open .
Pardon .
That R S P C A at Wych Elm .
At Wych Elm..
I , I asked the inspector yesterday .
Yeah , only .
Is , is it possible that we could have a , a vet , a R S P C A vet and take , uses that hut even two days a week would be a great help to the pensioners .
But , then .
And all he said , the whole of .
Mm , Mm .
I was sep separate and apart from that , they would have to have a operating room and a dispensary there , you see that 's what they would have to have , I mean , if there gonna have P D S A premises , this is what you 've got to have , cos very often the animal has to be put under and all sorts of things , you know what I mean , it wouldn't be just an office with say like a physician and a tenants , it would be a case of a , a surgery and things in that nature which would be required by , er quite a number of animals .
Mm , that .
So your talking about a big space , your not talking about a small office .
That 's what we 've got to take into consideration .
Mm .
Yeah .
Well anyway , whatever I I tried to get him to erm , cos I 've written again to the newspaper , I 've tried to get him to confess that , that the unions are the biggest because erm , even then I said to tell him well supposing that we could get , I said , erm you know the money to support you , I said just supposingly I said would be private vet , and he said what you dare say they would have to have there .
When there , when you say a union , what do you mean a union in a true sense of the word , or do you mean an organisation , which is something va vastly different because they way your , they way your saying this to me , this doesn't sound like a union at all .
This , this sounds very much like some , er organisation based on the establishment to me that 's what it sounds like which eh , were one would expect .
Sorry , the only one I eh , I eh got this idea was when I first took this up I went into the hut in the town , and I picked up the booklets , you know that they have on the counter , and in one of these booklets it had that the vet 's were now I don't know what I'm , I'm very lost for everything like this , but they 've kept and therefore if your animal needed , your pet needed treatment it would be done by the private vet 's and eh , mon the money would be re would be reclaimed by the vet from the R S P C A , and I think that gave to erm .
Well , what I think I shall do now is I think I should take this a little further about this union business , I think I should get in touch with Dave , the Editor of the T U C to find out what the exact position of these , this so called union is because it doesn't sound like a union to me , it sounds , it sounds like an .
..
It sounds like an association..
He would be able to find , they would be able to find out what they are..
I'm talking about the unions .
I mean the resources then .
Yeah , the resource teller .
.
Yeah , he would be able to find out what type of union this is , or whether it 's some establishment association , we try quite frankly , I , I , I think it is .
From the way this lady spoke it seems to me like , like a that , that sort of er organisation , from the establishment .
Another things is .
We 'll have to make of this because we can't keep .
.
Just say we go ahead with the decision .
Yeah , yeah .
Now that I had to get it to the by taxi and she had seven stitches put in the leg and , I had to leave her there for six hours , well then it was a taxi back home , I could n't now I am on income support , but that cost me fifty four pound , ninety five and I am paying that .
Mm , well look , what I'm going to say to you know is , time marches on , that , do you agree that we go ahead with what Lillian 's suggesting ?
That we try out a petition throughout all the centre 's in the town .
Yeah .
Yes .
All those in agreement raise .
Right , carried , so that 's what we 'll do , okay .
Erm , erm , do , do you have , have you got erm , Beryl have you got the Blue Cross address in Oxford ?
Yes , I 've got plenty .
Okay , well if you 've got it , that 's alright , I 'll see you afterwards .
After , after the meeting .
See her after the meeting , next business .
Erm , can I go on now , to erm .
Oh wait , I 've got a , you 'll pull yourself a fair enough .
.
Erm .
We 'll move it , start weekend , speed it up a little .
Erm , due erm there 's also as you know , we 've , we 've had the chartered petition on the market and we are going on with that .
The , it was officially launched in London yesterday at Ken 's House , unfortunately neither of the two officer 's could go , it was rather short notice , but it has been officially launched now as a national thing .
Erm , there 's a question of a rally in Central Hall , now in order to organise this pensioner 's rally there short of funds , erm , I think the executive will be discussing this and as , as before we did give them quite a considerable donating , because it costs a thousand pounds to hire the centre hall and we do want to erm take part in a very big rally , like the last one was .
Erm , erm , apart from the meeting last week the last , last month , er one of our mem one of our members noticed that erm we hadn't got a delegate to age concern and she volunteered , that 's a Mrs would you like to okay that cos the Chairman and I speaking to her thought well this was a good idea and I have forwarded her name to age concern who 've contact her .
Is that all right ?
Yes .
Erm , we , we could n't nominate anyone at the A G M , no one was willing to do it .
Erm , oh god , the next item is the Essex Region and erm that was just a report from Norfolk on the success of it .
Erm , from the E C were , we 've decided to hold the usual Christmas social and Peggy and myself will organise as before with the usual conscripts , you know , the usual team of workers , volunteers I mean .
That 's right .
Erm unfortunately we can only have this room not the canteen this year .
.
I will be writing to the normal firms as usual , to get donations for the raffle , er now the other thing I 've got to report from is the stall , no before that the E C discussed applications by other organisations , now Sheffield and erm many other areas produce there own excellent publications , so I , I wrote of to Greater London Pensioner to Redbridge , to Senior Citizens in Sheffield , Anglian Pensioners , Grey Power and erm I , I 've sent letter 's to them and already had some copies back from Sheffield .
Whilst on the market stall I had a Liverpool pensioner who hadn't seen a Liverpool organisation so when I got home I sent to her a notice of the huge rally there going to hold in September , in Liverpool with a couple of Bishop 's and big national speakers , I sent that to her and also contacted a Liverpool pensioner secretary to get in touch with her , and we 've also written to erm , that 's the rally , erm , we 've also , I 've also written to Jim from Cumberland , if you remember er his down our rally , so we should have some , we decided to buy twelve copies of each publication they produce and one when we get our office will be available there .
On file , on file .
Erm , dum , dum , the market stall as you know , we didn't have it in the market , we had it on the thank goodness because we parked it in the shade , erm during that period we got five hundred and thirty two signatures , with three or four more of you it could of been a thousand , erm we also got fourteen pounds , seventeen in donations , all completely unasked for cos as you know , we don't take money .
Erm so two pounds of that went with sale with the sale of the journal and so we can say we had twelve pounds unsolicited donations , erm as Peggy would back me up if she was here , saying that any time you ask someone to sign the flood gates open with what they thought about the position of pensioners , in fact we 've probably got a lot more signatures if they hadn't , but erm , we did pick up , we , I picked up the news about Welwyn Garden City 's cost of and things like that not going through and erm , erm , now , our month our monthly , our monthly stall will not be on the third third Thursday this year , it will be on the fourth to co-inside with the week were celebrating pensioner 's week , which is a week behind National .
Erm that means we have a stall on Tuesday the twenty fourth , Wednesday we 've got our meeting here with the speaker about , were having Mike speaking on Czechoslovakian now and he 'll be telling us his experiences over there and his had a long association with Czechoslovakia and Harlow and Thursday were having a market stall with a jazz band and Norman could probably tell us more about that .
Do you want to go ahead with the Tuesday stall ?
A , the Tuesday stall was a bit debatable at the moment because what has happened is , I heard from the er from Mr Stuart that he , he thought that er could assist us and that I should go over there and see them .
I did do that along with Ron and er they were speaking in terms of er a conjurer at under a pound a time and thing of that nature which should then come to a the pensioner 's category at Poole , so I took it back to Stuart and he said oh see what I can do Norman , and at the present moment it rests there because I haven't been able to contact Stuart at the moment owed to the holiday , but I shall be contacting him and hopefully we will also be doing two days , which is the Tuesday and the Thursday , also what they , er , he 's , he 's promised to do is to come half way with the cost of the jazz band , which is a great help .
Er , so you can say that er Mr is a friend of pensioner 's , he said , he said he would be prepared to , what I , I , I approached him and said er , what about Harlow Caring Council , are they prepared to assist the pensioners in any way or do they wish to join in on this , oh yes he said , of course Norman he said , how much are you paying er Ron I said well his asking forty pound for the , for the morning , oh he said I 'll go half way with that , then he came out and said to me , pull me up afterwards and ask me to go to leisure services about the Tuesday , and so I'm still following that up and hopefully we will have two days on pensioner 's week , because you want to have as much impact as possible and in a few moments , when I nearly finished here , I shall be reading you something where you 'll see that it is important that we make an impact on the people of Harlow .
Erm one of .
It is the twenty fourth of September isn't it ?
Yes , twenty fourth .
Well , it 'll , it 'll be the er , the twenty fourth and the twenty sixth .
With our meeting in between .
With our meeting in between .
Erm , one of the things we had on the stall is erm this erm application form for N H S charges , now many people including probably people here don't know that erm , you don't have to be on supplementary to get help and Ann knows actually , er if your getting any rent or rate rebate and you fill this in , you 'll get some help , in some cases quite considerable help , and I suggested that we had some of these on our store room , got some from Welfare Rights , and they went like hot cakes , because most people didn't know about this , so following that we shall have , we shall keep these on our stall and I 've more or less suggested that Lisa on Age Concern in the Leah Manning should have them there because she 's constantly getting enquiries on that , so she is going to do that .
Erm so it 's , it has been very useful .
On news mobility , I had a copy of that last month and I 've ordered twenty on each publication .
Erm during the executive erm Mary raised a point from the joint planning team about the erm charter and the remarks made by Dr. on that , would you like to say something on that Mary ? because we want to take some action .
I to each other .
I , I would like the association to write to this is from the .
Members agree that proposal continue on in the ideal although it was commendable to set high standards .
Dr. said it was a matter of trying to make a correct differential between right and whatever that means , and that the charter might tend to induce our views as defenders , instead of .
That 's right .
That 's right .
Dr. our would like to know what other .
I like a reply ..
Pensioner 's charter .
I gave it , I gave it too them .
.
Yeah , I think , I think erm , what about this reply ?
Yeah , we 'll get .
on the twenty sixth of this month .
Twenty sixth of this month .
If you could definitely .
Twenty sixth of August ?
No , sorry about that September .
September .
It 's the last Friday in er September .
The last Friday .
Er , that 's the twenty seventh , Friday .
Well can .
Pardon .
Can erm , do you think Mary we can get together on reply on this ?
I do hope so , idea 's terrific on it .
Yeah , I think so .
I , I don't think I could do it , I'm a .
Well how about waiting until .
I didn't mean for you to do it , but erm .
don't leave it too long Norman .
Well yeah , I mean , your in the second week aren't ya ?
And you 've got plenty of time , you 've got a fortnight elapse between the two , we can come up with ideas , like the idea of that ?
Well I think the ideas should come from the members , well what do they think about it ?
I think it 's great .
Would you ?
I , I .
If it 's got to come to the members , it 's got ta come today .
Well I 've a , you know , what I 've said .
I 've , I 'll get Dr. remarks in the minutes , there actually stated in the minutes..
Yeah , well , then we can , we can add an organisation er state where the charter , that it was launched yesterday , nationally and the people who were there at there launch , which I think .
Yes , it .
Yeah , I think , I haven't got details of that , but I think erm Ron has and also the fact that we 've taken remarks and .
Yeah , very much so .
I mean , what 's this small in the Daily Mail erm yesterday ? you know , it makes it .
I read it , yeah .
.
Oh yeah , that 's right , can I read something out now then ?
Yeah , yeah , well .
Now .
Can we finish this off ?
Right , yeah , you , finish , finish of Lilly .
I like to independence with economics , you don't have your independence without economic independence .
That 's right .
That 's what my .
That 's right , year ..
I .
There are people who have a good pension when there in retirement , don't there department , I'm the only one that 's elected .
Mm .
I'm elected from the in West Essex .
You nominated me .
Yeah .
And elected by I represent all the bodies in West Sussex .
Oh anyway , the charter has found it 's way into the Daily Mail , Ann brought a small cutting and erm .
.
Mm..
Yeah..
Yeah .
And what about this bit about .
Oh .
If between right and .
She 's got to ..
Ah ?
That 's taken sarcasm to me .
Sounds like .
When , when a we were discussing it with said to me oh you don't believe in , he meant ah and I .
You don't get any er help at all .
Right , have you finished now ?
.
Can we go ahead , or not ?
Can we go ahead .
Well it 's up to you .
Right .
What 'll you suggest ?
.
I 've had a..
But we do , we were in the .
Oh Jesus Christ .
We 've still got some more .
Oh go on then .
Two more things .
Erm .
But keep me out of it .
Erm , the last thing is , no , we , I don't want to stop the Chairman cos he 's got something else as well .
Erm Mary indicated at the last executive that she wants to retire from C H C and she would like Pauline to take her place , have you an nomina , a nominee from here ?
Yes , this er nominating me , but again I .
So who , who do we write to , to change erm .
Secretary .
Secretary of whom ?
I'm .
So we write to the Secretary of C H C .
.
Mrs okay .
And did people agree with that nomination .
I 've done it for seven years .
Pauline..
I think it 'll be good for Pauline she gets a lot of information .
I , I think it would be a very good for Pauline to go on .
Yeah .
And while were doing that , we should thank Mary for her seven years stint that she 's done on .
Yeah .
We did ask Dorothy to do it after I did it for four years , but she wasn't keen and I had to go on .
Right .
And that 's all I 've got to report which has been quite a busy month .
I 've had a letter from our Ken He writes , pensioners are now , are growing vi vital contingency including many active gift enable people with other use , there often made to feel unwanted , there commonly neglected and there needs are seldom frequently met .
At last that is being fixed .
So I won't go through the rest of it , it 's a long and er it 's just brought us on the same sort of thing , but what it proves is that we are getting somewhere and that is what I thought was rather important news , which I want to do .
Yeah .
To , to Angie you know , I mean a , were alright , we 've got plenty of local issues , but I mean when we think of the , the big issues , these are the big issues that need to be looked into .
Right madam secretary .
That 's all .
That 's all from you so can we have the financial report and you will switch off sir .
Are we ready , have we finished tea ?
yes
Have we been the cups , if so .
Our speaker for this afternoon is a lady who I very much respect her , that 's Ms , Mrs , or Miss Chris from the local unit..
Chris .
Thank you , thank you Norman .
Erm I do recognise some faces , I know some of you recognise me and eh cos we 've done quite a lot of things together , but this afternoon what I'm going to tell you about is how I fit in with Council , I don't think any of you know that or know what the Local Government Unit is .
Erm , so , I'm gonna start off by talking about the Local Government Unit , where it fits in the Council organisation .
Were , we 're not attached to any sort of department , like housing or leisure , were actually in the organisation , were in the general management department and were not alone erm , the planning er originally the general manager 's department and the winners and equality unit are in that department as well and the general manager has his own erm policy , officer and secretarian , so were in the general manager 's department and in other Council 's that would be known as the Chief Executive Department .
Other Council 's like Harlow do have central policy units which is what we would be described as , because people recognition that it 's important that you need to have people who are outside departments looking at the organisation as a whole , what it 's doing , where it 's going , how it 's being influenced by external organisation 's , i.e. what the Health Service are doing locally , or what the Government 's doing more significantly , erm , I think you need people looking around to see how the Council 's affected and what , what were doing in and taking an overall view and responding in that way and that 's the kind of thing that we do and that 's why were here .
Erm , I understand that erm somebody from the unit has had talked to your group before , but it 's just as well to come and talk to you again because we 've changed the Local Government Unit , not the same erm , unit that it was when we were first introduced , we 've grown basically .
We 've grown and erm brought other people , integrated other people in in with us .
The person that is , is head of our unit is , is Carol and she 's known as Principal Policy Co-Ordinator and she report 's directly to the General Manager Der Erm , then we have three teams within the Local Government Unit , we have a Policy Team and I'm the team leader for the Policy Team and I 'll talk about , I 'll talk about our work later , but it 's just to explain who we are .
Then there 's the Neighbourhood Development Team and that team is principally working on implementing the Council 's decentralization and democratisation policy , opening local officer 's , setting area committee 's , some of , you maybe familiar , erm with that initiative I'm sure you are .
That team deals principally with that and then there 's the Community Development Team headed by John who worked with particular groups in the town .
Now the reason why we 've come together and this has been a recent change and it 's been this year , erm is because there are overlaps without going into deep detail , there are overlaps in our work and we were working together as officer 's anyway , but not as well as we should , so what we decided to do was formally integrate the three teams under the same unit , and we do have regular er internal meetings , management team meetings consisting of John , Pete me and Carol and we so we more co-ordinate the work for all the teams much more systema systematically , that we know what everybody 's doing and that way we believe we can use best use of resources we 've got most effectively .
Then within the team 's , in the Policy Team there were three Policy Development Officer 's , in the Neighbourhood Development Team there were two Development Officer 's and in the Community Development Team there are one , two , there are well there are normally six officer 's that you could I that you could identify , but there are other people that relate to them , but then it gets a bit complicated so were keep it at that .
The the great , the one thing about the Community Development Team to point out is that , they 've got people working on pa particular in particular ways with the community .
We 've got two officer 's for example who are leading on working the young people in the town , Youth Development Officer 's er we , the Local Government Unit has a policy team initiated work on the youth policy , and this arose out of erm a member seminar 's , September eighty nine , where er the members felt that really the Council wasn't doing enough for young people , that we as a Council , not not to think about young in the way we deliver our services and it was felt that we needed to go out and talked to young people , which we did in the winter of that year , erm and find out what they wanted from us , and the res as a result of that , that , that policy , and that consultation exercise has now developed into a front line service where we have two people full time working with young people in the town and that 's on various things , graffiti project , the underpasses in the town we , which have got graffiti type I mean I know there not everybody 's cup of tea , but I mean they way .
when we erm , er when we were doing those projects we erm , we had a comments book and more , more people were in favour of them and saw them as an improvement to the town and so it needs something that 's really interesting actually , it 's er , erm the work 's department have said , as a result of those graffiti projects they can shift two officer 's from the graffiti team to the highway 's team , so it 's actually cut down on the work of actually clearing up unwanted graffiti , so it 's had a positive effect , so we , we 've got these two people work with the other people and we 've got Dorothy who 's working with , with black people and ethnic minorities in the town and erm for people who were here when this presentation was last given , er Robin who used to be in the local The Policy Team of the Local Government Unit is now actually a Community Development Officer , one of the decision 's , Robin use to do video work for the Authority erm , and we decided we asset whether the the need for that kind of , k ind of work to continue , and we thought on balance not erm and he now is running the music rehearsal space over at Latton Bush , that again is a project for young people , to enable , it 's a place where band 's can practice and that 's the problem in Harlow erm and er that 's really exciting project because it 's bringing in a lot of income for the Council as as well as providing the service that people want and , and it , I mean it is important at this time that we are doing limited projects where we are bringing in income , cos at , you know we estimate that erm we can get that erm rehearsal space properly resource , that project could be self financing , so your providing a service but your also getting paid , your getting paid for as well , so erm that is who we are now and were er , where were located , we have an open door policy as people will know .
Were in the , the first floor of the Town Hall , erm along the corridor with , where the General Manager 's office is and most of us can be found in there , so erm it is , I just think it 's interesting for you to see how the things link up because , those of you that have contact with the Community Development Team will know that over at Latton Bush there is a Community Resource Centre , er that you can use , well that 's linked in with us , and we provide information for us , so it 's important that you know that if you go there , you also can have a connection with the Local Government Unit as as well , as a whole like the Policy Team if you , if you want information or anything .
So it 's just the , give you the background to show how were linked , so that 's who we are and how we organize , is that clear , has anybody got any questions .
Yeah , what 's happen to the Steering Committee ?
What 's happened to the Steering Committee ?
Mm .
What the Local Government .
Erm it doesn't meet .
No it doesn't meet any more .
Not at all .
No .
It , there , there has n't , I came here in , when I came here in February eighty nine it was meeting to , and the idea being to discuss particular things , to get particular things off the ground , but it has , I think the reason why it , it didn't continue to meet was because it wasn't felt necessary basically .
The problem is the people from the community the and that 's important .
Yes it 's difficult .
It means that your , you officer are running the whole show now .
Yeah ,
And that , without input from the community .
Well except that we do , I mean in in offence erm we don't get it from that particular forum , but I wouldn't say that , that is how we operate .
No .
Because the Local Government sub committee does , does .
I mean deliberately the actual community itself was set up , so it does have representation from the , the community .
Put .
Mm .
I'm , I'm certainly as I was going to come on to explain and the way you will see ourselves working , is not people who sit in the Town Hall and just turn out reports , I mean the kind of work we do and the way we work means that were actually very much involved in the community groups , but I mean if it was , if it was thought to be an issue that we needed to have greater community involvement , i.e. to resurrecting that forum then that 's something that , you know , we may need to address , but I never saw it as operating like that anyway , I mean I saw it as it 's almost like in a cabinet of members mainly..
We were disappear .
That 's right , they get on the subject .
Well I think that how it came .
That 's right .
can't remember them .
Yeah .
What 's is was what he was doing at the main committee anyway..
Well I think that er , you know , just didn't happen like that though , except things like that in one way and .
That 's right .
.
Yeah .
Well I still miss it .
I think the er , the sort of looked after her as well , especially in the evening times .
Mm , yeah .
Er , we go through Old Harlow .
Yeah .
The people sort of eight o'clock , nine , and there just congregating by the Health Service there , anything night and I think a lot of the trouble .
That 's right .
Got to do something .
That 's something we , we , that 's what we found and one of the things we have got is this youth bus actually operating in the town and it erm , it 's running three nights a week , we can't cover every bit of the town , but it goes to different area 's of the town , The Stow , and Old Harlow , I mean we 've actually got quite good relationship 's with , with , with the young people in Old Harlow , but erm , I mean we can't cover every night , I mean there is a problem , of erm , you know , you you get from a position where you recognise it , you , you , you need to start catering for a particular group and it takes a long time getting there .
I mean as , as a , the fact is that , like providing services for the young people is legally the responsibility for Es of Essex County Council .
Mm .
And , and , you know , they 've got paid youth officer 's working in Harlow , now they are , there are , they 're over they 're over stretched it 's true and , but we , I mean what were doing here is actually supplementing there service and were not meeting all , we wouldn't of erm meeting all the demands , but the important thing I think is that were continuing to erm , you know , were trying to do something about it , and one of the things that were trying to do as officer 's in the Local Government Unit is work with Leisure Services and get them to put more resources into doing things for young people .
You see , this , where we young we 've had all the youth organisations which most of us belong to , that 's all we had in those days .
Yeah .
.
And if you went to films .
.
That 's all the organisations there were .
We went to church .
..
That 's right , well actually , one of the documents that we produce , I haven't brought it along with me today , was a report , when we did the consultation , we , we produced erm , eh I mean we talked to young people and got their views on a whole range of areas , transport , housing , facilities , and we , we produced it in , in this news report , and it 's very , rates were very interesting .
I use the .
Erm , read it , erm that 's right .
What does the , what does the youth bus actually do it , except go round on four wheels , I mean what 's it 's function ?
.
What 's it 's functions ? .
When it goes , I mean I'm speaking as a resident of The Stow and I know there 's lot 's of complaints and shop keepers and er people in the flats and that round you know the shops there and you do feel a bit intimidated if you walk through The Stow at night .
Yep , yep .
Erm , which is a shame because as kid 's we all hung around street corners and cafe 's and things .
Well actually , the function of the youth bus is like in the absence of buildings in , in area 's where people want to go , it 's fulfilling that function , on the bus there are things like videos , people can play music , they also get erm , you know , we don't just let them do what they want to do , although were , you know , where quite erm , quite progressive with them , we actually provide , we have information on the the bus , provide information , we 've got a Coun we involve local Councillor 's like on Aids and stuff like that , I mean you have to be quite sensitive when you do something like that , you know especially if , you know , with the age group , erm , but erm , you know you get younger people coming on , twelve year olds to thirteen year old and what not .
But I mean they are there to provide advice and we do get an awful lot of case work .
Mm .
You know , young , homeless people we pick up on this bus and er , we have , we we 've sort of ended up pursuing their cases with the housing department and getting temporary accommodation .
And do you ask there opinions about what they want ?
Eh , yeah .
Yeah .
Continually , continually .
But I mean we also , we , I mean we 're providing a service for them to allow them to come on off the street , use the bus , right , but at the same time were trying to provide services for them because one of the things that came out in a consultation was , young people didn't feel that there was enough information for them in the town .
They didn't feel for example they could go into the advice centre , they didn't feel it was for them .
Mm .
And so erm , the youth bus is , is trying to fill that gap , it 's not ideal , because what we actually want to do is get the advice centre to provide some information and to look at ways they can open up to young people .
Yes
Yeah , this was brought up last night at the meeting at of Old Harlow and Potter Street er forum .
Aha .
And it was brought up last time that erm , in the Potter Street area , not enough was being done to occupy the minds of the
Yeah .
And there is nowhere in that area for them to go .
No .
Mm .
mm .
And it was stressed quite strongly .
Well that 's good , I think that 's really encouraging because it , it can't , you see , this is the sort of an example of the way our work goes , right .
We in the Policy Unit say we , we , members raise something and we get onto it and say right , this is how we can tackle it .
The big step is then getting the rest of the Council to take it on board , that 's the big step , you know , leisure , the neighbourhood office 's , I mean the neighbourhood office 's are quite good , I mean they 've got a , they 've got a budget , a development budget , and like in Katherines and Sumners I know that a large proportion of the development budget there went on projects for young people , you know , so there are using there money .
Yeah .
So , erm , I mean , that was , we thought I came to a discussion about young people which is really good and it really did have people in your age group interesting .
We are very interested .
But that 's er , that 's .
We 've all been young .
I mean that 's what we 're doing on the Council for , but .
We 've been there .
We 've , we 've all been tearaways .
But , if I can .
Ssh , .
If I can I 'll be .
Quite please .
General level and talk about the Local Government Unit and what are erm , what , how I see our main areas of work , right .
How I would classify them .
Erm , the first thing you do is a central policy thing , a major function is to analyze , interpret and develop strategic responses responses to all major Government legislation .
When it , and the Government can produce fifty pieces of legislation affecting local government since nineteen seventy nine , I haven't been here since nineteen seventy nine thankfully , so I have to analyze everything , but they always landed our the ma the major ones and , so for example erm , it was the Local government Unit that produced the initial response of the Poll Tax , what strategy the Council should adopt er , the Council won't distance approach , we wanted to make it clear that the Poll Tax was a Government erm , it was a Government initiative and it was being forcedly on us and that was the way , did that effect it , that was a guided and then there was the nineteen eight nine local Government Housing Act , which I'm sure many of you .
Familiar with , which is basically the piece of legislation , which is still in force now and still a major problem for us , which is about getting Council Rent 's up to the level of private sector rent 's and forcing Council 's to do that .
Erm and it , it was us , I mean not only do we , I mean we develop her a a response , that means , we , we work with Councillor 's we work with Senior Officer 's in other departments and we look at the policy angles , like for example with , with that piece of legislation , when , when we first realised what the impact for that legislation was , it was gonna mean that we were ten million pound short in our housing money basically , that was , that was what it looked like on the surface and you think oh my god how you gonna make up for that short fall , that would mean an eleven pound a week rise in rent , that 's what it worked out as , so , well we can't do that , how , and then you have to look at the legislation and you say what are the loop holes here , and erm , and it involves contacting outside organisations and getting there opinion and finding out what other Council 's are doing and responding to things like this , and we did come up with a way , of , of reducing that deficit , but that 's the kind of thing we do .
At the same time we were organising meeting 's to tell local people about it and to get there views and to make it clear again that we were , you know , we were in a position where we were being forced to do something by this legislation that we didn't want to do and we wanted just , the alternative was if we had set a rent rise , which have been dramatically higher , I mean the four pounds , twenty five rent rise that we eventually had to agree to was higher than what the Council wanted to put the rent 's up by , you would think well the Council put the rent 's up by four pounds , twenty five , erm , and you know , that , that 's why the Council does that sort of thing but it 's us that gets involved in that kind of work , producing information and developing responses and then the secon d major area is what I 've just labelled a strategic policy development , and that mainly erm put policies that are like a rise within the Council rather than things that come from outside , like for example , because were the kind of Council we , we are , there was a debate amongst officer 's and member 's to develop an anti poll strategy and two hundred and eight thousand pounds was found to be linked to that strategy and erm , as that 's enabled various initiative 's to get under , under schemes , crashes for children in the town , stuff like that , er and also , erm to provide an overall policy frame work for other Council department 's .
Like when there considering how there gonna spend there money every year , they should have reference to this policy cos general Council policy like , how can I spend my money to redistribute resor resources , so that we can provide more for people who are in need , so it isn't just about projects , it 's about a policy and we develop those kind of things , we 've already talked about the Unit Policy and we developed that .
Other things we get involved in as a Central Policy Unit .
Things like , it was us who set up the Benefits Unit in the Town Centre , you know , we , it was considered that you know we as a neutral policy team are in without departmental buyers rather than political buyers , that 's a joke , erm , would be the best people to erm , er set up this unit , we don't have any less interest , the benefit 's , the benefit 's felt within the housing department with with the introduction of Poll Tax and the Poll Tax benefit , it wasn't clear where that could go , so we were the people who had to sort that out .
One of the other the other things that we will erm be taking responsibility for is , is something called the Front Line Review which I want to come back too , because it 's something that will interest you as a group erm , but that 's basically again a Council learn initiative , where the Council 's want to look at over the next month all of the front line services we provide , the , the services that you come into contact with on a day to day erm level and look at , you know , are we providing a service as you want , are we providing them efficiently , how would you like to see them better provided .
It 's a way of as a Council taken the position that we ought to be spending your money effectively , right .
It 's also tied to the fact that were , we have less money than we used to because of the introduction of Poll Tax , it is tied to that cos we are constrained but , erm that 's the kind of thing that we get brought into to support , erm and then another area is progressing policy initiative 's in other Council departments .
In other Authorities you may have whole research and policy sections in the particularly departments , like a housing research and policy section .
In this Council we don't have , it 's not organised like that .
Department 's tend , eh , the actual service department are very much what I would call practitioner lead , you 've got just people there doing there job and there 've been doing there job for years , and that 's you know , there not , the very rare thing today , erm , thinking of policy sense about the way in which they could change that service , you just get on and do what they 've always been doing .
Erm , so , the , given any organisation should always be looking at what it 's been , it 's doing to see whether , what it 's doing , erm , it should continue to do , you know , whether the , whether the services is a defunct or whatever , or whether we could provide it in a , erm in the most up to date way , the most progressive way .
We as a as a policy unit get involved in that kind of work as well , so working with departments , looking at new initiative 's and trying to work with them .
Now that isn't easy actually , because you know , the practitioner 's think they know best and they actually quite resent , you know , the young Policy Officer 's coming in and saying let 's do it this way , shall we ?
Coming in at all , so that 's , that isn't easy , but it , eh were it works it 's really good I mean for example we , we d o up the Poll Tax enforcement policy , erm and again it was where the Cou I mean if the Council had followed the legislation on Poll Tax collection , it 's you know , erm and it didn't want to do that , and so again well , it 's , well it 's related to this legislation bit , but we looked at , we looked at how we could get round that legal procedure and we looked at developing a more sensitive policy and we had to do that with other departments .
A more practical initiative which would currently involve them is a self build housing scheme , it 's at a very early stage , but basically erm , were working with the housing department , economic development unit and er work , the work 's department , there 's a , there 's a corporate project team , and were , were looking erm , we 've got to identify , positively identify a site for it , but we 're looking at bringing in European Social Fund , Funding and erm housing association money to get a self built housing scheme for young people , you know , where they would be trained in manual skills to build there own house and they live there , erm and er , so that 's , that 's quite an exciting scheme .
Erm the other thing we , we do is what I would call servicing community groups supported by the Council and I 'll put servicing in inverted comma 's , comma 's here .
Erm , these kind of group , kind of groups I'm talking about here are the West Essex Self Action Campaign the resident 's groups , the homes and jobs campaign , school governors for 'em .
A , it 's part of , it 's linked to the fact that erm , the Council 's quite erm concerned to get , you know , community groups active in the town and responding to things as well as just the Council , Council Officer 's , but it 's also linked to the fact that we as Council Officer 's can't be overtly political , it 's far to say , and you know , what happens is groups get set up to resist things like last year when the hospital lost the fifty million pounds , there 's enough people on it now to say that it 's you people here that formed the bulk of thos e groups .
Erm , that , there are sufficient people active in the town , they will come together and challenge those things .
Now erm , the Council can support such groups , it can , it can , got formally decided the body to support such groups and with the West Essex Health Action Campaign all political parties on this Council decided to support it , because they were sad that we lost the fifty million .
Legally , legally .
Erm , and eh and we , if the the Council also can provide supports for those groups and it 's us that will provide the support and we leave it as general as that .
But erm , you know , that 's , that is er a major part of our work .
Erm the other area which is , it is just production and examination of , of information through leaflets , public meetings and conferences .
And that goes back to what I said earlier , in that we just don't see ourselves working internally , in meetings , in negotiations and report binding , with erm , with other officer 's , we see ourselves as a vocal point to get in information out , to , to people , erm and working with people , erm , and that 's erm again a major part of the work we do and just as an example of something that we provide , this is erm , this is the hidden divide , the bulletin of Harlow 's Anti Poverty Strategy Group , this is the latest edition , and it 's just an update on erm impact of eh living in Britain in nineteen ninety one today , the people who are on low income , but we , we 've produced that quarterly , erm , but there , we produce loads of leaflets , were always producing leaflets , and basically if there 's a major piece of legislation there be , there be something worth getting use on it .
Erm , and then I just thought I 'd finally conclude a bright , cos I think it , it 's like how I see myself at work , erm with showing you where our work comes from erm and basically you 've got all these arrows coming in and er sometimes you do have a sense of feeling quite bombarded with requests for work , but the main , I mean the main formal source of our work is the local government sub committee , which is erm , like Mary was referring to earlier , every department or unit in our in the Council have to formally report and get it 's work through by a Council committee , our committee is the local government sub committee and it formally sets our work programme once a year , and I our priorities , it also comes up with other things it would like us to do by the way , during the course of the year , so erm , that includes Mary as well..
Erm , and then we get requests for things from the leader of the Council directly , that he wants us to respond to , the chair of that committee to erm will , will do the same thing , we 'll get requests from other departments relating to our work , some of which might of been you , we erm , the Council has a group for the finance advisory group , which is a small group of Councillor 's and officer 's that meet to discuss not in , in public session , key erm financial and other major policy erm issues that , and the reason why that group was set up , erm was that it felt like with the introduction of Poll Tax and the Local Government Housing and Finance Tax , that it needed outside the committee cycle to erm review the impact of those legislation to look at it 's finances more closely and what , and we as a policy team report into that group and get request from work from that group as well .
That group does have wider representation than just Councillor 's , it has er Labour party representation on that group .
We also get requests from work from the organisational review working party , which is a working party that 's erm basically looking to progress to the D M D , Decentralization of Microtization initiative .
We do get work from individuals , I said we have an open policy and people come through with problems that they 've got because they know us and some we take up , we try and be helpful and , and take up individual problems and then we have a two way relationship with community groups and last and not , not , not least , we , we live across the corridor from the General Manager and he 's always flying in and giving us work as well .
So erm , that who we are , what we do and how we get our work and I hope that been interesting for you .
Thank you .
Very nice..
Any questions ?
Well , well actually , there 's one thing I 've missed out which I said I 'd come back to , and that was the front line review that I referred to .
Because when I was thinking about trying to talking to you today , I thought although we 've worked quite a lot with people along this group , you might be sitting here and thinking well you don't seem to be doing any specific work for and with old people erm , well I think your quite independent and can work out your right that , but one of the things this front line review erm it erm , it 's considering Council front line services under various headings , one of which is Retired Services that the Council provide as a group , now the leader of the Council wants to erm , get public views on how we look at these services , so , and that 's , that 's individuals and groups and one of the things that you might like to think about and I'm that we as a local government unit who are servicing this review can help you with , is to consider how you might want to fee in for that review , erm and , and consider this , that the re-services for retired people , that the Council provides that you use and basically whether you use that , or service , we want to hear that , the Council would need to know that cos were gonna be making decisions about whether or not they should continue in this front line review erm , and erm , you know , or what things you would , what , what are your questions on about those services , what other things you would like to see provided , things like that and I thing this group could quite easily make a collective representation , a collective submission to that process then you could do it as individual 's as well , so that , that exercise it , it should be over by the eleventh of October it starts on the sixth of September .
Is that the one that 's being run upstairs by Jean , by the way ?
No , no .
It 's a different one is it ?
Oh
This ones by , er actually you are the first members of the public to know about it .
Oh .
In fact you know about it ahead of most Council staff I would say .
I mean the communication strategy for this whole thing has got to be sorted out and , you know , we want , the leader wants staff involvement , public involvement in it erm , and erm , but I'm just telling you advance on what 's gonna be told .
Fair enough .
But , erm , that this is gonna be happening and you ought to have an input .
I'm sure we will .
.
If that 's not , positive Chris ! .
There was someone before in Alex 's day , that 's a very long time ago .
Oh yeah .
Could easily do it again..
It is a long time ago .
Can I say something about , dear I don't know if your aware the against it now you see how much work they do you know keep it .
Well thank you .
There 's , there 's another thing I , another thing I 'd like to mention which Chris has n't mentioned this afternoon is , that is that a lot of the pamphlets that you are handed out here , generate from 's office , copying and things like that , all very helpful , which would cost us a bomb outside , and we get them free , so you know , they , they do help the pensioner a great deal that 's why I said when she came in that 's a lady I admire very much and respect , cos she 's very good to pensioners .
You won't get one done through a government ..
I don't know .
Were talking about appreciate pensioners concerned about there pets .
Well I .
Now I understand that place making a small in the is that right ?
I don't know..
It 's just that next year it 's under threat because of the cut backs .
Right .
Now I give this quite a strong point to bring up ..
Right , okay .
What we 've just decided Chris actually .
Yep .
The R S P C A more or less in this borough is erm .
Defunct .
Used to put animals to sleep , they don't do much in the way of treatment , what we want to do from this is press for erm a P D S A grant .
Right .
Which used to function at the Stow .
Yeah .
Very successfully and we would , were gonna petition for that .
Right , right , right , that sounds good .
Well I'm actually gonna be the person servicing this return Policy Officer , this retired services group so , if you want to make it , either a person to raise you want to get out .
.
Laughing .
.
Right , I 'll contact you..
I know .
Yes , Archie .
Archie .
I , I could summize the sporting facilities for the pensioners .
Yeah .
Forewarning .
Yeah .
And I come in contact with people from other parts say erm .
Yeah .
They all the Harlow , one of the best places they know ..
Well that 's useful to know , because what important
.
Do need that don't you .
In this retire services..
Is , you know , is actually erm getting as much information we can about the people who are using the service and erm and making sure it stays , making a case for it .
Also , I mean one of the things that the Council is considering doing , I mean this interest , I know that other people from around this area come into Harlow , one of the things that the Council 's thinking about is erm , is charging , or has debated , charging different rates for people who are coming in than , than those who live here .
That 's right .
I agree .
As a way of income generating .
don't know , it 's dodgy that .
But eh .
It 's a double edge .
.
You don't want to give people who are using the service as well .
Because it also brings us in money .
Er , I think that 's very dodgy .
One does it , one of the things that eh I don't know whether it does effect you at all Chris but eh , eh Chris , is , is the fact that eh these here foreign lavatories they 've got around the town , now I'm dead against these for a number of reasons .
.
For a number of reasons .
The first and foremost , most people don't like using them , but secondly we 've already paid for this service in our rates and taxes , you know , when we pay our rates though , we pay for these toilets to be clean and all that sort of thing don't we ?
And yet they 're bringing in these other things that er enormous cost which nobody wants and you 've still got ta pay , and if you haven't got one , if you haven't got the necessary er coin then that , that could lead to very anti social behaviour..
Right , so I mean this is..
Listen , this is .
This is something that 's been on my mind for a very long time and I mean , I , I , I think it 's about time we started getting rid of these things and updating our own toilets you know .
I mean .
Pauline said they 're are a success .
Ah ?
Who said there a success ?
Pauline .
Perhaps I 'll be unpopular here , but in fact until you think of a way preventing vandals from vandalising the toilets , as you know , I don't think there is , nobody has come up with any other way of doing it .
And that , I mean I , I can't give you a but they are extremely well used , you can tell by the that 's been .
Oh .
Eh , that 's different from what I 've heard .
Erm , I mean it is a terrible problem ..
It 's different to what I 've heard , very few I 've met have .
That , that 's been the only other way of doing it ..
perhaps you have to progress to have a toilet pass .
..
No , but I mean , what I would say..
Er when we come down .
What , what , what I would say is this , there always , there always talking about anti social behaviour around the town and as I say if people haven't got the necessary coin , it could lead to anti social behaviour , it 's as simple as that .
You know , I mean , surely that makes sense doesn't it ?
Or am I talking like an idiot ?
No , you 're right .
Right .
The toilet system could be better .
Yeah , much better .
All round .
Yeah , and if , if , if it 's bad lies well then that 's the case for the for the , the body that deals with the police .
We have a body that deals with police here and they should be doing there duties , no good the local police tell us there 's only eight members a shift , cos we don't believe it , they get on the Council and so they someone say what about all these other places that are being robbed of a night time..
You know , and all old people 's things , like when they , when we old pensioners were being er , er knocked about on the erm highways and byways a couple of years back and I went to see the , the local police officer , what did he turn round and say , there all domestic affairs , they didn't want to know , yet the press will print , print these every week .
here .
Stop , right , listen..
Though , it 's just that , one of the things that Caroline actually , er working on with Warwick University is a way of re-looking at public services and how there funded right , it 's basically to help David to make the case with Margaret Margaret for more money with the local Government , but erm I mean the sort of things we 've been getting into is like when you considering paying for public services , should you , should you pay like in advance like through the National Insurance System or like , like I mean the French Health Service for example , people pay it for ambulances when they use them , though they pay on a differential rate , but I mean it 's an issue to debate , it 's right , and I 've just been thinking about lavatory while you 've been speaking .
Mm .
And the thing is that when of the , I haven't seen anywhere any kind of poll system , you know , I think it 's a , I 've always thought it outrageous as a women actually , that women have had to pay for toilets , and erm , I mean if we , you know , if we , we might , I mean , I , I would be in favour of a system where , you know , you , say a local Council issues a pass , which you pay for , have differential rates , but it 's like people paying up front for that toilet service .
Mm .
And you have some way of , of , of getting in , erm and you have some way of controlling access therefore into toilets , now I don't know whether that would totally it , overcome the vandal system , but I mean if your saying a pass wouldn't be any different than a coin you could devise an entrance , so that it wasn't , you know , so that what you would be doing is stopping having like the total open access all the time , you know , erm .
.
Mm .
But , you know , it 's just a thought .
It could be with modern electronics could n't it ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
You know , add , add a , a say a piece of plastic , like the bar system they had on , on , you know like a coded system .
Same as the banks , for money .
Exactly , although that , that , don't mention that for goodness sake , you 'll , you 'll , you 'll be in dire trouble there .
But I think .
Money out the same time .
I think we should n't be having this kind of debate about public services .
No , but , you , you see what I'm trying to get at eh Chris , we 've already paid once for this service and then , then asking us to pay again , which annoys me , you 've already paid for the system and there asking you to pay again .
That 's all part of the Poll Tax .
That 's what I said Norman , women have been doing it for a lot longer .
Your for ya .
Your paying twice for the same service..
Right , has anybody got any .
Any further questions ?
Any more comments about the local government unit ?
Chris is in the hot seat .
Huh .
On that question of the young people who were .
This lady here .
I , I only want to mention about the swimming pool and swimming for pensioners and there ever such a lot of people go swimming .
Yeah .
I wanted to point out to you , you know , we don't want it to happen .
Right , okay .
Anything else ?
On that question .
I 've just moved into one of the new housing complexes .
Yeah .
Absolutely wonderful .
Right .
It is really nice , they need more .
Right , Alex .
I wanna say on that question we were talking about earlier on about the young people and some facilities for them .
Yes .
There was quite an appealing letter in er one of the local papers this week for a young person on this particular subject .
Er , I saw between the sixteen to twenty year olds , there 's nowhere in the town where they can go and meet very easily , other than the pubs , this causes trouble .
You see one of the things I 've done , I 've , I 've done , er I feel we could do quite easily , is make our play barns more accessible to young people , you know .
But I mean this is something that we .
Ah , they 're costly .
Though we 've got to pursue with leisure , well I think as part of this front line review we 've got to , you know , throw everything up in the air .
Yeah .
And say , you know .

with it just there .
Yes .
Oh have you got a pen ?
Oh I see .
Yeah carry on .
whoever listens to this first off anyway .
Right , we 've done it .
So erm
What what we 've done is is is print our names in capital letters there .
So you you want my name printed there ?
Yes please
Right .
thirty five
Of course yeah .
That 's how old I am next week .
It 's only a approximate estimate .
Well I'm only trying to find just a few more recordings for her because they 're coming towards the end of the er
of the contract and er
And you 're welcome to keep that if you like .
If that 's of any interest to you .
Yeah .
Erm yeah er that 'd be quite interesting have a read through , thank you .
It 's a fascinating project .
Now over to you .
And it was a vertical blind we were
That 's right it 's this window .
Yes it was for this window .
Mm .
Right .
Have you any particul particular colour in mind ?
Well I would
We 've never ever looked at vertical blinds before .
Have we ?
White
I think white actually is the best colour because it Yeah , anything else I think is going to be .
Well this is the book .
And erm all the different erm fabrics
Mm .
are colour coordinated so as you can
Yeah yeah .
see , all the white one are at the front and they 're
Mm .
they 're all classed as white but you can see some are
But some are more cream aren't they yeah .
I think I want a really a as white a white as
Do you want to come up to the window where you can see ?
as possible cos e everything in the background is white .
If I move this out of the way cos you 'll need to get at Sorry .
The dogs .
poor dog can see the rabbit now .
So erm in addition to these erm fabrics here , right at the back of the book
Mhm .
there 's a couple more sections where erm we 've got these are some of the later fabrics which were added on .
As you can see th those are white probably look a
Aha .
bit more fancy that the the standard ones .
Yeah .
Okay .
Can I leave you to erm have a browse at that while I measure the door ?
Mm
Mm .
Yeah fine .
What we 're really essentially interested in I think is keeping the sun which tends to be very strong from there
Yes .
when it 's a nice sunny day , out .
So what we 're looking for is one that will ern go erm
Yes .
to that angle .
Right
And
so we we go through o er one hundred and eighty degrees .
Oh they go complete through .
So from
Yeah .
from being at this angle where you 're looking directly
Yeah .
through it , they go all the way to the closed position that way
Yeah .
and the other way as well .
Ah .
Oh they do both ?
Oh th that 's that 's that 's wonderful .
Yes .
That 's brilliant yes .
As I say we know nothing about them at all , we 've never ever owned one .
However I think erm y you 're one the right track erm picking white out
Mm .
because
It is going to reflect the
Yes .
the light yes .
I 've got erm I 'll show the type of thing I 've got .
Yes .
It 's not it 's not actually in here but I 've got erm perhaps that kind of colour
Mm .
with more more that sort of fabric .
A a a gen
Erm .
a thicker
Yes but a similar to that but a little bit darker .
Mm .
And in the middle of Summer , the blind itself does get
Mm .
quite warm
Yeah .
and the heat from that then
we 've got an old
Yeah .
roller blind outside which we use erm at an angle out on to the garden
Well it stops the heat .
in the Summer which stops the heat
Yeah .
because it just takes the sun off the window .
On the outside but it doesn't stop the light
It doesn't actually stop the light it doesn't No .
of course and it 's
Yes .
.
Well in the continent they th th they just put blinds up the outside don't they ?
Put blinds on the outside or shutters .
Mm .
Yeah .
I 've seen er some nice ones in Germany , they had erm quite a very erm large sort of strong erm venetian blind
Mm .
Mm .
on the outside
Oh .
Mm .
And er th th they looked very nice .
Yeah .
Be be perfect round here wouldn't it .
what we need more is
To keep the rain out .
Yeah ,
Right I 'll leave you to
Okay .
have a browse through that .
Thank you .
Oh one other thing I should point out at this stage , erm on the back of some of these
Yeah ?
you 'll see various stickers .
Erm as you only want one blind
Mhm .
Take no
take no notice of those .
That .
Unless you wanted to do something in the kitchen as well of course .
Yes .
Mm .
Which is a a thought .
This is the kind of thing you 've got to be looking for and thirty three percent off
Yeah .
erm fifty percent off .
That that kind of thing .
Aha .
If you pick one of the ones without a discount sticker on it
Mhm .
You you might get quite a nasty shock .
Yeah I'm sure I would yes .
Okay .
We 're like a bit like M F I we 've continually
Yeah .
Mhm .
got some sort of sale on
Right .
And i prices alter roughly with the seasons of the year .
Mm .
Yeah yeah .
And erm they tend to er
So thirty three percent off is off the price of one ?
That is off that 's off the price erm this this particular fabric ,
Right .
on on on one blind .
Or if you wanted
But where you sees two for the price of one , you 're effectively gonna be getting a fifty percent
Erm
It would be it would be two for the Well it actually it actually tells you doesn't it ?
Or fifty percent reduction .
So it would be two for the price of the most expensive one wouldn't it , yeah .
Or two for a hundred and fifty or
Presumably that 's what it would mean .
You would get
Yeah .
two for a
Yes .
two hundred and fifty pounds or
Wh what no matter what erm size .
So we 'll suddenly find this window that 's thirty foot long by seven foot high and
Well yes .
This is the biggest window we 've got .
This is the biggest window in the house it 's alright .
They 're they 're quite good deals if you 've got er if you 've
Yeah .
got sort of something like a couple of Yeah .
Floor floor to ceiling patio windows .
Mm .
I won't b Actually pr although patio windows have got the greatest erm are of glass ,
Yeah .
they 're not e when it comes to blinds they 're not the most expensive
Ah .
blinds .
The erm er width is far more important
Oh I see .
Mhm .
pricing them up .
Than than drop .
And they 're not always so wide .
Erm for instance erm quite a I did one a couple of weeks ago erm on Avenue .
Aha .
And erm chap was quite surprised to find that the bedroom window worked out more than his patio .
Aha .
Because of the width .
And it was simply because it was er
Yeah .
it was quite a long one .
Right .
And
And it 's the track stuff is it the the basic machinery that 's the
Yes it 's far more number of levers .
Yeah .
You know and there 's more part of the price is in in not so much on the materials .
It 's how much work
Mm .
goes into making them up .
That 's right .
Right .
Yeah .
And there 's something else I I would just point out before I measure your window .
Mhm .
Cos it was you said there were two or three different kinds of
Yeah .
track systems .
Yeah we do two systems .
The more common one being this one .
Yeah .
Erm the blind you 've got two controls ,
Mm .
You 've got a chain which when you pull that , can you see these
Yeah .
Yeah .
hooks ? that 's that 's the tilting mechanism of the louvre .
And then there 's a cord as well
Which which draws them .
Yeah which draws them across .
Yeah .
Then of course there 's a there 's a chain which hangs on there to prevent this this c
Yeah .
kind of thing what you see now .
Erm this head rail in addition to white , it also comes in a silver or aluminium .
Mm .
And also beige as well .
This is the cheaper version which only comes in aluminium
Mhm .
and the other difference being , instead of having the the control at the side for for drawing the blinds , you 've just got this simple er string .
Oh I see you just pull it along
Pull them along that way .
Yeah yeah .
So
Not quite so
No .
The other one works out a bit more expensive .
Yeah .
Yeah .
And also there 's erm there 's er a price increase of colour as well .
Mhm .
Erm look at this window roughly .
I I can give you an accurate price in a few minutes but roughly you 'd pay about five pounds more
Mhm .
if you wanted either white or beige
Yeah .
as opposed to the aluminium .
Mhm .
I should think white would be the best
Well white is the obvious isn't it I think for this one .
finished decorating .
Well shall I
fish this tape measure out and er measure the window .
Right let 's have a look .
And it 's got to be one of those whites .
Well it 's gonna have to be the white .
Do you want a textured one or
I don't know .
really what the main difference is I suppose .
Have you been in Southwell for long ?
Seventeen years .
Yeah .
So that 's is that roughly when this house was built ?
No no it was about twenty two .
Yeah .
A couple of years
I used to cut across this it used to be a field on the way home from
Yeah .
well it was from school when I was a lad .
You you you were there were you at school ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
And er lived on Gardens .
Oh yeah .
Er so erm as I remember it erm Drive was only half built
Right .
Yeah .
the houses on the other side .
Aha .
Yeah .
On the Road side , they were built erm quite a quite a while before they built the other side of the road .
Right .
Mhm .
And it it was quite strange , it was just sort of a row of houses
Yeah .
And a road and then fields .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Just like that .
But as i say it was like that for two or three years .
Mm .
Cos it was orchard land originally I think part of ?
This was actually Yeah this was this this was a field here
Mm .
erm erm that bit over there erm where Close is
Mhm .
that was an orchard .
Ah .
But the rest of it was just
you know l you know erm
At the end , the back yes , yes .
Over the back
It was just all all like that you know a few tress but mainly grass .
Mhm .
Well we were told this was the lo about the la one of the last houses to be built on this close .
Yeah .
But er
Cos I know it was and a Yes the other side was built first too
Mm .
wasn't it ?
And down A little bit later .
Yes .
Just one or two people who were who were here from the start so they remembered you know th thi this was this was more or less where the builders finished off , this was about the last house they did
Yeah
And our front garden was a rubble .
All the rubble went there .
Yes th as I remember they did the other side of first .
Right yes .
Mm .
But erm I remember er we used to play in the houses as they were
as they were being built .
Yeah .
It 's a great game isn't it ?
Half built houses .
You had to be careful that the builders didn't catch us .
That 's right yeah .
Yeah .
Throwing throwing balls of putty to each other and a couple of them went through windows and
Oh well you had a good time .
Do you want a fire retardant one or just in interestingly enough , the ones that have got price offers on them aren't fire retardant .
I think probably supposed to have fire retardant things these days .
when you get to a window I don't know other than t the curtains won't be fire retardant will they ?
No they 're not are they ?
You know .
I'm not sure what to tell you about that one .
Well I'm just thinking about what 's round the windows anyway .
I'm quite sure that material isn't fire retardant .
No .
And I'm quite sure the wood isn't .
Given the amount of treatment
Well there you are so
it 's got in it .
it would seem to be rather a waste of erm
Mm .
whatever .
I'm sure it 's more expensive .
Do you want a pure do do you want a pure white or
Right .
Mm .
And the only other thing to do is to look at the at matching it .
But I mean that 's an almost perfect match isn't it to the furniture .
This is erm quite a wide window could you
Yes sure .
If we start at the top
Right .
about erm just about midway point at this
Yeah .
side bit .
Right then is we go down about halfway .
That 's a little bit wider and then er the bottom as well please .
Then it 's back up to the top one more time .
This is a cr critical measurement .
Yeah .
Two three six point four .
Okay .
Well that 's defeated me cos I measured it in in feet feet and inches .
Yes we 're entirely metric apart from erm
Yeah .
in these louvre sizes .
Oh .
These are these are three and a half inches wide .
Oh I see .
And we do another one which is
Yeah .
five inches wide .
Ah .
Well quite a mixture .
Do you want the curtains moved back a bit or
No I 'll be okay thanks .
have me little pocket calculator out and .
It should be about eight by five actually .
Mm .
But it 's very critical when you 're erm
Oh yes .
When you 've got to fit things like blinds and Especially this time .
Is it very uneven ?
Erm today .
It 's erm not too bad apart from just at this end .
It 's that end is it ?
Yeah .
What
Erm where where the wrinkle is
It goes off
Yeah this last bit ,
Yeah ?
it goes up by about erm
Oh yeah .
by about this this amount .
Which would mean the headrail
Yeah .
it would be air-packed .
Oh I see
otherwise it 's not going to hang
you 'll have to have a couple of washers
Yeah .
into it just otherwise it would it would bend the headrail up
Yeah .
which might sort of
Well also the rest of it 's going to look a bit weird at the bottom isn't it ?
It wouldn't
That 's right it would it would pull pull the bottom
Yeah .
bit up as well .
It probably w probably wouldn't er run properly if
No .
if it was bent .
Mm .
Right .
Which end do the controls normally come ?
On the right end ?
Er whichever whichever side you 'd like .
Cos you could sh I mean we 've got the curtains sort of left handed , it might be an idea to have the blind pull on the left hand end as well .
Yes it 's a bit more difficult to get at
Another thing erm to tell you is erm the blinds , they can either erm bunch in the left hand side ,
Mhm .
Mhm .
right hand side excuse me , or it can be split .
Mhm .
Oh I see .
There 's not difference in the cost on that one .
Mm that splitting sounds nice .
Splitting
It 's a good idea on a window this size .
Mm .
Cos it 's it 's wide isn't Yeah .
Yes it is cos otherwise you end up with a big big
Yes , on this window , if you had them all bunched at one side , it would be
Take up half half one of these
this sort of
windows wouldn't it ?
Yeah quite a bit .
Mm .
As opposed to two like that .
Yeah which is obviously better
.
Yeah .
Were there any in particular that you liked ?
What well mainly what what is the I mean , these thinner ones , presumably they would do the job as well as I don't know I mean , it 's keeping out What I want to do is to keep out the sun .
Yes .
From the furniture so
They 'll all they 'll all keep the sun out ,
Mhm .
But what will happen however is erm when the sun is directly on them
Yeah .
it 'll sort of erm light them up it 'll be very
Yeah ,
Mhm .
You 'll have a glare .
It 'll very yeah , very white
Mhm .
erm st quite strong white glare
Mm .
will will come up the blind .
But it will actually stop the direct rays of the sun
so you know
Mm .
Mm .
for to protect your furnishings
That 's right yeah .
It w it 'll take erm roughly about erm it 'll perhaps stop about half the light
Mm .
coming into the room .
Mhm .
Erm when the when that 's when the sun 's directly
Yes yeah cos it 's really only the the worst of the sun in the middle of the day in the Summer I think that does most of the damage .
Although the light does light rots anyway doesn't it .
Yes .
But er mm .
Well it 's got to be one of the pure white ones whatever .
And can you tell me anything about the materials that are actually cos they don't
Yes I can
Are are they better heavier than light or
Erm I think it 's just it 's just personal erm preference really
It 's choice is it whatever you the l the look rather than
Mm .
I just wondered is any of them were were going to do a better job than
I think w I think when it comes down to s durability they 're all
Mm .
pretty much the same .
Mhm .
Apart from there 's erm there 's one at the back of the book which is er machine washable .
Aha .
You can actually put them in your washing machine .
That sounds like a nice idea .
Does it ?
Unless erm you 've got sort of
Mm .
a problem with a heavy smoker or
Mm .
a coal fire or that kind of thing .
There 's not much
There 's not much point is there ?
They should go they should go for quite a number of years .
Yes yes .
Witho without any maintenance .
Mm .
Erm you know these these are the various fabrics , you know , this is what they 're made from .
Oh most of them are polyester .
Oh they 're made polyester .
Mm .
So they 're in fact they 're virtually all polyester aren't they .
Yeah .
If they do need er cleaning , the advice is to use erm a a very mild detergent and erm a damp cloth .
Mhm .
But only just damp .
Yeah .
Mhm so you don't soak it .
Yes because they 've all got erm a stiffening agent
Right .
Yes .
in the fabric .
And if they get too wet they will wrinkle .
Mhm .
Yeah .
Mm .
Well I don't know .
Difficult to say isn't it .
I hate being pressed for choices .
Just as well to give you an idea , erm they come in they come in various price
Yes .
categories .
Mhm .
Erm with the headrail that you were looking at , it 's this one and they come they go from er one to six .
Erm for instance , the cheapest one , the one that is is that one .
Mhm .
That 's erm price category one .
Yeah .
Er this one for instance , is er er here we go .
Yeah that 's the most expensive .
Mhm .
And so fifty percent off on this one is going to work out more expensive than thirty three percent off
Mhm .
Yeah .
on that one .
Mhm .
Mm .
It 's difficult to work out why some of these should be so much more expensive than others isn't it ?
What about that one ?
Spice ?
Mm .
Mm .
A lot of it A lot of it is just is just down to erm marketing
Yeah .
I think and erm
Yeah .
Mm .
I think erm most most of the people who do blinds , do some sort of system like this
Yeah .
And erm I suppose it would make it would be a lot more logical if all the blinds were just the same price all the time .
Yes and you chose .
Y but yes but we 're by doing some form of sale
Yeah .
people see the the word sale
Yeah I know
They feel more inclined to buy them .
And er
actually
it 's just it 's just unfortunate if
the one if you the one that you like doesn't happen
Yeah .
to be in the sale at that particular time .
Mm .
You know , in three months or six months time
It might be .
Yes .
Mm .
Some of them are definitely denser than others aren't they .
Mm .
you know .
difference I don't suppose actually got the direct sun on it .
Mm .
Yeah m my erm I live on Road ,
Yeah .
so my er this in my house this is a patio window .
Right .
And er w we 've got the seating along that wall
Yeah .
and that one and so erm what I do in the Summer as you said , when the sun 's sort of at two o'clock
Yeah .
one o'clock , it 's over there , and I angle my blinds in this direction and so Yes
Yes yeah that 's it and you can do this still can't you and you can still see out .
From from the the seats we can still see out into the garden
but it keeps We 've got the television over in this corner
And you can still see
It ke Yeah we can still see the telly .
Aha .
Also it keeps the sun off it .
Yeah .
And keeps it off the carpet as well .
Yes .
That 's right yeah .
Mm .
I quite like that one actually .
Spice , mm .
Mm .
Just not too plain , it 's got some some
Yeah that 's quite a popular one that is
Mm .
A lady at 's just erm ordered one of those this morning .
I think I like that one actually .
Yeah .
What do you think .
Well I you know I
doesn't make a I know .
It doesn't make a lot of difference really .
Once they 're up they 're up .
Once they 're up they erm up you you 're not gonna notice really after a while
Mm .
what it what it is .
Some of them erm the pattern
But I Yes that one I think .
shows through more than others .
Yes .
If you want to take them out of the book
Mm .
and just hold them up to light you quite welcome to do so .
Mm yes well I can actually see you know
That that 's got a sort of a
You 've got a line across there
which I think 's quite attractive .
Mm .
How l how long are they supposed to last , things like this ?
Or is that a stupid question ?
depends on
I don't know .
your house and what you what you do in it
Yeah .
I 've got erm a fourteen month old baby
Mm .
Mm .
and er erm I 've only got one vertical and that 's on the patio and of course it 's within his reach
yeah .
We 've got the er chains on the bottom that interlink the louvres so grabbing hold of those
Yeah .
and giving them a good pull .
So how long the blinds 're going to last I don't know .
Mm .
Perhaps about another six months
we did know somebody erm down on actually who had a a vertical blind and several of the chains had broken or disappeared on the bottom of that
Yeah .
the the blind worked alright .
But that 's probably not gonna happen along there there won't be anything else on the windowsill .
That 's it was it was as you say over a patio door , it was actually being used as an entrance door as well
Yeah .
so people were constantly sort of shoving this aside and walking through .
little dogs as well tend to er get tangled up
Yes .
in the bottom
Yes .
of blinds .
Or cats in her in her case it was cats , yes .
It was cats in her case .
Had to replace one erm er Close
Mm .
the other week
Mm .
and that was in a right state .
the lady 's had it about ten years but she 's got a little dog as well .
Mm .
And erm there were hardly any chains left on it .
Yeah .
Well I think it is They ought to last a fair time they I mean it 's not gonna be abused really is it at those windows ?
No
Shall I work you a price out
Work it out for that one please .
Yes please .
Right .
Got some lovely colours .
Mm .
I don't really think
Be a bit heavy there wouldn't it I think .
Mm .
The thing to bear in mind with the colours
is erm Well I wasn't gonna say that
Well that I was thinking actually with that colour .
You might do I do erm red one might fade a bit I don't know .
Mm
Generally w red erm red cars sure they fade .
Mm .
Yes yes .
I 've made made that mistake in the past .
Mm .
I I buy white now .
Yeah .
Or
Yes .
No I think white for here is best cos the sun is quite I mean you get quite a lot of sun don't you on on on this side of the house .
Ah !
we 're going like one , two , three down
oh I love 'em .
and then gin and tonics till they were flowing out our ears
then me and , me and er Claire decided to go back early
Is that like when you erm got off with Matt ?
Jade .
Oh Jade ?
Mm .
Oh that 's right .
Crawling back to house at quarter to eleven
We 've got ten girls .
going
shit .
Miss goes to me , she goes
have got ten girls we 've got ten girls .
where 've you been , I went erm oh erm the taxi was late erm got caught up in traffic
traffic in , in Hertford .
Ha !
At quarter to eleven !
In Hertford !
erm well , Li erm she , she goes well Lizzie told us that erm that your taxi was in front of hers , I went oh no no no , that wasn't me that was someone else .
Thanks Liz .
She , she got off with Si again tonight .
Oh yeah I heard .
Ooh .
Do you think they 'll go out ?
Do you know I wondered why they were suddenly
don't know .
Is he ?
Yeah .
Ah !
I mean he 's a friend of Jamie 's anyway isn't he ?
She 's s she 's sorted for the weekend isn't she ?
Yeah she
There 's me single , a single woman
Is Debbie going ?
Yeah .
It 's his birthday the day after Carrie 's
It 's his birthday tomorrow .
Oh day before Carrie 's I mean , sorry , I knew it was the day after or day before .
I think it 's tomorrow anyway .
Jamie who ?
Oh .
He always intimidates me hugely .
I think he 's revolting .
I 've , I 've never even talked to him
No but just the way
He 's got such an ego
He intimidates me the first time I ever talked to him was in the pub
Yeah that was so , it was fucking random , I 've never talked to him in my entire life , I ended up , after we all left , talking to him for so long
Did you ?
yeah , he 's a really
What about ?
nice guy like about can't even remember now
Ha !
we ended up entertaining we ended up entertaining erm everybody that was sitting there , it was really funny and we were
It 's so cold in here
I know but he can probably be nice like that but then he 'll just change and become all cool when he wants to be
Yeah .
and , and drop people that that
Yeah I mean I wasn't expecting anything like er erm like him being a nice person to me ever again but it was fun
Yeah .
for the time being , you know ?
Yeah .
It was really quite funny cos everybody was laughing at us .
Why ?
Can you believe this , okay , Hattie 's
Oh .
What ?
Nothing .
Hattie 's parents came to the concert tonight cos Hattie 's in the choir
You told me , yeah .
and er Hattie wasn't singing .
Oh shit !
She 's supposed to be ill , it was so funny .
She didn't even come to watch , what are you whispering about ?
Nothing .
Tell us .
Nothing !
Yes !
No no it 's not a problem , you were talking about Hattie ?
No I 've finished , thank you thank you for listening .
She didn't even tell her that er you told me earlier
I know , I was telling Kathy that 's why ?
What was it , I wasn't listening ?
Well fine I won't tell you this time !
About Hattie , she wasn't in the concert cos she supposed to be ill but she didn't even come to watch and her parents came to watch her .
Oh
She didn't even tell her parents .
Her sister 's coming , well if she gets in .
Yeah , she 'll get in .
Oh tell her not to
Well we 'll be left by then so
Oh no , she 'll get on fine .
it 's not a problem .
Her sister 's really pretty .
Is she ?
Yeah I 've seen her , she 's really pretty .
But she 's really thin so
yeah and she 's tall like Hattie .
Taller than Hattie !
No she 's tall and thin like Hattie .
Yeah I was gonna say
But she 's got straight hair and it 's
Really ?
long and it 's and it 's , it 's about the same colour as Hattie 's , a bit darker
I can't remember .
Well I remember her
and she 's got a really really good complexion , bit like Hattie .
I wanna complain , I wanna complain and I wanna make people realize
She walks like Hattie as well actually .
Oh what , swanning around ?
Yeah , but she doesn't sort of go like this all the time though .
How long 's she been going out with ?
Er six months no six months and a week .
Oh God .
It was her anniversary a week ago , no two weeks ago sorry .
I 've been going out with Will for nine months and five days !
Whoa !
I 've been single for , now let 's see
Nine months and five days , you could 've had a baby by now .
No !
Yeah .
wishing children
Oh God !
I want a baby .
No you don't .
I don't my children would crawl away from home .
Not now .
I want lots of babies when I'm older .
No !
I'm really afraid of being shit
I want two I want a girl and a boy .
I want at least three but four
I don't want any children .
My children would hate me .
I wouldn't want three , I wouldn't want
I want one of each .
I 'd love twins .
Yeah I 've wanted a twin
Yeah .
I think it would be so weird to have a twin .
Can you imagine two Kathy around the place .
Oh God
Would you carry another woman 's would you carry another woman 's baby if she could n't have it ?
poor boys round here
Sorry ?
Would you carry another woman 's baby if she could n't have it ?
Have her egg and , and her husband 's sperm planted inside you ?
No .
don't know .
I wouldn't .
I 'd be like fucking .
Actually
No no no I could n't do anything disgusting like that .
How can men , yeah , whe when they 're sort of , when their firm 's not okey-dokey
Okey-dokey .
okey-dokey how can they have someone else 's that 's been put in a test tube and kept fertilized and their wife 's
their wife .
egg
Yeah .
cos it 's not gonna be their kid is it ?
No .
Yeah but they could still love it like it was their kid .
Yeah .
It 's only like adopted
It 's like adopted
why don't you adopt one , yeah .
or fostered .
people won't adopt because it 's really hard to get a baby .
your wife wouldn't it ? be possessive , I wouldn't .
I wouldn't want someone else , want another woman 's egg to have
A random man .
my husband 's my future husband , my husband
Yeah .
my husband whoever my husband might be
Yeah .
Cos you 're not really thinking about who it might be !
I'm not I'm just talking
about my future husband , making the point that , I'm not saying I'm going to marry him .
Did you know that there 's like a huge chance that you 'll marry someone you know by the time you 're eighteen ?
Is that not scary as crap ?
Weird .
There is not a single person right now
eighteen ?
There 's not a single person at Hailebury I 'd even
Yeah .
consider
Yeah .
marrying .
I know .
It 's disgus
Even living with .
Yeah or even grrrrrrr
Well will they cos the thing
the thing is
What does grrrrrrr mean ?
It just means urgh urgh !
But the thing is
No but all the blokes are so revolting .
the thing is that something must happen to them by the time they reach the age of twenty three that makes us want to marry them .
George didn't shag Dave did she ?
No she didn't .
No I didn't think
Apparently she did but she didn't .
Who 's this ?
Pete apparently Pete made it up just to get erm get at her .
The rumour 's going round that erm Dave and yeah
Well Pete walked in on them and apparently they were butt naked and shagging away and it was a load of crap .
Who ?
Georgia and
Dave
though she 's such a slag , I'm sorry but she
Dave
Er it only took you
Half an hour .
thirty three minutes .
Oh to be exact , yeah .
I hate .
Are you gonna go out with him then ?
I don't know .
Depends .
Depends on what ?
don't know really .
Tell me .
I don't know , it depends .
I dunno we 'll see what happens .
I don't want to be a real
Mm .
Urgh God tomorrow .
God who do we have ?
Oh we 're talking about sex poems .
Well we don't have to , we do change over now don't we ?
Do we ?
Mm .
Oh
Apparently we do .
Apparently .
No we do cos I 've had three with erm no three and a one out , so that 's four
Yeah .
got fucked today .
Yeah I know , I saw Heidi when I was
Well Sophie 's er bloody erm allergic to alcohol and Heidi , she was so funny okay , she had , what , two Martini Rossos and she was fucked , totally .
It was very funny .
Allergic to alcohol ?
She 's allergic to alcohol , she ge she gets really pissed on like one , two glasses of wine .
Yeah but allergic means you come up in something .
No I means , basically it means that it gets to her head really quickly like one , two glasses of wine and she 's off her trolley .
Oh I could n't handle that .
Nor could I .
No but er I saw Heidi when I was on my way down to the grubber and Heidi had a slightly massive armful of chocolate , I was going what are you doing , she said I 've got ta go and make Sophie sick
I was going good grief , she goes make her sick if it kills me .
Rough !
Siobhan got off with Jim tonight .
Yeah I know I told you .
They 're useless .
I know .
Urgh the mind 's going .
Is this ?
Yeah .
I'm really fucked off with this cold now .
Mm .
It 's the weekend soon .
I know .
I'm going to the pub .
What pub are you going to ?
The Duncan Arms .
Oh I 'll see you there .
You going ?
Mm .
Who with ?
Everyone who 's going to Carrie 's .
Oh are you going , oh I didn't realize you were going to the pub I thought you were going out somewhere .
No we 're going to the , the Chinese
Yeah .
till about nine thirty then we 're
Yeah .
going to the Duncan till about eleven thirty and then we 're going to Carrie 's .
Oh fuck !
Well I 'll be practically gone by the time you get back , I mean
No we get there at nine thirty you leave at quarter past ten .
Yeah , oh yeah that 's alright .
Well it depends what but I 'll , I 'll probably come down , I 'll be definitely down by nine thirty cos I
Mm .
won't even be eating at the Chinese .
You 'll get fucked .
I will but I don't want to get fucked .
don't start crying .
No no I don't want to do anything
I 'd regret with Si .
Well what would you regret ?
I don't know , it depends what how drunk I get doesn't it ?
You wouldn't end up shagging though .
No .
He 's quite a forceful boy though .
Say no more .
I mean Jamie wasn't exactly forceful .
No .
He 's such an opposite to Jamie , I thought they were like almost alike but they 're not .
Oh no , no two people are the same .
Jamie rushed out pissed off and upset this afternoon .
He was ?
Jamie .
Mm .
oh I'm going home now .
Why ?
What was wrong with him ?
He 's not still
erm annoyed about rugby is he ?
Why has he got a D T ?
I don't know , he got another D T and he 's , that 's the fourth time he 's got ta go and see the master about it or something .
Oh shit .
And that means he might get banned from playing rugby .
That 's scary .
No
Well his dad would absolutely go mental .
Oh God , banned from doing rugby , oh my God .
Yeah well his dad would go mental .
Yeah I suppose .
It was really funny I was listening to this story , it was about a toyboy
Mm ?
find it it 's the news
Oi !
No I don't know but on Saturday it 's gonna be all like li little couples .
Yeah you Si Carrie Eugene , Will Charlotta
Kirsty John
Kirsty John
Chris Gemma
Chris Gemma , yeah
Heidi Jesse , Marcus and Phil and oh Jamie and John
John .
not invited .
Oh dear .
Jamie 's gone and invited her .
It 's a bit of a problem .
Only cos he wants to snog .
I know .
But he 's in such a bad mood at the moment .
It 's his
Mm .
birthday tomorrow .
I thought it was .
I'm not getting him anything .
I 've got him a birthday card up there .
He doesn't mean anything to me .
Ah he 's a friend to me .
He is a friend .
Actually I forgot about it or else I would 've ma I would 've got him a card .
I thought you were getting pissed down Hertford today .
I wanted to .
I 've got
Ooh
Yeah me and Roxy and Claire were in a real drinking mood .
You should 've done .
But we didn't .
Well you should 've done cos I thought you were going to cos I thought yeah we 've got , haven't got anything to do this afternoon
Yeah .
so I thought you were going to cos you didn't come back for a long time .
MacDonalds .
I had one .
What did you have ?
I had a cheeseburger and chocolate milkshake .
You didn't have any fries ?
I can't comprehend how you don't have any fries !
I had some of Roxy 's .
Yeah but you , how can you not have your own ?
When I go there
I wasn't , wasn't I wasn't hungry .
if I , if I 've got limited cash
There were some peasants from they were all dicks !
Some blokes that were just being real knobs .
Yeah if I 've got a small amount of money
then I 'll have , under two p er under two fifty then I 'll have
Yeah .
a cheeseburger
Fries .
medium fries and a small Diet Coke
Small Diet Coke yeah .
and then if I 've got a fiver I 'll have quarterpounder with cheese
Siobhan had a bloody MacDonalds tonight .
Yeah she had it brought back for her didn't she ?
Yeah .
And erm no I 'll have a quarterpounder with cheese , large fries and a large vanilla milkshake
Just
and a apple pie apple pies are just so yu I 've got to have a
I 've never ever had one ever .
I really want to try a ch a MacChicken Sandwich .
They 're gorgeous .
Are they really nice ?
Really nice .
I'm gonna buy , next time I go to MacDonalds when I'm at home I'm gonna get quarterpounder cheese a MacChicken Sandwich , large fries and and a
Just completely binge , might as well , yeah .
Yeah basically I'm gonna do it on a , on a Saturday night or something .
Ha pow !
Have you decided what to have for your party yet ?
No I don't know .
Have you told anyone about it yet ?
No .
You 're crap , I think I'm gonna have to start asking people .
No .
I fancy Callum .
Do you ?
Mm .
He 's a moody boy , you don't want to
No .
Changeable as the weather I 'd say .
Mm ?
He 's as changeable as the weather .
Who me ?
No Callum .
Oh .
Yeah .
Well I think mm
Yeah he 's the kind of person you fancy then you think no , I don't know , no
I don't it 's just such a dilemma .
I do actually quite fancy I don't want to but I do .
I really do .
No you 're just so good .
left hand and a fist .
Mm .
Keep thinking my wedding ring
Are you doing step aerobics tomorrow ?
No way !
I c I was going to and then erm me and Roxy have got to do our French oral .
I really felt like going to MacDonalds , I might get , if Helen goes down to Hertford I'm gonna get her to get me a MacDonalds .
Yeah me too .
Actually I don't think I can afford it if I'm going to
If I 've got enough money .
No I'm not , I'm going to
no if I'm going to the pub on Saturday and I'm going to the Galleria on
Sunday .
Sunday
How are you getting to the Galleria ?
I don't know yet .
Cost you loads by taxi .
I know .
I 've got twelve quid for the week , I 've got
I mean we , we 'll give you , I mean I 'll
twelve quid for the weekend .
You 'll never get for that will you ?
No .
Well Siobhan might be able to give me a lift , me and
There ?
Roxy a lift , yeah .
And I don't know how the fuck we 're gonna get back .
Well it depends
I could always phone up my mum and get can you pick me up from the Galleria and take me back to Haileybury please .
And she 'll go no .
You reckon ?
Dunno , I might ask my dad cos he 'll probably take us back to the pub
Your dad 's so funny .
I know .
We did ever such a sly one , me and Roxy erm Kath erm where 's the loo , oh just round here , do you want me to come with you , yeah okay
I was g I had to talk to your dad when you were n't there felt such a dick .
We were having a sly fag in the ladies .
I thought oh my God , my God , my God he 's gonna smell it on me .
He knows I smoke anyway so it 's not a prob well not really anyway .
He must know .
I know he knows .
We were having a massive a er conversation the other night about smoking , he was going oh well you know , you smoking are you , I went why , he goes oh we found , found a box of matches in your er top I went oh no no no , it 's just for , for the joss sticks , yeah .
He went yeah alright .
I mean I 've , I 've smoked cos I was in France with him last year erm sitting at the erm dinner table smoking a cigar with him and my uncle
Urgh !
I like cigars .
Rough .
Only the thin ones , the massive chunky ones are rough .
I was t I was telling about my mum today , I was telling her , him about Spain and stuff it was so funny .
He was going what , your mum is mental .
Your mum is mad , I'm sorry but she is .
My mum is cool , I love my mum .
Mm .
It 's three D day tomorrow
Shit I haven't got my shades .
My shades man !
Can I
borrow my
can I borrow them ?
You can share them with me , yes .
Have to watch things jump
It 's really odd I don't understand Si at all I decided , to jump back to that
What do you mean ?
conversation .
He 's going on about damn baths at the moment .
Baths ?
Yes .
Only cos he wants to have you in a bath .
I don't want to be in a bath with him , imagine , well how embarrassing it would be the worst thing .
Why ?
Cos you 're so self conscious of your body .
So ?
You should n't be .
I should you know .
Why ?
I hate my body .
It 's rough .
Bollocks .
I do !
Thin love .
I'm not .
I wish .
I'm wearing me skirt tomorrow .
But my
bloody green jumper 's all got
Mm .
and I 've never washed it hand wash it .
Flid !
Fuck off .
You can bung it in the wool cycle just do that .
Yeah but I'm crap .
Oh God what have I got first thing tomorrow ?
What have you got ?
I 've got double out , I can sleep
Cos I 've got double geography .
I can sleep till ten twenty five .
Yeah but you 've got ta get up for breakfast .
Oh shit !
I forgot about that .
That 's what I had to do this morning
Fuck .
when I had double out as well .
So if I went to talk to Jess
No that 's not fair !
Well don't worry , at least you can have some food and you won't be hungry in the double out .
So I don't care I don't want any food .
Tt toughie .
Toughie !
I want some Diet Coke , I want to get a massive thing of Diet Coke .
Next term I'm gonna bring like enough Coke to cover the underneath of my bed so I can just not eat , just drink loads and loads and loads and loads and loads of Diet Coke so I can get thin .
Mm just like me .
What , you 're drinking loads and loads of Diet Coke ?
Mm .
Oh .
I'm going to be on a diet all , all Christmas holidays apart from Christmas day .
You 'll be anorexic
I won't .
I would be if I did that , if I just didn't eat .
I'm gonna I'm gonna do what I did two s er two Easters ago .
Mm .
I was bloody impressed when I was losing a stone and a half in in four weeks .
Mm .
Bloody pleased if I could do that again but I won't be able to cos I 've got Christmas day put back it all on on Christmas day .
I lost weight during Christmas sometimes .
I'm going to try and lose half a stone in the Christmas holiday .
Mm .
Half a stone to a stone .
My sister 's lost
If I did that
a stone at the moment
She 's really thin .
Well look at my mum then .
Your mum 's bloody thin
anorexic , I thought my mum was anorexic when I went home the other day .
Not the other day , when I went home for Easter last year
Mm .
she kept running out of the room and being sick and everything so I thought
Bulimia .
when we were having a meal and I was thinking that 's nice !
What ?
How pleasant , mum 's being sick everywhere .
I said erm is there a problem ?
No .
Not a problem .
I 'll just break down in tears on your birthday , it isn't a problem
What ?
Nothing , just murmuring .
Mm .
Is this enough yet ?
No .
No .
How much have you done ?
Bit .
Yeah ,
I'm going to bed , I'm tired , I need some beauty sleep darling .
What are you , are you doing as much of this as you can ?
How long is a side ?
I mean half a side .
I dunno .
About half an hour ?
I'm jam hot don't record me singing .
wouldn't be very pleasant .
Have to get some more posters .
Yeah .
Have to do that bit there and that bit there and then the ceiling .
Oh yeah , get the ceiling .
Put mirrors on there , you know
Yeah , yeah that 's right .
Urgh rough
No cos erm I was , I was saying , I was saying ages ago that
I had such a weird dream last night
Oh yes .
Sorry , just interrupting you
Yeah it 's okay .
What , what was it ?
it was such a fucking odd dream .
Okay I was sitting on the bench erm at the pavilion
Mm .
and Jim was lawnmowing and you were doing hard labour with Matt
Oh yes you told me this that I was doing hard labour and he said I was building the building .
Mm with the builders .
Fucking weird .
What were you saying ?
I can't remember now .
Oh yes I was talking about baths wasn't I ?
Before
Yeah .
and then and then I was going yeah I really want to take , I 'll have to take my stereo home and he goes yeah your stereo 's quite big isn't it , I went when have you seen my stereo and he goes oh I came up the other day to see if you were in .
I went why why , he said I just came round to your room and you were n't there but your music was on .
I went yeah I was probably di dead on the bed or something , I'm always asleep , he goes no , no
What a bizarre boy .
like okay then
Oh gawld , prep was just such a nightmare tonight .
Urgh they were being really perverse .
Worse than usual .
Going through all the blokes I 've got off with at home I bet .
Did you want , did they go through all of them , did they get all of them ?
No they got erm tt they got most of them .
Who didn't they get ?
Tt they didn't get five .
Let me guess them .
Yeah they didn't get him .
Er
Rob they didn't get .
Rob erm Nick
or
or Nick Nick and Nick
That 's it .
and
Oh yeah .
The obscure ones .
The first one they got was erm
Why do they think I'm pale ?
I don't know .
They just go oh who are the pretty ones and erm they get oh erm Sarah and Claire and Lizzie and then Marcus goes yeah but she 's a bit pale , I went so ?
And then they were being really gross like going oh but you know we , we we fancy you , I was going
So oh that 's nice of them .
That 's just like oh but she 's a bit pale nice , thanks .
Say from me , next time you take prep , say well Lizzie 's going to get a tan now .
She 's gonna go and slap on the fake tan
Oh my God they were being really disgusting , okay , they were going erm oh house entertainment I went yeah and they go we , we want you to do a striptease .
I went that 's nice and they , and they were going erm er yeah down to the bare , bare essentials , I went oh yes what 's that erm T-shirt ?
No no completely stripped , I went right , cos I would do that yeah and they were going oh actually no erm stockings and and erm
Suspenders .
yeah an and bra and G-string I went right right , then I said oh by the way I'm not erm I'm not doing house swimming this year , I'm not going to give you the , the pleasure yeah right and they were going oh no you have to do it , you have to do it , I was going yeah right cos I do actually want that again like last year it was just such a nightmare .
Oh no way do I want to take that
there 's only three people in my house though .
Mm .
Then again in my house as well .
I'm not doing it cos I mean there are , there are s four new lower sixth so they can bloody swim .
I 'll sort it out if they like but I'm not swimming again .
No there 's Jess , she 'll swim
Mm .
there 's Tessa
Mm .
and
Tessa is it ?
Yeah .
She 's really sweet
I didn't know she was in Melbourne .
she 's really sweet .
Yeah she 's nice .
And there 's another one
She got busted with er didn't you know ?
She got
No .
busted for smoking in one of the loos .
Oh poor girl .
She was smoking in the bathroom with Rachel and Hattie .
I thought it was just Rachel and Hattie .
No Tessa was in there as well .
Oh .
Mrs was really surprised when she saw Tessa in there .
It was quite funny .
For God 's sake .
Ali really scared me today
Why ?
Cos she goes , she was going oh and I didn't know the UCCA forms had to go to the master and I thought
I overheard that this afternoon , I didn't think that was
Yeah I didn't know that at all and erm she said , she goes , I went oh but he doesn't know anything , how would he , he wouldn't even know who I am , he wouldn't you know , how can he tell if 's writing a fair report
Mm .
she goes oh she d he does know you , he does know everyone .
Bollocks .
I went rubbish cos he came and said to me the other day oh so how are you enjoying your first term
Oh good .
I thought yeah , that 's right .
Actually I 've been here a year .
Exactly .
. And erm she goes oh sh he knows your reputation , I mean he not , maybe not by face but erm but he 'll know you , you know , just , he 'll know your reputation or by who you hang around with , I went I 've never done
Oh good !
I 've never done anything wrong how can I , how can he know me ?
And she goes oh well just by the people you hang around with .
Oh !
Right okay erm
who do you hang around with ?
Ah !
Erm Luke , Callum , Tom
Sarah and Rachel .
Mm .
Er
Mm .
It was really weird erm Si was saying about , and he was going oh it , it 's gonna be really odd in the summer term to see how Luke reacts when , I mean cos Andy 's not there at cricket
Yeah .
Weird .
I remember watching the cricket last year
So do I .
just so cool .
So
Who was in the cricket last year ?
There was Phil , Luke
Si
Si , Andy Dave
Giles
Giles ,
Rob
Rob
Charlie ?
No .
No .
Prem
I just said Prem
Oh yeah .
Erm
Oh what 's his name erm him , wasn't he in it ?
Oh Mark yeah .
Mm .
And there 's that bloke in the fifths that was in it , oh not the fifths
There was someone Middle or something
Middle
wonder bowler
Yeah , and he was in it , okay that 's fi that 's ten , how many are there in a cricket team ?
Eleven I think .
Dunno .
And there was one more upper sixth I think .
Yeah .
don't know who it was .
Oh wasn't it erm Charlie or something ?
Some bloke from Colvern .
Charlie ?
Who the hell is he ?
Was he ?
Some rough bloke who was going out with Katie .
Who was Katie ?
God !
Upper sixth last year .
What did she look like .
She was in Lawrence .
That helps .
Not very attractive .
Erm
erm brown hair , quite long average figure no you don't know
Pretty ?
Not really .
Who is she ?
It 's not a problem , I 'll show you a photo .
This is gonna really fuck me up .
Er dunno .
Who was , okay , I can't remember anyone now .
Well you must be able to remember Tessa .
Tessa loves us .
She loves me , love .
Mm .
She loves me .
Annabel .
Annabel loves me as well funnily enough .
Sam
Yeah .
Lucy
Lucy
Erm
Erm shit I can't remember anyone .
Er oh God what 's her face
Who ?
No she 's
Heather
Who 's Heather ?
I 've never , never
Jo , Jo
Jo yes , I never found out who Heather was .
Was she quite chubby ?
Yeah .
Chubby , chubby .
Ginger haired
Oh erm oh God , what 's her name er Becky Becky rough bitch .
Who ?
What 's her name !
She cut her hair to about , to about there but it was once down , right down here
You 've lost me totally .
curly blonde oh shit
Blonde ?
Not blonde , n not blonde blonde but sort of
Oh !
lighter than yours but not blonde .
Erm oh it 's gonna really fuck me up .
She 's really annoying and she was a real tart and she
Philippa ?
That 's the one .
Erm
Her and Harry
When ?
Last term , they went out with each other .
Si er no
Oh yeah .
not Si , Sal got off with her .
When ?
he was going round going oh my God I got off with a real dog .
Yeah why did he get off with her ?
I dunno it was a dare I think .
I hate it , I al I always get really paranoid with people I get off with cos I always think it 's a dare from someone .
Oh yeah , right !
I do I always think that .
for a dare
What ?
wouldn't get off with you for a dare .
wouldn't get off with me anyway
No cos you 're just rough .
Four minutes .
Mm I'm going to bed then as soon as it hits twelve .
How much have you done now ?
Have you got another half side yet ?
Mm .
Really ?
That 's quite impressive .
Mm .
We 've been talking for about fifteen minutes .
Mm .
Wake up girl , who are you going to snog ?
Who are you going to snog on Saturday ?
Tired .
I don't know .
Snog Phil .
No I 've done him already
So ?
done it , been there , got the T-shirt .
Got the video , got the fliers
Mm .
don't know .
Oh go for Phil .
I 'll probably end up snogging with him at my party .
Jim snogging at my party I said yeah probably .
Yeah well party
I am , it 's gonna be a massive orgy .
everything planned , the dodgy cocktails
Oh it 's so irritating ,
Did I tell you about the cocktail that Sal told me called erm
Oh you did tell me that .
after birth and test tube baby .
Urgh rough .
Sounds really nice though , Baileys , Tequila
I can imagine , I can just imagine it .
Grenadine .
Grenadine .
Well you just mix it together , it looks like something 's floating in some clear a clear water , really rough and you just knock it back .
What was the other one ?
Slow comfortable screw erm sex on a beach
Sex on a beach ,
behind the wall or something
Yeah .
erm gang bang , no kamik yeah kamikaze
Gang bang , kamikaze erm rusty nail
Oh yeah ?
Sit on that eh .
erm
Anything else ?
there 's another one , I can't remember what it 's called , zombie
Mm .
They sound really yummy as well .
and daiquiri .
What 's that ?
It 's lush .
What is it ?
It 's it is absolutely gorgeous , it just tastes like bananas , you don't taste , it 's like banana milkshake but you don't taste
Has it got any alcohol in it ?
yeah loads but you just don't taste it
Oh .
and you just like
How 's it go ?
Yeah right .
Erm no it 's got , it 's got red and white something in it .
Red and white stuff , yeah ?
I 've forgotten what it 's called .
grenadine ?
Grenadine ?
No I can't remember I 've got a nose cold .
Mm I 've got , I 've had a bloody cold for fucking ages .
That 's why I said
I know you should 've stayed at home till the beginning of this week .
Yeah .
I would have really loved it , I'm
My throat is still fucked .
Is it really painful ?
No I just sound like a bloke .
Oh bunny you 'll be alright sweetheart
Yes .
you 'll probably get another offer tomorrow .
I haven't even sent off my fucker form yet .
Fucker form I 've heard it called .
all it is it 's such a shit .
Especially that further information bit , you 've just got ta say how wondyfu wonderful you are
Wondyful .
wondyful .
I got my colours .
Oh no I didn't .
Yes you did , you got it for
When ?
I saw it on the board this morning .
Well I haven't looked at the board for a week
You 've got a you 've got colours .
Who 's got colours ?
All of the upper sixth have got them .
Well not all but I mean Laura , Sarah , Rachel erm you and
Jenny ?
Jenny people like that , dunno .
And I 've got , I 've got my colours for netball and Roxy has and Katrina from the lower sixth are getting theirs in February .
Oh that 's good .
Cos then it will be good .
We get priority and then they 've got hockey colours as well like Kay and
Ali ?
Ali erm
?
Sal , I dunno I haven't looked at it all .
There are loads of colours
Yes I'm going to bed .
great .
What ?
The people are wonderful .
So , so are netball .
No they 're not .
Yes we are .
Crap .
We 're lovely .
No you 're not .
Yes we are .
Crap .
Anyway I'm gonna go .
Okay .
Right , signing off .
Bye .
Er yeah that 's right yeah alright .
Oh shut up .

You 've left what where ?
Water in the sink .
I'm telling Angela .
They 're a blight that 's all there is I 've done all the other dishes and everything .
Well who were you talking to anyway about the rain ?
The staff at
Oh .
What were you saying to them about
We were laughing about it .
Cos I was telling them that we were sick of seeing the rain and that .
Yes .
You know cos the rain won't stop all day .
And I said to them I said I watched a film last night called Savage Sea .
And I said all the way through the film practically they were praying for rain .
Mm .
Right ?
And there 's us saying that we were sick of the rain .
So I says erm someone turned round and said , Oh should come here you can have some of ours .
And they were laughing .
They were laughing at it .
Oh .
Cos I turned round and said that .
Oh never seen that before .
Oh .
What ?
D'ya want me to erm have this set now for in the morning while ?
No .
Be able to set your clock .
Cos you know how to set that don't you ?
Mhm .
Nineteen pounds ninety five .
Although I don't know .
Twenty one ninety five and they were twenty two pounds
What 's that doing ?
What 's that doing ?
What 's what doing ?
That .
It 's recording .
Recording what ?
You .
Why ?
Eh ?
Why is it recording me ?
Well why not ?
Ask your mother .
Why ?
Well my sister recording this .
Where you getting that from ?
Ask your mother .
Where is she ?
Go and tell her .
Where are you ?
Where are you ?
Your daughter wants you .
She 's in bathroom .
What 's this ?
She wants to know what that is .
It it 's a test from now till next Friday all the conversations we have .
Why ?
And you know when you have ordinary conversation when we 're talking or anything
Why ?
on a conversation .
It 's for Oxford University to use .
If it 's anything that 's really personal and you don't want it taping you can erase it and you get a twenty five pound voucher next Friday .
You do it for Marks and Spencers for doing it .
Oh ?
So is that yours ?
No it belongs to the people Oxford University use the English language .
It 's what English language be using now in nineteen ninety .
In the libraries and everything .
Oh .
So has that just been recording all that I 've just all I 've just said ?
Yeah .
But it doesn't matter does it ?
I mean you 'd have a conversation anyway .
We talk in the house don't we ?
Or we had
Are you bothered ?
Am I bothered ?
Yes .
She 's not saying
Depends what I'm talking about .
Well you 've just talked about
talking about .
the rain .
There 's nothing wrong with that .
Well nothing but d'ya know what I mean it 's sort of .
It 's like at work erm Mark put two speakers one for listening and one for hearing
Yeah .
right ?
You know in case one of the residence needs help or anything
Yeah .
during the night .
So he put one in the living room and he put one in the kitchen .
Yeah .
Now the the girls didn't know it was there and it 's a good job that they were n't talking about him or talking about anybody .
Why ?
Otherwise we 'd have heard what they were saying .
Oh would they ?
Now me I think that 's sneaky .
D'ya know what I mean ?
Well that isn't because
Because
if there 's anything personal you can erase it .
But the more tapes I do and when I 've she 's coming for it eleven o'clock next Friday .
Oh when I do it for the week I'm gonna get a twenty five pound voucher for Marks and Spencers .
Well can we can we rewind that back and listen to it ?
Yeah if you want yes .
Through headphones but you can't the tape 's not full yet .
But it doesn't matter .
I think you 'd better switch it off anyway hadn't you ?
Cos nobody 's gonna be having a conversation .
You 're going in the garage now .
We 're having a conversation now aren't you ?
I'm going to the bedroom .
You 're talking now .
I'm talking now
Now that is conversation talking .
You 're also talking posh as well .
Yeah .
I'm not .
You are .
you 're not
You can erase that now .
Why ?
Cos you can't I don't want that on the tape .
You don't want what on the tape ?
What you two have just said to me .
What ?
I want it erased .
Why ?
Cos
That you 're talking posh .
I don't need you two
You 're doing it nobody else .
I'm not .
Of course you are .
I'm not .
Of course you are .
How d'ya press stop ?
How d'ya press stop .
No it 's
You press the button .
Which one ?
The one that says stop .
Can you see ?
There that 's better light .
The army at Leyland and she would have big stuff on you know .
She had a big
she had a big er a great big cardigan and a fish all way down back .
Well , ha David said , we didn't know .
And er she says er , what did they call her ?
Who are you talking about ?
Her with great fish on her .
Oh Miss Anderson .
Miss Anderson .
Aye .
Oh you can have that on .
Oh will I sell it .
Is it on ?
Aye Oh well .
Er she said er er Doris said , Doris , she says er , Oh captain she says er isn't it Anderson coming tonight ?
And she said , Yes I suppose so .
So she says , Oh I hope she doesn't come with that great big cardigan on with that great big fish on the back of her on her back on her cardigan .
Mm .
She said , She she 's big enough she said why do wear that great big fat always have to have heavy clothing .
She said , I'm going to see her she said and if she has it on I'm going to take her on one side and I'm going to say , Miss Anderson will you let me tell you how to dress .
She said you want nice fine things when you 're fat to make you slimmer .
Not that great big thing on .
And as she was say as she was telling us this the door bell went .
And in she come .
And she said and she said thank you she said , Miss Anderson she said she ought to have more sense than come in a thing like that she said to the officers .
And of course Miss Anderson entered the door and she said , Oh she said is that talking about me ?
And you 're dad said , Oh no no .
And we just flipped right quick you see .
And Doris said , Oh thank you she said did I didn't know that we 're recording .
Well I said it you said it and it 's the truth .
She said , Why should she wear .
It was a great you know er
I know I remember it .
er big heavy knitted cardigan and this great big fish on the back .
Well it was terrible really .
Well we had such a laugh about it you know .
She said , Oh she said I thought it was talking about me .
So Doris said , Oh well I don't know what 's on that she said .
Oh dear me .
So you see you never know do you ?
Oh
Well I was telling dad that at work Mark 's just got like two speaker things .
One 's for listening and one 's talking into .
He put one in one room and one in the other .
Well they came in a in a parcel the other the other day .
And er he says go and sneak in in the kitchen and put it in the kitchen .
So we were all sitting in the living room .
Well you could hear everything .
And one of the woman one of the woman she came through and she said , I'm sorry , she said , but I'm not happy about that .
And I said to dad I said , It 's a good job they were n't talking about one of the other staff or anything or about Mark or anything .
D'ya know what I mean ?
I think I think it 's sneaky me .
I think it 's sneaky having that on
Oh they put it out in to to see if anybody 's talking about him do they ?
Well not specifically for that .
Well what 's it in aid of ?
It 's for what it is it 's if say like Mark or the staff were upstairs
Mm .
and the residence are downstairs
Mm .
if somebody needed erm a member of staff
Oh it has to be on all the time has it ?
they would hear them .
Mm .
They would hear that they wanted help or anything .
I mean we 've got call buttons .
Mm .
Yes .
But what it is it 's come in a great big pack package thing these two speakers .
Mm .
They 've come with erm
And they 're all the time are they ?
Mhm .
Well cos they would have to be won't they ?
Cos you don't go
Come erm
just going to have to ring .
Could n't ring .
with coloured felt tip pens .
Mhm .
And felt tip pens I mean there 's about five five lots in different colours .
Mm .
And erm paper crayons pencils it 's like a package
Mm .
for er mentally handicapped home
Mm .
and that .
And it came with them .
thing is
Mind
if I stay in the right place .
Then you 're not afraid are you ?
said you know one there 's always one that you don't like when you 're working in a big group .
Well Molly she was the one that came through and she wasn't happy .
Mm .
She said it was sneaky the way he did it .
Oh .
If he 'd have turned round and said , Look I'm putting this in the kitchen I'm gonna be listening to what you 're saying then she wouldn't minded .
Oh well wouldn't have been saying anything then would they ?
Yeah but she wouldn't have minded .
if she 's not satisfied with it she should tell him .
It 's no
But
good telling everybody else .
But they could 've been talking about something personal and we would 've heard everything they said .
Mm .
D'ya know what I mean ?
Well no if first
in reverse isn't it ?
Yeah .
Well you don't speak up do you ?
No .
If you you think it 's gonna be recorded and you don't know .
Well you just
It is just like a baby alarm .
Well any anyway personal you know don't talk in a crowd
You can hear them but they can't hear you .
do you if it 's personal
No .
at all personal .
No well that 's it .
I mean you don't talk personal things
And there should 've been
shout across the room to them .
Well it 's put your own in .
Mm .
I'm going to pinch a leek now .
five .
five .
How old am I ?
Pardon ?
Took his er took er my dad 's last whisky .
Last of the orders .
Oh dear .
all the residents today .
Have you had them all there ?
I 've had them all there yeah .
All seven of them came for dinner .
It was really a success .
Oh .
I'm breaking them in for a horse .
Erm
No you don't need to now .
You don't need to .
I 'll put that on side
Erm we just like put a big spread on a big buffet .
We had erm little pork sausage rolls
And you didn't invite me ?
no .
Yes .
Get off your bum then .
Erm we had little pork sausage rolls pork pies cut up erm this is what
Oh where 's my glasses ?
Where 's my glasses ?
This is what erm
this is what all the shopping was for when I got drenched .
Erm sandwiches we got buns from erm you know where the centre is ?
The will be taking out isn't it ?
Safeway
What ?
in the
erm
No it 's natural isn't it ?
salads erm little hot dogs cut up .
We just did a big buffet .
In sat the residents down and then we sort of like hovered .
You know we just sort of like got our own stuff .
We had jelly and cakes biscuits for afterwards .
So it was really nice .
And then afterwards we went into erm went into the room and erm we put some compact discs on some music on and that .
And we got these drawings these these
Going out anyway .
people and what have you out .
And erm did some drawings with them and that .
And it was really a nice
help anyway .
Cos I said my grandparents were Scottish .
One of the staff that I work with
Who was that
It 's a stereo microphone on it as well .
she 's erm
What you doing you ?
one of the staff
Well don't play out with things then
one of erm one of the staff I work with talks like Richard .
She 's from Kent
Mm .
and she 's got Richard 's accent .
She speaks very similar accent .
Mm .
But erm you know when Richard
Can you get cigarettes love out of my pocket ?
when Richard says , don't worry ,
Mm .
she 's got the same accent and she 's from Kent and Martin
Yeah well they 're all the same .
But they 're all .
But she was saying
she was say same thing .
Well that 's that 's partly what they want to find out as well .
Cos I mean if you put Aunty Mary down on there , Yorkshire .
I suppose they 'd say that 's not a Yorkshire accent she 's talking
No but
But you see this is what they want to find out now the dialect 's changed in
In all
That 's it .
last night but there was a request for
Was there ?
Yeah .
A request for on Frank
Oh oh Arthur a request from
oh I know yeah
That were that were flat
Now what were they the other week from
I don't yeah .
From near
Yeah granddad I was saying you know when erm you know when Richard was saying it 's an insult to be called a cockney when he 's not a cockney .
She was saying the exact same thing .
Yes well I said it 's not cockney .
It 's an insult to be called a cockney .
Their accent isn't cockney .
That 's right they 're not .
But she was saying the exact same thing cos I was and he acts as my .
Goes mad when you have to call him a cockney .
Well one of us today did he say cockney .
doesn't mean nothing wrong by it
No .
it just he says well to me London 's cockney .
Yeah yes .
But it 's not cockney .
No a lot of people say that .
No but I mean er I don't agree with this I don't agree with this .
Er like er Richard said er you should n't say bus .
Mm .
Well that to me is ignorant .
It 's picking you up before you fall .
It is picking you up before you fall .
And I don't agree with that because we 're right where 's the bus .
There 's no bus .
It 's bus if you want to say bus .
it 's not bus .
Alright if they say that 's their their talk .
Vase a vase .
He would say a vase .
Yeah he would say a vase .
Like Aunty Mary does but they say that down there .
Well alright we know what they mean .
But why have they change why have it always picking people up and saying er
they 're just carrying on .
it 's a bus it 's a bus .
He was just winding her up .
Yeah well I mean they should n't wind people up I mean she 's just .
I mean you if you said a bus I 'd said , Oh what 's up with our June what 's where she what 's she who 's she trying to .
And then these people that do this they don't they ?
But that 's on there on that tape .
Cos to me I wasn't but they said I was talking posh on the tape .
No .
D'ya no I'm not just cos I I said it 's a waste of tape .
Mm .
A waste of tape .
Yeah .
A waste of tape .
That 's not posh .
No well you said that a actually as it came .
You didn't study it to say
I didn't study no I just
Er er you know .
Well it 's like er now that sometimes when you 've been doing the message you know you might talk a little bit different but I mean he 's had elocution lessons .
If I were took I would talk whatever
She says I'm doing now she says I'm doing it now she says I'm doing now .
I would say to the queen what I say to you .
You can't hear it yourself but you are .
But she 's not if it 's coming natural .
I'm doing it now .
I always say that .
What ?
I'm doing it now .
Yeah .
That 's not posh she says it 's posh
No it is it comes out you see .
Yeah it 's not she was
No
speaking posh .
Ah she 's er when you think about it and say , Well I wouldn't talk posh .
I mean as I say if the queen came I would talk how I
like your nan .
She was nearly afraid of me .
afraid of you .
You were n't of afraid of me but the accent that I had at that time .
You see I 'd been Oxford .
See you said to me , Oh cos I'm ever
I I was brought up in Oxford .
so pleased to meet you .
D'ya know that 's how Arthur was when I first met him and and he was .
And when I took him out I'm telling you I was just telling Angela , my dad went
you know just like that .
Mm .
Yeah but you see
but I mean we were n't broad .
I mean there 's dad and his mum and Arthur we were n't we were n't broad .
So
Me mother 's not broad like me dad .
No .
Me dad was broad .
Mm .
But I would 've never I would 've never said to your dad well he 's saying ah he were n't too broad in my opinion like but he was broader than your mother .
He was broad but he knew
But er
his manners mind you .
well of course he did .
Yes I mean that 's noth that 's that 's nothing to do with it .
But er no I don't care how .
We had a lady at Dixon Mrs Brigadier .
And she said to me , she was from Manchester , well she used to talk Manchester Lancashire .
And she said to me she said , Mrs she said , I like to hear to talk because she said you don't put no airs on .
She said you say what you 've got to say and people understand you .
She said and that 's all that matters .
She said er er now well Doris used to say erm what 's this tea
Angela says
She what 's that tea ?
No .
this tea mum ?
Angela says when I'm on the phone she can hear me Stoke on Trent accent .
Well I can't help I don't know when
No no
Yeah but when you 're talking to somebody official you speak posh .
Oh she doesn't she doesn't
Oh hello .
Oh hello .
Look who 's talking .
Yes look who 's talking .
No
Look who 's talking .
No granny
well I don't and I think I know
So do you .
I don't .
On the telephone you do .
I do not .
Now I will say to you , Come on June what we having for tea ?
But if there were somebody posh here I might say , What are we having for our tea ?
I might say that .
Now in Lancashire there are different accents in Lancashire .
says if if there were a tape record on you would say , Now what are we having for tea ?
What are we having for our tea ?
I thought about it .
I 've got no airs and graces .
No neither would I .
When we went to Leyland we would say , What we having us tea ?
But in Leyland they said , What we having for tea ?
Yeah .
Well I say
Can you imagine Aunty Emma being on she say , Nay .
Nay she 'd say yeah .
D'ya know
What I
What are we having what
what are we having for the tea .
what we having what we what we having for the tea .
So that
Yeah .
It 's just something you 're not doing it deliberate .
No .
Well I think the daft I say they say they pick us up but why I don't know .
Because when you say , Away man .
I know .
Well you 're er goes away .
I know .
Why d'ya except to come to you when they 're say away .
Daft isn't it ?
Yes .
No
David was on that tape
Stay away man
with laughter
Stupid .
someone put Stoke on Trent because that 's where he 's from .
Mm yeah .
Not from here .
No .
I mean it a there are accents where they are .
speaks Geordie .
Well he does .
But it but it 's er
I don't care but he was
but I don't know why .
Because it is blunt Geordie 's our David 's speech .
Well yeah when Michael 's up he starts speaking Stoke .
Yes but I mean Michael doesn't speak Geordie .
I mean he 's he 's proper silly is David .
You can hear
Why I that 's Stoke isn't it ?
Mind sometimes if it 's
If it 's
it 's not done deliberate .
I 've noticed when , mind I do it deliberate sometimes , but ordinary I don't .
It 's because I'm with my I 'll say duck .
Mm .
Well I did the other day didn't I ?
It just slipped out .
Yeah yeah .
I mean er I never say that normally .
I mean we 've picked words
But mum
from all over the country .
I 've more or less lost that sense of being with Arthur .
But on the odd occasion it 'll slip out .
Yes .
See did you hear that ?
You can't tell .
Being .
Whereas they 'd say bin .
I would not .
No she wouldn't .
She would .
She 'd have said , Since I 've bin with Arthur .
But cos that 's on she says cos since I 've with Arthur .
No I
I think
all the time .
I think you you talk as it comes .
I do yes .
Well like I do and if if I say
Yeah .
er
Normally she 'd say yeah .
We shall have that , or shall we have that .
Or er
You might just think always
Nan .
You know what she 's just said then ?
picking you up before you fall aren't they ?
Yes yes .
aren't they .
Well I do say
Yes .
that .
Yes .
You know when she said erm
than what you have .
You know when she said , You do yes .
Normally she 'd say , You do yes .
Not all the time .
They do don't they ?
She 'd say if you were n't thinking .
No your mother talks your mother doesn't talk posh .
She talks what she 's been born to talk .
She when when the tape 's on or
No you don't .
or if she 's on the phone .
Mum she nan she don't normal .
I don't think so .
She does cos
Cos she 'd say .
No she wouldn't .
She 'd say , Blah don't talk to daft June .
Where 's your bus .
I mean Aunty Mary , well I don't given up talking to her she 'd she says bus and I just let it go .
Yeah well Richard does that Richard says it 's not bus it 's bus .
It isn't where do they get the bus and bath .
Bath is B A R T H .
It 's B A T H it 's bath .
I know .
It 's bath .
It 's Newcastle not Newcastle .
But if they say Newcastle well alright but I wouldn't say anything .
Newcas Newcastle .
I wouldn't say anything because it 's ignorant .
Picking people up before they fall .
You know what they mean and that 's all that matters .
And they don't say , I know .
They say , I know I know .
I know .
I know .
Yeah .
Yeah well if they say that I wouldn't say I wouldn't pick them up .
I know I know
It 's
I know .
picking them up before they fall .
Picking people up before they fall .
Oh no .
Oh no .
My sister says that a lot .
Oh no .
She 'd just get a bash across the mouth if you kept picking me up .
Does she mess about with your as well ?
Well I 'll tell you what
I should say I 've just as much
When I was down there for the weekend I was speaking their accent .
Dad said .
Oh well your dad used to got to Scotland for the day and when he come back he was Scotch .
I know .
I mean he didn't need to go anywhere .
Erm when dad
When he 'd been home for a month .
Mm .
He was talking an American .
When dad phoned us when I was down there he says , When you come back you can get rid of that acce you can get back to your own accent .
You can drop your acc you can drop that accent .
Yeah but Arthur she only takes after you for that .
I can't help it though .
Wherever I
Because you used to to that .
go I pick up the accent .
It was like when I went down to Liverpool .
I started speaking
Oh but Geordie .
Does she ?
Yeah .
don't she ?
Oh aye .
But er you don't need to say , Oh aye .
You say , Oh yes .
And they kept on saying I know I know I know I know .
And I kept
You was brought up to say , Oh yes .
Not , Oh aye .
Oh aye
I don't pass myself to tape recorder
No .
I know you don't pass yourself out .
I think you 're you 're you 're not passing yourself you 're not speaking as you ought .
Because you would never dream of saying , Oh aye .
Oh aye .
I would .
Because Geordies say that don't they ?
Now June 's father would say , Oh aye .
But it he 'd he 'd take it and forget it .
Oh aye the
No .
And he could he would
And he would say he would say waiter for water or water .
He would bet it .
Who ?
My dad .
But not you .
Because you 've not been brought up to speak broad .
Oh haven't I ?
No .
Oh .
Oh haven't I .
Why haven't
You haven't been you haven't been brought to speak
Me dad was broad but me mother wasn't
Ooh
Shh .
But you 've been brought you 've never had any slang
Ooh
from us .
I wasn't brought up mum
Granddad didn't use slang because he were Norfolk man .
I wasn't brought up having
Now June June 'd say what granddad said , Ask 'd June 'd say , I asked you I asked her .
Like we would say .
June would say , Ask 'd That 's a bit of the the Norfolk in her .
down there were n't you ?
Dorset .
Dorset .
And that is a bit of that .
Cos er cos er my my dad used to say that .
Asked .
No not asked .
Ask 'd .
Ask 'd
There 's something else .
There 's another way of and An Angela 'll say it .
But it 's not ask I mean it 's it 's er er
What ?
takes after .
'T isn't Lancashire .
What ?
Well I can't just remember what the word is now .
But I 'll tell you next time I say
Would ?
it .
or , I saw .
No .
Saw her .
I saw her .
Saw her .
Your mother says , I saw her .
Well that 's Norfolk .
Well that 's Norfolk .
My dad used to say , I saw her .
He say , I saw her .
I 've always said that .
Yes well it 's your er your Dorset in you .
I 've got all sorts in me .
I must have all sorts in me .
But because you say , I saw her , it isn't it isn't wrong .
We all know what you mean .
Actually I should speak some Geordie with having a Geordie mother should n't I ?
We all know what you mean .
Well she were she were n't broad Geordie you see .
No she 's what you call as as Arthur says , A posh Geordie .
Well no .
She she 's doesn't talk
Allan at Leadgate .
He talks with a Geordie accent but it 's a cultured Geordie accent .
Yeah .
Why now what was there somebody on the television Frank was saying
from Hartlepool .
lived next door to us .
Now honestly you could hardly tell what he says can you ?
Well I says to your mother one time when we 'd been downtown and your passing through
Ooh Roy is awful int he ?
Terrible .
Mm .
Yeah .
I said I said to her , They 're talking foreign language .
talking real broad Yorkshire .
You say , Int he , a well .
Well I say that .
Broad Geordie .
Yeah well that 's probably got that
Yeah well I say , Int he .
But it or if I were to be thinking I 'd say , isn't he .
Or I might say , isn't he .
talking to your dad some things if if er I don't agree on something I 'll say , Nay Arthur that 's Aunty Emma isn't it ?
I used to love , ee I used to love going , Nay .
You know .
What next .
But my language on the platform 's entirely different to what I speak
Yeah but not
You 're not broad Yorkshire
but you 're not posh Charlie .
Charlie Williams int it that 's broad Yorkshire int it ?
Yes .
Charlie Williams .
Cos I said many a times Arthur
No .
You say , Thee , though .
Well
There you go .
No you know what I mean .
Granddad says , Thee .
Yeah yeah he does say , Thee .
Cos I 've heard him say , Thee .
No he doesn't say , Thee , when he might when he 's fooling about with you .
says , Hey thee .
No he doesn't .
Not not for normal talk .
No granddad doesn't say , Thee .
No .
Thou aye
Who says thee thy though thou isn't
Quakers .
It 's er the
Know I am with thee always .
Yes he 'll say that .
But not not when he 's
Quakers talk
not when he means you .
I don't think that comes up much in conversations though does it ?
I think it was James that was in a film once
What ?
Thou though I am with three .
No but I was saying that , Thou I am with thee always , that it wouldn't say
Do you remember that film James was it James was in it wasn't he ?
when he means you .
He would say , Thee come here .
Did you tape that today ?
Well me dad might have done .
You come here birdie .
But er no that 's what Arthur used to say , Come here birdie .
Never say , Come here .
He say , Come here birdie .
Your dad .
Some of the Geordie accents I can't understand them saying , Away man .
No well they say , Away man , and expe expect child to come to them .
I say come here .
How can you come to you 're always saying , Away .
How can he
But you don't say , Away .
You do .
You say , Away man .
Away man .
No you say , Away .
Well , Away man .
That 's stupid .
You say away you mean away .
But you don't not if it 's a Geordie child it knows to come there otherwise it gets a clip across the lug .
What ?
If I was talking to my
You say away when you mean come here .
and they were behind I 'd say , Come here now hurry up .
Yes .
You know .
Yes .
You know .
If you break your leg don't come running here to me .
What ?
What says .
You what ?
If you don't break if you break your leg
If you breaks your leg don't come running to me crying .
If you break you leg don't come running .
How could you come running if you broke your leg ?
if you breaks your leg don't come running to me crying .
If thou breaks the leg
don't come running to me .
If they breaks the leg .
If they
If thou breaks the the leg
don't come running to me .
running to me .
If thou breaks the leg don't come running to me .
No .
Oh dear .
when he was a
My dad had a problem saying broken he 'd probably say , Broken .
Yeah mm well he had a little bit of of er what shall we say slang if that 's the word .
But he wasn't he wasn't
wasn't dead rotten
No .
No .
But we didn't I mean never Arthur never had any broad broad
broad Lancashire .
Arthur never heard .
Because me dad didn't talk broad Lancashire .
Me mother didn't because she were n't Lancashire .
Mm ?
Never er not what you can call swear me dad you know .
No .
Well where did grandma come from ?
My mum came from Bacup .
Bacup .
That 's Kent int it ?
No .
Thought Bacup was in Kent .
Lancashire ?
Lancashire int it ?
But there is a Bacup in Kent int there ?
I don't know .
Yeah there is .
Bacup .
Bacup in Kent .
Then they came to live at .
Why d'ya mean
Why ?
Where did Aunty Lilly 's husband come from ?
Did he did he come from ?
Yes he was from er .
Yes .
So a language all of her own when she 's on the phone talking to us .
Me dad came to live er me dad from Norfolk he came in shepherd boy
she had a bit of Geordie .
But the best one out the lot I do Stoke .
What is the time please ?
The best accents I do out the lot of them is yours .
The best I
I don't talk like that any more now because people think I
You do as your own
I 've lost me own .
Just the odd word now .
Just the odd word now .
It comes out what you want it to come out has to come out .
I 've been with your dad that long I just
I 've been with your dad that long .
Been with dad that long .
You you can tell you 're from Stoke on Trent .
Well how come then people say , What part of Lancashire you from ?
Yes .
Because they 're ignorant .
Or
No they 're not ignorant .
Not ignorant when they say .
Well they are ignorant cos I would never say which part of .
Fellow said to me the other week you don't live here .
I said , Oh yes I do .
Stoke on Trent .
It isn't .
It is .
That 's Lancashire .
I would never pick anybody up .
Well I think I talk more with a Lancashire accent than I do a Stoke on Trent accent .
If you can tell what you say that 's all that matters isn't it ?
You wait till you rewind that tape back and listen to yourself and you 'll hear Stoke on Trent .
I know cos
Stoke on Trent you 're saying Stoke .
Cos mum does .
Well it 's not Stoke it 's Stoke .
It 's Stoke .
Stoke .
Stoke .
Stoke on Trent .
You listen to Michael talking .
You say to Michael
You my brother .
If you if you say to Michael , Michael where do you come from ?
He say Stoke on Trent .
Stoke .
D'ya know what our Michael says when he he 's telling anybody 's not there he 's coming up here ?
Our Michael
when he 's telling anybody in Stoke on Trent that he 's coming up here .
He 'll say I'm going to Durham .
He doesn't say South Shields .
He says I'm going to Durham .
I'm going to Durham I'm going to Durham see .
I'm going to Durham .
That is Stoke I'm going to Durham .
Yes well it is but
You alright duck .
But she 's a right to say that because she is
You alright duck ?
She is right to say
Oh you little duck .
Oh you little duck .
but she doesn't say it very often .
What 's his name Bobby , Oh you little duck .
Oh you little duck .
I love accent me .
She doesn't say
She 's really broad isn't she ?
Well she 's Stoke .
Stoke or whatever you want to say .
Blaydon .
I used to live at Blaydon .
Blaydon .
Stoke or whatever you want to say .
Well that 's what it 's called Blaydon .
Actually speaking proper Eng proper English it 's Blayton ton .
Blayton .
Not Blaydon .
I say Blaydon .
Blaydon .
make her own dinner aye Arthur ?
Mm .
Well it 's like Harpenden .
Well there 's nobody likes talk
You don't you don't
Aye you can .
Harpenden you say Harpenden .
Oh I always think about Mrs .
She I I mean she were brigadier and she 'd gone through all her life
I bet realize she said that .
What ?
Aye they can .
What ?
Aye they can .
Then she said Arthur say that .
You just said , Aye they can
What ?
Can what ?
I said if nobody like the way I talk they can lump it and you said , Aye they can .
Mm .
Aye .
Aye aye you see ?
They 're not threatening to
Nan says , Aye , a lot .
You say , Aye , a lot you do .
Well
I 've never heard you
I am
hole in the ground with water water .
Only the odd occasion I 've heard your nan say , No .
But Aunty Annie used to say , Nay , a lot .
I am the great I am .
Aunty Lilly used to say , Nay , didn't she ?
I'm the yes I am .
I 'll say this if anybody wants to
I say this
pick fault in way I talk well I don't think to hear
Well I tell you
as broad as Aunty Annie .
Pardon ?
She is .
To me Aunty Annie didn't
But
Oh no .
as broad as Aunty Annie .
But if you hear her on a if you hear her on a tape recorder she is .
Mm .
We 've two or three recordings of Aunty Annie and er
You 're saying
she is broad on them all .
You say about Richard 's accent if you hear his sister she 's even broader .
No I don't say anything about Richard 's accent .
He lives down there he 's Harpenden .
He 's southern .
Alright .
Well he doesn't live down there now .
Well let me ex he is he 's southern .
So that 's their talk .
I mean I I don't mind
place int it ?
But you listen to Richard and you listen to his sister and hear the difference and they 're both from the same place .
Well I don't know why that is .
You hear the difference .
When I hear Richard I can hear Aunty Mary .
You get that in lots of
Richard I can hear Aunty Mary .
Well you can when you hear his sister .
Yeah .
I mean you wouldn't you wouldn't think for one minute that Aunty Mary came from .
No .
But she was more southern than Vic .
Were n't you ?
Mm .
Although when she stayed with us in Aug
he speaks with a southern accent .
Yes Uncle Billy .
Well to me it
When she were talking to us Aunty Mary you could hear some Yorkshire accent .
You could hear the Yorkshire coming through .
Yeah could n't we ?
Mm .
Cut glass and you could fall through window .
Could n't we ?
Yeah .
Could n't we .
If we had Aunty Mary
Well you don't
You don't .
say what you 're saying .
What ?
Talks posh Uncle .
Mm .
He pronounces er don't he ?
Yeah well if .
Talking glass cut glass and
you see first of all it was the fact that she was living amongst and
Ee well living with Sally and Sally was .
Sally wouldn't talk that .
But Sally never really went out to work .
He did .
And he was
Definitely talks posh .
I mean was a man he was management .
Yeah I know but well why haven't you got ?
Because I haven't
Talking like your fault .
No .
All over the world you 've been .
Well I 've got bits of everything .
But you 're still
He 's not rough .
He 's no .
So why
Aye ?
Be the day that he 's ever been .
Dad .
I'm not .
you are .
Yes you are .
What ?
Yes you are .
Because turn it off a minute
turn it off a minute .
Off a minute .
Dad .
D'ya call Stockton people as Geordies ?
No .
No .
But they are aren't
Big rolls of cloth in the mill .
Yeah seen Arthur Arthur .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Well our Ar we used to have to carry their own .
But out Annie she was
because erm ship you know and our Annie used to have to carry her own .
Well she used to have to give some give somebody sixpence which were a lot of money in them days .
Carry it for her .
Sam would never carry it .
And he would never let our Emma carry it .
And all nasty things he did to her .
And the doctor said , Yes .
And that 's what it 's all about .
It 's been so impregnated in the child 's mind that she just Well they just could n't they could n't fathom it because he used to
did you get on alright ?
Well yes in a way .
We didn't have a lot to do with him really .
Well I kept well I I got on alright with him cos he I were a lot younger and he used to give me sixpence to go and get some ice cream so as I them would be on their own a bit you see .
Well .
.
I thought you were wonderful giving me money and I 'd be right quick and he 'd say , be so long getting that .
Here 's another sixpence go for something else .
And I thought he were wonderful cos he kept giving me money you see .
And even he had like their their wedding ring was in a little purse .
Well when that Joe and Annie got married Joe gave me the little purse with a threepenny bit in .
Well felt a millionaire with threepenny bit .
And that when our Alice got married Jim gave it me with a threepenny bit in .
But when Sam got married he 's had to have a sixpence in .
You see he was that always had to be showing off and .
But er oh he wasn't liked at all .
Aunty Emma children but she miscarried didn't she ?
Only one she had that 's all .
But er
two
Oh she he was nasty .
And er
She were really good to ours one she was .
And she she used to say used to say , Oh he had a watch a gold watch and he 'd dangle it in front of her .
Dangle it for her to play with .
You know .
But she just bash it out of it and it 'd hit his face and of course he went mad then .
But he would give her anything then but it were like the doctor said it was too late .
The damage had been done .
Cos he said
What I say .
Cos she said to the doctor she said , What 's the matter with her ?
She not told me she 's no pins sticking in her .
And it she had a right talk to him and he said , Well that 's it .
He said , with one person ?
And she said , Yes .
She said it 's only with him .
Oh he said , That 's it .
Oh me mother used to she was to have a sofa in front of the window .
Me mother used to go in and lie down when she 'd been to the work .
Was it Aunt Aunty Emma that had it a bit rough ?
his mother .
His mother .
My mother and dad didn't go to Aunty Emma 's wedding .
Did they not ?
No .
Because he he want he wanted to be married at nine o'clock in the morning for a start off .
Me dad says , Well I can't go then .
He said I can't go at nine o'clock I can't .
Well poorly man then and I mean he hadn't come round till dinner .
He said , No Emma I can't there 's no way I can be at a wedding to give you away at nine o'clock .
And er oh his mother had been every so nasty she said , Before you would get married she 'd gas him .
Sam .
Oh it 's terrible .
And er so you see on the wedding er card it had on er , Mr and Mrs Shaw request the pleasure of Mrs Abbott at their daughter 's wedding .
So I'm told .
And when me dad saw it he said , Well that 's a lie for a start off .
He said I don't want to request her pleasure .
He says , She 's caused more bother in this house he said than enough .
He said , So that 's a lie for a start off .
So of course our Emma got it and tore it up and threw it in the fire .
And then he said er , Well he said I must
Aunty Emma didn't she ?
I'm not an Aunty any more .
Well I mean she she hadn't to have one part of the house .
It wasn't and hers .
Mother had to have a nose in .
And there were three
Three names on the
three names
on the .
Oh she was a was his mother .
She had to go and she had to go and live with them he could n't get married without .
He used to mother had to be going living with them .
And all this you see so me dad said , I'm not so bothered about him coming either .
house then ?
Aunty Emma 's husband .
together .
The three of them
No three of them
three of them .
at it .
And then er so our Emma said , Oh well if you 're not don't want don't want these to come she said alright and she said she all the invitations and threw them all on the fire .
So that 's it then she said there 'll be nobody come .
So she said , There 'll be there 'll be me there 'll be Sam Jack Jack
Is that the
No you wouldn't know Jack .
He 'd be dead before you came along .
And who else ?
Our Annie .
Well wasn't he a that were in army once ?
Well that was the four of them .
No that were n't that was Fred , brother .
Oh .
So that were four of them .
Said which we .
And then she said , Oh well .
My mother said , Well you 're not going Arthur I'm not going that 's it .
And she said , We can't get married at nine o'clock in the morning .
Oh no he wouldn't have had me in any case .
we hadn't to go .
We hadn't to go even .
Anyway we did get about ten year old we did go .
But me mother didn't go .
So she says so he said that she said , Oh what about the breakfast .
Will you make a wedding breakfast for for the officers there were two officers and Sam and Emma and our Annie and Jack .
About six of them .
So my mother said , Oh well yes if that 's what you want me to be to be a servant .
I 'll be I 'll be I 'll do that .
And then Sam said , Oh well me mother will have to come .
So mother were coming .
Then he were having some Aunts come from er his Aunts from er Manchester .
So they had to come they were la-de-das .
Then er me mother said , Right .
Oh well me mother said , If they 're all coming right all my family 's coming .
They 'll all come to the tea .
So our Alice and Jim they didn't go to the wedding .
Our Alice and Jim our Annie were best er were maid of honour so she were there .
And Joe didn't go that were four .
Who else ?
There were Sam and Harriet .
They didn't go .
Our John and Molly they didn't go so that were eight .
So my mother had all her family spread for the tea .
She said , Yes if that 's where you want me , she said , I 'll be there in the kitchen .
It was awful .
Then when they did get married they did get married .
Then when they went to the photographers half past ten shut .
So I don't know where they did get their photographs taken at the finish .
Cos he it well I don't know .
Nobody told me that bit .
Did Aunty Annie used to wait then ?
She were n't waiting when I knew her .
Yes Aunty oh yes Aunty Emma went to Street .
Oh yeah .
Must have retired .
Oh dear no .
Nobody liked him .
Nobody liked Sam .
Int it funny how our our lads talk about Aunty Emma .
Well then our er see our Sam had
How do they remember him ?
pneumonia .
And er well they all sat up .
Well I didn't because I were n't old enough like I were only young .
But they all sat up with him at night and er he said er to our Emma , We 're going out on Saturday night going up .
And she said , No , she said , I can't go tonight she said .
I always remember like I were only little but I remember these things you know .
She said oh she said I it mind turn to sat with our Sam .
So she so he said , Why should you sat with your Sam she says cos he has a mother and father .
She said , You 're not stopping .
He were boss of her .
And er she says , Well , she says , If the others have stopped it 's my turn .
He says , No turn about it .
Tell them you 're not stopping .
But she didn't .
Whatever he whatever he said was law .
He was the boss .
And cos
Should n't be any bosses who should be
No but everybody were all all up against him you see .
And our Alice , oh our Alice she hated him .
He was so nasty with her .
Did you get on alright ?
And our Sam .
Well there again you see were only young and she 'd be alright with him I suppose .
Loved children though mum didn't she ?
Oh our Emma did yeah .
I mean when our lads were missing we always knew where to go .
Of course .
When she got married in a red wedding dress well oh dear me .
Married in red you say wish you were dead our Annie says .
By gum she she had some trouble on him not half .
She were ever so good to the lads though .
You 'd and all that .
Do his
And then when he got a bit more money we thought he were too big for his shoes .
He 'd a lot going and .
And then when he took he wheeled about in a wheelchair he 'd say , I want to go to army Emma .
And she 'd wheel him from from their house right up to the station .
You know where station is ?
Right up there and wheel him back and our Annie 'd say , Yeah and I 'd wheel him as well .
Wheel him and let him all over her .
Oh no none of them liked him .
Sad really .
She always had kettle on
but our Emma were alright .
No matter what time you walked in mum , she 'd always kettle hadn't she ?
Oh our Emma were alright .
Ooh aye .
You see he was a
You were just a baby .
fireman and yet he wouldn't he daren't go to sleep with the light off .
But brave enough to go and fight fires and but he wouldn't stop in with himself .
Or he 'd he 'd have to have light on all the all night .
Aunty Emma wasn't she ?
Oh yes .
Our David always remembers his teas and everything and that .
I were only saying to a lady this morning about ee aye our Emma used to come to Leyland with a a wad of ten shilling notes new and we 'd go to er Southport wouldn't we ?
When they come to their holidays you know .
She 'd bring me dad for his holi holiday .
Southport ?
Mm .
And we used to go on Lord Street .
Yes .
We used to go on Lord Street and he used to be where they sold luscious cakes .
And she 'd say er
I went there
yeah .
And she 'd say er , Now come on let 's go let 's go .
Yeah we all went to Southport as children .
Yeah I remember .
She said , Let 's on in she said and er I know
Where were we then ?
Were we at Newcastle ?
No .
Newcastle under Lyme .
I think you must have been .
Yeah .
Well we were at hol at holidays at their house .
And children of course we
Yeah well that 's because
And er she 'd say , Now come on never mind pressuring Ernest to do any cakes let 's go in .
And we 'd go in and then I 'd say to her , Now I 'll pay .
No you 're not paying baby .
I 'll pay .
And she used to love taking a new ten shilling note out of and I 've saved this for holiday .
And of course we never took anything off her like for
She were a kind person .
for keeping because .
Well we did a little bit because but I said , No I don't want anything Emma .
She said , Listen I'm giving a little bit Peggy because , she said , I could n't go away if I could n't come to you .
She said , And I 'll give you a little bit , she said , you must have it or I won't come .
So she did give but she would pay for wherever we went in a cafe .
With this new note you know .
I am not of that now .
Oh no .
I mean that 's all taken away .
And if you give somebody a pound coin they think your giving you two P .
She were kind though were n't she Aunty Emma ?
Oh aye .
I mean we used to go about three times four times didn't we and we oh I bet every time we went she gave him a twenty packet of number ten .
Me a twenty packet of number ten .
Cigarettes you know .
She encouraged them to smoke and then she 'd say be smoking .
Ee mum if you 'd have seen them cigarettes .
all them cigarettes that were in that Uncle George
Yeah and as well
the stuff I have never seen so much stuff .
Toothpastes and all sorts .
don't know what she had toothpastes for cos she 'd false teeth .
Well all the cigarettes but they were n't just
number tens there was Benson and Hedge were n't there and all sorts .
Of cigarettes piles .
We went out somewhere and when we come back they were gone .
They were gone were n't they ?
Yeah .
I says to them
Well what I could n't understand was
It 's all them cigarettes though .
was there ?
Emma .
Oh well I think I smoked at the time .
Well John yeah and our Sam calls John at times
He smoked Harriet smoked cigarettes .
Aye Harriet smoked cigarettes .
At the time .
Yeah cos they were all in there .
And when I got I says to here , I'm sick of having to out all them cigarettes .
I never got
No .
When we went there were a little carrier bag with only a tiny little carrier bag
It were her give it us .
What it ?
Oh
Course they did .
I thought they left it for us .
Oh they left it that I was to give to to Arthur and June .
Packet of sugar and and tea and what have you .
And I said .
Well we 're not taking that home you can have it .
didn't I ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
And she Aunty Alice
Hey d'ya know I never realized till last week
give her some crockery or something .
do you know how much she had personal money ?
Who ?
Aunty Emma .
No .
How much d'ya think ?
I 'd have no idea .
Forty pound .
Mm ?
I said I never realized she 'd only that bit .
Forty pound it said in her will .
That 's all she had .
Have you heard owt about that
No .
Oh well .
Ee I said I think I'm going to write and say I don't know what you 're
You know what 's happened
the Chancellor said I 'll deal with it then .
Well I think we 're lucky they must be keeping it a bit longer for interest of something to all out .
have you ?
No .
I wouldn't be having
Well not a will for for you know somebody like that .
All all her be spent in two minutes .
And yet you say you had a letter didn't you again .
Yes .
About a month ago .
So it must be coming around .
Well it says everything 's being sorted out .
will be through before that will be .
Yeah .
Everything is sorted out now it says .
Just waiting for some tax forms .
I was saying to your mother this morning I wonder whether Prince Harry will become the Earl .
No there 's already been somebody be come .
There 's already somebody come .
Oh is there somebody ?
Oh aye .
There 's a has he has he a son ?
Aye he 's a son .
Oh he has a son .
Yeah .
I thought he 'd just a few girls .
No no he must have .
No he had a son cos he said on teletext that er somebody be come I think it 's the twenty eighth Earl of Spencer or twentieth or something like that .
Oh
Yeah .
Well after all
Yeah .
D'ya want to pick a up ?
No thanks nan .
Sure ?
What ?
What ?
I would hate to be in the royal family .
Hate to be in the royal family ?
Mhm .
Well they they 've got no privacy at all .
Well nobody has privacy who 's in public lives .
I mean who erm who wants to watch their mum grieving over the dad ?
D'ya know what I mean ?
Yeah .
It 's ridiculous .
Well she must have thought a lot of
I mean who wants to get a paper and see on the front of the paper a girl or or Lady Diana crying over her father .
D'ya know what I mean ?
It 's a pity they 've got nothing else better to do .
I was fuming me .
I was fuming .
I would tell them all where to go .
If I had flipping cameras round me all the time I 'd tell them where to go .
Cos I wouldn't I would hate it they 've got no privacy .
Well well she did when she was first married didn't she ?
Mm .
And Charles .
And yet soon as he died they were all there .
And yet Aunty Julie Aunty Julie tell Mary and she had the audacity ooh , to say to me she says , What are you doing here ?
I said to her I have every right to be here he 's my father .
And I used to see my dad all the time .
One minute you 'd have been saying , Yeah you can have this hand .
It 's been like that dad this past fortnight .
You 'll be saying to him , D'ya have to have this on .
I never say that .
Yes you do .
Now they 'll feel better .
I'm just doing anything I'm just doing a pattern .
Started off as a flower .
What ?
It started off as a flower .
It 's just turning into a pattern .
You
when you go back ?
What will happen when I go back ?
Eight till two .
Eight till two .
Oh that 's not too bad is it ?
No .
We 've got bread in .
Aye that 's true .
so all 's we really need is cigarettes .
Yes .
In fact there 's a on Lane .
We just
Yeah there is .
to your mother 's really that 's all .
You only need to carry the fags and milk .
Aha .
You what Angela ?
.
What 's she saying ?
Your remote control ?
.
I don't know , where 's he put it .
.
What remote control ?
Where 've you put it ?
You mean your video one ?
It 's there .
.
There .
Where ?
.. Yeah .
What 's funny ?
What you doing ?
I'm not doing a thing .
You 're doing it .
What you laughing at then ?
.
You 're waiting for what ?
What you waiting for ?
Why don't you put a deck chair out there ?
.
Ooh .
What ?
You nearly got that all down your back .
Why don't you put a deck chair there ?
No .
Better than sitting on the .
No I'm okay .
You nearly ripped me head off earlier .
penknife .
Ow .
sorry .
I thought it was a loose one .
I forgot to leave me penknife so she ripped me head off .
Will you stop it .
Ah .
?
You what ?
chairs .
Oh I don't know now .
that there .
.
No it 's not .
It is .
Will you stop it .
Eh ?
Will you put it away .
What ?
don't pull that .
Why not will your head fall off ?
It might .
Hello .
Mm .
Mind you I ai n't .
Well actually I was sorely tempted to put back .
it only happens since we put clocks forward .
The day we put the clocks forward it 's done nowt but rained .
Yeah .
come back where they come from .
You can't lie on that , that 's granddad 's coat .
.
It is now .
.
It 's alright , I don't smell .
I don't smell you know .
Mm .
Okay ? .
Get lost .
.
What are you doing ? .
.
rip the heads off the daffodils .
.
She had a go at me for pulling out a You know you Just er the other week we walked from where was it ?
What ?
.
and we were walking along and there 's all these daffodils so I went and picked one and I give it to her .
Thing to do you know .
Yeah .
And she says , I don't want that .
That was a romantic gesture .
Thank you .
So I chucked it in the Tyne .
And then we walked on a little bit further and there was big clumps of them everywhere they was .
So I just went up , big handful , pulled 'em out , give them to her .
She says , You rotten sod they were living they were .
She said , how would you like it if I come along and ripped your head off .
Mm .
What you doing with granddad 's mac ?
.
Ee .
.
up there a few times with .
Oh aye .
I don't think they 're every twelve minutes there has n't gone an eighteen up yet .
One day when we get that shed away in the back of there .
Mum will you sit down for five minutes .
Aye ?
walking around .
I'm always like thi
Get a chair and sit down .
aren't I love ?
Enjoying a healthy .
I'm looking o
.
You 're your job Richard ? mower cut the grass .
Cut the grass Angela .
No .
Get off .
No what ?
No .
It 's empty .
Empty ?
Yeah .
Oh .
on it ?
No .
Probably come on the eighteen..
There 's an eighteen coming up anyway .
By 'eck you 've gone quiet .
Eh ?
You 've gone quiet .
Who ?
You .
.
That 's an eighteen .
No just a woman on with a white hat .
No .
Just a woman on with a white hat .
Oh .
Can I Road .
Eh ?
They could be down Road .
No they said they were going down town for some Krona .
To .
that er .
Eh ?
Is that wood or is it ?
Where ?
There .
That there ?
Yeah .
Dad 's it 's off that .
Oh
that erm
two big plants are coming on aren't they ?
Yeah .
Well there won't be another bus up yet will there ?
Did you see the eighteen across there ?
Where ?
In them houses .
No .
No I heard it .
Oh .
They must 've missed that one .
They 're usually in by now .
.
You said get one of them chairs .
Where does grandma keep the chairs now , in the outside cupboard ?
.
Dunno .
It 's gonna rain in a minute .
.
table here love .
Look .
Eh ? .
table .
.
Ow ow .
Mum .
if you break her arm .
He 's hurting me .
I'm not .
all week .
Get off .
.
.
Eh ?
Dad ?
What ?
Can I ?
No .
. You started it .
I didn't , he did .
Will you let go .
don't start something you 're not prepared to take back .
No .
No no .
You hurt her didn't you .
No .
Mm ?
have a stitch .
No .
Mum help .
No .
Help mum .
Mum help .
Richard .
Ow..
She dared me .
for yourself now .
Who ?
I'm saying she can sit there and feel silly for herself now .
Who 's side are you on .
.
Mm do you know , we 're gonna get wet .
Oh don't be awful .
Mum tell 'em .
They 're all ganging up on us .
All ganging up on us .
.
You 're picking on me .
Ah .
Have you got that body spray on ?
Yeah .
Smelly .
Mm it 's awful .
Ooh .
oh quick..
.
Hey pick that cup up .
No .
Five fifty from Avenue down at bottom .
Or five eighteen .
Well the five eighteen goes to a side street
Angela ?
five eighteen
Yeah .
Oh well .
.
.
Eh ?
.
Just this morning .
.
.
I don't know whether it 's this weekend
No I got some other .
One eighty four for the two payments .
Angela .
What now ?
No you 're alright , they give you bags .
Are you sure ?
Yeah .
Cos I want five pounds .
Yes they give you bags .
Oh it doesn't matter .
Angela ?
What you want ?
You .
Oh I see .
What do we want special salad for ?
Oh .
What what er
Angela hang on a minute .
to mind them on Wednesday .
How much is how much is .
How much do you how much do you want ?
Well normally I get five pounds .
Well how much is ten pounds .
So five pound a pound at forty six at ninety two a pound
So that 's
A pound a pound .
Well say a pound a pound .
A pound a pound .
So that 's ten pounds , well you 'll have enough money there won't you ?
Yeah .
Yeah..
You 'll have to carry a basket darling .
Yeah you 'll have some change .
You 'll have some change cos it 's
Will erm
Now your mother wants hers as well so you 'll have to get a basket .
You give your lass the money .
You want ten pounds your mother wants some
It 's four sixty mum for five pound .
Oh ten pound 'll then .
Yeah .
Yeah .
Right .
Er
That 's nine pound twenty .
That that 'll be enough will a pound bus fare won't it ?
Yeah .
Yeah .
Cos I haven't got a lot of cash .
Eighty P it 's not more than eighty P your bus fare is it ?
two buses or summat I don't know
You don't need two buses .
Who says two buses , it 's not two buses .
It 's nowt to walk down
No well I'm saying I don't know .
Have you broke that sink ?
.
Have you broke that
What about my bus .
It 's bus B U S , where 's your bu where 's your bus .
she said bus .
Well .
That 's his , smack him .
Smack him mum .
He 's picking me up on my bus again .
Speak proper as I do .
Anyway go on .
Aye you 've got your money haven't you .
Mhm .
You better .
You 've got your money safe have you ?
Come on .
I was brought up po proper I was .
Yeah well so was he .
So was I .
Go on hit him .
Ow .
Go on hit him mum .
No Metro running .
No Metro trains running .
Oh heck well you 'll have to go on bus .
On bus yeah .
don't be picking me up .
On the bus .
Yes walk .
.
Trains are running from Newcastle anyway .
But they aren't from here .
Cos it said they were off between the airport and where was it , Central
Told you but would you listen ?
That was this morning .
No you wouldn't .
Well .
I think I 'll write to Krona and say will you send a .
Huh ?
I say I think I 'll write to Krona .
Saying what .
And ask 'em to send a .
they won't do that .
They will you know .
Oh no..
You what ?
You 've got to buy it through their recommended outlets .
Well if they don't sell 'em what can you can't buy 'em can you..
Perhaps they 've stopped selling .
but why ?
They had er Krona low fat .
Yeah .
I don't know I don't like that do you ?
No..
today 's date .
Eh ?
don't forget today 's date .
No .
.
.
Would have been .
They 've been chasing Richard all round the grass , all round the lawn .
I 've noticed I 've no money .
.
Seventy eight today .
Cor seventy eight .
He must 've been dead eighteen years .
Was he was he .
No we buried him didn't we on August the eleventh .
Mm .
.
But eighteen years , so Auntie 's been dead how long ?
Nineteen years..
Well I wonder if they 're gonna be on tomorrow ?
Oh 'eck you better find out hadn't you .
He 's got ta be back on board his ship on Monday .
Well they 're running buses .
He 's got the times six o'clock
Is it a replacement service .
bus re bus replacement .
Oh well that 'll be alright .
Six o'clock it leaves central station his train .
Mm
He 's mad isn't he .
All that money to come back again .
Yes well it 's alright They 're mad if they want to do a thing .
.
.
no money .
eh he says , then I were transferred to another one , then from another one , to another one .
It 's surely money for right things .
It just annoys me when they 're always fagging .
I 've had a thought .
together .
When he 's coming back
only because you said , speaking hypothetical .
S say it 's January the tenth you 've to put that were funny because , January the tenth , April the tenth .
And Angela said to me and I your grandad said that , just speaking hypothetically .
Well that was only a .
Yeah .
As an example .
Yes but is he coming home at tenth or is he gonna be
It is it is still next year isn't it .
He 'll be on the tenth
Yeah .
The tenth next year , not this year .
.
On a Saturday .
Cos they could they could do it this year you know .
On a Saturday .
Well ask him .
.
We does he mean this year or next ?
No no next year .
April the tenth .
He who did he get it off ?
The wh he said in fact it 's just come in for the programme or something has n't it .
They 've just come in for ninety three .
Er when he comes back , from this far eastern tour ,
Yeah ?
would he like to use our address ?
For registering .
Oh I don't know ?
did you like that tuna Arthur ?
I did
Eh ?
Did you like that tuna ?
I did tell him how much it was I said sixteen pound sixteen pound for Angela .
What tuna ?
I gave you a of tuna and
And thirty pound for the registrar .
Oh yeah , yes ta .
Now whether it will be thirty two pound if they go together maybe only be sixteen .
Ah .
No .
We 'll see what says .
See what he says
Yeah .
coming to him and saying to her
No yeah no
Do you know what you 're doing , have you a bag ?
Yeah right , oh thanks , for you .
For me .
Well it 's not for him personally
Oh I see
.
That 's something I don't eat .
. I 'd rather have salmon me .
.
He 's loves it that much it 's been there heaven knows how long .
Well because you 're not fond of it .
Well of course
You see she 'll eat it but
We got er you know the tall tins of pink salmon mum ?
We haven't had one for a couple have we ?
Oh
One twenty nine it was wasn't it ?
Mm .
No I don't like them anything like that I can't eat .
Pilchards , tuna
Yeah well , them salads just taste the same .
get
I love salmon .
.
Do you know dad 's salad .
I I could live at it .
You for that mum aren't you , salad .
I can live of a salad .
Now then .
I eat a lot of salad .
I put on it you know .
Oh I don't know you 've changed your mind .
Where 's where 's that butter is that know whether it 's butter or not .
I 've put it in the fridge .
I mean the things is
You mind that being on do you ?
Eh ?
Eh ?
You don't mind that being on , if you 've got something to say
No .
I 'll switch it off .
No .
me tape .
What say that 's personal .
Well it was the way that you said if there 's anything you can just
.
Well we 'll try that .
I think you 've to try it and not know .
Well .
That 's what I think .
Yeah leave it for me .
When was that Krona at first , I said to dad .
He said , it 's alright .
So I said , well , put it on me bread and don't tell me .
Yeah .
And he did .
And then we liked it so that was for ever more .
Now this it says , I can't believe it 's not butter .
But what it is , heaven only knows .
Well
Well we 'll try it We 'll try it and see what it is .
Strange isn't it .
Oh I don't like to try that .
Then we 'll see what it is .
Aye .
like it now .
Mm , yeah good , I like it .
I 'd rather have it on bread I said .
Well you 'll get it on bread .
Hey don't you shout at me .
.
Yeah mind your eyes 'll pop out .
..
That 's alright love .
Yes
put it on a biscuit .
I wish you 'd keep the fridge door closed .
Well I'm gonna .
No you 're not , you have to close the door .
.
where does butter melt .
.
look at his face .
I don't like that what
Well we 'll have to see on the bread .
I 'll have a biscuit as well .
Well .
we have to try won't we Arthur .
Well she bought that in case that wasn't so nice .
Pardon .
.
I can't remember last time I had best butter .
Lurpak seventy nine .
Must be a long time ago love isn't it since we had best butter .
they they make you sick do people .
Oh I must have best butter .
Well
Krona tastes just
they can't tell the difference I mean there 's nothing In fact if I can't get Krona at Presto and I can't get it at Co-op , I shall write to Kr to Pre to Krona and say I 'll have a I 'll have a box .
Aye you wrote to e you wrote to 'em once before didn't you .
So send it me the there 's nowhere where you can get it here .
She said .
I mean we 've been very
Er I think they 've got it at Presto on .
Krona .
Ah but they 're dear
Well I'm not bothered about that if you can get it .
It can't be much dearer than forty six can it .
Oh yes it can be fifty
But I know when we went in Co-op the other day , last week were it there was a load
So long as we can get it , that 's all I'm bothered about .
of Krona in because
Yeah .
we put some up .
In fact we got another didn't we and we used it all
I 'll get a box of Krona..
.
Arthur ?
No one of them one of them
.
No them things that 's open on there .
.
I don't know .
you don't have butter on them .
You do .
Do you eck .
I do .
Oh no You can't tell which
Here silly .
No .
Look .
Oh aye you put butter on them .
Oh no love .
Cheese biscuits , no do you eck .
.
Oh no .
No .
It 's only a little bit , you don't bowl it on .
Well erm well
Well you do with Krona but not with that .
Did you ring this morning ?
No .
Somebody rang mum at half past nine .
.
at that time..
Somebody rang at half past nine , he was .
half past nine this morning .
He was .
And I was half and half and by the time I you know , to come down to answer it mum , they 'd gone .
I haven't .
I can't think who it was .
It wasn't Angela 's boss .
.
It wasn't Angela 's boss cos she asked h she went down for you this mor er half past twelve .
Flipping 'eck .
She had to ring Darlington .
Darlington give her phone number of .
She had to ring , Yorkshire , they give her the phone number to .
Well why didn't she
Cos she wanted to ring before going .
doesn't she know 's number ?
She does now
Yeah .
cos she 's got it , but when she rang he wasn't in .
And then he said try it again and she rang and she asked , she said had the cheques come .
Well why do they
Mm .
No .
I thought you said she 'd to cash it at Barclay .
No I said it 's to stay in the bank .
Three days .
Well that should n't be when it 's his cheque should it .
No .
It 's crossed .
No .
Cos it 's crossed .
Yeah .
But it doesn't matter anyway cos I 've give her some money and I 'll give her her other money
Mm .
I 'll give her other money on Wednesday and then I 'll leave that in the bank .
.
No it 's it 's it 's not nice er it 's you know it 's it 's bland .
It wo it 's it 's like .
Well put some salt on it .
No for me salt .
Alright .
Hey has he got ?
They 're not going to pay poll tax ?
Yes they are..
Mm .
Do they ?
Yes .
Really..
when Angela 's form , I mentioned that and the woman says if you 're in any kind of forces , you are exempt .
When I went in with Angela 's form
Well they were because don't you remember one of the
and forces .
armies er one of the regiments er
they took them to court .
aren't they ?
for not paying .
I remember summat about it , yes .
If if they 're land based if you 're land based .
He 's not land based you see all the time I think it 's if you 're land based .
.
.
that lad pays it .
He pays it .
He does .
British Marine .
Yes he pays poll tax .
.
Yeah .
to me .
butter for tea .
Er what am I doing , yes I want
Well you want a cup of tea coming .
now what you doing ? to that corner .
have you er have you er
that 's what she said .
yet .
.
Well .
.
.
Well you can .
Well you don't know darling , you might .
No .
Well you wouldn't have thought
comes out the Navy he will have to pay then .
Oh yeah .
You 'll have to go and see about it then .
Whatever happens er poll tax is abolished after .
We 've got to go in Monday about our rent .
.
Yeah it says you have been assessed twenty two forty seven
Mm .
And they 've got eighteen fourteen .
go off now .
I don't know how they can make mistakes like that they send you a letter one minute and then on your rent book 's different .
see what that 's like .
We 've got one of them .
What ?
Oh yeah ?
Good aren't they ?
Yes .
What .
Separator and beater .
Separator and beater
Oh donkeys years .
use it .
Blackpool .
Eh ?
at Blackpool .
got this as well
Did you get a
Thirty pounds .
Did you get erm one of them ?
No .
What was it like what 's yours like then ?
With a lid on .
Wh with a lid on .
Oh ours has n't got a lid on .
Er it 's er I don't I microwave goes on the the
Oh no this is for microwave .
Oh no it 's for the
Oh yeah microwave .
And it 's a three one .
And it 's plastic but it cleans ever so easy other one .
microwave .
I don't use t'other one now .
haven't you got one for
haven't you got one for the
gonna give it you for microwaving if you wanted it .
I d
Oh yeah I 'll have one .
Well do you want that one there cos there 's only two of you , we 've a two one .
microwave .
What 's that .
mam doesn't use that .
microwave .
No .
You 'll use it won't you , cos he uses the microwave a lot .
He uses the microwave practically for everything .
in water .
Eh ?
you 're got to stand it in a dish in water .
Yeah .
And you 've got to prick your eggs .
Aye prick your eggs
You 've got to prick your eggs and you 've got to stand it in a dish of water..
.
Eh ?
He says he 'll have it mum .
.
.
.
.
How much water have you to use ?
Eh ?
How much water he says have you to use ?
What did you say ?
How much water have you have you to use ?
Cos we have these pyrex dishes , you can put it in one of them .
Well you just you know .
Put it in water
Hey that thing you did the other day , did you did you put it
What ?
When you did it in the microwave the other day ?
No I did them in er We did them in the
Wait a minute .
glass .
Yeah but without water ?
No .
You can't prick your egg though till it 's all cooked can you ?
No oh yes .
Boom stuff flies all over .
Did you not put any water in at all ?
No there was no water in at all .
You just stood it Well you could stand it like it it is then .
Yes .
.
He says how long do you leave it dad ?
Er no more than three er a maximum of three minutes .
You 've to .
You 've to watch it for a maximum of three minutes you dad says .
four of us .
Now then , you see , all these things in this carrier , they 've no business to be in .
You always say .
Eh ?
All them things in there that 's no business to be in that carrier .
And they always say I'm nattering .
I don't car who 's money it is .
There 's no reason never be without any money .
but we 're not are we love .
all the same .
Any fool can spend money .
I don't mind I told Arthur tell us .
And we 'll lend you some but I'm never without money .
You can not be without money .
post office this morning
you know .
silly .
Cos e the other day I left her forty pound dad .
That was like for her ticket as well .
See he ticket was twenty four pounds .
And then with her not getting any money , you know .
They haven't stopped her any national insurance stamp .
Dad they haven't stopped her any national insurance stamp .
No not this time .
How much did you say it was gonna be mum ?
Nine pound twenty .
Is that right .
Eight pound twenty
It 's gone down then .
Well that 's alright .
They dropped it down again to forty one .
What ?
Look .
Forty six on mine , dropped it down .
Oh well that 's better still .
Yeah that 's better still .
You see , you 'll have to get that bus darling to get down there .
forty one .
Ee and last week when he were 'ere we paid forty six a packet didn't we ?
One pound eighty change .
I 'll have to get some more on Wednesday if it 's forty one .
.
That 's eighty two .
You know what I did though don't you ?
.
Left my bus pass in me jacket pocket .
them 's careless things you 'll always want your bus packet .
.
I don't know what you put it in somebody else 's pocket for , you 've got pockets of your own .
Four pound twenty .
Cos them pockets in that .
I mean what would happened train to London .
Aye .
Aye .
Oh yes .
.
Oh they 've moved it up aye .
You know the one outside
Ask him now he 's here .
Yes .
Dad and I have been talking .
Mm .
And say no if you don't want .
You 're sure about your poll tax aren't you .
yeah because he 's land based .
Ah that 's it .
That 's what he said .
the marines definitely do pay .
We 're not interfering Richard with anything you do .
It 's only and suggestions .
We 're not interfering , we don't care what you do , you do what you want , but we think of things where very often you wouldn't .
So that 's all we we do and and interfering cos we 're not .
Right now when you come back from this far east trip , would you like to have this as your address ?
What as in I'm not with you .
Well
yet .
No I will tell you this first
Er when you put the banns in , you 've to put yours in
Oh I 've told him .
You 've told him about this
Mm .
have you .
Nearest to his home address .
You mean because they live in a different county .
What .
Hertfordshire .
Hertfordshire is it , oh right well .
Er well we thought that
You 're going to have to go down there aren't you ?
And you 're going to have to be there during the week .
Because they won't open on Saturdays .
So what we thought was , if you use this as your address , you can go together South Shields .
Yeah together and I'm wondering whether we could put them in together if we wanted a sixteen .
But er think about er and er make your mind up .
Because er
In other words he can give this as his address .
He can give this as his address .
Yes .
Er but would would I have to be r actually registered here ?
Er
Well you would be registered here then wouldn't you .
This i this will be your This will be your address and you 'll officially be married from this address .
. doesn't make any difference .
This will be the address that they 'll
I mean what I what I'm saying is , when you go in to put your banns in ,
Mm .
Erm do you have to be registered say with the council at that address ?
Oh no .
No .
Erm no you don't have to be registered with the council .
Er but we shall er we shall say , this is your home address because we shall have to tell the council , but er you 're not here , you 're at Steve 's .
Mm .
.
It won't make any difference to our er rebate .
You see it 's like when .
You see when when mother died , before we were married .
Well no home you see , so I got
Well you used my address didn't you ?
No you used our address .
I yes I did the same thing
.
Well we didn't think about now .
We said using their address , it wouldn't look very nice , both of you .
Yeah .
the same address .
bother about things like that but they do .
But we didn't think about it because it was so Well I was so excited .
So we had to put our address .
You see .
So we never thought about
even though it wasn't there mind .
.
.
Yes I know
I used me mam and dad 's .
Aye yeah that 's right .
But as as I say there 's no reason why
Anyhow , think about it but you know , I mean , plenty of time .
Er er you don't
That 's summat else we 've had to think about not being nasty are we or anything , but as soon as you get married , your marriage certificate 'll have to go for housing .
Because say you 're living with us , that does affect us .
Yeah it will .
Because it did remember when Michael was at
Well no No only if you turn round and say that we 're giving you board .
That is the only way it 'll affect you .
Yeah .
If you turn round and say , well you know you 're just putting us up until they get a place
but they 're not giving us any money , they c they won't take anything off you .
Yeah but they do .
They did did it with Michael .
They did did did it with Michael .
Did it with Michael .
The rent went up to thirty pounds a week .
You see family .
You see we were on income support you see .
But she 's family as well you see , so she becomes an independent , once she 's married , she becomes an independent then they 're e they expect you to when you 're on income support .
I mean we 're not being nasty
But we can until we get a house , we can we can live with you can't we ?
Oh yes .
Because I mean
Although they might ask where you 're living might n't they .
Yes but
It 's alright
No .
It won't make any difference .
Yeah but I mean , even then they 're not going to live with you be nothing
You can't help that .
Naturally it goes up .
If the changing forms and
It 's like Angela , by time they sort it out being on income support , the Poll Tax
married .
Cos I mean to say , even if it is your father
No been a lot easier last time .
.
I know .
Well you don't
already agreed and there were two beds there .
Oh you 've knocked me off now .
and when they 're married they 're married
I'm going .
.
Well they you won't be paying it .
So it doesn't make any difference .
Naturally they 're not gonna come and .
When we got married we didn't go in another house .
But I used to pay a half to every bill .
Because there was there was dad and me and there was my mother and dad .
So we used to pay half to everything .
And now er you 're like getting more than me so I so I want er I want so much more rent and we used to pay half .
And I used to pay half of the gas bills , half of the electric bill .
And half to everything .
And .
Just half to all the bills .
I paid .
Then when Arthur came along , I said to me mother now there 's a baby now , what now .
Then .
And even when me mother died , me dad still paid his half .
So that you have your they 're not so daft as to know that two people who are going to come and live even if Richard 's away half the time .
You you you still .
And then listen .
When you 've the the night you 're mar the night You 're gonna you 're gonna be married , you can stay here .
Because about going to that place wherever you 've decided to have it .
. If Richard 's here he can go with you .
we 're gonna be getting all his marbles getting ready for going to the church .
.
. Wherever he is wherever he is .
Well who 's gonna take it then Angela , your grandad can't take it .
You 've got to go .
There 'll be plenty of people here who can get it..
You can't you can't rely on anybody .
There 'd be a blooming puncture .
We 're gonna have a we 're gonna have a a thing that takes us to wherever you 're having
call a taxi .
On our we 'll ring our own taxi up if there 's a problem with the and we 'll get that there .
So that it 's done .
Cos grandad 'll be all worked up and and
and he 's gonna be the best man anyway .
Well there you are , you can't go on like and have folk coming might not decide they 're not coming .
it doesn't matter who 's there and who isn't there .
As long as you and Angela 's there and her dad 's there and grandad 's there .
And it doesn't matter about anybody else , because the wedding 'll take place and grandad has to sign the register , dad has to sign the register and the mother can sign and that 's all that matters .
you can't even re re rely on anybody .
you 'd have been relying on to come and and collect you Newcastle yesterday , and he ai n't got a car .
No you can't rely on anybody
Well he has n't got one then .
He 's using it .
Well he has n't
No .
And if the lad said he could n't borrow it .
I wouldn't want to
No and I wouldn't wa I wouldn't depend on it .
If you depend on erm people or taxis , if they had a breakdown , well they 'd send another one .
.
don't they .
I know .
the Metro 's running .
Well they was they were running this morning were n't they .
Aye they were .
Yeah well they gave it out when we were passing bus when we went down to
You know when we went downtown
We were running late .
There 'll be a bus on though .
There 's a replacement service on .
the buses Newcastle in a bus .
Well it 'll take 'em to the station .
replacement service .
Ere , which one goes to Newcastle ?
Erm .
But you don't know what time the
Metro replacement is ?
What time is the Metro .
It 'll run the same time as the Metro .
You see that thing on business to
Cos it goes direct from station
Newcastle one time
Ten past six .
Ten past six .
ten past six
cake
So if I was you Richard I wouldn't leave it till last minute , I a bit sooner in case the buses are not running .
We 're taking the cake .
We 'll ring our own taxi firm and we 'll ask for a .
she well then you 'll have to carry the mattress downstairs .
You 've slept on a mattress before today , you 've slept on a couch before today .
So th I mean , I , when you were here , Street , there were David and Michael in the living room were n't there .
David and Michael in the living room , we were in our
.
in our living room .
In the living room .
And
and Ike was in the our bedroom .
We were in our bed-set our bed- settee in the sitting room .
Eh ?
.
You were in that little bedroom , you went up them steps .
Oh you were in that little office
Oh yeah .
You were in there .
You in there .
Barbara , dad , me and Angela were in the sitting room .
The children And that were n't for a day , for a night , it were for weeks and weeks on end .
So we had our in the morning .
Eh ?
.
Course you are .
You were three .
.
.
Eighteen months Angela .
.
And she were in that bedroom with us , the there were t there were dad , me , Barbara and Angela .
In in the sitting room .
And there were you in the next bedroom , you and Arthur .
And was Uncle Ike , in our bedroom .
And then in the in the living room where we ate and everything
Oh on the camp-bed
were er were er and and and there were three on .
Well we got by you 're not gonna tell me we can't get by w .
Goodness me getting by if we want to .
sleep and as I say , I Auntie Mary coming .
that 's up to her .
And if she says no , well then there 's there 's two beds upstairs .
.
you 've got to know these things no good well they might .
They 've got to be asked .
And as far as we 're concerned the boy can come and stay .
Well I asked Richard about and he said , No problem .
Well it is absolutely
ridiculous for her to come and bring all that on a train when .
Yes it 's absolutely ridiculous for you to bring , but you 're not running the car .
And they might not want to do it .
They might not want to do it .
You can't rely on people .
I can't see Auntie saying no , but I don't think .
So .
I mean it 's alright
I mean she 'd have to
we 've gone through it , we 've had a car and we know .
And if you take every chance of
Right .
putting somebody else out , you don't like to .
It 'll take all the for them to come from where they 're coming from .
Yeah but he 'll have to bring somebody ov else over they 're all coming to
There you are .
I know it 's only a quarter of an
hour away but if you have a breakdown , and Auntie Mary and she 'll get all worked up .
They 'll get all worked up because they 're supposed to be fetching her .
There 's all not somebody else .
.
I mean I know we 've had a car and we know .
And we 've been all over the place haven't we Arthur .
And then when it 's been our turn to come , we broke down .
I I won't forget .
I gave them the afternoon and she said , Oh that was lovely Mrs .
And then she came to me and she said , take four of us away and I just said , No I'm sorry he won't .
And she said , Oh .
Well weeks went by and then a a a few weeks after she came to me and she said , .
He .
spoke lovely and what we he said was true .
And kind that she said , I was very disgusted , she said , with you , afterwards .
And I said , Why what have I done .
She said , well , she said , I asked you to take four people home and you said , No I'm sorry .
She said , and I didn't expect you to say that .
So I said , well did you stop to kn know we are fourteen miles .
We 've to go back fourteen miles , we 've come fourteen and we 've to go back fourteen miles .
And it took all this time to get here .
And we got here safe and we was thankful for that .
And then we wer found out instead of sitting and listening we had to do the service .
So I said , we done all that , and then we 'd to go back fourteen miles .
isn't always er moaning , doesn't mean to say there 's nothing wrong with him .
I said , I was thankful that he got here safe and I can't drive .
And I was thankful that he was coming back alright .
See .
Wait a minute while I finish .
And I said er but I'm not unkind at all .
I said , it hurt the captain because we 've been used to you know , ferrying everybody about , and I said , don't d say that people are unkind because they they 're not taking you and carrying you about .
Oh she says , well I'm sorry Mr , I never thought about it like that , you see .
It 's the easiest thing in the world you see as she says
Well I just to well he 'd done it before And I said to them , Oh captain 'll take you .
And then she said , when you said , well you wo they won't , I said , everyone knows because she said , by the time we has taken those people home , it would have been dark .
I said and and captain can't drive in the dark .
So what we would have been I mean it were n't just at the bottom of the street .
And she said , oh well I am sorry Mrs , she said , I never thought about that .
She said , it is the easiest thing in the world , she said , to just say , Oh well they 'll take you .
And when you think about it , it is .
Because you 're using Well your dad wouldn't mind .
Bertie might , he might say , Well
Yeah I mean I I did say I'm not sure .
No .
You know it 's I I will ask .
.
Well you know what they say , you don't get anywhere unless you ask .
Well I know that but on the other hand , we 've never been ones for relying on other people .
Like what
Well they
eh ?
these the stuff not coming
I know , it 's a damn nuisance
though , there 's quite a low i n't it ? ,
I mean how long did it take that washer a week , if that
was under
and that bit in there from the album is exactly the same equipment
yeah I know , actually if it 'd been different equipment I would have cancelled it and said oh sod it , but it 's not , it 's same equipment , so you might as well wait for it
yeah , but if it has n't come by next Tuesday Arthur you 're not re-ordering , forget about it love
well I'm not bothered love
because we 'll have the cash , we 'll go and buy he said all you need is your amplifier and that didn't he ?
I don't think your equipments gonna come anyway
No , but she said like , she said it could come today cos she says they deliver I says is there no way I said you can give me a number I said that I could get in contact , she said no , she said were 're not allowed to do that
no I don't want one Arthur , you going down there aren't you , no harm in
down where ?
there were n't no more wrappers ,
oh aye , no she says I'm sorry she says we 're not allowed to do that
I need to pop that in
she says er oh she says don't wait in , I says it 's alright don't wait in , but I said if there 's nobody in I said they don't get in
did you say we 're in a commune door ?
mm she said but isn't there a letter box outside
no
just for somebody to drop a card
no
you know , I said no , oh she said that 's strange
you could n't do that everybody else would be picking your mail , if there was a letter box there , mail box
no each individual box
well there isn't
each individual flat should have a box outside
I 've I 've said this before
mm
but there isn't and then again Arthur they get vandalized
mm
you could have a filling that mail or , or , or something , and , and it , it 'd just get vandalized around here won't it ?
mm
I wouldn't trust anybody I was talking to that lady , paper shop you know where you used to wait for Les
mm
you know when Les , oh she says there 's been about half a dozen people at that paint shop , sends chops and changes she said she said , she said I haven't lived there for three and a half years
has she not ?
no , she says er I'm in a bungalow now
mm
she says you move from up here , didn't ya ? , she says I see you up here , but , I said yeah at the time
what she doing up there ?
she 's got a bungalow up there
oh
she says , I'm on about the lady with the dark hair
yeah , I know who you mean
little
mm
and she do , she said she decided that , you know it was a bit , well I never change me post office , said I 've had it for all these years but she said it was a lovely bungalow and she says er what
did she not take you to have a look ?
no
fair enough
and er I only have to mention the time though , oh dear
oh all
should seen her face
mm , I can imagine
mm
oh faces do as soon as you mention this place
she says she 's got a beautiful place I said yeah , but look how many stairs , I said I just could n't climb the stairs , she said oh that 's it , she says , but er , she says knowing you like I 've always well she says and your husband , she even described you , she says I , I 'd thought you 'd move into a better area than that .
Aye , well , there you are
Oh dear , I told them at one point why we did , and I 've had it
oh you 've got
I have had it mentioned to me like , she says , , she said they 're alright you know
to what ?
these bungalows , okay she said they 're not massive
did she have one of them
yeah
oh
she said they 're not massive
well no not massive
she said but how many of you , she said you 've a daughter ai n't ya or summat , I said at the minute , she gets married next April , by heck she said doesn't time fly she says , I remember her coming and and from the paper shop
aye , well she used to have a paper round
I says well yeah , I says well she 's twenty now , she says oh she 's that old now , I said yes , gets married next April , and you know what she said
what ?
she said you want to think about it she says okay they 're not massive she says , but they 're cosy and comfortable .
I suppose one of them on would be alright really
mm , you can't get on , in , a bungalow can ya ?
well you don't know it just depends what they offer ya
don't know whether they 'd give you one , huh accordingly to that woman
well you don't have to go where you give you one
if you 're under sixty accordingly to that woman
no
it 's the
oh no
and your mother 's
I mean just cos I want I , just , just cos you want out of here , I'm not gonna accept any old place
why , didn't say you were bored , your mother told you to think again didn't she ?
what about a bungalow ?
yeah
yeah
can you have a satellite dish on a bungalow , are you allowed by Council ?
yeah , of course you can , can have satellite dishes with bungalows on , or bungalows with satellite dishes on
oh I wished I
which ever way round you want it
I'm fed up with waiting but out of town , it 's doing me no good all the way round there right round here some , there 's a home , she 'd have to take it
would she ?
the poll tax one
no it 's not
yes it is
that 's the menu for the
I mean
orderly
yes , but the old tax ones underneath
oh well it 's underneath your book , that 's why she forgot to take it , she wouldn't see it
so that 's on Saturday at three ?
yeah
it 's gorgeous out there , do you know it 's Easter weekend , next weekend , the first , the papers up , cos I didn't really know when it was , it 's Easter Sunday , a week this Sunday
yeah I know Bank Holiday Monday on Monday
yeah so if your
stuff doesn't come next week
you certainly won't be getting it on the following Monday
no , but I could get it on the Tuesday , she said if you hadn't got it by the Tuesday , to let us know on the Wednesday
aye , next week
mm
but I'm on about the Tuesday after , the Monday after is Easter Monday
no , this coming Monday is Easter Monday
it 's not
yes it is
it 's not , it 's the o
seventeenth
no , and er , it 's not the seventeenth this Monday coming
well what is it this Monday coming ?
thirteenth
well then it 's Easter Monday
it 's not Easter Monday until the twentieth , it 's on the windows
I dunno
Easter Sunday 's on the nineteenth
oh well they 'll know then
Easter Sunday 's on the nineteenth I'm quite sure
so if it didn't come on the Monday it could come on the Tuesday , by next week
have you rang the bank ?
no no I'm not bothering
well if you can just put me mind at rest now and if they 'd say no I wouldn't worry so much then
you don't need to worry well she ai n't bothered you bothering you
well you ai n't got ta go out your way
I don't need to go out me way
he says if you just say has the money gone in , he 'll tell you , yeah , and she gives you your bank account number
I'm not really bothered
it 's Wednesday now , when , when did we go up Monday ?
mm
well it 's Wednesday now look , just even to know if I 've got something there
That 's what I want
So you can't go to your mum 's then till they 've rang
no , not really
Hello , should you have finish at two o'clock ?
Yes , were n't suppose to , suppose to finish till three
hello there , where you been ?
work
been to work looking like that
stop winding her up , ooh
have you been working hard ?
no
no
are the residents in yet ?
no , tomorrow
why not ?
ah
cos basically they 've nothing to do
oh
and you say
oh why grumble when you get paid for it
and you say take that tape recorder to work , huh , I wouldn't dare
you 've er
why is the language being blue
it 's not much the language it 's the conversations
oh
you forgot to take that poll tax form to your boss
I know
you 'll have to take it tomorrow
he 's not there
It 's a right nice sunny day and now you say have your cocoa
well I 've had mine now
it 's as warm as house out there
you wanna see this one with location ski jacket on , I'm expecting snow any minute
I don't care , your the only with an inside pocket is that
yeah I put them out I dunno where I put me cigarettes and that , some of me shell suits have got new zips on
have you had your dinner ?
oh out me padded jacket
yeah
oh
looks
don't you feed yourself in your flat ?
no
put yourself pan of stew on , then you can dip in it now and then
and don't take all that loaf cos that 's all that
ooh , my stomachs speaking
I told you before to get some mince and put potatoes in and that , see
afford , can't afford at the minute , I was just saying to dad Bri 's gonna get us some shopping on his cheque book , I tell you , did I tell you about his embarrassing moment ?
no , what were that ?
yeah yeah he did at the Co-Op
at the Co-Op
oh yeah , aye
tell you did I ? , oh , he went round the Co-Op right
yeah
did all his shopping , bags and bags of shopping
only had sixty odd quid , used his credit card to put it through , well now it all comes up , all the stuff comes up onto on display now about the credit , it goes straight through to their account see if there 's money there
yeah
and it refused it , and it should , the woman didn't obviously didn't know what to do , she was as embarrassed as had to get the manager so by this time Brian has packed all his bags up
the manager came along and says oh I don't know about it , it seems er some reason
I'm glad I were n't there
some reason it has n't accepted it and Brian says it 's probably cos me wages haven't gone in yet , the bank they can't be empty , so he 's hoping to get that by the time they took it out he 's money at the end , it 's embarrassing enough , so , he 's telling me , so they had to take the stuff off him
ee , I would of died me
cos it was all fresh cos he was gonna get meat tomorrow and the following day , so I says to him I says well why didn't you use your cheque book ? , he says oh I never thought of that he says , cos it takes a few days to get it , he don't know with a cheque book
yeah
so he went back on the night time , got the bags how embarrassing , he did it
you went in
no
oh I 'd of died if I was in there
so he was gonna do the same for me , do a bit of shopping well I said you 'll get it like give you the money , so he says well I was gonna do the same but I said the only thing is when we go to the cash desk er , I said I'm gonna leave you , I said I'm not standing there
don't you get paid this week ?
erm , I wished I did mum I tell ya , get paid next week and it 's Easter
I thought you were going up nan
I can't can I , I'm waiting for a phone
can't
call
waiting for a phone call
cos me money has n't gone in the bank
chasing money around
that 's more important we 're not getting it till end of month
I never paid my bills for the last month
not paying it till black one comes
it depends , just paid electric and gas
had got a deal
oh aye
I'm telling you and I'm telling you , not him , he 's having now't say or so be tea on him , you want to stand up for yourself you , it 's time you opened your mouth to our Michael , don't be afraid of him
what , I never see him
when he , if he does come
see , he don't see him
it 's about time you opened your mouth
it 's better be calm I don't care
all this I mean he 's , he 's got nothing now , he 's right down to nothing
oh
I mean all the time he 's been back down there and not telling me he has n't had any cars
aye of course he would of had cars
why has got money
huh
, I 've had enough with
would of mind if he 'd left that mini could of drove round in the mini
mm
rather than I tell ya cos this thing , this thing we 're in now what 's it like ?
I mean really
honestly it jerks er that 's all it does
I noticed it the other day when you were round then
I mean he came for a flying visit and he went back didn't he ? he came for a flying visit and went back
when I visit him a second time he didn't turn up at all
send one of his lackeys
popped up in the week
he says , look er , he says , cos I for somebody he said if I could , if he knew somebody that could take me down he says I would leave the mini for ya
mm , mm
I , I said I know I would of had the mini for nothing
well that was an old banger were n't it ? , she always , she always gives me the little bags on the carpet , aye bags
what 'd ya mean there 's no money she 's got money
all them bills we 've just paid
God television license is due end of month
oh well
you Karen ?
television eighty pounds , it 's gone up as well
what 's all your rings on the table for mum ?
cos I took them off to peel some potatoes
one of them is what you and Karen bought
oh it 's me
shh
you 're the one I bought off , that other ones the one I bought off Michael that
says , she say you told him what
buying the ring
ring , oh yeah I know
yeah he took it off her finger
yeah Karen I need some money
she got loads , here mother they wouldn't would they ? , they 'd have to have gold to yours aye
I know twenty seven and grey hairs
I'm not surprised
ma
told ya years ago to get something in the bank , years ago , have to listen to me when you get on your feet
you can't beat having a bob or two in the bank can ya ?
if , is the word you 're looking for , not when
I mean you , you even get interest just , if you 've only a bit in at least ten haven't ya ?
well er I 've got a tenner in the bank that counts
you 'll get interest on that , if it stay there , stay there , no
I 'll have about ten pound , one pence now
two years ago we , we were gonna put more in were n't we ? , nearly two years ago
mm it will be
I refuse to take it out because it just closes it down again and I thought I'm not touching it
when did we put it in eighty nine ?
mm , something like that
that 's three years this year for a start
we put fifteen pound in our post office in an investment account and forgot all about it
it 's still there
and it 's still there , that were three years ago , should be a little bit of interest on that
must be I put fiver in , that must be four year ago
oh yeah , I put seven quid in
do you not save any money ?
no , I
she keeps it er , she stashes it in a hiding place in our room
under the mattress
yeah , but what if it 's in the bank you see you get interest
she 's daft well be honest she 's always into it , either somebody wants to borrow it , her mam will borrow some
to you
no , er , er , it has n't actually
he 's borrowed off Karen
I owe her now't , well
well
you owe me twenty five quid
alright , alright
no , sorry , thirty five quid
you keep adding it up
no I don't
I tell you
it 's interest
it keeps going up
charging interest for you , for you
I 've been round to bin place and back
well who took the
me
oh
oh aye
it 's summer out there , it 's nice and warm
go and get me money , go and pay me bills , got now't left , eighty quid for just gas and electric
this morning
cold
oh aye I wear my padded jacket to me I don't care
red hot out there , it was
this is the only one for
just fancy taking Penny in the west park for a while , I don't
did you take them types back ?
no not yet not that good
it 's in thingy , I didn't want I was just checking and the
I thought it was good
yeah
Oscar , oh it 's a comedy you know
yeah
I know
aye that 's exactly what he was on about , getting interviewed on that , I mean I 've see the trailer on it , they were showing them scenes , he 's sick of being typecasted as a hard macho man in films , he wants to do something different family films
not but to me it was , it was boring
aye
that was cos you 're used to seeing
no , I mean I like a man
yeah cos he 's a hard guy , he 's a hard guy
he still a hard man in
he 's still , I said it 's a serious
you didn't watch it
I didn't watch it
I thought it was good me , I enjoyed it , I thought it was funny
you 've got ta , you know what I mean ?
have you watched it ?
no , not yet , I 've seen the beginning where he set up the and that
oh
did you watch all the ?
no I haven't watched I 've just
eh ?
what made you watch Oscar ?
cos time was going on and I thought well just watch that , I knew you wanted it taped and I thought time were going on
Maria and
we never finished watching that did we ?
that was a good film that
I mean I can't stand Rik what 's his surname Maio ?
Rik Maio
Rik Maio , I can't stand him like , I enjoyed it , I thought it was a good film
I haven't watched it yet still on the
probably not your cup of tea mum , it 's daft humour , he 's funny
He 's smashing the fridge ah ! the fridge ! the dragon lady ! the three headed dragon
he 's waiting for that
he 's got twenty four he has
I thought he was in fifties I did
twenty four
when I first saw him I thought he was in his fifties
thirty eight in the paper
thirty eight
I know it was in the paper
twenty four and a half inch , has it , have you got a tape measure ?
no
well that 's two foot in it ?
that 's on the slack out , I mean when he 's got it all pumped up you know it must be
just standing there and his arms out here
suburban commander and he 's supposed to be from another planet or something or other
yeah , summat like that
I saw a trailer of it when I came , I thought he must of come
your dad likes it cos he likes him he watched that
a few good films advertised on one of those tapes , can't remember what tape it was , I'm not sure if it was
time scape or something or other
no it wasn't that one , there was a few
I can stomach anything except that
oh , er , Lost In Time
that 's it
Rhinestone
aye , that looks good now I must say
sometimes they come back
yeah some are timid , some are frightening eh ?
I 'll have to
seen that
Lost In , Lost In Time
and then after last night I completely forgot
last night ?
yeah
been drinking on Tuesday
drunk
humming
waste of money
drunk
oh I tell ya , I got there , I buy a couple , Sally buys 'em because I , I give 'em tapes , I don't ask him , but he 's one of these blokes unless he buys you one he 'll take a funny
oh get offended
yes , gets dead offended , dead funny , dead nice bloke and he will buy you one whether you like it or not
He wanted me to spell your name
oh I know love it
what ?
on a
wrote down on his book it wasn't him
get off
I 've got a confession mother
do you have
we 're having a double wedding
oh God
aren't we spotty ?
are you , are you twenty three this year ?
no I wish , twenty four
ee , I make you a year younger
I was saying to dad in bed last night Karen 's twenty three this year
no twenty four
making her a year younger
oh do you know what it is ? ,
I always take our numbers , do the number on my age on the it never wins , so I 've started taking another one
twenty four and , and your dads , and your dads birthday twenty four , no
twenty four
well my birthdays on the twenty sixth twenty seven , last year I was on the twenty six , I was twenty six
do you know about that Karen , do you know about that ?
what ?
not turning up not turning up
er , did I not tell ya ? ,
I forgot oh God
no
and you you keep saying she was seventeen , she was sixteen wasn't she Angela ?
yes
I don't know
you didn't believe me same age as Mike
she 's sixteen
so she was fifteen
ah I'm being recorded , ah I'm being recorded , testing one , two , three , testing
it 's like the , the language , like the English language of nineteen ninety up to date , you know the er tape the weirds and everything
and it takes these batteries and everything and she says I 'll pick them up eleven cock , o'clock on Friday
eleven o'clock
and you 'll get twenty five pound voucher
twenty five pound voucher for Marks and Spencers
oh
I mean you 'd have all the conversation anyway in there , so oh it 's
eight now aren't we ?
oh dear me
April the tenth
aye , tenth of April
more like , more like it 'll be
it 's the same everywhere you go i n't it ? , yeah it is , it 's the same everywhere you go
it 's erm
testing , testing , one , two , three
what you doing love ?
eh ? mm she 's been on the phone , they 've rang Blackpool now , gonna get back to
tell Brian last night
what a carry on
I says probably Monday so I thought well I give it time any way in case you get in to
he 's not in
no I not he 's not
end of month , there 's now't you can do about it insurance thing
what 's that ?
eh ?
insurance payment
yeah , those insurance we take it out
oh
I haven't a thing in till her money goes in end of month she only gets paid end of month
so how much are you expecting anyway ?
eh ?
how much you expecting to get ?
four hundred , you see I 'll have to take some of that
oh
the licensing they sent a reminder this morning , I said they didn't need do that , I know it 's last day of April , it 's gone up
aye , I know
eighty pound if it 's not one thing you know it 's fortnight ago from Co-Op it 's forty one P a packet , went last week it was forty six P a packet , so Richard and Angela went the other day for nan and they got me some at same time , she leant me the money , yeah , cos I was absolutely broke , gone back down again to forty one
oh , I don't know what they do though like
can't do anything about it David we 're getting in touch with Blackpool , summat 's gone wrong somewhere along the line , that 's what he 's waiting for a call
oh
ai n't it
the call
what ?
I said this
what ?
you 're waiting for a call
yeah , that 's what I said
that 's why he 's had the paper out , must of cost us a fortune in phone calls
make you sick , first they tell you you 've got money and then you found out you haven't , it 's still in transit somewhere
yeah he said we should of got it , it should of gone in the bank the day we got that letter
should of gone in the bank the same day as that the date of that letter
there at the bank as you know one minute nothing
rung up this morning still not there
rang bank up this morning , summat wrong somewhere and it 's supposed to be done by a computer , I don't trust computers I don't , I says the first I don't know about having it back I should of said send it home send it to me address
mm
that way you 're sure and then you put your own in bank , you know it 's there
you have to wait a few days for it to clear don't ya ?
what ?
the cheque
I don't know David
cos er , you have to wait three days for it , and then cheque 's got ta clear in the bank , it 's like our Mark he had a cheque put in his , he had to wait three days before it cleared went in on the Wednesday , Thursday , Friday , don't count Saturday , Sunday , Monday , cleared by Tuesday dinner time
yeah , I wouldn't of touched it straight away anyway
aye
ready on by a computer , do you have to wait three days ?
what
for the cheque you 're gonna have to wait three days to clear in it ? in your bank
what ? , what ?
this money is it a cheque or
it 's computer , computer transaction
computer
oh
computer transaction
oh they just type it though it 's in your account already
yeah , but it goes from computer to computer , but summat 's gone wrong ai n't it ? , somewhere along the line , they 've rang the bank themselves maybe he didn't believe your dad or not I don't know , she got back to him , she says , we 've rang your bank and they were very helpful , they saw it so what you have to do is ring Blackpool , she says as so as soon as Blackpool ring back , she 'll ring
yeah it 's not an actual cash transaction
oh
all they do is diddle some keys and it goes off to T S B and then it goes into your account , that 's the way it 's supposed to work
they have been excited for a bit of money and end up with nowt , sending you letters
that 's it
look 's like that an all , I want to know if it 's going in weekly or monthly
oh God
because that 's only supposed to be up to this week three more weeks in April what she doing ?
she 'll have to push that back right now
hello puddy cat , hello
oh you 've just had something to eat ai n't ya ? , without throw you about
oh aye I 'll be sick
puking it up all over carpet
be still , that 's a good boy , let your food go down
he 's a bugger , he gollops all his food and then he throws it back
really
that 's good Monty
was Timmy always sick ?
er full of fluff balls
yeah
why he 's had his , his
oh , that stuff went in that stuff
I dunno , he 's alright , happy now
turning over , I can't be bothered why don't we just carry on
just as fast to eat some of his tea
I had to do some custard in the microwave last night , cos it might of , came out like slut
ee
water , blinking shambles , I ended up chucking it away
I don't do mine in microwave I do it in a saucepan what , put my
I just fancied I know , but I just fancied some custard
you 're suppose to be going up your mothers , what you doing mince for tea for ?
be on at Kays an all haven't ya ?
in case me number one son comes round starving again , I 'll have a pan of stew for him to dip into , plus he left half inch in bottom so he wouldn't have to wash pan
I didn't have much of that , I didn't like the look of it
it wants washing that pan anyway
it doesn't it 's washed
I tell you what you 'll give 'em till next Tuesday and if it don't come by then you still , you can just cancel it save up
is that all the is that all they do ?
mm
save up and buy it , it won't cost
I know , I mean when you think about it , what is it you 'll have , a tape deck , amplifier , oh you have to
mm
tape deck , amplifier and your you 're not bothered about the tuner
no
no
I never use that one , so
so three amp , amplifier I can get for about
there it is
a hundred and fifty
how much ?
what
amplifier , Pioneer
yeah a hundred and fifty
this is a hundred and fifty pounds
equalizer you can get one for a hundred and thirty , that 's two seventy
eighty nine was the equalizer
yeah , but you 're talking Pioneer here
yeah
tape deck , well it varies , you can get one , a double one for a hundred and fifty
more , or a hundred and twenty nine
so your total was about four thir about four fifty roughly
what we 've got in here is Goodmans , Crown , Akai and Sharp
but only one Sharp
Sharp is a midi compact disc player them 's are
aye
said they 'll call me
mm
granddad 's doing it Angela said you 're using your mum and dads address so we can put the banns in here with it
yeah I know
only your mother wasn't sure she asked me on the phone
oh
said yeah , Richard is using your address to put the banns in here with Angela
a month now , used
aye
to be three weeks , got ta putta your banns in for a month
you can put them in two days before but you need a special licence , which is seventy eight pounds , it 's a bit of useless information really
what are them like ? banns banns
multiplication
who to ?
the registrar office
they go in a glass case at the registrar office in a you know a display , a notice board
fella , fella 's don't have to do it
aye
and that 's put on and if , we say for argument sake that er she was married , we know she 's not , but she could be and her banns are in and her husband gets wind that she 's getting married again , you know , so he goes into the registrar office has a look , and she 's already married to me and this is what it 's for
this is what it 's
oh I didn't know about that .
I'm surprised dad you hadn't bought the pioneer system
It 's too expensive
I dunno you 're paying that much out , four hundred quid near or something aren't ya ?
three hundred and summat
three hundred and seventy
three hundred and seventy two I think it is
three hundred and seventy nine
it 's that , I don't want the full system anyway , I only want
are them separate ?
er mini hifi 's
I don't know whether they 're separate or er
you like your separates don't ya ?
your talking seven hundred and odd quid
four , nine , nine
no , with a C D I think it 's seven hundred and odd quid in it ?
dunno , I'm just trying to find out what you want here
was it the you rang up ?
yeah
God it 's ridiculous in it ?
nine fifty a head
four , nine , nine , nine , nine
nine pound fifty a head
I mean you can get a dearer one a multiple
yeah
compact seven , seven or
nine pound fifty a head
twin compact disc seven , two , eight and there 's a twin compact disc as well
that 's all inclusive
that 's everything
that is your , play semi automatic record deck
which I don't want
well it 's part of it really
yeah
I mean that comes off it , I can see that much , I just thought it was good anyway
yeah
sell it to Richard could n't you ?
huh
twins er set decks , tape to tape record , high speed dubbing and up two hours continuous playing
that 's high speed dubbing , twin auto tape cassette decks , got one and to play back
she says
long medium , F M stereo waveband , digital tuner , thi , thirty six pre stations
yeah , which I don't want anyway
five band stereo graphic deviser with spectrum analyzer
it 's a lovely little lady
also a multi synchrony editing system from recording from compact disc , twin compact disc player with twenty four tracks from random memory , three way speaker system , headphones and auxil , auxiliary full functional remote control
mm
except turn table
he said oh don't want speakers cos I 've got them there
no I know , but I mean
I don't want a turntable , I'm not bothered about it
yeah , but five hundred quid , a couple of hundred more
yeah I know
one seventy more and you get a twin play compact disc player from it
oh aye I know what you 're saying
you get the tuner , you get the equaliser and you get the , okay you don't want the record deck , but you could always sell the record deck to buy new speakers
oh yeah , I suppose , I suppose
so Richard he could n't , he 'll probably buy the Pioneer speakers
mm
and the deck , so you make what say , a hundred quid there , cos brand new speakers and a brand new record deck so you 'd only be paying four hundred quid for it
mm
which is only about , how much ?
dad Karen say , she 's still got her
she 's asked Karen to be a bridesmaid
a bridesmaid she said she 's still got her bridesmaid , bridesmaid dress
at least she 'll come smart
has she ? , oh well , there you are then
that she wore for her mum 's , it 's peach
you don't want it peach anyway
it doesn't matter you can have peach can't she ?
everyone has peach
so
one sixty , one sixty two fifty say
she 's only a little doll
aye
three eighty possibly for them
mm
you might as well say three eighty , it 's a hundred and twenty quid more and you could sell the speakers and the deck
mm
I 'd rather have that then I tell you
is Richard 's sister wearing a bridesmaid dress ?
yeah , of course she
I thought you said they can't
Yeah , travel line , and I says to her I said I'm looking at this V F M bus timetable I says the five two , one I said it goes down ?
Street , I said is that , is that alright , you know sort of thing I said would I , she said yes she said it does , she said it , it runs the same route as the five , two , seven , but it runs early then it becomes five , two , seven , the five , two , ones still on , like a two seven and a two one , two seven , two one and there were
yeah
That 's side B now and then it 'll be full
yes that 's side B , it 's not going any where
on three I pressed it in
aye it is , yes
oh dear I suppose really if you want to eat something I 'll get it in
Oh yeah
don't have any question about that
yeah
but erm
I'm the same with Arthur
Sunday night we listen to the er Messiah , I was going to tape it and I thought no I don't , I doubt if this tape would this machine
what on this ?
on this
aye
so I erm , we watched it , anyhow Monday I went into er Smiths and asked them if it was on tape
mm
she said no it 's not , not , I doubt it , by now she said I don't know whether it will take it , whether the , the , you know the or not
what 's that ?
Messiah
Handels Messiah ?
yeah
it 's on record i n't it ?
oh aye
oh it 's on ta it 's on video , yeah it 's on video
is he ?
but not that , because that 's
no
it 's on the
oh
er , now she said the only one we had , in fact she said the only one that 's listing is the one that was done in the Abbey , Westminster Abbey , with the Westminster choir and the London Philharmonic in nineteen eighty two
oh
she said and that 's the only one that listed
our Angela 's after that song in the South i n't she ?
aye
is that on video ?
yeah
it was good ,
when were that ?
er two
B B C two
B B C two
aye I thought we watched on Sunday , what did we watch on Sunday ?
dunno
oh me wrestle mania was on
me and Angela watched films
I watch me wrestler mania from ten o'clock till one
how many more different strokes have you to do for your map ?
oh there 's only two on there
no , but where 's the other one ? ,
I thought there was one on last night
they 're on every night Friday , er , erm , er Monday to Friday five o'clock
how come you forgot ?
I forgot to set it , I forget , did forget about 'em
you see sometimes before that , a today and they were perfect
oh aye
not a flaw on them
lend you the tapes
well I'm wondering whether it 's one or two of the tapes , I just can't sort out which they are somehow
what tapes are they ? , what 's that one ? what make ? , it 's got ta name on it
what the machine ?
no the tape
no the tape
er , I tell you what we seem to be having difficulties with
yes , those are the ones that seems to be the
I bought some new tapes four hours off the market , two fifty each , and one of them 's dead faulty i n't it ?
oh aye yeah
well I says I'm
not getting no more
well that 's true
it 'll go so far and then it just switches off
mm
I can't really see that being the tape itself
mm , makes you wonder that if you should n't pay the dearer price and get the proper decent tapes
get decent tapes , yeah
don't even , get the cheaper ones , like we had no trouble with the Memorex did we ?
no
they were dearer , but we had no trouble with them
but then again we 've not
with that them four with have with them four hour
oh them four hour yeah , well they 're lousy quality with them
well they were two fifty each
two fifty each
yeah , I wouldn't call that cheap oh there was summat on t'other day , Sunday , and I told him and he forgot about it didn't he ? ,
The Bluebird
oh yes
forget didn't he ?
got satellite haven't ya ?
yeah , anyway I think it 's on again on the fifteenth , so I 've written it down so I don't forget because he 'll forget
oh
I says to him you could of taped that for your mum , I says she 'll like that , he says I forgot , ee I says you tell me I'm going senile
but it always seems to be something we want special , either a silly little comedy and things like that they were perfect , but anything we really want , it always seems to stop
as I 've taped something
mm
as I 've taped something , cos it 's spat out ai n't it ?
yes I well er
I tell you what it was , it was Samsung , if you 've a little bit of tape and you end at beginning and you want it , well say you wanted to tape to test a little bit say off telly or
right , you did that much and then you re-wound it back to the beginning then , it 's stubborn that it won't do it , it will not re-wind
yeah
at what ?
at the beginning I mean
at the beginning ?
yeah
well that 's the same
now if I tape for about an hour and a half or an hour and then rewind it , it 'll go
mm
but it will not do a little bit
no , er
ooh it 's annoying
now that tape that 's in now , tt , there 's a little bit at the front of that and it 's been on , oh it must of been on a fortnight and it doesn't matter what you record
it 's still there
it 's still there
it 's same with a Samsung , I end up sometimes putting it in the Toshiba one , to re-wind it back , but I 've had some funny tapes I have just lately , it 's the tape that won't re-wind , because how I 've noticed been the tape like , cos I 've put it in the Toshiba and re-wound , but it wouldn't even re-wind in the Toshiba , so Arthur says well he says that 's the tapes
yeah
I think I'm gonna go back to Memorex tapes again that I had , had er , never
oh , we 've had no trouble with the Hitachi
no , no we haven't had much , no , no we haven't had trouble with the Hitachi , just the machine itself actually
yeah
and er , then we had a bit , but er everything in the bottom drawer there , those are all playing alright
yes
we 're just , we 're just running on five tapes I think , well only four because one of them are oh well , let 's go upstairs again
oh that 's where I'm going shall I nip up before you ?
er be quick
can you manage to get up ?
oh yes I think I can pull myself up
Well fetch it in here , that 's it
What , just there ?
pardon ?
your man said
aye
we 've got nothing to hide have we mum ?
what
about that other business
put it down there
and it , and it doesn't go anywhere anyway cos they 'd of
no , but that stops anybody else
it 's alright there
who won't be getting
it 's sliding
what they 're getting
no , no
they don't tell you what they 're getting do they ?
oh no
what I'm saying to you now is , I was saying to Arthur , the , the petrol money that we used to put in for petrol , it cost us five pound a week in the winter , but in the summer it cost us eight pound a week sometimes ten
yeah
but five pound on putting that away definitely , every week , as it 's all paid petrol money , so now I 've got eighty pound , eighty pound is in me , me , one of me purses and that is , it has on , there again , I mean everything , not a lot , if you 'd to go in you 'd see , it 'd have a , it 'd have erm petrol money , it 's eighty pound , now I'm saving that so by the time aunty Mary comes I shall have probably a hundred pounds in that
so she is coming
well she said she , she wants to come and she 'd like to come , but it 'll be end of June , because she 's going to some er Methodist day out somewhere , I don't
mm , mm
know where they 've planned owt to go , and er , so she said it 'll get end of June or even July
is she , is she coming by train ? , cos she told us it was better by train
well I suppose she will , I don't
oh
know nothing after that , but anyway I said it will , I'm putting this away so I 'll have a hundred pound then and if she doesn't come I says I 'll have a hundred pound for
yeah , yeah
now if I want to go down to the sea front well I 'll shall get a taxi and , and sha n't be worrying where me next meals coming from because I 've saved it , so , so that 's , that 's no worry , I was saying to Arthur if we went to Butlins well it would take all we had , because it , we could n't go to Butlins under three hundred pounds for two of us , we could n't go anywhere else , if we go to Blackpool , our , our said to , to , to dad , I , I would like to pop to , er I don't think we will do because , er , the hassle for your dad , but er , I 'd like to go and see aunty Annie , but I don't want to go to Nelson to do it
no
because it 'd mean I 'd have to go to bank of and , and this borough and
well I said I wouldn't mind spending a week at aunty Mary 's me for a week
and we could n't do that well you 're alright because she gi
but we 're not we can't go , Angela can't get herself up , if she come here , who 's gonna look after Sparkie ? see what I mean
that 's no excuse I mean Sparkie I 'd come here , all the time , well Iris has a I mean
well don't you think your mum I 'd have it ?
why do you think that ?
I don't know him
oh don't be so daft , I had him er over a year
he 's a little , aye I know but he 's , yeah I know but it wasn't for a week was it ?
he 's , it wasn't a minute struggle , you , you kept harping on all week he 's in , in the
he jumps in the window mum and
well you get Shane he 's a badden
he jumps in the window
is he
he 's on his best behaviour
he 's , he 's awful but , er never made more bother with , some kids down there by the erm
so honestly mum if we I mean if we
but
wanted a week somewhere would you have him for us with Angela ?
of course we would wouldn't we ?
who ?
we 'd give you the money for his food and that little Sparkie
Angela and er Angela and I 'll tell you what she can come anytime she wants
little Sparkie
yeah , of course
and I mean you can get about when you , when you go but we can't so it 's no good , if we put a bed in our spare room
I said I 'd like a break , spend a week with aunty Mary or summat in that flat , driving me
I know
I mean I could say well like Elsie I could say ooh well I mean she comes , she leaves him I mean nine o'clock in the morning
to sign on
and she doesn't get home until half past , six it 's
I know
all day by yourself , well I could n't do that with your dad
no
well , like I 'd say I 'd go down to post office , I say no I 'll go with ya , it was raining last Thursday , I said no I 'll go with ya , so I said I 'll wait and see if it 'll , it 'll be fine , but he 's not like that he 's an old , I wouldn't , well
well we were only talking about
I wouldn't dare leave him by himself I wouldn't think of leaving your dad by himself , going out gadding about
we were only thinking about it this morning and I says I wouldn't mind a break , you know , like , cos , I mean aunty Mary 's always inviting us , and , and we were talking about the cat
I mean there 's , there 's nowt no harm if , if , if you went to aunty Mary 's and she definitely gave a date , a date to come , it would be nice if you went and come back
fetch her back , mm
come back with her , come back with her
yeah , yeah
oh
I mean er
you know , so to go before hand and fetch her here back with us
what I'm saying is with Arthur says get yourself four hundred pound go to aunty Mary 's , but you don't want to go to aunty Mary 's do ya ? , you 'd rather her come here
I 'd rather she come here
mm
I 've got
I mean
to the stage now where I don't want to run about
no
I mean if , he , it 's alright your dad doesn't moan
mm
and you know that , I mean your dad
well I says
plenty of
to Arthur I want a change from that flat I'm sick of looking at four walls
the what ?
I like the new single decker
well when you 're only young I mean
I like them
that 's it
they are comfortable
yeah
you 're only young people
I'm forty eight , oh dear
and it 's like I said mum it 's not because I don't trust Angela
you mean the blue ones
I'm worried
aye , yes that 's right
she cannae get herself up in the morning if there 's nobody there , can she ?
well I don't know , she got herself up this morning
yeah , I know , but , you , you know what she 's like
there 's no need for her to be on her own , I mean there 's a bus stop right at door
that 's what I said
that 's what we said
I says if she went up to your mum and dad , I said the eighteen drops her right , you know , the stop
mm we 'll have to see anyway
plus , plus Sparkie I 'll be alright with Angela
have you talked about this with her ?
I 'd give it a good hiding if it didn't behave
mm
have you talked about this with her before ?
what ?
what ?
what ?
what you 're talking about now
no
no
oh , it 's funny , but yesterday , cos you know
oh yeah
he said
I don't know you were in here and I were in there , in your sitting room , she were happy to make tea , she were right working
she were , she were helping to make tea and , I don't know how she , how it came , but she said granddad , I thought oh something 's coming now I says what ? , she said if I came to stay with you , she said after Richard 's you know sale , if I came to stay with you for at the weekend shall I have to go in that
shall I have to go in that spare room ?
mm
well I said that 's up to you , but I said if you want a bed back in our room , you 'll have to fetch it I'm not and yet she sleeps on her own at your house doesn't she ?
mm
yeah
she doesn't like it though
no , she doesn't like
no
yeah , well , er , as you say Arthur
quite when er
she 'll have to get used to it
when Richard was staying she went in middle of us and she was , she were a lot more comfortable , than what she is when she 's in her own room
the thing with them , a bed with them , she 'll not come in now , and never come , no reason why not , cos I know she smokes so what does she do that we haven't to know , so I says oh I says this bed isn't gonna keep being here and no An no Angela in it
no
so I says it 's going , now as far as the , er , what they call it that fella that come to did that job
do
mm ?
as far as I
I wouldn't say it was any better , I don't know whether it is or not , but I 've just done one good thing , it 's got the bed shifted
yeah
because he could n't get to there you see so I said well it 'll have to go now , well we 've got it shifted and it 's thrown away and , and that 's the end of that , so I says now when she does decide to come and she wants to be in here , well I said she 'll just have to carry a mattress in , and that 'll be alright just for her to sleep on
aye , yeah
only there won't be a bed , but I said if she does , then she 'll have to remember when she goes back home to put it back , cos I'm not lugging beds about
no
she 'll have to get somebody to help her to carry it back , that 's all I said
no I said we don't do that
no
because we 've condensation
oh
so he said this one I 'll have to be done
mm
anyhow he looked all around and , very nice lad , er and then he came , he said I had to for you
by the way if we ever did do that stay with aunty Mary , right , then she came back with us
yeah
and Angela happens to be sleeping over as she does at her job
yeah
where would she get the five , two , one from ? ,
I mean she could n't get a , on a Sunday , she 'll have to have a taxi won't she ?
what ?
how 'd ya mean if she 's , she 's sleeping over ? if she was sleeping over
if she was sleeping up here and she was sleeping over in home , you know how she 'll , at weekends , what she calls sleeping over
yeah
oh she could do that
she 'll be there
but if she wasn't sleeping over she had , say she had to
as dad said she 'd had
go from your mum and dad 's on the Sunday morning , where would she catch a bus for the Sunday morning ?
er , probably the five fifty from down , on Perth Avenue
is it running ?
yeah
but I thought you said there was only the five , two , one
no , no no , no , five fifty goes to and she doesn't go to
well it doesn't time
oh that was the one we looked at
yeah yeah
yeah
but she 'll have to walk from wouldn't she ? , right up Dean road and down Westow
yeah , aye
yeah
it 's about
it doesn't matter
it 's about nine minutes to seven I think isn't it something like that
mm
from there
I should think she 'd be earning enough money to pay a taxi
I should think she will
on the Sunday
well
I think she should , she might not be able , they 'll be , they 'll be I should think , I mean you 'd have to , you 'd have to see when aunty Mary were coming on what whenever
you 've had to find er out for this Sunday haven't ya ?
oh if you want
alright
cos she 's working this Sunday mum
mm ?
yeah
mum
what ?
she 's working this Sunday
yes
that 's why you 'd have to find out
aye , we were , we were looking for one that , yeah
tell her we kept looking Angela , you 'll have to tell you can't get
you found it on the bus didn't ya ?
where 'd you put it ? where 'd you put it
oh I didn't find it , it were in , in thing
in thing , yeah
the by drivers seat , and I just picked it up by chance really , er normally I don't bother with it , I look after 'em and I leave 'em , but I thought no I 'll have one , to say
I tell you what I'm not happy with that lettuce , I shall look round again for an iceberg
what lettuce ?
that lettuce we got
what 's that got to do with buses
that special salad , I'm just saying
oh , no
special salad , there were no iceberg , he didn't have an iceberg in the shop I like me iceberg because you can eat it all can't you ?
aye , er I don't like the round lettuce at all
no
and ooh aren't they dirty dad ? , there 're
yeah
real filthy have to do that three times that one I 've got
special salads they soon will be getting rid off
yeah
aye it 's like
and the tomatoes
aren't they ?
yeah , and the tomatoes were n't bright , can't get no more of them nectarines , when he says keep 'em for two days cos they were hard , gets after two days
not on the table chuck
when , when I bake one , it was like it was bad inside
mind , what you want ?
erm
somebody 's drink going cold
eh ?
fag
somebody 's drinks going
mine
cold on the table
oh she likes cold tea
now I know why
well I don't but erm , I can't do
guess who liked cold tea
do you want it ?
not yet
not yet
of course I do
I tell you what mum if you 're spending money at Co-Op , you can't see what you get can you ?
pardon ?
you can't anywhere
you 're spending money can't see what you get
eh we had some er fresh stuff
have the , stuff
and I wish I 'd remember that fella I 'd had , I 'd tell him off
yeah
yeah yeah
what price is he ?
forty five
forty five
yeah , but Co-Op 's dropped back down ai n't it , to forty one
yeah , but I 've , but I mean he has n't said he
yeah , yeah I know
the milks milks gone back up though has n't it ?
eh , oh I don't know
er , having got one er yesterday
what you having ?
I 'll just have a sandwich
one , five , dad
eh ?
one pound , five P
one pound , five P , it 's one sixteen down here
is it ?
yeah
oh it 's gone , it 's gone from ninety seven to one five cos he got me one yesterday , he went to get that stuff yesterday , cos I spent what twenty pound eighteen pence yesterday
and honestly I could n't see what I got
well I should say the like er
he says the toilet rolls the soft ones have dropped down , cos I get the soft Kleenex ones , everybody 's complaining about and he said they 'd dropped them three pound , is it twenty nine ? , to two eighty nine now
mm
and there 's nine
oh do you get , have you get
eighty nine
some er Bovril ?
aye I 've done your Bovril
er I can't remember where I got them from , but they were n't in two dozen packets they were in dozens
dozens aye
aye it was a lot more were n't they ?
but we haven't seen that at all
I know but mum I haven't seen any two dozen boxes
no we haven't seen any anywhere
so what I did I just got four packets of their dozens , cos he won't have anything else except Bovril
no , well I don't like anything else
well actually me jars going right there and I can't remember , whether I did get that from Co-Op , I think I did Co-Op , but they were in dozens , and I think Presto had some
oh well the Co-Op down here have them in dozens , but they
yeah Presto had some
in , and they were in dozens
hundred and odd , there , but you know for two packets
yeah they 're dearer aren't they , the
yeah
I can't remember how much I can't remember how much
have you got
can't remember if it was forty nine or fifty nine for a dozen
yeah summat like that
yeah
yeah they 're very dear
I think it were forty nine for a dozen
yes I think it was summat like that June
ninety eight , I think it was for two dozen , what happen we didn't have much choice you could n't get the two dozen boxes
Arthur where did we get the Bovrils from ?
they were only in dozen boxes were n't they ?
er , I think it were Denmark Centre
Denmark Centre
Denmark Centre
think so
where do they have the two dozens , when we last got the two dozen box ?
eh ?
Asda
Asda
and Co-Op a long time ago
but Asda there was the last place to have , we got er two dozen box from
but that was sold out until the day when I went in for milk
er dad says it 's one sixteen now
well will you have that Arthur ?
yes
that enough tomato ?
aye , can I have some lettuce is there ?
yes there is some lettuce I didn't know you wanted it
I , well then , I I don't want no cucumber though
eh ?
don't want no cucumber
you don't want no cucumber
no I don't want none , erm , a hundred a five
the ordinary the thing I was just telling you dad
it was , but the
there 's no , there 's no lettuce
oh it don't matter then , does it
do you want a bit of mine ?
there 's skimmed and their semi skimmed was ninety eight , but the fresh stuff was a hundred and five and last time I get some it was ninety seven
oh you could of had egg Arthur
aye , go on then
I 'll boil one , but I didn't know Arthur wanted a salad , cos he reckons he doesn't like
I 'll have a salad , I'm not bothered , I'm saying I'm not that hungry so a salad would go down nicely .
Where there 're at least er a hundred and sixteen down here
a hundred and sixteen that 's
did you get any headache tablets mum ?
no , I forgot well see I forgotten and I 'd been down to Boots an all I , aunty Mary had them once , one time and said
yeah
what d'ya take if you 've a bad head ? , huh
it gets a bit of a chore with different
I grin and bear it
oh
prices all over shop
my nose starts pouring of blood
oh so does mine
well you didn't say you wanted a salad darling
I could of done that
I said I 'll have a owt
for ya , well we could , you 'll have to wait a minute now
oh I will then
er , here
oh it 's
what ?
eggs are ya ?
how 'd they get there ?
well I take them away when I 've finished with them
do you want a knife and fork ?
just a , wait a minute , no
Ee , now where did I see them ? , seventy two pence on Shanks on Baldwin Lane
seventy two pence ?
yeah , is that good ?
mm ?
seventy two pence
here
oh they 're cheaper at er
what ?
just
dad are you coming to table or
yeah
aye , I shall do even eventually , er the other end days
days , oh aye , yeah
yeah
nineteen pence a pound in there
oh , oh
aren't you love ?
what ?
what ?
seems with
what a shame
you can sit on the
there shanks usually weigh about two and a half pound
oh , well that 's cheaper then there
that 's cheaper yeah
oh
ee I 'll tell you whose here er Presto
er
seventy two a pound
oh
for , you know a , just a little Oxo
yeah , yeah , I didn't know what they were like at seventy two it just said on window on one of them shops on Baldwin Lane
er , we got two of those last week didn't we ?
mm ?
where have they been ?
what ? , what you talking about ?
those er shanks , that er , er nineteen a pound on Baldwin Lane
probably been to Lambeth House I think
well that were a long time ago , they 've got some from down here , Edinburgh Road , you got one from Edinburgh Road
aye I got one from Edinburgh Road , but I don't know how much there up there are , there 's no price on them
well ya , you know , you go round and fry this , makes your dinner
oh well now that 's summat else we don't do now , we don't , there 's some at sixpence and some at tuppence we don't go round in a who
no
knows where to get into tuppence since when we 've had the car
we don't double back on our
we just
no well you can't I mean
we just er get it now
anybody , anybody
that 's daft
have you got the er
I tell you what we like
we 're not wasteful right , but , oh we can do it now because you 're not thinking er , a tyres gonna want bursting can ya ?
no
oh I don't do that anymore
you put that in
aye
well I mean your well
I mean if you 're thinking of tyres gonna go , you 've got to have your money in your purse like
oh yeah
you know there isn't gonna one go now
eh , you put 'em in ?
yeah I would
well you need them in your hand so what have you done with them ?
I don't know
er mushy peas
aye
ooh they 're lovely
are they ?
only twenty four for a packet
is that the down town ?
down town , yeah
oh I 'll have to have look down there then , cos we buy 'em , now where do we get 'em from now ? , er Co-Op we got 'em from last time didn't we ?
what love ?
them mushy peas , well marrow fat
marrow fat yeah
yeah
but , yeah because by the time you 've paid your bus fare to
well that 's it aye
er
yeah
shall I sit down to mine or shall I wait ?
no stand up
I mean shall I eat or not
no you can wait because er you can wait because it 's not going to be that long
yeah
you can wait because er it 'd , it 'd be time , she 'll have eaten up and then she 'll say ooh I 'll have another round I haven't had any
mushy peas
oh yeah , oh , I don't know what you do with 'em you know me I don't
put on the cooker , cook 'em
you just put 'em in
don't act gormless , you don't know what to do with them at fifty two
fifty three
fifty three , well
do you soak them or something ?
no
no
oh er , what you do , you just put them in a saucepan ?
just put them in a pan and cook 'em
with water in 'em ?
oh yes you want some water with them otherwise they 'll burn
ooh listen her , she 's acting as if she 's now
there er , she 's half brain it 'll be lonely
no they take about twenty minutes with salt a little bit of salt , give them plenty of water so that
so that 's down town ?
down town , aye
there 's a nice Iceflow
aye there is
oh is there ?
mm
oh I didn't know
is there ?
yeah
yeah , near where we go for the
Iceflow no it 's Iceland is that ,
Iceland ?
mm
where it , no I thought the only Iceland
yeah , no , near that butchers
you know the butchers where the vets
much further down
you know the vets ?
oh no
yeah
where you take the animals , you come out right , and there 's a butchers i n't there ? , cross over road , big shops on corner , it 's on that block
mm
corner where I use to turn to work Street , where you used to live
yeah
on that block
on that block
yeah
from where about , where the butchers used to be
yeah , aye , it 's round about there , it 's either Iceflow or Iceland I'm not sure which one it is
I'm sure it was Iceland
but that in King Street is Iceflow i n't it ?
what
me mum says I have to wait
oh yeah poor thing , it won't go cold
if I have to wait for you I 'll wait forever cos your eggs are not done
oh they will be in a minute
oh it won't be long
mm
oh
I 've just nipped it off the top of that one , that 's not growing any more
oh it 's beautiful that , it 's pink i n't it ?
yes , but you 're alright aren't you pet , the race horses
them daffodils are gorgeous
they 're standing up again have you noticed
mm
yeah
they were lying down the other day
don't you ever put 'em in a vase mum ?
no , they die so quick
they die in vases
I had me others in a vase
eh , me flowers are still lasting
yeah , they are , huh
got some more mince this week sha n't we ?
yes
oh them steaks we were beautiful
aye over the lane ninety nine pence
ninety nine
ninety nine
eh ?
yeah , but she charges five pound cos there must of been some little bits over
yeah well that was five pound
unclear
five pound for five pound
mind it 's nice in it ?
five pound a pound , it 's nice mince , yeah
oh we just happened to be down town
yeah they were nice were them steak puddings , I enjoyed them
they were beautiful
no I were gonna do , I got them for the days
he says they were lovely
there were four pound
it 's not Daves love
yes it is , it 's Daves butchers yes
the one on the left ?
the one on the corner
where we do the stew frying ?
the one on the corner , you know where the fish shop used to be
oh no , I thought you said you got 'em from butchers
what were they four for ninety nine pence ?
yeah
what ?
aye
mince pies
mince pies
oh
well you make your own , I know you do , but they were nice
I tell you who makes a nice mince pie , er Muriel
from er
who ?
who 'd ? , what ?
Edinburgh Road Muriel
who were ?
aye
down Edinburgh Road you said to down Edinburgh Road we 've never gone in this place , it 's a cook meat shop
mm
I haven't been in it since we 've been here and I said ooh there , they 're packed out and they had some beautiful stuff
mm
looks nice , no burnt or anything , and I says ee it 's lovely is it , I said alright , would been down for this morning like and I says ooh come on then don't bother when you get home starting making anything I says just say , let 's ask for steak pies , so I says er can we have er two steak and kidney pies please ? , she said I'm sorry we don't , there isn't any kidney an all , I'm glad there isn't I didn't want , well I 'd of eaten 'em like but I 'd rather have them without
yeah
she said right , and they were forty , forty seven , well where ever you go they 're fifty or fifty three for steak and kidney , steak pies and they were really nice were n't they ?
yeah , they were
we really enjoyed them , but you see if we 'd of got four they wouldn't of been so nice
no
but er , but tomorrow I might go down and get some again you see , cos they were really nice
well you got them four for ninety nine and you enjoyed them didn't you ?
of them , I 've had 'em before so I know they 're nice
Angela liked 'em didn't she ?
yeah
yeah
normally she 's a pain
I mean you 're better to get stuff that you well if you get 'em it just so happens that
how many packets of them mushy peas did you get ?
I just got the one
just got the one
oh I was gonna say
cos I had one mushy peas but , they were really nice with them were n't they ? we enjoyed them because
aye , it was
it , they were from tins , but
yeah , because when I
they 're not as
well when I open me tin of marrow fat and then I drain and I put butter in and mash , to mushy any way
yeah
I don't like the other peas , I love the marrow fat peas , the others are sweet though , I'm not struck on them
no we got
and I can't do , I can't do potatoes and mince and carrots and stuff like that because this one ere just likes potatoes and mince
no I don't
and the other one won't eat carrots , we end up getting
oh I love carrots
no , and mean end up doing separate stew mum I am for myself it 's not fair that because I can't eat
no well you should n't put carrots in , you should put 'em in a separate pan
no Arthur that 's how we made it where I come from
yeah , but I don't like it like that , I like mince and potatoes
stew where I come from is carrots , er turnips , potatoes and meat , I tell you what I haven't had , I think I 'll have a change , I think I 'll have some instead of mince for a change
stewing beef
oh no
oh yes , look mum it doesn't mean does it cos he doesn't like it I can't have some stewing beef
stewing beef , you like stewing beef
you 've got to sacrifice it before it 's tender
no you haven't , not in the pressure cooker , no , not , no you haven't , well do without , you don't need to have any , make your own self
I will
I haven't had any stewing beef for ages
what do you keep looking at that for ?
see where it switches off
well it 'll switch off when it 's done
well I just fancy some stewing beef , you have what you like love don't you ?
stewing beef , you don't like stewing beef
I do , but you 've got to sacrifice it so , until it 's tender
aye , ney
not in pressure cooker you haven't
otherwise it ends up like bullets
well you don't have to have any but I don't see why I should do without because you don't want any
and chewing it and chewing it
normally tender
and chewing it and chewing it and chewing it and chewing it
I'm gonna get myself some
it 's not going anywhere
there 's many a time I don't buy stuff mum for myself
these are nice
because these two are funny
what are them ?
oh I don't buy I only buy what them likes , but as you say
aye , steam steak in gravy , mm , yeah
I just
I just fancy a bit of stewing beef
yeah well we get it through job lot
all the time
in , the yellow label
oh I like
or a shepherds pie filling , that 's it
I think you can get fed up with mince all the time can't you ? , can you you know every night
there 's Angela , Angela never gets tired of mince
no I know
no I don't
I like me mince
he loves mince
mince or steak
right , I don't think mine are er a slice of bread please
a slice of bread please , mm
well that 's her fault
eh ?
I know
what ?
I says two of them , now I'm being she already had a dinner
and she went out about four o'clock for western spirit
oh , it 's her fault
well that 's what I said it 's her fault , there 's plenty of food in
watch ya , I'm starving , when she comes in
I bet she buys summat
she 'll take herself to
mm
yeah
when she came up yesterday I said , we 've had our dinner , I said do you want , want some dinner ? of course I put it in the oven for her
yeah
no she said I'm alright now I 've had a sandwich , so , anyhow she left it , so I left it , I said well it 's there if you want , she said I 'll eat it later then granddad , anyhow making the tea she said put the microwave on and we , we were having salmon
we haven't had any salmon for ages have we ?
oh she set to work and she cleared the she had , what did she have ? , meat , er chicken , potatoes , cauliflower , Yorkshire pudding
aye , she said she had some chicken
yeah she had , eh ?
having one of these eggs
I don't know , you put 'em in
are you having one ?
I'm not bothered
no , not bothered , no
well er no then if you want it
I don't want it , I 've got what I want here , oh I'm alright
er , tt , she says is there a salmon left granddad ? ,
I said yes of course there is
mm and when she starts eating she can eat
yeah
can't she ?
oh aye
ai n't ya ? ah , well I think she 's going off er , either that or she 's lazy , I think she 's going off bacon
that 's mine
of what ?
bacon
bacon
put bacon in and there 's still some bacon in , it 's usually all gone
I were thinking , oh it were the day you came up with them and then you went off to , er
Newcastle
Newcastle , well I put , I thought you were staying to tea so I put six eggs on
oh aye , yeah , alright
you put what ?
put six eggs on didn't I ? , anyhow , I'm putting , I'm putting two on
mm
on his salad and he eat it , I says there 's an egg here Richard do you want it ? , yes I 'll eat it
oh aye , he 's yeah here is
he 's a big eater an all in he ?
mm , aye , he 's got a good job to
I always thought our lads were big eaters , till I come across him , flipping heck
cos I don't mind what they have so long as they eat it
well that 's it
yeah , oh I tell you dad what David said today when he come , tt , about the custard
oh aye he says , I fancied , I fancied some custard last night
so he said I did , I tried to make some in microwave and he says it turned out like sludge
he said I 'd er
cement
like cement he says I had to throw it all away
throw it all away
of course he had no recipe , although I don't make custard in micro I wouldn't know how to do it in microwave
I always I always make it in microwave
well I 'll have to have the thingy of , of you dad
we 've got it in book
give it to David
you got it in book
what you doing now ?
you said you wanted some
I always er
have you got er , have you got your knife and fork June ?
yes , yes
has Arthur got one ?
yes , dad has n't , you haven't
could use knifes and forks
take that back in now ?
no switch it off
no , it 's nearly to the end
well take it in then
it 's going on the end mum , on the stool
right
look at my mother pinching my meat to put on yours
oh , I 'll take it back
there we are look at that
that 's it , you have it
she doesn't like to get stuff pinched off her does she Arthur ?
aye
what 's that ?
oh that 's good i n't it ?
rhubarb
that 's good
what ?
plenty thanks very much
what ?
what he 's just said
didn't say what he said though
no , what 'd ya say Arthur what 's this ?
aye ?
rhubarb
oh , oh look
that 's cake
why , why 'd you call it cake
I dunno
perhaps it knows it 's gonna get eat
yes , that 's right
well that 's easy
it is
that 's it , you 'd better hurry , she want one off you , so there 's a bus stop for Andrew
well the next time I get something , she 'll probably have her own place
But mum I haven't
You like a don't ya ?
yes please mum
right , er
That 's in the right way .
Mm .
don't like that red onion much .
Eh ?
That red onion special salad .
special salad .
Mm .
I took the onion out the middle .
I'm surprised the about it actually .
It was it was horrible .
Well .
to get
