A: Okay .
A: So , What kind of experience do you , do you have , then with child care ?
B: I guess , I think , uh , I wonder if that worked .
A: Does it say something ?
B: I think it usually does .
B: You might try , uh ,
B: I don't know ,
B: hold it down a little longer ,
B: and see if it , uh ,
A: Okay
A: Well , Does it usually make a recording or
B: Okay
B: I , Well , I don't remember .
B: It seemed like it did ,
B: but it might not .
B: I guess I guess we can start . Uh ,
A: Okay .
A: Okay .
B: No ,
B: I don't , I don't have any kids .
B: I , uh , my sister has a , she just had a baby ,
B: he 's about five months old
B: and she was worrying about going back to work and what she was going to do with him and the different ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: do you have kids ?
A: I have three .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I do
A: Yes , uh ,
A: I don't work , though ,
A: but I used to work and , when I had two children .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I work off and on just temporarily and usually find friends to babysit ,
A: but I don't envy anybody who 's in that situation to find day care .
B: Yeah .
A: But , does your sister live in a big community ?
B: Uh , yeah
B: she lives ,
B: it 's a , it 's a fairly large community .
B: She , uh , got real lucky , though .
B: He had a boss who , uh , moved into a larger office
A: Uh-huh .
B: and she 's able to take her baby to work with her .
A: Oh , really ?
B: And it 's a small office that she works in
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it 's a , it 's a legal firm , office ,
B: and it 's just one lawyer
A: Um .
B: and so she 's the only one really that takes care of the office .
B: There 's no one else that works there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so they have an extra room and everything for the baby ,
B: so it works out pretty good for her .
A: Wow .
A: How lucky
A: I , I know a lot of people around here sometimes have , like , mothers or grandmothers that take care of their kids
B: Yeah .
A: and , but , the community I 'm in is not a real large one ,
A: so there are a lot of people who babysit in their homes that , you know ,
A: you either know them or know somebody who knows them to get to ,
B: Yeah ,
B: so it 's fairly safe .
A: Yeah ,
A: to get references and that ,
A: so , but , uh ,
A: I , I don't feel comfortable about leaving my kids in a big day care center , but , simply because there 's so many kids and so many
B: Worried that they 're not going to get enough attention ?
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh , you know , colds and things like that get spread real easy and things ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , and they 're expensive
A: and , course , there 's a lot of different types of day care available , too , you know , where they teach them academic things .
B: Yes .
A: Or they just watch them and let them play and things like that ,
A: but ,
A: take a long time to find the right place
B: Yeah ,
B: and you , and you don't always even know if it 's , it 's going to be the right place or not .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Anything , I guess , could happen .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because after , I guess after he , you know , gets to a certain age she 's going to have to take him to a day care .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: when he starts toddling around and stuff .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: When , when he 's not , when she ca n't keep control of him
B: and he starts crawling
B: that 's ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: It would be hard ,
A: I think it would be kind of stressful .
A: It would be nice to have him around
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , seems like , you know ,
A: what if he cried at the wrong time
A: or the phone rang or , you know , at the wrong time
B: Yeah .
A: But ,
B: I think she has problems with that , too .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , when you have kids , will you work ?
A: Do you work now ?
B: I don't know
B: that 's something I 've considered . Uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I always kind of think it would be neat to be able to watch them and be there for them all the time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Is that what you do ?
A: Uh , yeah .
A: Actually , I teach my kids at home ,
A: so I 'm here all the time .
B: Oh , so they don't go to school .
B: Is it like , uh ,
B: oh , what 's that called ,
B: it 's , uh , correspondence school ,
B: they do it at home .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: That 's interesting .
A: So ,
B: Do you have to have any special training ?
A: Not ,
A: it depends on the state you live actually .
A: Some laws absolutely prohibit it .
A: Some states , uh , say that you have to be a certified teacher in order to do that .
A: Our state does n't yet , say that
A: and I 'm not a certified teacher .
A: I went to college ,
A: but I , you know , but my kids are only elementary grades , levels right now
A: and so ,
B: So they have n't been to public schools at all .
A: One of them was for a couple of years
A: and so , you know , my oldest , he was ,
A: and then my youngest two have never been .
B: Um .
A: So anyway ,
A: but we don't ,
B: So , you 've never had ,
A: Well , uh , does the company you work for test for drugs ?
B: Actually , uh , they just recently started a policy of testing drugs , which was kind of interesting ,
B: because when I went to work for them , uh , they did n't do that ,
B: but , uh , since then they 've , they 've started a drug testing policy , not because of their own , uh , convictions , but because the clients of our company are requests that we do that .
A: Huh .
B: How about you ?
A: Uh , no ,
A: we 're not being tested for drugs at all , uh ,
A: our policies and procedures manual , uh , the furthest it goes about drugs is in the , kind of the miscellaneous section , or it 's reasons for immediate dismissal ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it says , use of narcotics on company premises .
B: Um .
A: So that 's pretty general ,
A: but , uh , I work for an environmental management firm
B: Okay .
A: and I 'm an engineer there ,
A: but I do go on a lot of hazardous waste sites ,
A: but I don't operate any machinery .
B: Yeah .
A: Now , people for our company that do operate machinery like drill rigs and things like that are under a , a medical monitoring program ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: because they 're at a higher risk of exposure
A: and blood screening is part of that
A: and I , I think that drugs ,
A: they do test for drugs in that capacity ,
A: but it 's not their exclusive ,
A: it 's just part , it 's just something that turns up in the other parameters that they test for .
B: Yeah .
A: But I think it 's got a little more relevance since they are around dangerous equipment and things like that and do have to exercise some quick judgment in the field .
A: What is the nature of your company 's business ?
B: Well , it 's actually , uh ,
B: we do oil well services .
B: So , a lot of our clients are oil companies , big oil companies ,
B: and they go out to ,
B: we have engineers who , uh , go out to the oil well , to the , to the client 's oil well , and , and work with a lot of heavy equipment and put tools down the oil well and stuff ,
B: so the clients are very concerned that , you know , the engineers who go out there are adhering to their drug policy , because they 're on their , their , you know , territory and everything ,
B: but the thing that 's interesting is that I I 'm an engineer and , a software engineer
A: Um .
B: and I work in the software , uh , house ,
B: and everybody there , you know , are all software engineers .
B: They 've never , you know , they never go out to the , the oil rigs or anything ,
B: and yet , we 're getting , we 're subjected to this policy , you know , the same one that , uh , all the engineers have to , to ,
B: well , a little different , actually ,
B: but , uh , you know , we have to go through the same thing ,
B: and it 's , but it 's , uh , it 's a little different , I guess than than a lot of drug policies .
B: In our case , it 's like , when you hire on , they 'll test you ,
B: and then if you get injured on the job , if you like trip and fall or something , uh , they give you a drug test right away .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Other than that they don't have random testing or anything like that ,
B: but , a lot of people were really upset with the policy at first .
B: Particularly , like uh , we have a lot of parties and stuff where they serve alcohol ,
B: and they did n't find any problem with that , you know ,
B: but ,
A: Right .
B: Uh ,
A: We , that 's been an , a , an issue , uh , in our company even though we don't have the random or even regular drug screening .
A: they 'll have these little parties ,
A: and people will just get ,
A: I mean , I 've ,
A: my brother lives where I work ,
A: and I have many a time called him to come get me , you know .
A: And , uh , uh , but , you know , they don't think twice about serving beer by the keg . You know ,
B: Yeah
A: but , uh , I think drug testing ,
A: and I , I don't know ,
A: I guess I I think it 's got some relevance ,
A: but I think its relevance is pretty limited .
A: I mean , I think , you know ,
A: in your case , I don't think that you should necessarily be subjected to drug testing .
B: Yeah .
A: I think that 's an interesting policy your company has about testing immediately after an on the job accident .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's really , it 's really bizarre .
B: Uh , particularly , like where we are , you know .
B: I , I ,
B: there was a story of a woman last year who , who actually did slip on the ice and , and like sprained her ankle
B: and she , she was a personnel secretary
B: and she had to get tested
B: and , I don't know
B: I 'm ambivalent about the whole thing .
B: I , you know , I have a lot of mixed feelings about on the one hand , it 's like if , you know ,
B: they 're , they should be able to make it as a continue of employment in some sense
B: and , you know , it 's like you 're , I mean , employments are contractual by nature anyway
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , I had an experience when I was interviewing for a job that , where I had to , uh , uh , do a drug test
B: and , and it 's , it was kind of a long story ,
B: but it was , it was just an incredibly humiliating experience what I went through ,
B: and it amounted to , uh , going in , uh , before any of these interviews ,
B: I 'm not even working for this company ,
B: I 'm going in for , like , interviews
B: and they flew me out to Chicago
B: and , and , uh , before I went into any of the interviews , uh , they took me to the doctor to give me a physical .
B: They said it was going to be a physical , you know ,
B: and , uh , actually beforehand they told me they were going to , uh , do drug screening ,
B: but I had forgotten about that ,
B: and so , basically , I 'd already peed off that morning
B: and , and when I got in there , I did n't , I was n't , like , able to give a full sample ,
B: and so they made me sit and wait for forty-five minutes , drink a whole ton of water before I went to any of the interviews and go in there again ,
A: Oh .
A: Right .
B: and the , and the , the procedure is utterly humiliating .
B: You go in there with the doctor ,
B: he makes you take off all your clothes
B: and then he examines you .
A: Uh , the question was kind of interesting to me because I was just trying to put together a , uh , long term financial plan and monthly budget .
A: The only thing I do now is , uh , put the data into Quicken .
A: I don't know if you are familiar with that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have some friends of mine who use Quicken
B: and , uh , I 've considered using it once myself ,
B: but I decided that the amount of information that would have to go in would be a lot of time keeping that up to date .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I , I kind of gave up on the idea of using Quicken , at least for now .
A: Um . I 've found it 's the only reliable way to keep a check book balanced actually because what will happen is my wife will write a few checks and then , well , uh , uh , not bother to total it
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then it comes in to doing all the arithmetic .
A: So it really helps with that .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , it 's similar problems
B: but , uh , we just have the one check book
B: and we try to keep it up to date as much as possible
B: and occasionally we will get behind like you say
B: but , uh , it does n't really seem to be too , too tight if we just remember to keep everything up , up to date and balanced .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , how to you handle that , the long range or medium range planning on finances ?
A: Well , actually we have n't had to . Uh , until just recently .
A: I guess we 've got a , a daughter who is eighteen months and another one on the way
A: so we needed to start doing more of that just for , uh , you know , saving for college and things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We tried a way , try to put away two and four thousand a year just for that .
B: Yeah .
B: Well that 's pretty good if you can do that .
B: I know .
B: I have a daughter who 's ten
B: and we have n't really put much away for her college up to this point
B: but , uh , we 're to the point now where our financial income is enough that we can consider putting some away for college ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so we are going to be starting a regular payroll deduction in the fall
A: Um .
B: and then the money that I will be making this summer we 'll be putting away for the college fund .
A: Um . Sounds good .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess we 're , we 're just at the point , uh ,
A: my wife worked until we had a family
A: and then , you know , now we 're just going on the one income
A: so it 's a lot more interesting trying to , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: find some extra payroll deductions is probably the only way we will be able to , uh , do it .
A: You know , kind of enforce the savings .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , it will be interesting to see
B: Well our situation is just a little bit , kind of the opposite of that cause my wife was not working for some time and was going to school and just recently , uh , took on a full time job , well almost full time .
A: Um .
B: So , it 's only recently that we 've had the money where we could start putting away large sums of it for , uh , long range goals like college and sickness and travel and that kind of thing .
A: Um .
A: That sounds good .
A: But , uh , uh , I was just curious , what , uh , part of the country .
B: Oh , Stockton .
A: Oh , okay .
B: How about you ?
A: Uh , Cincinnati , actually .
A: I was kind of wondering if they would be collecting people with , uh , the western accents or something like that .
A: I don't know how many people are , uh , getting involved in this
A: but uh , well that 's interesting .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm , uh , uh , actually , uh , I was kind of interested if you found out about the study by , uh , reading TELECOM DIGEST
A: or was there another ?
B: Uh , a colleague of mine at , uh , work got some information over , uh , the computer network called INTERNET .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: that is how I got it as well
A: but , uh ,
B: And he just forwarded that on to me
B: and , uh , it sounded like it would be an interesting project to participate in
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I sent back mail .
A: Yeah ,
A: it will be interesting to see what , It would be interesting to see how the data base ,
A: so , well , I guess we 're talking about the experiment .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , probably need to try to get back on the topic
A: but , uh , it 's hard to talk about finances without without getting to , uh , dollar figures I guess you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: we could talk about some of the long range goals
A: and ,
B: Well what other long range goals do you have besides college ?
A: Uh , well I think , either my wife or I would like to pursue advanced degrees at some point
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , I guess we will have to factor that in if we are not working for employers that happen to fund that .
A: It seems like every year my employer just gives back , you know , a little bit your tuition reimbursement .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean they use to reimburse one hundred percent
A: and now it 's , uh , now it 's reimbursement depending on the grade you get in class
A: and , uh , it 's a real shame from what we had before , uh , because we 're ,
A: Right ,
A: uh , actually I lived over in Europe for a couple of years ,
A: I lived in Germany
A: and in Germany they don't have the jury system .
A: What they do is they have , uh , three judges , basically .
A: And you get up there
A: and the prosecuting attorney presents his evidence
A: and your defense attorney presents their evidence
A: and those three guys take the evidence , go off , figure it out and then come back and say whether you 're guilty or not .
B: our judicial system is in such total chaos .
B: I think what they need to do is , they need to somehow take the money out of it .
B: I mean , when you have a man that 's signed a , a , a statement saying he 's guilty ,
B: we have a , a family called All day family .
B: They were all murdered .
A: Uh-huh .
B: All the people signed confessions ,
B: they went to a trial by jury .
B: They been trying these people now for twenty-two years , ever since I was a child .
A: Wow .
B: And what they 've done is they 've bought Mercedes after Mercedes after Mercedes is what they 've done ,
B: has nothing to do with justice whatsoever .
A: Well , you know , it 's , it 's one of those things ,
A: I mean , uh , uh , I would have to look at it .
A: if they did it with the , uh , just the judges , the police have to do a lot better job of making sure that their evidence is airtight
A: because the judges sitting in that kind of stuff day after day , they know all the procedures ,
A: they know what 's good and what is n't ,
A: they 'd be able to say , I 'm sorry ,
A: you ca n't use this as , uh , evidence , you know , because it was either illegally obtained or whatever
A: and , you know , you would n't have this , uh , uh , theatrics where the lawyer jumps up and presents it to the , to the jury
A: and then the judge says , oh , no ,
A: disregard that .
A: Come on ,
A: any jury 's not going to disregard the evidence , you know
B: Uh , that 's true .
B: I , I , I think our judicial system is attorney welfare myself .
A: That may very well be .
B: I , I hold it in the utmost contempt .
A: Uh ,
B: The , uh , my favorite is the police department ,
B: they 're not aimed at the criminal .
B: The judicial system is aimed at the citizens
B: because you and I , we have work schedules ,
B: we can be called at work ,
B: we have Social Security numbers ,
B: they can trace us down ,
B: we have telephones ,
B: then we have checkbooks .
B: Criminals have none of these things .
B: They 're real difficult to catch ,
B: and if they do catch them , they don't get any monetary gain out of it , whereas us , we write a check .
A: Yeah .
B: So where do you think they target their efforts ?
A: That 's true .
B: They target their efforts toward the citizens not the criminals .
A: Well , How would you go about changing it ?
B: You know , that 's a ,
B: I 've nailed the problem down
B: but I ,
A: Leave the details up to somebody else , huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm going to have to leave those details like , what would you do about ,
B: I think , to begin with , you would you would have ,
B: like , here in Atlanta area , our crime rate is just astronomical ,
B: yet , you go out on the streets
B: and they 're giving speeding tickets .
A: Yeah .
B: I think somehow you have to separate the revenues from ,
A: Well , you know , uh , talking about the lawyers , you know what might very well do , uh , cause a , uh , a drop in the number of lawyers and things like that , is to set the fees for cases .
A: It 's kind of like do it , do it in the similar vein similar , like , uh , V C R or television repair .
A: If you take your T V in , a lot of these T V repair places will say , well , I 'll repair your T V for a hundred dollars ,
A: and if he gets in there and starts rooting around and finds something in there that 's really tremendously wrong with it , then he eats it .
A: He , he repairs it , gives it back to you , and takes your hundred dollars .
A: Now , if he comes in and says , you know , I 'll repair your , your V C R , or somebody else 's V C R , for a hundred dollars , gets in there ,
A: maybe it 's a blown fuse ,
A: takes him two minutes ,
A: he fixes it ,
A: he still charges you that hundred dollars .
A: So , maybe if we did that with the lawyers , so that , you know , whether it 's a murder case or a , you know , a civil , uh , somebody suing somebody else , you get X dollars for that case
A: and that 's it .
B: Now , I firmly believe in that
A: None of this ,
B: because when you get the most heinous of crimes , have you ever noticed you always get the most renowned defense attorney ?
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And here 's this bum that did n't have a job
A: Yeah .
B: and he 's got a attorney that you and I could never afford .
A: That 's true .
B: Who 's paying for that ?
A: Yeah .
A: Um , well , you , you know , you 're talking to part of them that 's paying for that
B: Yeah ,
B: and you 're talking to the other half that 's paying for it
A: That 's right .
A: You know that 's , it , it 's , it 's amazing
A: and , and when you stop and look at it , I mean , the judges , they 're all former lawyers .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , that 's another problem .
B: I think to really correct the judicial system , you have to get the lawyers out of it
B: I mean , they 're , they 're totally and morally bankrupt without any ethics whatsoever ,
B: and with that type person running it , I mean , you , you could expect that you ,
A: Do you know anyone that , uh , is , is in a nursing home or has ever been in one ?
B: No .
B: But I , my grandparents were looking into it before
B: so I know what they 've said .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I 'm trying to think .
A: My , uh , uh , wife 's grandmother had Alzheimer 's
A: and they were going to put her into a , a nursing home
A: and , uh , they , when they put her in , she had all kinds of trouble
A: and the nursing home made them come and take her back because she was being a , a , you know , a , a nuisance . Or worse than a nuisance ,
A: I mean she sort of went , you know , bananas
B: they thought it was too much of a bother .
A: and they could n't , could n't deal with her
A: So , I guess you need to , uh , know whether it 's a , you know , a no deposit , no return kind of thing whether
B: Right .
B: If they 're equipped too , to handle the kind of patients you 're going to have you know , put in there too .
A: Yeah .
B: Because I know my grandparents wanted to have some independence still .
A: Right .
B: They wanted some place they can go and have their meals and a nurse on staff just in case they needed her
B: but they wanted to be independent as well . Have their own room .
A: Right .
A: My grandmother actually was in a , a nursing home that , uh ,
A: there was a retirement hotel and then a , uh ,
A: there was some sort of full-time care place that was also associated with it
A: so for , uh , the first few years she had her own apartment and , you know , made her own meals sometimes . But could , could also go and eat someplace else .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then , uh , as she became less able to take care of herself , then she moved into this other part that was able to , uh , provide full-time care
A: and , uh , she did n't have to do anything anymore .
A: But my experience has been that most people that move into nursing homes die very quickly .
A: And that 's
A: I don't know whether that 's because they , you know , sort of give up hope once they get in there or what the , the reason is .
A: But I think the average length of time that somebody lives in a nursing home is only like six months or something .
B: Well a lot of it 's probably to do with the fact that people go to it because they need help .
A: Yeah .
B: They need health care
B: so they 're already ill before they go .
A: Right .
B: That 's probably a large factor .
A: Yeah .
A: If , if you can take care of yourself at all or have someone that can take care of you , then you stay where you are .
A: Then you only go there as a last resort .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Or people send you there as a last resort .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: That 's what my grandparents ,
B: it was just so that the rest of the relatives would have peace of mind knowing that if anything happened , there was somebody there for them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So that was their thinking .
B: Somebody who would know what to do in the event of an emergency .
A: Right .
B: And also so they could find someplace that they enjoyed while they still had choices to make . So they would n't be stuck going into just whatever nursing home was available at the time .
A: Right .
B: I guess that 's a problem too for people . Wait lists and all .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess .
B: That , uh ,
B: you ca n't always get in when you want too
B: and of course , you ca n't just sit around and wait .
A: Right .
A: When you need it , you need it I guess .
B: Yeah .
B: And the money is also another issue . How you 're going to pay for it .
A: Right .
B: At that stage of life you only have so much money left
B: and I guess it 's not exactly fair for the younger family members to have to put it in their savings .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean it is kind of fair ,
B: but it 's also not fair because they have their own children to raise .
A: Sure .
B: So it 's another problem .
A: And you probably , if it were you , you probably would n't want someone choosing a place for you to live based on lowest price .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: So , it , it 's just so complicated anymore , I think
B: People outlive their savings .
B: And , with medicine being the way it is , you 're extending life where sometimes the quality of living has gone down
B: and they 're not necessarily enjoying life anymore .
A: Yeah .
A: Well maybe that 's the purpose of the nursing home is to have them go someplace where they can see that it 's not worth continuing .
B: It 's just a shame that 's the way it has to be .
B: I think the retirement home idea 's a nice idea . To go and find older people and with similar interests and someplace to stay
A: Yeah .
B: and cause like if your spouse died , all alone , it 'd be nice to go someplace with people similar to you . To have friends .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've known quite a few people that have , uh , gone to retirement communities .
A: I don't know if they have them back there
A: but here in California and in
B: Okay .
A: Uh , so , what do you think , uh , about putting the elderly in a nursing home ?
B: Well , I think that it , it varies on on the individual basis .
A: Huh .
B: Uh , sometimes it is , there is no alternative .
A: Uh-huh
B: Uh , you do not have , uh , uh , family available or family that 's , uh ,
B: you may not even have family that is , uh , uh , in , you know , who are around .
A: That 's true .
A: Yeah .
B: So , sometimes it 's not an alternative .
A: Huh
B: And I think , uh , but I think also , sometimes it can be , uh , a benefit if it 's for a short time .
B: Sometimes in a nursing home
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , especially if , if it 's after an acute illness .
B: To get over a ,
B: or to rehab after , uh , an illness .
A: That 's true .
A: I never thought of that .
A: Yeah .
B: Sometimes you know , sometimes the nursing homes are good for , uh , just short periods of time .
A: That 's true ,
A: until they get over that hump of whatever it is they 're dealing with .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Because too often the acute hospitals will , are sending them out much faster than what they 're really able to .
A: Yes .
A: They really are .
A: They don't like to keep them longer than a week .
B: So so there is some good to it .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , sometimes too , it 's used as a dumb job .
B: You know the well the families do not necessarily uh , know what to do with them
A: What do you mean ?
B: and they don't want to take the responsibility
B: so they will put them in a nursing home .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: So you see , uh ,
B: there 's both sides to it too .
B: What do you think ?
A: Yeah
A: and it depends on how , how sick the person is too . What you 're capable of , like if you have a family to take care of , you know , of your own
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , I would personally like it
A: if my parents were to get ill , I would like to take care of them at home and if I had the money with some help .
A: That 's not always possible .
B: That 's true .
A: But , uh , to the best of my ability , I 'd like to do it until it gets impossible
B: I think that 's also where you 're going to have a lot of people who are going to ,
B: it 's there 's not a choice , it 's because , it 's not economically feasible even to put them in a nursing home .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh
A: Yeah .
B: So that , that option sometimes is not available if they do not have the , uh , either Medicare or insurance to cover it .
A: That 's true .
A: Yeah .
B: So ,
A: But I think nursing homes can be good .
A: It just depends on what kind they are .
A: You know , you need to check them out ahead of time .
B: Yeah ,
B: and then there 's also some that are set up for specialties
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , I know some .
B: Unfortunately , some elderly have to go to or have , I guess it 's Alzheimer 's or where they wonder or , or , uh , confused or have some mental problem
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that they 're
B: And you need a special nursing home for that .
B: You need one that has a unit that 's locked where they are not able to get out and roam around
A: Yeah .
B: and you need people who are trained for that type of problem .
A: Right .
A: Who know what they 're doing with that .
B: Yeah
B: so , so there 's different types of nursing homes I think .
A: Yeah
A: well , my , uh , grandmother 's not really in a nursing home , but a retirement home that also has a nursing home sort of attached to it .
A: And she really liked the idea of , of moving there .
A: She 's not ill yet
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , she worked there as a volunteer for about ten years
A: and then she decided that , uh , she 's eighty five years old , that eventually , you know , she she does n't want her family taking care of her and being a burden .
A: She 's very independent .
A: So she 's in this nursing home .
A: It 's out in the country
A: and , uh , she really enjoys it right now because she does n't have to wash dishes or cook
B: Gives her a little bit of her own independence
A: Uh-huh .
B: but she still has , uh , a security there .
A: Right .
A: Some support .
A: And then there 's also , uh , sort of a wing for those people that do get sick
A: and , what I like about it and I think she likes about it is that she knows everybody there now
A: and then , so if she ever does become ill , uh , it will be like family around her .
B: That 's right
B: and I I 've seen some of them like that too
A: Yeah .
B: and also they have a lot of , uh , activities going on for the ones who are more active .
A: Uh-huh
A: Yeah .
B: So it 's not sort of like , uh , uh a sick place .
A: Uh-huh
A: No ,
A: she loves it .
A: She has a great social life
A: and she travels
A: and , uh , it 's in , in the in the mountains
A: and it 's beautiful
A: and , uh , I , I hope that I have something like that when I get older
B: Yeah
B: I , I think , I think the , uh I think that the decision that needs to be made though on nursing home has to be a joint one between the , uh , elderly uh , person who 's going in and the family that 's going to be , uh , effected by it
A: Uh-huh
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh definitely it 's ,
B: and , uh , you know , sometimes it can , those those choices can be made in advance
B: and sometimes the choices because of the nature of the illness when they 're ,
A: Right .
A: So , uh , do you happen to be working for a large firm ?
B: Well , it 's about three hundred and fifty people .
B: I guess that 's not large compared to some ,
B: but it 's big enough .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they have a , they don't have any kind of pension plan where they contribute anything
B: and I wish they did .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , they have a four O one K ,
B: but I put all the money into it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They don't add anything .
B: What about you ?
A: Uh , I work for a fairly large company .
A: It 's got eight thousand people .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , we do have health insurance .
A: We don't have four O one K plan , stuff like that ,
A: but we do have , like , retirement .
A: They kind of match up to , you ,
A: if you put six percent , they match up to six percent ,
A: and then the rest is whatever you want to put in . If you put more than that or something like that .
B: Oh , that 's a pretty good deal .
A: It 's not bad .
B: Now , how long does it take for your contribution to vest ?
A: God , I don't know .
A: It 's probably a long time
A: I 'm sure it 's not till like twenty-five years , thirty years .
B: Yeah ,
B: the place I work at 's , health insurance is kind of expensive .
B: It 's like hundred bucks a , a month or something for a family .
A: Yeah .
A: Huh , well , I guess what we have is like a what they call a flex benefits plan where you , you get like a certain amount of dollars
A: and then you spend it on a cafeteria of whatever you want or need .
A: Otherwise you can , uh , guess you can put , also put money , hold money back and then either use or lose it and that does n't get taxed or can just have that money , you know , put in your paycheck .
B: Yeah ,
B: we have one of those use it or lose it plans , too , where , uh , they 'll basically pay for , uh , you know , child care type , uh , expenses .
B: I can send in a , uh , can send in a request for payment
B: and they 'll , uh , and they 'll send me , a check for the amount they withheld .
B: That 's pretty good , you know .
B: It 's , uh , it saves a third off on taxes or something .
A: Yeah
A: well , it depends on which company you work for .
A: I know that , like , the , the , the one plan that everyone seems to be in , in my place is , uh , you know , you , uh , think you call it plan D
A: another example like I guess it 's alzheimer 's Deductibles are really high ,
A: it 's like fifteen hundred dollars ,
A: but if you go for the other ones you 're paying too much money for them because it 's unlikely , if you 're relatively , uh , healthy , then it 's really unlikely that you 'd use that much , amount of money , you know .
A: So , it , someone did start a cost benefit analysis ,
A: and ends up the best is to take a high deductible and , and take a loss , whatever happens to be , if you happen to be a healthy individual
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess ,
B: uh , on the other hand , you know , I , I had a similar , had a similar health plan
B: and , uh , one of my kids was in a car accident
B: and , uh I had , wound up having to pay for , you know , a bunch of doctor visits and stuff out of my pocket because of , you know , no , no insurance policy happened to cover it , which is ,
A: Um .
A: Really ?
A: You mean , not even your , your , your car insurance ?
B: Well , it , it got all screwed up because I had a high deductible on the health insurance , no fault here ,
B: and , and I had a high deductible on the on the , uh , on the car insurance
B: and then you know , we just goofed up the medical insurance and the car insurance and stuff and blew it
A: Oh , that 's too bad .
B: Oh , well .
A: Yeah
A: uh , well , I don't know ,
A: I think other than health insurance , I think , uh , you know , an extra week of , uh , time off would be nice .
A: I only get two weeks .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: my place you get two weeks when you start
B: and then every , every year they give you an extra day until you 've got four weeks .
A: Oh , that 's nice .
A: We don't get them till , till your seventh year of service till you get an extra week .
B: Aye .
B: That 's a long time .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: especially in the kind of engineering job I 'm in , you know , companies don't stay afloat that long
B: and , and they ,
A: Uh , with the telecommunications type of company , supposedly you , used to be much more stable .
A: It 's a lot less stable than it used to be .
A: They used to have job security
A: but now they don't .
B: So you work for Bell or something like that ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's the Bell Corps , which is , uh ,
B: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: So , I don't know ,
A: it 's , it 's , uh , no longer
A: So that 's what ,
A: I think it 's still based on the old model of ,
A: and , and now they don't , uh ,
B: A lifelong job security
B: telephone pioneers of America ,
A: Yeah .
B: all that stuff , huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: but they , no , no longer
A: I don't think so .
B: Right .
A: Uh , hearing a
A: there 's always , they 're always laying people off , which is another benefit that you can have other than salary is trade that off for security .
B: Is it , I mean , does it ,
B: they must have pretty good severance , though , huh ?
A: Oh , I don't know ,
A: we don't , we have n't been doing layoffs .
A: We 've been doing , uh , down sizing with , uh , getting rid of extra layers of management .
A: And , uh , I don't know what they do for those people .
B: Mean the , the , the management they get rid of ?
A: Some of it ,
A: yeah .
B: Um .
A: There 's too many manage , too many chiefs and not enough Indians
A: but ,
B: Oh , they , they put ,
A: Well , have you ever served on a jury ?
B: No ,
B: I 've not .
B: I 've been called ,
B: but I had to beg off from the duty .
B: And you ?
A: Well , I was called
A: and then I was not chosen .
B: Um .
B: Well , I was , I was , uh , originally chosen primarily , I think , because I was a young fellow
B: and they tend to view the younger fellows as more likely to hand down a guilty verdict .
B: I don't know why .
B: Something I picked up in a psychology class some time ago .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's that the younger they are , they tend to be more conservative for some statistical oddball reason ,
B: and they kind of liked me .
B: I looked and all that stuff
B: and they ,
B: I don't know what they saw in me ,
B: but they saw it .
B: But , uh , back to the issue , is , uh ,
B: I don't know ,
B: at times I feel that a unanimous decision is warranted , especially in cases in which there 's no smoking gun .
B: But , there , too , there are also cases in which I feel a majority rule might be acceptable , particularly , I think in civil cases .
B: In criminal cases , I 'd like to see the unanimity remain ,
B: but in civil cases , I think a majority rule by , by jury would be sufficient .
A: Well , uh , could you give me an example of a case where you think that ?
B: Well , in a criminal case , say one in which , you know , there is , like , say assault or some such . I think there ought to be a unanimous , uh , vote because by law and by constitution there must be proven beyond a shadow of a reasonable doubt that the person in question did this .
B: And in civil law there , you know , is such a thing as like , let 's say , uh , misappropriations or misuse of financial instruments or something like that .
B: A majority rule , I think , would be more in line as there is no real smoking gun in the civil cases .
B: I don't know if I 'm making any sense or not .
A: Well , I mean , I think ,
A: are you just trying to say that criminal cases are more , uh , tangible
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: often there 's more incriminating evidence .
B: Like , for instance , say , uh ,
B: and also , too , I think I 'm , I 'm tempering this and the fact that the consequences are much more , uh , serious in a criminal case .
A: Well , do you think that , that in a civil case , if there was majority rule , that it would be easy for someone to be set up ?
B: Um , well , I really ca n't say for certain , truth be known .
B: Uh , as it stands , there 's , there 's many ways and means by which a person can be set up , both , uh , in a uh , civil and criminal case .
B: I mean , the , uh , documentary , the THIN BLUE LINE pretty much demonstrated that .
B: You know , I don't know for , if you 're familiar with that or not .
A: No ,
A: I 'm not .
B: A , uh , fellow when he was much younger , uh , was tried and convicted and sentenced to death .
B: Fortunately , in his case , the death penalty was revoked
B: and , uh , so he served out his , his sentence until it was discovered by a fellow who was making a documentary called the THIN BLUE LINE that this guy had basically gotten railroaded through the judicial system .
B: The case was reopened
B: and he was exonerated .
A: Well , I mean , I think that there are many cases in our judicial system where justice is not served .
B: Yeah ,
B: many laws , but little justice .
A: Say ,
A: but , uh ,
A: and I also think , just like you were talking about before , why you were chosen to be on a jury that , uh , the , just , the process of picking jurors is not always objective .
B: Oh , certainly not ,
B: certainly not .
B: And you know , they like to think that they 're getting someone who 's objective in all this ,
B: but they 're really looking for someone who will pretty much fulfill the lawyers ' desires .
B: You know , the ,
B: because you get up
B: and , and they ask you a few questions ,
B: both sides do ,
B: and then you , you 're either challenged which is ,
B: you know , each attorney can use that as much as they like
B: or , I think it 's a limit now ,
B: they probably have a limit now ,
B: but , they pretty much go through that ,
B: and then you have to give a reason to the court why you ca n't serve .
B: For me , it was financial hardship ,
B: so . But , onto the thing , uh , I was never aware that juries had any say on recommending sentencing .
B: It was always my impression that the Justice himself , or herself , had the final say .
A: Okay ,
A: so I guess it starts recording now .
B: Okay .
A: Okay .
A: I don't know , really know that much about the recycling in this area that we 're in .
A: We live in the Saginaw area .
B: Saginaw ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: And I 'm not real familiar with , uh , anything that ,
A: I ,
A: fact as far as I know , the school does n't have any kind of programs or anything out here . And , uh , or the grocery store or anything in this area ,
B: Really ?
A: yeah .
B: The
B: we live in Plano
B: and they started off recycling by , uh , putting the ,
B: I think at each Wal-Mart , they had some recycling dumpsters and things like that , which now ,
B: I guess the , uh , city is , has bought the big green trash cans
B: and , uh , we , they have a recycling truck that comes around now
B: and you separate your glass and paper and , uh , aluminum
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you set it out
B: and they pick it up
B: and it , it works real neat .
B: They seem to be having a real good response .
A: Really ?
B: So ,
A: That is pretty good .
A: I 'm , we 're originally from another state
A: and I know in the state we were from that they did that similar type thing .
A: The city brought ought , you know , set separate trash cans
A: and you separated your stuff
A: and you put it in there
A: and they took it , you know .
B: Did they , did they , like on bottles , did they give you a so many cents back for for cans
A: I don't really know .
A: I don't really know ,
A: they , they started after we moved down here
A: and so I , I 'm not really familiar .
B: Yeah .
A: I just know that , uh , my in-laws up in , up in Oklahoma , that 's how they do , you know , they pick it up ,
A: but I don't know if they get a , get anything back on it
A: or , do you get money for it ?
B: No ,
B: I just , I noticed it
B: Iowa and other cities like that , it 's a nickel per aluminum can .
A: Oh .
B: So you don't see too many thrown out around the streets . Or even bottles .
A: Really
B: You know , all kinds of bottles they , they , they really charge people to , I guess when you purchase them and , and then when you turn them back in .
A: Right .
B: I I remember the old days as a kid where bottle was a nickel .
A: Right .
A: And now , now most of them are throwaway .
B: Right .
B: So , maybe that 's one thing they can do .
A: I think now they 're a lot more expensive than that .
A: Uh , I bought some Cokes the other day in the the little bottles you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I think the bottles were like , I know they were at least ten cents apiece .
A: I to at home ,
A: I was like , God , how much were those bottles you know ?
B: Yes .
A: And , it was , they come in like , uh , eight and , and eight and ten packs , you know instead of six packs
B: Right .
A: and , uh , and they were like , it was like two dollars and something for the bottles .
A: You know , I was like God Almighty ,
A: it costs more for the bottles than it did for the Cokes .
B: That was my brother 's first job in a grocery store .
B: He was in the bottle area
A: In the
B: It 's pretty dangerous out there , you know , when they fall over ,
B: but but it 's , uh , it 's quite ,
A: Right .
B: they say that the green glass now , that there 's a big glut of green the green glass ,
A: Oh , really ?
A: Of green glass .
B: yeah .
B: It 's amazing .
A: Well , out in this area , they really don't have anything .
A: Now , I know that like Minyard 's and places like that around like Arlington and Fort Worth and a lot of those grocery stores , they have like four different bins out front . Uh , different colors for different things and , and things like that ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: but I , I do know some of these places were doing that
A: and they discontinued them because people were coming and dumping their trash in them .
B: Right .
B: Yeah
B: it 's ,
B: I notice the plastic have sort of faded away , the milk jugs .
A: Yeah .
B: It , it 's ,
B: people just ,
B: they , they really don't ,
B: uh , there 's too much labor involved I guess to separate the stuff .
A: Yeah ,
A: more than it 's worth .
B: It 's ,
B: I don't know ,
B: it , it can be ,
B: it 's not as easy selecting , you know , clean junk as they say .
A: Right .
A: Well , who wants to clean their junk before they throw it away
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
B: It 's like washing the dishes before you put them in the dishwasher .
A: Right ,
A: uh , yeah .
B: We all do it
B: Well , it was nice talking to you .
A: It was nice talking to you .
A: I have no idea how long this is supposed to last or anything .
B: Oh , I think , I think two or three minutes is fine .
A: Is that it ?
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: well , it was nice talking to you
A: and I , I guess I 'll do this for , I was doing this for , actually , I was going to do it for my son so that he could , uh , he , he 's in high school , so that he could make some money .
B: Right .
A: Uh , but then it has my name on it ,
A: so I 'm like , okay ,
A: I 'll sit down here and call it
B: Well , we 're doing it for a church choir
B: so ,
A: Oh , are you ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , that 's interesting .
B: So ,
A: That 's nice .
A: Well ,
B: Well , thank you .
A: Thank you .
A: Bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: So . Have you heard about Saturns ?
B: seems to be out of I 've heard some about Saturns .
B: I don't know a lot about them .
B: I have n't been over , uh , to a dealer to look at them although I did see something in tonight 's paper that said that their , uh reliability is rated to be equal to that of the , I guess , the Japanese cars .
A: Ooh , that 's great .
A: Actually that 's kind of the type of car that I , I 'm thinking about we might get .
A: Saturns , you ca n't go to a dealer unless you go to a , a Saturn dealer . This , this offshoot of G M
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , supposedly , they 've got great customer satisfaction from what things I 've heard .
B: Um . Yeah ,
B: I 've heard a lot of people like them .
B: Uh , yet I don't know whether I would buy Saturn or not at this point .
B: I 'm kind of ,
B: my card and , uh , desires tend to be pretty picky
B: and so , uh .
A: Well , like what ?
B: Well , let 's see .
B: I I like cars that are designed with , with human beings in mind ,
B: and that 's not just the driver and the passenger
B: but that 's the person who 's working on it ,
B: cause I do almost all my own maintenance and , uh those types of things .
B: And I found that while you can find some cars that are comfortable to ride in , uh , finding a car anymore that 's , that 's fairly easy for me to work on , it 's just not very it 's not very ,
B: almost unlikely at this point .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: I 've got a sixty-five Mustang
A: and I , and I do the work on , most of the work on that myself .
B: Ooh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And when I look at modern cars and stuff like that , I just say I will never do that with the modern cars .
A: It 's not worth my time .
A: You ca n't get in there .
A: You ca n't do anything .
B: Yeah .
A: And it 's so complicated too .
A: I look at it
A: and I say , boy , you know ,
A: I , I 'd have to almost go take a class or something like that .
B: Well I 've got an eighty-three Saab .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I find that for a normal , you know , everyday things . It 's really very easy to work on
B: and so , uh , you know , I 'm kind of spoiled .
B: I used to have a Chevy .
A: Uh-huh .
B: With a three fifty in it .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I really liked working on it . Uh , cause it was pretty easy too .
B: It was about a nineteen seventy .
B: So I 'm kind of , uh , biased in that
B: and , you know , I want a car that I can work on because I think it just costs too much even to get the oil changed anymore .
A: Yeah
B: And that 's kind of , that 's , that 's probably one thing I 'd look at .
B: I think another thing I 'd look at is safety .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's one of the things that my wife and I have thought about .
A: Actually , the car , one of the cars we 'd most like to get would be the new ninety-one Ford Taurus cause they 're actually one of the cheaper cars that have dual side air bags .
B: Huh .
B: That 's a real nice car , I think .
A: Yeah
B: I 've driven some , uh , Tauruses over the last couple of years when I 've been on business trips . Uh , as rental cars .
A: Uh-huh
B: And I 've always been very impressed with the Taurus .
B: It 's a really nice car .
B: I think it 's very it 's a stylish car both inside and out .
B: It 's comfortable to drive .
B: Uh , reasonable performance ,
B: and this is out in California where , where they don't make a car that 's got reasonable performance anymore .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , I 've been real impressed with that .
B: and I did n't realize that they were putting dual , uh , air bags in that car now .
A: Ninety ,
A: yeah .
A: Or , excuse me , the ninety-twos .
A: The ninety-twos had dual air bags .
B: Uh-huh .
A: This newest model .
A: You could get them with duals
B: I think That 's excellent .
B: That 's excellent because ,
A: Yeah .
A: But the thing is that it 's twenty thousand dollars .
A: Actually , my , my wife and I are actually thinking , contemplating buying a new car in the next year and a half or so .
A: So we 're actually been looking around and thinking about things .
B: Oh .
A: We 'd like to get like a
A: oh , I don't know .
A: What do you call it ?
A: A dealer return type thing on a ninety-two and ninety-three or something like that you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Year old ninety-two or something like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sure .
B: Those are
A: See if we ,
B: yeah ,
B: that , that would be a good deal to go with .
A: And the other thing we 're looking at is the Saturns too .
B: Okay .
A: Because they looked really nice .
B: Uh-huh .
B: What do you , what do you looking for in , in those ?
B: What , what attracts you to the Saturns ?
B: Or , or , of course , we 've already talked , you know ,
B: the Taurus is safe .
B: But what kind of things are you looking for ?
A: Well , the Saturns you can get air bags in them .
A: I don't think you can get dual side air bags .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But one of the , the two things that I 'm really ,
A: the , the I 'd say the most important thing is a car that 's not going to fall apart . That does n't have problems .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You set down .
A: You look at consumer reports .
A: We 've been pouring over consumer reports
A: and you just get so depressed for the U S auto makers when you do that .
B: Yeah .
A: Because you see the reliability and the types of problems they have
A: and , and the two cars that apparently are close to that . That actually have high reliability , the Taurus is one of the highest U S cars .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And the other one is , are the Saturns .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So those two things .
A: And then , you know , we kind of want a four door .
B: Okay
A: Okay .
A: What is your , uh , community , uh , currently doing with regard to recycling ?
B: Uh , basically , they 're just , uh , having various recycling , uh , bins , uh , located for , uh , trash pickup .
A: Uh-huh
A: Well that 's more than we have up here in Massachusetts .
A: Some , some local communities are very active in that , uh , in that respect
A: and they do have bins set up .
A: But I live in a , a metropolitan area
A: and , uh , they 're not , uh , too inclined to do something as aggressive as that
B: Well , here they and ,
B: uh , live in an apartment complex .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they only have one set of recycling bins , one or two sets as opposed to a set at each of the dumpsters .
B: So a lot of the people who live up front don't bother to recycle because , you know , it 's too far to carry the stuff to the other bins .
A: I , I know a lot , I think a lot of , uh , the , the issues with regard to recycling are that , uh , people have to be motivated to do , to do something like that because it does take extra effort .
A: Whether
A: and , and I think that , and I know Massachusetts has ,
A: a bottle bill was passed
A: and we have had a bottle bill for quite a few years now ,
A: and the majority of the incentive in recycling bottles probably , believe it or not , is just to get the extra nickel at the , uh , the store and not , uh ,
A: that 's the majority of people that I know of anyways .
A: Where people are n't really , you know , eco conscious . It 's just the fact that it 's something they have to do .
A: And I 'm not going to throw a bottle away ,
A: it 's like throwing a nickel away .
A: That type of thing .
B: Right .
B: They , here they 're trying to push through a bill
A: But , uh , people need to be more conscious of it .
B: and a lot of people are against it .
B: And it 's going to create a lot more work for the , uh , the stores that sell , you know , sodas and stuff .
B: Because they want to implement a refund on cans and on plastic bottles and everything .
A: Yeah
A: It did n't , it , it took awhile for that bill to be passed up here as far as recycling bottles and cans .
A: Uh , and , and matter of fact , I think it took like three tries for it to go through .
A: But , and it 's been pretty successful
A: and people notice it as far as , uh , highways being , uh , you know ,
A: people would have a drink of soda ,
A: instead of throwing out the window , they , they keep the bottle
A: so it 's , it 's been a ecologically sound policy and , you know , as , as far as recycling your bottles in terms of trash and so forth .
A: But more importantly , it 's recycling reusable materials back into , uh , manufacturing .
A: And that 's the big thing , I think , that they try to promote .
B: Right .
B: I think here if they , uh , instead of just , you know , requiring that you put , put out the trash and stuff , if they could get some kind of rebate , those people who do put the stuff out , uh , you know , and separate it , have lower collection fee or something may encourage people to separate .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's a good idea .
A: Yeah .
A: there definitely has to be a motivation factor
A: and I know that , at where I work ,
A: I work for a defense contractor .
A: And there 's a big push on for recycling , uh , paper materials , you know , computer output paper and also to decrease the amount of , uh , Styrofoam usage because of the , uh , the process involved in Styrofoam and , and the whole eco issue and that .
A: And , and they 're very proactive
A: and , uh , matter of fact , they give you discounts if you use , uh , china wear rather than , uh , Styrofoam stuff ,
A: so . So , it 's incentives like that that get people people more conscious of it .
A: I think that 's , that 's what they need to do . Be more like that .
B: Uh , I know , uh , I believe it was last year that they actually collected the old phone books .
B: Uh , usually have them come from you know , projects to collect old ones .
B: Usually just get dumped out with the trash .
B: And phone books are a large volume of annual trash .
A: Yeah .
A: They , they just ,
A: matter of fact , that , that reminded me of an article I saw in the
A: the local schools , you could send your phone book to your , uh , to , with your kid to school
A: and what they 'll do is they 'll recycle it .
A: Because there was an article or a story done awhile ago that , uh , trash , uh , the telephone books are the type of thing that don't break down over a long period of time .
A: A guy went to a a landfill , dug down five feet and , and pulled up a phone book from like nineteen sixty
A: because they don't , they don't degrade over such a period of time .
B: Well , part of the problem with recycling them in the past has been the covers are made with a clay based paper .
A: Yeah .
B: They contain the glue and stuff
B: and they used to have to take out all the , uh , pages and then cut the spine off to be able to recycle them .
A: Yeah .
B: Now I think they 've come up with some way of , uh , pulling the glue out .
A: Yeah .
A: Okay
A: Uh , let 's see .
A: How about , uh , let 's see , about ten years ago ,
A: uh , what do you think was different ten years ago from now ?
B: Well , I would say as , far as social changes go , uh , I think families were more together .
B: They , they did more things together .
A: Uh-huh
B: Uh , they ate dinner at the table together .
B: Uh , the parents usually took out time , uh , you know , more time than they do now to come with the children and just spend the day doing a family activity .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , although I 'm not a mother , I , I still think that , uh , a lot has changed since ten years ago .
B: Uh , what do you think about that ?
A: We ,
A: Well , uh , actually ten years from today seems rather short .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , but I do agree that , uh , generally it 's , society has sort of , uh , let 's see , rushed everything ahead .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I don't know ,
A: it leaves , leaves a lot of time out for family and things like that .
A: In other words , they just prioritize their lives differently .
A: But I think that has a lot to do with economic situation .
B: Yes .
B: What about like as far as , uh , social changes in the individual ?
B: Do you think that the individual has as much time as they did , let 's say , ten , twenty years ago ?
A: Uh ,
A: Um . It depends .
A: Uh , it 's hard to say because I think people were busy ten twenty years ago too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I just
B: Well , how , how old are you ?
A: I 'm twenty-eight .
B: Twenty-eight .
B: Okay ,
B: I 'm twenty-three .
A: Yeah .
B: So there 's maybe a five year gap between us .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh .
A: I just , I think that things were a bit , were , have been busy all along .
A: It 's just a matter where priorities are , at placed . And that , uh , usually as far as families are concerned , there used to be just one person working and usually the other parent was home .
B: Huh
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And now , uh , it 's pretty much an economic necessity of , for most , in most places for both parents to work .
B: Do you think it 's an economic necessity
B: or do you think that we 're , we 're , uh , all trying to keep up with a certain standard of living ?
A: I think that 's part of it too .
A: But I do think ,
B: I mean do you think , people really need two cars and a house in the suburbs or ,
A: No ,
A: no .
A: I don't .
A: No ,
A: I don't think that .
A: But then there are a lot of people that , that don't have that . But , that really do need to work .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think maybe those people that really do need to work , both parents , just to survive .
A: And then there , is , is that other group that is working to maintain a standard of living that , uh , they think is , is surviving which is really more luxuries .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Okay .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , but I I tend to think that it 's less those people that have the two cars and everything than it is the group that is just trying to survive .
B: so you think it 's ,
B: which group are you saying is the one trying ?
A: I 'm saying that the , uh , the group that is just trying to survive from day to day , where both parents are working is more of the majority than the , than the people that have the higher standard of living .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because if you look at economics across this country and statistics on who has the money and who the decreasing , uh , middle class in this country I think that that 's , in my opinion , the case .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Okay .
A: So .
A: I mean I have met people that , uh , both that , that just want to maintain a , the standard of living and those that , that really need the job .
B: Okay .
B: And then , sometimes I , I often , uh , find that maybe there 's so many different things available to us . a microwave , a V C R , a answering machine a , you know , a special , a dishwasher , uh , a refrigerator and some of those items , um , for the , for the , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: well I guess we 're sticking more to social changes
B: but , uh people want all of that
A: Uh-huh .
B: and not all of those are necessities .
A: Right
B: So they 're trying to ,
B: it has become a necessity
A: Okay .
B: I say they , uh ,
B: probably the best things to do is , is tie them with a rope and throw them in the water
B: they they 're innocent right .
A: I see .
A: A a good , a good southern solution .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , so , uh , how do you , how do you feel ?
B: that 's , of course , being facetious
B: but
A: Uh-huh .
A: You 'd have to say that .
A: Uh , I don't know .
A: The , the things they asked to talk about were whether the , uh , whether the judge should be the one that does the , uh , sentencing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And seems to me that that 's , I think that 's the way it 's done now .
A: Uh , at least , my understanding of the law which is n't very good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , it seems to me that the judge does it
A: and I , I think that 's probably all right in that they , you know , maybe know what the , the norm is for a particular thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And , I guess , also what the system will absorb
A: Right .
B: Probably more tuned in to that .
B: Possibly though on , uh , capital cases like maybe the death penalty
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , I 'm kind of undecided on that whether the judge should have the sole ,
B: I mean he could have like a personal prejudice .
B: You know , judges are people like everybody else even though they 're , they 're supposed to be impartial
A: That 's right .
B: but maybe , uh ,
A: And I think that may , I , that may be an exception as well .
A: Because I think that ,
A: does n't the jury decide on the death penalty rather than , than the judge ?
B: I , I think that 's , I think that 's the way it is .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , whether they , they decide whether or not they , uh , the accused or whatever would get the , uh , get the death penalty .
B: Do they have a death penalty in California ?
A: Yes .
A: In fact , they 're going to execute somebody at the end of this month .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , there 's a big uproar going on right now . Uh
B: Yeah .
A: the , uh , Governor , you know , has been trying to decide whether he 's going to commute it or not .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , it 's someone who had , uh , killed two teenage boys here in San Diego as a matter of fact .
B: Yeah .
B: I ,
B: something like that , I 've got no problem with it . Uh
A: Yeah .
B: I guess the way I think about it is not , it should n't necessarily be thought of as revenge .
B: It 's just like if you 've got like a dog that 's running wild and biting people
A: Uh-huh .
B: put it to sleep , you know .
B: Just get it out , you know ,
B: it 's not able to fit in , you know
A: Something inexpensive .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly
B: Uh , I guess , kind of the way I think about it also , is they just ,
B: if somebody gets the death penalty , they 're , they 're judged guilty ,
B: they got the death penalty ,
B: they should have one year and one appeal . Cover all their bases with one appeal
B: and if not , you know , don't , don't let them sit up there on death row for , you know , fifteen years .
A: Yeah .
A: I think this particular case has been like ten or fifteen years .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that ,
A: But I guess there have been several cases where people have been executed by mistake
A: and you 'd hate to be one of those .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , I 'm sure
B: Yeah .
A: The other thing they asked about was whether uh , uh , the verdict should be required to be unanimous . Which , again , I think is the way it is now . That all the , all verdicts ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: well maybe not .
A: I don't know .
A: At least in capital cases I 'd think they 'd have to be unanimous .
B: I believe it is in capital .
B: I think in like , uh , lesser cases it 's like ten out of twelve or five out of six , whatever How ever many is on , sitting on a jury .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I I believe that 's the way it is .
B: But I 'm pretty sure you 're correct on capital cases . Uh
A: Yeah .
A: The paper here tonight had a thing about the Noriega trial . And that there 's one juror that is , is , uh , different than the other eleven .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , they 've only deliberated four hours or , something
A: and they say they 're hopelessly deadlocked .
B: Oh , no
A: the judge told them they were n't hopelessly deadlocked yet
B: I 'm telling you , go one way or the other .
B: That , that 's probably an expensive trial .
A: Yeah .
A: Six months so far they said .
B: Yeah .
B: Probably .
A: So .
B: Yeah .
B: Probably .
B: You know , I 'm not sure there 's a number .
B: It 's probably like thirty , forty thousand dollars a day you know , worth of all the free for all .
A: Maybe they could go with a , with a nine hundred number and have people dial in and give their , uh , vote .
B: Yeah
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's been so long I 've practically forgot who Noriega was , you know .
A: Right .
B: That has been going on
B: My , uh , cousin is a F B I agent down in Miami .
A: Oh really ?
B: Yeah .
B: So she follows that stuff pretty closely .
B: But , uh ,
A: That 's interesting .
B: Yeah ,
B: she 's not involved in that , that case .
B: But she does ,
A: Well have you ever served on a jury ?
B: No
B: I have n't .
B: I never have .
B: My wife has
B: but I , I have n't .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I got called
A: but I , uh , never , uh , got selected for a jury
B: Uh-huh .
A: I sat for ten days in a court room while they went through the selection process ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they had some guy that was , uh , defending himself .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Bye to someone speaking to
B: So we 're , uh , our discussion 's about , uh , the care of the elderly ?
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
A: You know , what , what , uh , what do you think is important ?
A: If you were ,
A: uh , I don't know how , how old you are ,
A: but if you had , if you had , uh , parents say or , or , or grandparents , whatever it is , uh , who were ready , who , who you thought might benefit from a nursing home , what do you think you would look for ?
B: Uh , well I , actually my dad 's , my dad 's almost ninety
B: and he lives by himself
A: Huh .
B: and he 's in good shape .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , but , uh , some friends of mine have , uh , gone through this .
B: I think I 'd look for a home where they got a lot of attention and , uh , where they did some things to try to keep them , um , mentally alive . And where there was , uh , caring and compassionate , where there were caring and compassionate people , uh , operating it .
A: Yeah .
B: Do you have any experience with this yourself ?
A: Huh .
A: Well my , uh , uh , my wife 's grandmother is in a nursing home in , uh , Minnesota
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we go there , uh , once a year .
A: We see , we tend to see her there cause we 're in Boston
A: so we 're pretty far away .
A: When we visit Minnesota though we go to see her .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it seems , uh ,
A: I mean the , the environment there , I don't know too much about it
A: but it , it seems nice enough .
A: Uh , it , it 's hard ,
A: at least half of the residents I would say are not , not mentally sound .
A: So it 's hard to tell how much of that rubs off on those who are struggling to to retain , uh , clarity , say , uh , know
B: From the lack of stimulation , you mean .
A: Yeah .
A: Well I , I I don't know .
A: We , we also , my wife and I , uh , uh , volunteer to go to a , uh , nursing home that 's just a mile from our house .
A: We , uh , she goes more often than I .
A: We used to go once a month , once every two months to visit some of the patients there .
A: And we 'd take , we have a two year old son
A: and so we , sometimes we 'd take him with us .
A: And , uh , there I would say it 's the same thing .
A: It 's , it 's a nice , uh , relatively nice environment
A: but again , um , it must be depressing for the people who , who are , who are just essentially not able to take care of themselves in their own house but , but , certainly , uh , certainly have are , have retained all of their , uh , mental skills and so on .
A: It 's , must be depressing to , to walk , walk the halls and see , and see all these other people who really don't know where they are .
B: Do you think that in the case of the one that you 've actually had some experience with , that the people who operate it seem to have , what you 'd perceive of as genuine concern ?
A: I think , yeah ,
A: I think they 're relatively respectful . Yeah and , and concerned that , in as much as they can be .
A: I , I think sometimes , you know , I 've noticed , uh , people asking for , uh , some of the patients asking for things , uh , just repetitively and , but things that are not reasonable ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so at some level the , the , the , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm sure that the , that the , uh , the staff learn what 's normal for this person
A: and so it looks to me like maybe their not catering to this person 's needs is really because this person is just , you know , is just in a state where they don't really need what they think they need , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: It , it 's possible ,
B: I was thinking also that there 'd be , there could be a fair burn out factor um , in just having to respond to people 's needs where the needs are sometimes , depending on the person , not going to be what we would perceive of as rational need .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'll tell you one thing though that 'll , that , that I , I saw that was really nice .
A: We saw a husband and wife ,
A: we used to see a husband and wife in there , uh , together
A: and they were in the same room which not all husband and wives were
A: but these two were .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And when you walked into their room , they had brought all their furniture from their house
B: Uh-huh .
B: So it gives them a sense of identity .
A: And so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: you walked in there
A: and it did n't look like , uh , you know , how , you , you walk into some rooms
A: and there 's , it 's completely generic .
A: There 's nothing , maybe a picture or two that belongs to that person
A: and that 's it .
A: But this room , on the other hand , you know , they got rid of all of the sort of standard issue beds and dressers and this and that
A: and they had all their stuff from their house
A: and it looked like , uh , it must have been ,
A: it was nicer to walk in there and to talk to them
A: and it must also give them a sense of , uh , uh , security and , and , uh , and , and , you know , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think part of what you 're saying matches what I have read .
B: I used to initially think that the only people who went into such residences were people who , uh , were adequately deficient in their abilities , uh physical or mental , that they could n't take care of themselves .
A: Yeah .
B: But I also know a couple of people whose parents have gone into such things because I think they provide , um , a lot of social activities .
A: Huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , the , one of my friend 's parents who went in because she had largely lost her abilities
B: and she was in there for awhile when they were away on vacation .
B: Uh , and ,
A: Huh .
A: temporary .
A: I ,
A: that , that 's , that 's new to me .
A: I ,
B: Well I think it , I think it was sort of on the grounds that they were considering whether she would live there
B: and I feel like , the whole vocabulary of this is very loaded if you think of words like , like put her in there .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: And there , there 's so much ,
A: Okay .
A: Uh , so your , you , I guess you 're probably in the same , uh , same situation uh , we 're in .
A: We 're kind of past having to provide child care .
A: Our , our kids are grown up .
A: We don't have any grandchildren yet .
A: But , uh , uh , they 're ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: How old are your children ?
A: Uh , one 's twenty-six
A: and the other is , uh , twenty , twenty-one .
B: Uh-huh
A: So they 're , uh , uh , They 're , they 're getting there .
B: Well , they 're going to be getting there .
A: You know , there 's no no , no prospects right away for anything to happen .
B: Yeah .
B: uh-huh .
B: Oh , I see .
A: But , uh ,
B: I have , uh , five children .
B: I have a eighteen year old son .
B: The of my girls are like twenty-three , twenty-six , twenty-eight , and twenty-nine .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I have three granddaughters right now .
A: Oh .
B: And , uh , I , uh ,
B: one 's in Iowa .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , she 's , she 's a teacher
B: and what she does is she , teaches at a preschool .
A: Oh , okay .
B: And , and so she kind of ,
B: and they let her bring her , her little daughter in for free .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then , so
B: but she just works part-time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Then I have another daughter in , uh , Bountiful , Utah
B: and she has to work full-time
B: and it 's just tearing her apart .
B: She has a private baby-sitter .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , the baby just screams .
B: I mean , the baby is like seventeen months
B: and she just screams .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well even if she knows that they 're fixing to get ready to go over there .
B: They 're not even there yet you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's hard .
A: We ,
B: And , and then I have my , uh , uh , I have a seven month old granddaughter
B: and , uh , her mother stays home
B: and she , they live , they live with us . You know , in , as Orange County is really expensive .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They live with us
B: and so , of course , we love it . Because we get to see this cute little baby all the time .
B: But , uh , uh , she just ,
B: uh , she used to work in pre , in the preschool and , and , and child care
B: and she says after working in there
B: and , and , you know , here she was a provider
B: but , you know , there 's only so much one person can do .
A: Yeah .
B: She said it 's so awful .
B: She said she 'll never put her child in a , in a , in a in a in a preschool .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm sure there must be some good ones around here somewhere .
A: Huh .
B: But it 's really , it 's really , really very difficult
B: and ,
A: Yeah .
A: What did you do when your kids were growing up ?
A: Were you ,
B: Well , when , when
B: the , uh , the first , uh , ten years , see first ten or twelve years , I stayed home .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , then after that I , I went to work .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , uh , uh , a couple of times I just , uh , uh , you know ,
B: then I had one job
B: and then that job ran out because it was kind of a government seeded type job .
B: And then , and then like about , later I , I tried to get the baby to a baby-sitter .
B: Supposed to be good , uh , recommended person from the church
B: and I knew her personally .
B: She had two kids of her own and everything .
B: But I quit my job because I could n't stand how she was taking care of my child .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , first of all , uh , her children were sick all the time .
B: So when my son stayed over there , he got sick .
A: He got sick ,
A: yeah .
B: Same thing , same thing that the , her kids had ,
B: right ?
A: Right .
A: Well ,
B: And so , uh , we did n't take her over there until like about eleven o'clock .
B: Then he , she 'd take my son and her daughter over to kindergarten .
B: But
B: that day , uh , I was saying now he , he 's sick .
B: And she goes well , she goes , he has the same thing that all my kids have .
B: That 's what he got , you know .
B: Goes , well , okay ,
B: so it 's not like he 's going to infect her kids .
B: But then what happened was , is , I said , uh , he just threw up
B: and kindergarten starts at eleven thirty
B: so she said well she 'll keep him home
B: and he 'll probably just sleep anyway .
B: Well , you know , what
B: that woman sent her , sent him to kindergarten .
B: She sent him to kindergarten .
B: As soon as he went there , the teacher took one look at him
B: and he threw up again
B: and they put him in the nursery , uh , they put him in the nurse 's office .
A: yeah .
B: And then what happened was , is , you know , they gave her a call because they knew that she was my baby-sitter .
B: Called her
B: and they said , uh , that he 's sick .
B: Well she was n't home .
A: Huh .
B: I mean her , all her kids were sick
B: but she was n't home , right .
B: And her , and her , her daughter that was in kindergarten with him also did not go to school because she was sick .
B: Now why did n't he , why did n't she keep him home with her ?
B: No ,
B: she did n't do that .
B: So , it got to the point where he 's , he 's supposed to get out of , uh , kindergarten like about two thirty .
B: And I had to leave work .
B: It was , it was five o'clock in the evening
B: and I found out he was still there at school .
B: And they were calling me
B: and they said somebody 's got to pick him up .
B: And I kept thinking that she was going to get picked up , she was going to pick him up because she only lives in like two blocks away from the school .
B: I was trying to get my husband to come and pick him up and all that kind of stuff .
B: And he had a hundred and four fever .
B: They could n't , uh , give him anything because they 're not allowed to at school and everything .
A: Right .
B: I was so furious .
B: I , I quit that job
B: and I stayed home for awhile longer .
B: Then I went and got a , uh , a job in real estate where I can kind of adjust my time a little bit better .
A: Yeah ,
A: a little more flexibility .
A: You can come and go .
B: Yeah ,
B: but , uh , I have n't had any good , really very good experience with child care
A: Yeah .
A: When , when our kids were small we had a couple of , uh , good , good women who , uh , would often uh , get them to come to the house .
A: So , who 's your favorite team ?
B: My favorite team is the Pittsburgh Steelers .
A: Pittsburgh ?
B: You bet .
A: I used to be a big Pittsburgh fan when I was little .
B: Well , I , uh ,
B: when played he was from my hometown in Alabama ,
A: Oh , really ?
B: so I kind of grabbed on to that team , way back when .
A: Huh .
A: pretty
A: that 's good .
A: I , I used to watch them a lot when they were playing the big iron curtain , or steel curtain .
B: That 's right .
B: How about your favorite team ?
A: Huh .
A: Well , last year it was Buffalo
A: and I , I still try to keep up with Buffalo because they just , they just impressed me as being so efficient
A: and they never score .
A: They never blow out their opponents .
A: They just score just enough points ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and that really impressed me .
A: But then down here I
A: is pretty close to New Orleans
A: and I 've been keeping up with the Saints a lot .
B: Well , they are exciting , are n't they ?
A: Yeah ,
A: the Saints are starting to impress me this year , you know , a lot .
B: Boy ,
B: they are , they are just a fun team to watch .
A: This , it , they are really .
A: Did you see the game Sunday night or , Sunday afternoon ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: I did n't .
A: It was funny .
A: There were , they uh , a fireworks display at halftime .
B: Oh , yeah ?
A: Yeah ,
A: and some paper or something in the Super Dome up in the roof caught on fire .
B: Oh , you 're kidding
A: So , they had to stop the game lieu the third quarter and put out this fire .
B: Oh , my
A: Those big piece of something came flaming , falling out of the roof and landed on the field
A: so there 's this big fire on the field
A: and they were dumping the bucket and everything .
B: Oh , I ca n't believe that .
A: It was
A: I mean , you just really ca n't tell what 's going to happen .
B: That 's hilarious .
A: I know .
A: It 's like about two weeks ago I was watching the Saints .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And Anderson kicked a sixty yard field goal .
B: Oh .
A: And it , it was beautiful , right down the middle .
B: Oh , boy .
B: He is tough ,
B: he has an incredible leg .
A: He is .
A: Yes .
B: Well , do you think they 're , they 're going to be able to make it this year , past the first playoff game ?
A: Uh I I sure hope so .
A: I 'm not sure , I 'm not sure who they play .
A: Right now I 've got it narrowed down to the top four teams .
B: Who 's that ?
A: It 's pretty much going between Washington . They are undefeated . And , uh , Buffalo , New Orleans , and Chicago because Chicago has only lost twice
B: Right .
A: and one of those was to Buffalo .
A: And they beat the Saints .
A: Their only time they lost .
B: What do you think about , uh , Houston ?
A: Houston .
A: I saw Houston play this summer in Memphis .
B: Oh , yeah ?
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , from what I saw they were playing ,
A: when I was at the game we sat right on the front row , right behind the Houston Oilers ,
B: Huh .
A: and from what I saw the game Houston , Houston impressed me a lot .
B: Huh .
A: But my brother watched it on T V and said that Warren Moon was just having an off night ,
A: and if that was an off night I 'd hate to see when he 's on a good night .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: he 's he definitely , uh , is one of the best I think .
A: He 's ,
A: Yeah ,
A: the , their , their backfield is really impressive .
A: Haywood and Drew Hill and
B: Right .
A: they really impress me .
B: Well , they squeaked out a game on Sunday .
A: That 's right .
A: Who , who did they play ?
B: They played Dallas .
A: Dallas ,
A: that 's right ,
B: They won , in overtime .
A: all because ,
A: That 's right .
A: I remember that now .
B: So that was ,
B: I , I watched that game
B: and , uh , that was , uh ,
A: Do you have a favorite between those two ?
B: Well , because I 'm right here in Dallas I , I kind of pull for Dallas .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah .
B: Well , also Houston is , uh , in Pittsburgh 's division
B: so , I 'll almost always root against them .
A: Well , that 's true .
A: I hate to say it
A: but I hate Dallas
B: That 's okay
B: Well I , you know , I , I was never really a big Dallas fan until we moved here
A: Yeah .
B: and they just kind of grew on me .
A: Yeah ,
A: I imagine .
A: That 's the way ,
A: I 've never been a big Saints fan until the last year or two
A: and they , they 've actually started doing something .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I 've actually paid attention to them .
B: Well
A: Well , do you know anything about the expansion teams they 're thinking about bringing in ?
B: To tell you the truth I have n't paid too much attention to that .
A: Really ?
B: Um , what cities are they looking at ?
A: Uh , right now I think this Memphis , they 're , they 're trying to get the teams .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that 's , that 's where I was when I saw , uh , Houston play .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Saint Louis is trying to get a team .
A: Uh , Baltimore is trying to get a team ,
A: and there 's some other city .
A: I 'm wanting to say Raleigh
A: but I 'm not sure .
B: You know , I think you are right .
B: I think it is Raleigh .
A: Think so ?
B: I think I remember hearing that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Because I know they 've got a football team
A: but I think it might be them .
B: That would be fun .
B: I 'd like to see some more teams get in .
A: I would , definitely .
A: I think they are supposed to put two in by either next year or the year after .
A: And right now I think Memphis and , it 's Memphis and I think Baltimore have a really good shot at it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because I know Saint Louis is much bigger than Memphis
A: and when I went up there they were saying that Memphis sold more tickets than Saint Louis did .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
A: It 's like the Liberty Bowl or Liberty Stadium in Memphis holds about sixty-two ,
A: I think that , uh , one , uh , advantage of having , uh , the unanimous verdict is that in a criminal case you want to make sure that you don't , uh , convict someone who , uh , really should n't be convicted .
B: Definitely .
A: Um , and I think that , you know , a unanimous verdict , uh , helps to ensure that .
A: I guess maybe one drawback of it is that if you have one juror who is very unreasonable in some way , that , uh , you , uh , would have a problem , uh , you know , that you would n't convict someone who maybe should be convicted .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Have you ever served on a jury before ?
B: Uh , I have twice .
A: Oh , okay .
B: It was a pretty wild experience .
A: Uh , what sorts of cases were they ?
B: They were just , you know , small time cases where , uh , trailers and banks were involved , you know .
A: So were they criminal or civil ?
B: They were civil .
B: They were n't they were n't any criminal .
A: Oh , okay .
A: What , uh , what was the verdict ?
A: Did the , did the jury have trouble reaching a decision ?
B: Uh , the jury , it was , uh , let me see , I think it was ten to one on the jury , because they only had to have eleven people
A: Yeah .
B: so it was ,
B: they ,
B: and , uh , the one changed his vote at the end .
A: So did it become ?
B: So it became unanimous , you know , after they turned it in
A: Yeah .
B: and then he changed his mind after they turned it in
A: Uh .
B: but it then became unanimous .
A: Uh . But since it was a civil case it really did n't matter , right ?
A: You just needed a majority ?
B: Right .
A: What was , what was the other case ?
A: That was also civil ?
B: The , the other case was just traffic ,
B: the ,
B: and , you know , it was seat belt law
A: Yeah .
B: and it , it did n't even hardly go through ,
A: Oh , did n't really even count .
B: so .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm , I 'm a college student
A: so I have n't been , you know , a jury eligible age for very long
B: Yeah .
A: um , and , uh , I did get one summons actually at one point ,
A: but I declined it which I 'm able to do because I 'm a student , because it was , uh , a very bad time .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , you learn a lot going to the juries like that though .
A: Yeah , I mean , I , I really , I would like to , uh , to do at some point , um ,
A: but , I , I have n't .
A: Uh , one , one thing that I , I think is , um , you know , maybe is a problem is , uh , I , I think that the criminal jury system works pretty well now ,
A: but I wonder if maybe in some civil cases it does n't work as well .
A: Especially sort of .
B: I would n't think that it does I mean , from , from my , from what I experienced in them ,
A: How ,
B: it did n't , you know , it did n't turn out the way I planned it , I mean , the way that I would think that it would go .
A: Uh , you thought it turned out pretty well ?
B: Yeah ,
B: but it was , you know , it was ,
B: jury was unorganized
B: and it was , it was just was n't organized enough for me .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm not used to it not being organized ,
B: and I just assumed that it would have been .
A: Oh , so it was just kind of a zoo
A: and the jurors just sort of ,
A: someone had to figure out what was going on ?
B: That 's about what it was .
A: Um . That 's interesting .
A: Did it , did it work out pretty well in the end ?
A: I mean , did a couple of people sort of gradually , sort of assume , uh , sort of a moderator role in the trial
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they , well they picked one person ,
B: and then he finally , you know , moderated everything and made it turn out the way it should have .
A: So it it did end up working out pretty well ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it ended up working all right .
A: The one thing I sometimes wonder about , um , in civil cases is , uh , whether , especially sort of in , uh , maybe like product liability , or medical malpractice , where there 's , um , sort of a very technical decision to be made sometimes
B: Yes .
A: you know , it 's not just a matter of , um , of , you know , did this guy rip off this guy ,
A: and it 's just a matter of interpreting a contract ,
A: it 's sort of a matter of , um , you know , sometimes getting into very technical issues ,
A: and I wonder if , uh , if there 's really , um , if the system works adequately in , in educating the jurors about , uh , whatever , um , you know , issue is under discussion .
B: I , I don't think that they , they , they educate them enough to , to really know what 's going on .
A: In , in the case you were involved in , you said it was just sort of a bank matter of some kind .
A: So .
B: Yeah ,
B: the , the bank was suing them for , uh , because they went to get the , the trailer that , which was , uh , seemingly their property .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh .
B: It was on his property .
A: Oh , so the deal was that he had , uh , borrowed money from the bank to buy it ,
A: and he had n't made the payments .
B: Right .
B: So they came to get it .
A: Yeah .
B: And then when they came to get it , well , it was on the landlord 's property
B: and he would n't let them take it off .
A: Uh , so they were suing to get it back .
B: So , and they are , it was a double wide ,
B: so they 'd already taken it apart .
A: Uh .
B: So they left it there
A: Yeah .
B: and then when they came back to get it a couple of days later it had rained and got all in it .
A: Uh .
B: So they were suing him for the money ,
B: and , you know , there 's no way they could because it , it was the moving company ,
A: Uh , I get most of my news uh , from newspapers really .
A: I read the daily newspaper , uh , the HOUSTON CHRONICLE
A: and sometimes I 'll read like the , uh , WALL STREET or the NEW YORK TIMES .
A: I don't subscribe to either ,
A: but sometimes I get a hold of copies of it .
A: Uh , how about you ?
A: Do you , uh , mostly get things from T V or
B: Yes .
B: I actually get most of my news coverage off uh , computer networks .
B: However , I do also watch television news , uh , usually in the morning once a day
B: and I read the front page of the WALL STREET JOURNAL most every day .
A: Oh .
A: Oh that 's interesting .
A: You said computer networks .
A: Uh , what , uh , what sort .
A: I am fairly knowledgeable of
B: Uh well , well DOW JONES for example have the , cause the uh , news wire
A: Uh , okay .
A: That 's interesting .
B: and it 's picked up and actually available , uh , at my office ,
B: so , it 's , no fee , or subscription either to read at my leisure
B: and it 's sort of by category .
B: For example so I can read a certain business or topics .
A: Oh .
A: is it , is it the A P news wire
A: or is it something that is , uh , a little bit different from that ?
B: Well , uh , it 's similar to that ,
B: but it 's DOW JONES , which is , uh , the WALL STREET JOURNALS news wire .
A: Uh , okay .
A: So , that 's that 's interesting .
A: Okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've had , I had access in the past to , uh , uh , the A P news wire
A: and I thought that was that was pretty a pretty good way to get news .
A: Uh , I 've never used the DOW JONES news wire
A: but , uh ,
A: yeah
A: it , uh ,
A: do you get any , uh , do you read any news magazines or anything like that for sort of like a broader , like more long term analytical sort of approach ?
B: Uh , well actually not .
B: Uh , I do , uh , follow , uh , uh , uh ,
B: I don't know how to how to describe it
B: so I 'll say a religious newspaper which , which talks about issues that are relevant to me in a more broad sense .
B: It 's a weekly but , uh , but not , uh , not like BUSINESS WEEK or NEWS WEEK or one of those kinds of things .
A: Yeah
B: I 'd like to say that however , uh , that I 'm overwhelmingly disappointed with the media in general except for the raw news wires
A: In what way ?
A: In like , in sort of like , uh , uh , quality or sort of an orientation in terms of like , view point or the way the news is presented or whatever ?
B: Uh , I think that it , I think that it has to do with , uh ,
B: I personally think , uh ,
B: I , I have a problem with their viewpoint
B: and I personally think that , uh , that there 's a strong there 's a strong bias in the media .
A: Yeah .
A: Well you wo n't offend me .
A: So go ahead and say
A: Yeah .
A: Like a liberal type of bias .
B: Yeah .
B: Absolutely .
B: Uh , after all , who , who writes .
B: People who are journalist who are trained to write
B: and they 're , that 's a liberal , uh , a liberal field at least from academia
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , the other thing that I always notice is that whenever they write about something that I 'm an expert in , I find their descriptions to be wrong
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: and it ,
A: They , they generally make mistake on anything technical at least
B: That 's right .
B: Well , even if it 's not technical . If it 's , uh , some social thing or whatever . It does n't matter .
B: If I am an expert in it , they usually make mistakes which makes me believe think I 'm not expert in it .
B: They 're telling me lies .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Do you , by mistakes , do you mean just like honest mistakes
A: or do you think they are deliberate sorts of things ?
B: Uh , I think both .
B: Uh , by deliberate I , uh , I mean mistake , mistakes of omission or , uh , or , uh , biased toward a particular view point a particular liberal view point that they have .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh , uh , to give you an example , uh , we will go out of the printing media .
B: I know of cases where , uh , we have one television media where they will show clippings from one event and describe another event but , with the the attempt to give you the impression that what they 're talking about is the same thing they are showing you . Which is sort of like a deliberate bias . Which is which is rather disturbing .
A: Huh .
A: Huh . That 's disturbing .
B: I mean he does that .
A: I have n't really noticed them doing that ,
A: but whatever ,
A: again I don't watch T V news that much now .
A: If I had access to C N N , I would watch T V news more .
A: Uh , I don't you know , but I don't usually .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't have access either . Although , I did at one time
B: and it was ,
B: I did during the Gulf War
B: and it was addictive .
A: Yeah .
A: Did you , did you think that C N N , well , the Gulf War coverage would be kind of , uh , an abnormality ?
A: I just I guess .
A: I would be curious to know what you thought as to how like say C N N T V news compared to the three networks .
A: Uh , you know whether you thought it was more of a biased or whatever
A: but I , I guess you would n't .
A: You probably ,
A: if you just watched it during the Gulf War , that probably would n't would n't tell you much .
B: Yeah ,
B: well during that small sample , I would think that everyone was just about , just about the same , except the three networks , radio television programming .
A: Yeah .
B: So , if at a particular time , you wanted to get the latest and greatest news you could do that by , uh , turning on C N N
A: Yeah .
B: and you ,
A: Anyway , uh
B: How about you .
B: What do you do with your budget ?
A: What do I do ,
A: uh , at the moment it 's under chaos .
A: Uh , right now I 'm just , uh ,
A: I , I don't really have a budget per se .
A: I 'm , I , uh , it 's called living within your means You know , which means at the moment , paying off the VISA bill and keeping everything else under control and hoping the car does n't collapse
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
A: Uh , but , uh , no
A: I don't really have a budget at the moment .
A: Uh , but I have uh , I have a rough feel for how much money I can afford to spend each month
A: and then I don't , usually don't exceed that unless I , unless the VISA bill gets out of hand for one reason or another , like if I have car expenses
A: and then that , then it goes through the moon ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's sort of a problem .
A: Yeah ,
A: so uh , what do
B: We 're trying , we 're trying to , uh ,
B: so far we are in the clear credit wise
B: but , uh , the other side of it is ,
B: so , not much on that side of it to add to it .
B: We 're trying to think of how to put away some savings and stuff like that
B: but ,
A: So you can afford to get a house ?
B: Yeah ,
B: we 'd like to do that some day .
B: We have this dream .
A: Yeah .
B: But , we don't know how long it will be a dream .
B: We , we 're kind of real , we 're real happy that we don't have any debt ,
B: but we 're at the same time we 're real scared about incurring it in this , uh , economy right now
B: so we 're stepping real careful and trying to see what 's the best way to save what , the little bit that we do get , you know , on top of expenses every month .
A: Yeah .
A: So , what do you and your husband do ?
B: We 're missionaries actually .
A: Are you really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it will be easier once we get overseas cause we have , uh , like , uh , uh , support quota
A: Um .
B: and it 's cheaper to live overseas than it is to live here .
A: No kidding .
B: And it does n't get switched very easily once you come home .
A: I see .
B: So ,
A: Overseas , where would you be going ?
B: Africa ,
B: Nigeria .
A: Really .
B: Yeah .
A: Really .
A: How long would you be there ?
B: About four years .
B: We 're career
B: so , we , we go over seas for four years
B: and then we come back for a year .
B: We go over four ,
B: we come back for a year .
A: With , with what Church ?
B: Uh , we 're with Wycliff Bible Translators .
A: Oh yes .
A: Yes ,
B: So .
A: I , uh , I know who they are .
A: They , uh , they have an office , uh , in in Costa Mesa as I recall .
B: Yeah ,
B: they could very well
B: and ,
A: There , there was , uh , you know , there was a fairly large building that that was well that belongs to them .
A: So , uh , are you , uh , are you , uh , active in translation ?
B: Uh , we will be .
B: I was over , over four years doing language surveying which is the first step .
B: You 're kind of like the scout that goes ahead of the team and assesses the need .
A: Uh-huh
B: And , uh , came home and got married
B: and we will go back as translators cause we want to raise a family
B: and it is easier to raise a family as translators .
B: Well , I always wanted to do translation ,
B: but as long as I was single and foot loose so to speak it 's easier .
B: You know they really need surveyors cause you could , you 're free to travel anywhere .
B: You don't have kids hanging around you and stuff .
A: True ,
A: true enough .
A: So , uh , what , what , uh , what languages do you speak besides English , of course ?
B: Well , I have a smattering of about ten different ones ,
B: but there 's ,
B: I 'm not bilingual in any of them because I kept switching from one area to the other , you know ,
B: since I did you know , complete a survey in one area , I 'd switch to the other .
A: Uh-huh
B: So I know the greetings in about ten , and how to do market stuff ,
B: but in about , uh , about five I guess , I can do better in it .
B: And my French is pretty good
B: but it 's , uh , French
B: so , uh , I 'm terrified to speak in , uh in France .
A: In France .
B: Yeah ,
B: because they 're real snobby about their language
B: and French is street French
B: and I just picked it up off the street
B: and I knew what I was , I knew what I was communicating ,
B: but I did n't know what I was saying .
B: I never sat there and got a direct translation
B: and said something here when I came home and French to somebody
B: and he paled and said , uh , I 'm not going to tell you what you said .
B: So , since then I have refrained from speaking any French
B: So .
B: In
A: Uh ,
B: I don't know what I said to him
B: but , uh , I did n't ask him either .
A: Must have been terrible .
A: The , uh ,
A: was it Henry Macon said that the , the , uh , language was like a man slowly bleeding to death .
A: So they hemorrhaged him to death without new infusions that will eventually die
A: and I , it just amazes me that the French don't recognize that .
A: Free style English is just ,
A: takes on ,
A: uh , some of my things ,
A: I , I 'd like to have a short work week you know ,
B: Oh , okay .
A: and and we need , you know , better health insurance and you know ,
B: Okay ,
B: we can start off there .
B: Let 's just get started .
A: Okay .
B: If you don't want to , you know , uh , talk about it now and then be bored when we get to it
A: Okay .
A: Okay ,
A: so I just press one then
A: right ?
B: Right .
A: Okay ,
A: ready ?
B: Yep .
A: Okay
B: So , so you think , uh , I think that a short work week is real nice .
B: Uh , I have a thirty-seven hour work week .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , well right now , I , I 'm just a student .
A: I only work part time ,
A: but I 've work in the job force before
B: Uh-huh .
A: and forty hours is just too long .
A: You just don't have any time to do anything .
A: It seems like , Saturday you get get off ,
A: but Sunday you 're getting ready for Monday .
A: And if we get have a if we could have a thirty-two hour work week , with that happen is that , for every four people we could give another job .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And then that way everybody would have a three day holiday , okay .
A: And that way that more , that would make a bigger market .
A: We 'd have , uh , more recreation .
A: People would have time to do it .
A: There would be less of a stress level .
A: We 'd have , we 'd have less crime .
A: We 'd have to we 'd have to build less prisons , you know , less police force .
B: Yeah ,
B: it all makes sense to me .
B: Although , there may be more crime . I mean if people have more leisure time .
B: It 's not clear .
B: And that ,
A: It , it , that 's , that 's a possibility .
B: Yeah .
A: One , one of the problems they 're facing now , a lot of people now , is that the health insurance is that the small business ca n't , ca n't offer health insurance
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it , it 's too costly
A: and what , what is happening is that they 're on a policy where they have X amount of users in it , okay .
A: So they get a specific rate .
A: Well what happens is that if people start becoming having chronic illness and , and things like that ,
A: what happened and where they really have to spend out a lot of money for one particular ,
B: Right .
A: it 's called a a group ,
A: well what will , well what happens then is that they cancel , because they just ca n't cancel an individual .
A: So they , they have to cancel just like life insurance .
A: They have to cancel everything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So what they do is that , that they cancel the insurance
A: and then all the people don't have any insurance coverage .
B: Right .
B: So ,
A: But , I 'm , I 'm , you know , I 'm , I 'm satisfied with my job .
A: I 'm , I 'm an engineering student .
B: Right .
A: And I work for my instructor
A: and I 'm I 'm not a typical student .
A: I 'm , I 'm older .
A: I 'm , I 'm in my thirties , okay .
B: Yeah .
A: And so I have a lot of job experience
A: and my instructor thrives on that because he can just tell me what he wants
A: and he can give me access and tell me what to do and just turn me loose
B: Yeah .
A: but in , in the same token , it 's a very , really enjoyable for me because I don't have to have , you know , nobody breathing down my back
A: and and one of the things that I , I really hate about jobs . I don't , I don't like bosses that , that you know want to yell at you and you know are down on your back and all this and that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I just really ca n't deal with that
A: so ,
B: Yeah
A: What kind of , what kind of jobs have you done ?
B: Well , well , I do uh , research in computer science
B: and I 've just been doing that for a few years now
B: so uh , I , my job has most of the benefits I want .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , what I really like is , I like being ,
B: like they send me to conferences for instance , but probably not as much as I 'd like
B: but , uh , you know , that 's just nice being , you know , having a company being able to give you time to do that sort of thing and sort of ,
B: uh , they also ,
B: a really important thing to me is when they , uh , they pay for continuing education .
B: Like , I , I get night courses that they they 'll cover right now
B: and that 's really good
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's just great .
A: You have what you might call knowledge power
B: Right .
A: you know , when when you work at a company whether you know it or not , is that you 're categorized .
A: Some people can be let go and replaced like , uh , say , uh , a typist , uh , somebody who does data entry or answers the telephone or receptionist .
A: But if you 're a person who , that 's doing computer type things and you have the , you have the knowledge , you know what the system you 've revised and revamped the system , well then you 're you 're vital to the company
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you get more benefits
A: so . That 's where I , I , I 'm like ,
A: I 'm into computers too
A: and that 's one of the things that I 've found in any one , one of these jobs and anything I 've done is that to have knowledge .
A: When you have the knowledge , you 're you 're not going to , uh , you know , be let go ,
A: be one of the last ones to let go anyway .
B: Right .
A: So what I ,
A: Well , what were you saying ?
B: Okay .
B: I , I think we 're started now .
A: Oh , okay .
B: Uh , do you want to go ahead and start ?
A: Uh , well , I have n't really been up to date on a lot of music .
A: I 've been in school
A: and I have n't really gone out , and bought any or listened to much on the , on the radio except for classical
A: and , uh ,
B: Well , you like classical music ?
A: Yes .
B: Uh , I like classical music .
B: I like rock and roll .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I like country and western
A: Okay .
B: Uh , I , I like all kinds
B: I like , I like different things about each one of them .
A: Well , I like most of them except for country music .
B: Oh you don't like country ?
A: No .
A: I think I , I might like dancing to it
A: but I don't like listening to it .
B: The , the kind of country I like is kind of the older country music . Not the , not the kind like Kenny Rodgers and stuff like that .
A: Oh .
B: That 's , uh , that 's a little bit to , uh ,
B: they 're trying to make it too much of a crossover thing ,
B: you know what I mean ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: what 's the old country music like ?
B: Oh , like , like Hank Williams .
B: Like the old Hank Williams .
B: Even , even Hank Williams , Junior is real good stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The kind that
A: Oh , okay .
B: uh , this stuff , makes you cry it sounds so sad
B: I mean you
A: That 's the kind you like you mean ?
B: Yeah .
B: sometimes I do .
B: I mean , not all the time .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Well , I guess I , I like the blues a lot
A: and I guess you could say it 's similar as far as the kind of the way they do it .
B: Yes .
B: And I I , I do too .
B: I also like jazz .
A: Yeah .
A: Me too , too .
A: I guess I like
A: except heavy metal
A: and , uh , most rap I don't like .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: You 're , you 're about like I am
B: I , I ca n't , watch M T V anymore .
B: I used to love M T V .
A: Oh , okay .
B: And I can , I can barely watch anymore because , uh , they have this heavy metal stuff on there
B: and , and I ca n't even , you know , I ca n't like that .
A: Yeah .
B: And , and I liked , uh , Aerosmith and Led Zepplin and , uh you know , and , uh , jeez who else is there . Van Halen .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Okay .
A: Okay .
A: Yeah .
B: Now I like , I like groups like that .
B: But when you get , uh ,
B: I , I even like Guns and Roses , some of their stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , some of these groups now like Slaughter
A: Oh , I , I really have n't listened to that
B: Some of them are just really rough .
B: So , so you went to school then in ,
B: I 'm surprised you did n't go to , to any parties or anything where they were playing a lot of music or stuff
B: or ,
A: Well , uh , I used to a long time ago
A: but since I 've started back into school now , I have n't really done that much .
A: I 've been pretty busy . Uh
B: Okay .
A: but , uh ,
A: so no
A: I have n't .
A: I , you know , I used to go out and dance a lot
A: but I don't do that anymore either
A: So .
B: Oh , I see .
B: Are you married at all ?
A: No
B: Okay
A: I 've just been real busy with , with lots of other things .
B: Well , how old are you ?
A: Twenty-eight .
B: Okay .
B: So , you , you were out of you went to school for awhile and quit . Then went back .
A: Well , no .
A: I , I went to school and got a degree
A: and then I worked for awhile .
A: And then I just started , I started back a year and a half ago .
A: Changed directions .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah .
A: How old are you ?
B: Oh , I 'm , uh , twenty-eight
B: I was born in sixty-three
B: I guess we 're the same age then .
A: Oh , okay
A: All right .
A: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I did n't really start getting into music until I went to college because , uh , my parents did n't really have music in the house .
A: Put it that way .
B: Oh ,
B: Were they religious ?
A: Yes .
B: uh , I see .
B: I ,
A: So , I 'm always behind .
A: I 'm , I 'm not , I 'm never really up to date on all that stuff .
A: But I know what I like when it 's , uh , when I like a sound . A certain kind of sound ,
A: yeah .
B: My parents were very musical .
B: My mother had a piano in the , in the house .
A: Uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: My father likes , uh , country western music .
A: Okay .
B: He 's from , uh , West Virginia .
B: So that 's what he grew up listening to .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And he 's always liked it
B: and , and , you know , he 's probably about fifty-three years old now ,
B: so he grew up like in the late fifties
B: and you know , when they had that , the Elvis Presley music and stuff like that . And that kind of rock and roll
A: Huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: so he likes that .
B: And my mom always liked that kind of stuff .
B: My mom likes like , uh , Doris Day , you know .
A: Oh , really .
B: She always had those , these old Doris Day records and stuff like that , though .
A: Oh , well .
B: So , you know , I grew up listening to that stuff .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , I could see why you went , uh , you know , I could see why you were kind of sheltered I guess from , from music .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I , I do play the piano , you know
B: Oh , okay .
A: But , uh , I , I like the , uh , early seventies , late sixties rock . Kind of stuff , the old stuff .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: so do I .
A: Uh ,
B: Do you like , uh , like Van Halen or anything like that ?
B: Or how about Brian Adams ?
A: what kind of music is , does what songs does he play ?
B: It , it ,
B: THIS LOVE CUTS LIKE A KNIFE . Uh , SUMMER OF SIXTY-NINE .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I think I 've heard SUMMER OF SIXTY-NINE .
B: Yeah .
B: He sings that .
A: Yeah .
B: He 's , he 's from Canada .
A: Okay .
A: I 'm not , I 'm not very good at remembering the , uh titles ,
B: The titles and artists .
A: yeah ,
A: but I can remember this , the song .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , do do you watch music television , M T V at all ? Or V H One ?
A: Yeah
A: No ,
A: I don't watch T V much at all .
B: Okay .
A: So .
B: do , do you get cable ?
A: No .
B: Oh ,
B: okay .
B: That 's , that 's
A: No .
B: you have to get cable to get those stations anyhow .
A: Yeah .
A: So .
B: But , uh , yeah .
B: I like to watch rock and roll videos and any kind of videos .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I like watching that kind of thing .
B: It 's ,
A: Do you like , uh , like someone recent ? Like Enya ?
A: Have you ever head of her .
A: She 's not rock
A: but she , she 's from Ireland .
B: No ,
B: I have n't heard her .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And , uh , she 's gotten some , uh , she 's been on like the top ten , I guess , or whatever .
B: Oh , really .
A: She , she did
A: Okay .
B: So how serious is the , subject of crime in your area ?
A: Well , needless to say , here in Washington , D C this is the war zone .
A: Uh , D C around here stands for drug capital or death capital .
A: It 's , uh , it 's really bad here .
A: Uh , for example , the , uh , local high school , uh , they 've already found two students with sawed off shotguns
B: Jeez .
A: and they 're starting to , uh , get these hand held metal detectors so they can inspect the kids every morning when they come to school , of all things .
A: So ,
B: Well , luckily , it has n't gotten that bad here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , San Jose actually has a pretty good record in terms of being relatively low on violent crime .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , but it 's on the uprise , especially in a lot of the , uh , outlying agricultural towns . Uh , because you end up having a lot of gangs forming , uh , largely around the Hispanic core .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , it seems to be that , uh , gang warfare follows very rapidly on the heels of poverty conditions .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: right .
A: That 's how they , uh , they bind themselves together in groups , I guess
A: and , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: Now , the ,
A: interestingly enough , I don't think we have here , a , a lot of gangs , but , uh , only a couple , uh of , not a whole large group of them , but , uh , just a few . Most of them centered around , uh , drug territory .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so they 're protecting their economic interests , I guess .
B: Yeah
A: And , uh , nowadays the latest thing I 've , I 've read about in the paper here that they 're doing as far as , uh , crimes involving stealing cars is that , instead of stealing , uh , cars like at night , breaking into them or whatever , they will pick out a car that they want and wait until you show up ,
A: and then as you get out of the car , they just , uh , step up and , uh , take the keys off of you and drive the car away and leave you standing in front of your house .
B: Well , that 's efficient .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's the , uh , latest thing .
A: That way there 's no damage to the car or anything .
A: They just wait for you to show up after they 've picked out which one they want .
B: They 're decided they 're completely unworried about being identified or anything of that sort .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Just wait for you to drive to your house ,
A: you get out
A: and they get in
A: off they go with your car .
B: Wow .
A: So it 's ,
A: uh , I think they call it car jacking around here
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I 'd heard that phrase .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's kind of the latest thing ,
A: but every year in the D C area it gets progressively worse as far as the number of homicides ,
A: so it 's , uh , it 's unfortunate that we feel sometimes even that we have to bring our kids up in this area because we 're not from around here ,
A: we 're from , uh , I 'm from Ohio
A: and my wife 's from Florida
A: so ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: And we 've just come from twenty years in the military and , uh , which is an entirely different environment ,
A: so this is a whole new thing for for us to , to have to put up with
A: and it 's , uh , really scary sometimes .
B: Yeah ,
B: there are n't that many , places that are safe from that sort of thing nowadays .
A: Right .
A: And it 's pretty bad when they 're using metal detectors in school
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , of course , the mayor , uh , of D C is having a real problem , uh , trying to ,
A: what do you do to , to reduce crime in a , in a major city like D C where it 's a way of life for everybody .
A: It 's , uh , I would hate to have to wrestle with that problem .
A: I don't know what , what the solution is .
A: Uh , there 's no way they can stop the drugs ,
A: and that 's what 's causing all the killing .
B: Well , uh , there 's a couple of things that I 've heard ,
B: uh , most of them are fairly , uh , radical in terms of what you 'd have to do .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , course the , the reason that , that these kids tend to , to turn toward the drugs and everything else seems to be just , you know , the , the , the end results of , of poverty and , and parents that are n't doing any parenting and everything else
A: Uh-huh .
B: because , I mean , you know , the parents are n't making a living at anything .
A: Right
B: Uh ,
A: And they see all their friends and neighbors , uh ,
B: And they 're accidental parents half the time anyway .
A: Yeah ,
A: and their friends are driving Mercedes
A: and , so it 's actually ,
A: they grow up with that as their way of life
A: and , uh , I think , uh , to a large extent , they don't understand the concept that what they 're doing is actually illegal because this is the way they were raised .
B: It 's illegal ,
B: but it 's not wrong because all their friends do it .
A: Right
A: exactly ,
A: so maybe it 's the law that wrong in their eyes
A: and they they say , well , it 's , it 's the law that 's , uh , got to be changed instead of their way of life ,
B: Yeah .
A: so , I don't know ,
A: it 's
A: I 'm glad it 's not the kind of problem I have to come up with an answer to because it 's not easy .
B: Well I think that the drug thing would actually be relatively easy to solve in terms of , of an actual solution to the problem . Uh
A: Uh-huh .
B: the , the social , the other social problems would n't , would n't go away .
A: Right .
B: Uh ,
A: They 've always been with us .
B: I mean , there 's , there 's been a lot of , uh ,
B: and I used to think that this whole argument was completely bogus ,
B: but then , the more I thought about it , the more sense it made , is that , uh , alcohol is as bad a drug as anything else .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and prohibition did n't stop it and did n't do anything really to slow ,
A: Right .
A: Okay ,
A: looks like we 're ready to go .
A: Capital punishment , uh ,
A: the problem I have with capital punishment is that , uh , uh , it 's supposed to be a deterrent to crime ,
A: but I don't think that it really actually does that .
A: I don't think it deters anybody , because most of the time crimes are , uh , are committed with a , without any thought to the consequences
A: and they don't think that , uh , stop and think and say , well , maybe I should n't do this , uh , because , uh , I might get the gas chamber or something like that .
A: They worry about it afterwards
A: and then they try and get out of it .
A: And , uh , how about you
B: Well , I think that in some cases , it is warranted .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I do , too ,
A: yep .
B: And I don't ,
B: I think in some cases it does n't matter if it 's a deterrent or not .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: you still have to do it .
A: I , I ,
B: I mean I mean , I 'm thinking of an extreme case like a serial murderer
A: Uh-huh .
B: or ,
A: So you 're in , you 're in favor of capital punishment , then .
B: Well , for some things .
A: Right .
B: I think for serial murder it is warranted because if a person who would do something like that in cold blood ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Needs to be punished or , uh , eliminated from society .
B: I mean , you ca n't guarantee that they would n't escape from prison and do it again .
A: Right .
A: And then do it all over again .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I don't think that , that rehabilitation is effective .
A: Right .
A: Have to agree with you ,
A: and I 'm kind of in favor of capital punishment also .
A: I just don't think that it acts much as a deterrent to these people because , uh , you still see them committing the same crimes ,
A: but , I tend to agree with you that , uh , we should have it
A: I just , I don't know that it 's always effective
A: but I guess we , uh , we 're kind of stuck with it .
A: It 's , it 's a difficult , uh , problem , is n't it , to determine how you 're going to punish somebody for a particular crime , uh ,
B: But , then , you know , I think that , that some murderers don't really warrant capital punishment . You know , just , like , for example , uh , you know , you hear about cases where women have killed their husbands who abused them
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and I don't think , that would really warrant capital punishment .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: huh . Do you think they should be punished at all , or , uh , like go to prison , uh ,
A: because they 're not really a danger to society .
A: It was almost really self defense , is n't it , in a case like that .
B: Uh it is to a certain extent
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I think ,
B: I don't know because ,
A: I know they put , uh , put them in jail sometimes , I guess . Uh ,
B: I think in
B: and it , just would depend upon the circumstances and , and the extent of the abuse and , and if another alternative was available .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Um .
A: Uh-huh .
A: You know , now , I wonder what you think about this
A: and , uh , unfortunately , we , we don't get to do it ,
A: but , uh , it used to be a long time ago , I guess in Biblical times when they had punishment if somebody did something , for example , to your family , then you had the right to administer the punishment .
A: So if somebody killed somebody in your family then you had the right to , uh , if that person was caught and found guilty , you had the right to , uh , execute that person .
A: And I know that , uh , if somebody had done something to my family , I would feel that I had the right to , to get revenge on them
A: and , uh , but , I , I don't think that 's done much anywhere
A: That 's kind of drastic punishment .
B: Well , I think that would be kind of drastic punishment .
A: Right .
B: And ,
A: Might make you feel better
A: but
B: But , one thing , I think that if there is a chance for rehabilitation then that chance should be investigated .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: But , like I said , if , if someone is , is just pathologically going to murder people no matter what then I think they should be eliminated from society .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: because they 're a danger to everybody else .
A: Huh , that 's interesting .
A: I have to , uh agree with that .
B: But ,
A: There 's a lot of folks , probably , that are in prison that , uh , that are n't really a danger to society , huh ,
A: and , uh ,
B: And a lot of people that are a danger to society that are n't in prison .
A: Right .
A: Right ,
A: probably more of them then the other way around
A: Interesting .
A: I don't , I don't , not sure
A: I , I 'm in Washington , D C or at least very close to it .
A: I 'm not sure what kind of , uh , capital punishment we have here .
B: Well , I know in North Carolina , we do have capital punishment .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 'm I 'm from South Carolina .
A: Well , we , in , in , in our family , have been pretty remiss in trying to , uh , you know , keep track of , uh , daily finances .
A: Uh , the , uh , way back , what , twelve years ago or something when I got my first computer , I did what everybody else does , which is to put the whole family budget on the machine and put checks , and , you know , checkbooks and all this kind of thing
A: and we kept that going for about a month
A: and it became so onerous that we gave up on it
B: Uh-huh .
B: That sounds about right
A: You know , so , uh , the only thing we 're , you know , that we do now is , uh , I keep a , a little spread sheet of , uh , what I call the net worth calculation which is just the , the present value of various kinds of investments and so worth .
A: Uh , and I only update that , oh I don't know , maybe once every quarter or so . Every three months . Just , basically when the statements come in . You know . Just to see whether or not we 're falling , you know , getting ahead , falling behind or staying even or what .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: Uh , that 's really about , you know , the extent of , uh , of the kind of , uh , financial score keeping that we 're doing .
B: Uh
B: Well it 's kind of difficult for me . Because right now , uh , like most teachers , I 'm laid off
B: and
A: Huh .
A: Oh dear , that 's terrible .
B: so , um , I spend most , you know ,
B: I substitute a lot .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's a lot , it 's very hard on a nonfixed income because I don't know how many days I 'm going to be called in and whether I am or not , to try to keep track of finances .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , but I know how much I have to bring in a month
B: And that 's about it .
B: That 's about as far as we go .
B: And then anything extra is , you know , more or less split up between all of us . And just thrown in the kitty , more or less , for a rainy day
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , I see .
A: Are you , are you married ?
A: Are you living with a bunch of , with , with people that you 're sharing expenses ?
B: Uh , no .
B: I 'm a single mother .
B: I have three children .
A: Oh , I see ,
A: uh-huh .
B: So , uh , right now , we 're on , we get you know , aid from the state at this point because there 's no other way to do it .
B: And my ex-husband just sort of took off and does n't pay child support
A: Oh dear .
B: So right now I know what I 'm getting from the state
B: and , uh , I have to balance , more or less , what I get from the state with my bills and , uh , you know , try to work as many days as possible . Any time they call me in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I still have to figure out .
B: If I work too many days , then I lose all my state aid
B: and if I don't work enough days then I don't get enough to meet the bills
B: and it 's like a juggling act every single month .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like this week I 've been just holding my breath and hoping they 'll call me in
B: but they probably wo n't because next week the kids have school vacation .
A: I see .
B: So , you know , the four days before , they only have a four day week
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they usually don't need subs because everybody 's pretty good about coming in
A: oh , I see .
B: They don't like to be absent before a vacation .
A: Oh , sure .
B: But we 're shopping around as far as , well I 'm shopping around as far as trying to get , uh , that 's why I 'm doing this , to get some extra money . And , uh , getting pledge sheets for the Boy Scouts .
A: Uh-huh .
B: My kids are in Boy Scouts
B: so trying to get pledge sheets for the Boy Scouts
B: because every penny I bring in is ten percent to me .
B: So it 's sort of helps defray the costs a little bit .
B: But , you know , we do a lot of robbing Peter to pay Paul .
B: I guess we 're in the situation that a lot of middle-class Americans are in .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: you 're the first , you know , uh ,
A: my next door neighbor just lost his job . In a , you know , one of these , uh ,
B: Oh , my Lord .
A: his company went broke . I mean went , you know , bankrupt .
A: Actually , it was a subsidiary of a , of an outfit called U S Shoe or something .
A: it was a computer subsidiary .
A: I don't know what a shoe company 's doing running a computer company .
B: Really .
A: But , uh , you know , they just folded it up and , uh , uh , told him to ,
A: they took the top management and gave them jobs with the , with the corporate , uh , at the corporate front office
B: Uh-huh .
A: and everybody else was sent packing .
B: Oh
A: Uh , hang on one second
A: I 've got
B: Sure .
A: uh , somebody was knocking on my door here .
A: Uh , it sounds like , in a certain sense , at least at the present ,
A: I mean , it sounds , sounds terrible to say ,
A: but at the present stage , you probably are even more in the market for a , a budgetary thing than , than most people probably might be . In terms of keeping , keeping score of input and output .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Definitely .
A: Do you have , do you have a computer at home
A: or ,
B: Uh , yes
B: we do .
B: And we try to ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , I keep track of every penny . And , more or less , enter it in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Every single day I 'm at the computer .
A: I see .
B: And , it 's like , okay , what do we have left , what do we have to pay , what have we paid this month . What has n't come in yet , you know
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Have you , do you use a standard , uh , a standard spread sheet
A: or I mean ,
A: Okay ,
A: this topic is , is Russia a threat to our security ?
A: I think they are more of a threat to their own people at this day and time .
A: how do you feel about it ?
B: Well , they do have , uh , a major internal problem
B: Everybody wants to defect ,
B: and I can understand why .
B: Um , I think their biggest problem is just , you know , obtaining food to live ,
B: so when you have the basic needs , uh , being unmet I don't think you think globally as far as , you know , being a threat to other people in the world .
B: So , as soon as they get their , their own home country taken care of , then they 'll consider , what they can do with the rest of the world .
A: I believe Communism is very much waning
A: It 's , uh , pretty much on the way out of the door , insofar as the strong hold that they used to have ,
A: and the Russian people are all realizing that the Communist system does not work to their satisfaction or their way of surviving in this world ,
A: and their rebellions right now is the result of that
A: If they can get the army , or the military to sway to their side , I think that , uh , it will be on the way out eventually .
A: It 's just a matter of time , because , in the Baltic States they have already massacred so many people who protested ,
A: and that has n't set too well with their diplomacy for the , regarding the , uh , outcome of their affairs
A: What 's your synopsis ?
B: Well , I do , I do realize that , uh , uh , the Bush Administration is n't too happy with , with how they 're handling their internal , uh , strife , you know , as far as diplomacy is concerned
B: I think it 's been a good , a good positive direction for uh , the Soviets as far as Yeltsin is concerned .
B: You know , he was , uh , allowed to ,
B: what ,
B: in his , in the Congress they , they gave him more power as far as his republic in Russia is concerned , which is , gives him more power overall , which I think is a good sign that there will be some , you know ,
B: politically speaking , you know , he 's going to have more power ,
B: and I think it 's a step in the right direction .
B: I think Gorbachev realizes that he 's got a , a major uh , uh , power figure , you know , competing against him ,
B: and I think it 's going to be pretty close to his demise if he does n't follow suit with Yeltsin as far as , uh , realizing ,
B: well , he does realize it , you know , with the fact that they reduced the uh , or they , increased the prices on their food , food and goods .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh . It ,
A: I think that it went up a thousand percent on most ,
B: yeah .
B: that 's incredible
B: but they had to , uh , go in the direction of a market driven economy ,
B: and , and they had to bite the bullet for that .
B: So that 's a good move on , on Gorbachev 's part in doing that .
A: Uh-huh
B: So ,
A: but Gorbachev has still not fully convinced everyone that , he 's moving towards a two to three party system of government that , nor eliminating or diminishing the Communist power ,
A: and I guess that 's where Yeltsin steps in , so far as his politics of government goes , uh ,
A: but I don't know how convinced the people are of him yet , myself .
B: Well , that 's all they got right now .
B: That 's their ray of hope .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , you know , they 'll go with you know , whoever comes through for them .
B: I , it , it 's just that , the weird thing is , is that Gorbachev is the one that opened the floodgates , as far as with glasnost and perestroika and stuff ,
B: and I think he 's got between the Old Guard and , in and the new , uh , glasnost .
B: Uh , I think it 's kind of escalated to a point where it 's out of control .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I think he had to pull in the reins the only way he knew how , in order to keep the peace on , peace on both sides .
B: So I think that 's where you know , kind of where he 's stuck .
B: You know what I 'm saying ?
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , I understand .
B: And that 's the , that 's the situation that he finds himself in ,
B: and you know , he 's a tough guy ,
B: I mean , he 's been through it
B: So I have no doubt that he 'll ,
B: I mean , I , I think overall he 's been a , a good figure for the Soviet Union .
B: I mean , I think his intentions and his ideals are , are uh , well intentioned .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And in the long-term ,
B: but I just think that because of the basic needs that the people don't have ,
B: I think that , uh , makes the problem most severe , and makes him look , look worse that what his , um , what his ideals are , personally .
A: I agree .
A: What 's bad for the Soviet system is that they have the resources to grow and produce their food ,
A: but somehow it just does not get out to the market the way it should .
B: I think it 's , I think it 's a lot of , uh , oh , how do you put it ? bureaucracy and , and , uh , one thing , and then all the corruption .
B: I think there 's a , a large amount of corruption on the , the have and the have-nots . You know ,
A: Yeah
A: That 's probably more true than , a lot of people realize .
B: I I know you 're going to have that with every society .
B: At least we 're more blatant about it ,
B: but it 's very secret ,
B: and it 's been going on for years .
B: I mean , you ca n't change things overnight .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , but if it gets to a point where people ca n't survive , I mean , there 's revolution . You know ,
B: and that 's
A: It seems to be headed in that direction too .
B: Yeah
B: big time
B: major
B: but you know , that 's , that 's what happens when , you know , the cork blows
B: and you ca n't handle it anymore .
B: I mean , that 's that 's the way the world , uh , you know , revolves that way
A: and uh , I think that was a big stepping stone for them to initiate all their righteous ways of changing things , too .
A: They ,
A: probably not enough ,
A: but I 'm sure I lot of it 's filtered down enough to the common folks that they have gotten wind of what they 're missing out on .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think they 're starting to realize ,
B: but I , I just don't think they have the resources , if you were to compare , uh , the Americans to the Soviets as far as home computers are concerned or fact machines , Fax machines and cellular phones , and state of the art equipment that we are so used to .
B: I don't think they even realize what 's out there , and to what extent .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm sure a lot of them are missing those household items
B: Yeah ,
B: the major conveniences of life
A: Yeah
A: what we consider just , I don't normal everyday things to them is real luxury . Which is unfortunate for them ,
B: Yeah
A: and of course , most of us , we don't really appreciate what we 've got because we 've been so used to it .
B: This is true .
B: This is very true .
B: And we ,
B: it 's human , it 's human nature though to take things for granted
B: and it kind of , you know ,
B: when you 've lost something or , or uh , uh , don't have what other people have that 's when you tend to realize , you know , what 's out there and what , you know , what you have and what you don't have .
A: Yeah
A: I agree
B: So the original question , do we think they 're a threat to our , you know , a security threat ?
A: Yeah .
B: Um , yes and no .
A: Yeah ,
A: I can go with that answer too
A: The only yes I could go to is if uh , a renegade crew decides to launch an attack or an accidental launching or something to that effect to , to a nuclear exchange ,
A: but I don't even see that occurring . Uh , because their internal strifes are more important right now than concentrating on any kind of outside affairs that they used to be to I guess .
B: Um , no .
B: Well , I don't really feel that the Soviets really want to blow up the world .
B: I mean , um , we painted them back in the fifties and sixties as , as nonfeeling machine type people ,
B: and they 're people just like us .
B: I mean you know , they get up everyday ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they put their pants on the same way ,
B: and they have to eat and everything else ,
B: and I just don't feel that ...
A: Okay .
A: Well why don't you start cause it said I was suppose to ask you what do you ,
B: Do you have any elderly relatives currently in an , uh , nursing home now ?
A: Yes ,
A: I do .
B: Do you ?
B: I have a grandmother .
B: She 's a hundred and two .
A: Oh my gosh .
B: She 'll be a hundred and three in August .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we decide not to put her in a nursing home .
B: She lives with my mother and my father who also live here in town
B: and then my sister takes care of her .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She , even though she is a hundred and two , she still has all of her faculties .
A: Right .
B: She still has her snap .
B: She takes care of her own business .
B: This is the first year that she has gotten weak and actually has to have a little walker ,
B: but with somebody that needs around the clock care ,
B: I have seen my family age .
A: Right .
B: I have seen them in the ,
B: she 's been there ten years now .
B: And I have seen them age twenty in the time and , and with the expense and everything ,
A: Yeah .
B: I I still think it is worth it if you , if you had a good nursing home
B: and they needed some quality care ,
B: I would put someone in a nursing home .
A: Right .
A: My mother-in-law finally .
A: They had to make a family decision .
A: There 's seven children in my husband 's family
A: and fortunately four of them live in the same home town
A: and she has Alzheimer 's .
A: It was getting where she was getting dangerous . I mean letting strangers in and things like this ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but they were very fortunate .
A: It 's a small town
A: and she happens to room with one of the doctor 's mothers
A: and then she 's got a lot of family there and that go and see her all of the time
B: Oh , well that 's good .
A: but she really does n't .
A: Nobody thought she would adjust ,
A: but she has adjusted beautifully .
B: Oh , that is great .
A: But then I am also facing my father who is very sick
A: and my mother and father reside in Colorado .
A: She 's been taking care of him .
A: I don't know how much longer this can last
A: and at that point because he requires round the clock .
A: He ca n't do anything without her .
A: He does n't know when to take his medicine
A: and it 's really sad
A: and I have thought if something would happen to my mother for , uh ,
A: my brothers are not interested in helping me
A: so I would have to move him down here .
A: That way ,
A: I want to see the nursing home . If I have to put him into one .
A: You know , where I can go see it .
A: I , I 'd be very uncomfortable with him being in Colorado .
A: And ,
B: Oh , why yeah .
B: I am sure you have got some really good nursing homes around Dallas .
A: Yes .
A: And some of them are limited care too where people can do , uh ,
A: like they have apartment styles ,
A: but that would n't work for him .
A: I think he is beyond that .
A: Where if you need help you can get it ,
A: but basically people kind of have a small apartment
A: and doctors are available if they need them .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I , I know a lady that lives in a place similar to that in Austin .
A: And allows ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , the only problem with these are that they are very expensive .
A: Of course , I guess all nursing homes there is
A: but ,
B: And the bad thing about it , before you can get any kind of government help , you just practically have , well you have to be a pauper .
A: Right .
B: It , it takes every penny .
B: They want you to spend every dime you have before the government will pay for your your care .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: And that 's the sad part about it .
A: Yeah .
A: I , uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: and I think a lot of people who do it now .
A: In Colorado it 's interesting .
A: I talked to my mother .
A: They allow you sixty five thousand dollars and your car and your home .
A: And my mother could make it on that .
A: What she probably would do is disburse the money to me
A: and then I would send it back to her
A: so that 's what would happen .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think that 's what most people do .
B: You just have to give it , everything away .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's unfortunate .
B: I , I work at a brokerage firm
B: and I have seen so many people that just have to gift , you know , their belongings as much as they can each year in anticipation of having to move to a nursing home .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's frightening .
A: And I guess , uh , I don't know how old you are .
A: I 'm forty-six .
A: You know , we 're the generation moving into this
A: and I don't know how our kids are going to take care of us . You know .
B: I ca n't imagine .
B: I 'm twenty-nine .
A: Yeah .
B: And everybody in my family has always had ,
B: we don't have any children .
B: Everybody that has , has them later in life .
A: Yeah .
B: So , my , my mother and my father are in their late sixties .
B: So , I mean , they 're not that far away .
A: Right .
A: I also see on my generation a squeeze between looking to having to help my parents and still having to help my son because things are so rough out there job wise
A: and he 's still living at home
A: and I don't know how he is ever going to get on his own the way things are .
B: Oh , I know .
A: And so , it 's kind of ,
A: you feel squeezed in the middle of having both generations ,
A: but it , something will have to change as more and more of us get older .
A: Uh , luckily , if we could be like your grandmother , I , uh you know , I would love to live to a hundred and two if I were okay .
A: But you see these people in their seventies
B: It ,
B: but yeah .
B: Most people are n't .
A: yeah ,
A: most are n't .
A: That 's the problem .
B: And that 's the bad thing .
B: I would hate to have lived so long .
B: She lived by herself .
B: My grandfather passed away before I was born so she lived by herself up until she was ninety , ninety-one . And just did everything ,
A: That 's incredible .
A: Hello Ann .
B: Hello Chuck .
A: Uh , the other day , I attended a conference here at Utah State University on recycling
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I was kind of interested to hear cause they had some people from the E P A and lots of different places
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , they had basically decided that there is going to be a real problem here within a few years on solid waste .
B: Uh , I did n't think that was a new revelation .
A: Well , it 's not too new .
B: Right .
B: So , what what is the E P A recommending now ?
A: Oh , they really did n't propose any solutions .
A: Actually , they were , the guy was pretty negative about the things that the government was doing even though he was from the E P A .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , he had a lot of , uh , facts to , to give and , uh , things like how many solid waste plants were being shut down
A: and , and , uh , one of the most interesting things that he was talking about was recycling of , of news print .
A: He was talking about , uh , the City of New York and how they went and collected all this news print
B: Yeah .
A: and they could sell it for a while .
A: They were able to sell it for some amount per ton
A: and now at this stage of the game where they have gotten into recycling , they 've collected so much news print that they have to pay to have it hauled away .
B: Right .
B: That 's a , that 's a common problem though .
B: That it seems , that has happened in Dallas as well as New York
B: and I try to recycle all of the newspapers that come to my house
B: and after a while I just quit taking the newspaper because I could n't recycle it anymore which is n't good for business on the other end either , I suppose .
A: Yeah .
A: We 're doing some here in , in Cash Valley , the community here .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There 's , uh , we 've actually got a kind of a nice set up .
A: We 've got a couple of plants here that actually take , uh , recycled paper and shred it and spray it with chemical treatment so that it 's not a fire hazard and make it into insulation
B: Right .
A: and they can actually use as much recycled paper as the community can get to them . Because they are actually buying it and shipping it in from outside .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: So one of the real keys , it sounds like , to getting recycling for , uh , paper or something like that to go is to get some sort of business to actually want it once you have collected it .
B: Right .
B: There has to be , uh , a reuse for it .
B: I mean , that 's why they recycle .
B: The one I think is the most interesting is with the recycled bottles and all that , uh , the industry seems to be doing with the recycled polymers . Uh , everything from , uh , waste baskets to carpet to the no stick , I mean the sticky slide rugs under the carpet
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I think they are even putting it in the roadways these days
B: and they 're making clothes now that are recycled .
B: Like the recycled plastic coke bottles and and milk cartons and things like that .
A: And there was a paper presented at this conference from a guy from Alabama
A: and he was kind of hired to do a study by two departments for the government .
A: One was like , environmental protection
A: and the other one was , oh , I ca n't remember what ,
A: but the basic idea , it was presented to him was how can we maximize the amount of energy that we can get back from recycling and minimize the volume of stuff that we are putting into our landfill
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , the solution that he came up with for plastics , and it was really quite amazing ,
A: he says , well the best thing to do with plastics is to burn them .
B: Oh really .
A: He came to the conclusion , plastics is actually one of the biggest problems in landfills cause it 's , it 's low weight , but it 's high volume so it takes up a lot of space
B: Right .
A: and there 's almost no energy , there 's very little energy value in actually doing a lot of the recycling ,
A: but there is a lot of energy in it if you can burn it and use it , produce electricity .
B: Huh .
A: So his solution was to burn plastic . Collect it and burn it .
B: Well , it 's carbon
B: so that makes sense ,
B: like a carbon fuel of some sort ,
B: but what what about emissions ?
A: Yeah .
A: And it 's more than even paper or something like that .
A: There is more energy in it per pound or whatever .
A: Well that was he did n't deal with that .
B: Oh .
A: He just said burn it .
B: Okay
A: He did n't talk about cleaning it up or anything like that .
A: So it 's not very practical
B: No .
B: Well it 's interesting .
B: I bet that was a good day , at the yeah , conference then .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , real interesting .
B: Did it change anything for you ?
A: Uh , not too much .
A: Uh , I got a bit .
A: Actually ,
A: So , uh , you know , my feeling is that , uh , it 's really being used today ,
A: it , it , you know , it , it really is n't doing any real good purpose for anything because it 's not cost effective because of the amount of time the people end up waiting on appeal .
B: Right ,
B: I think I 've seen some statistics that say that , uh , it 's more expensive to kill somebody than to keep them in prison for life .
A: Right
A: because you , you 've got all , all the prison expenses , plus all the legal expenses .
B: Right .
A: Uh , and , you know , it certainly does n't seem to be a deterrent . Uh , for one thing because it 's used so infrequently and for another thing because I honestly don't think the people that are committing the crimes that would be eligible , you know , really care .
B: Well , that 's ,
B: committing them mostly is , you know , either crimes of passion or at the moment
B: or they think they 're not going to get caught
B: or ,
A: Right ,
A: I mean , it 's kind of like the AIDS phenomenon , you know ,
A: I 'm invulnerable ,
A: I don't need to care about this .
A: You know , I , I , I 'm never going to get caught .
B: Yeah ,
B: Yeah ,
B: but you also have to think whether it 's worthwhile on the individual basis , for example , someone like , uh , Jeffrey Dahlmer ,
B: do you want ,
B: by putting him in prison for life , there is still a possibility that he will get out again .
A: Yeah ,
A: one , one way or another .
B: Whereas if you kill him , there is not that possibility .
A: Yeah ,
A: but , but the other side to that is , if you put him in prison for life , there 's a chance that he might do things in prison , or , you know , and somehow redeem himself .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't think he could ever redeem himself ,
B: but in some cases , yes .
A: Well , You know , so that , you know ,
A: the , the question is , you know , the other problem with capital punishment you run into is , what are you going to do about people who are later to have been found innocent , you know ?
A: There are cases where , you know , twenty , thirty years after the fact of getting evidence , especially as new technology comes along that might prove their innocence , then , oops ,
A: I 'm sorry ,
A: guess we killed the wrong guy .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's ,
B: yeah ,
B: once you 've made a decision that way , it 's a little difficult to go back on it .
A: Right ,
A: you , you can apologize nicely ,
A: but , you know , you know , I think , you know , the , the price , you know ,
A: it , I 've heard quotes , you know , it 's better that a thousand people go free , than one person be unjustly imprisoned . I think is really the , the philosophy of the way our legal system works .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's
B: the benefit of the doubt to the last iota is , uh , based on the , uh , person who is accused .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , you know , the , I , I think that , you know ,
A: and the way it 's being used now , it 's like you listen to Bush is , you know ,
A: well , where are we going to impose you know ,
A: it 's like for drug dealers is the new big thing like in ,
A: Tsongas is also saying , you know , capital , make it a capital crime to be a major drug dealer .
B: Right .
A: And , again , I don't thing these people care . * typo replace thing with think
A: They risk their lives every day .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , there , there , they seem that the profit uh , drug dealers , the profit margin 's so high that , yeah the , the risk is almost not there .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , and , you know , uh , especially , now , I live in , in Massachusetts , you know ,
A: we 're going to get capital punishment here probably after the second coming or something .
B: Yeah .
A: So , you know ,
A: but you look at our , our crime rates and things like that and you compare them to , to like Texas or someplace that does , you know , it , it , it 's impossible to make a case that it 's , it 's affecting it in any way .
B: Yeah .
A: I think it 's mainly , people , like , they get the vengeance of it .
B: Yeah ,
B: well it 's also ,
A: Because , you know ,
B: I used to live in Georgia
B: and , you know , the , the big thing down there was , all right , we have capital punishment ,
B: but if you look at who gets accused and who are the ones who actually get executed , it 's very racially related and ethnically related ,
A: Oh , yeah
A: it 's lot of blacks .
A: Also a lot of young people .
A: You know , a , a , a sixty-two year old guy is less likely to be put on death row from what I 've seen .
B: Right .
A: And , you know , I , I think when you listen to like the , uh , the , the victims ' families and things , they 're always talking about , you know , uh , feeling justified or feeling , you know , like they 've gotten something out of it ,
A: I mean , my thought has been , once the guy has been imprisoned , if he goes to jail forever or whatever , if he gets killed , it should n't make any difference to the , uh , the victim 's family .
A: The only thing that should really , I mean ,
A: obviously , if someone of mine who has close died , I 'd probably feel differently ,
A: but you know , you know , what , the important thing is that they be caught and not be a danger to society .
B: Right .
B: Right
B: and that ,
B: and , you know , also by keeping them in prison , you do have the possibility , though , we don't currently do this , of making restitution .
A: Right ,
A: mean ,
B: You , you will work your prison job
B: and any money you earn will go to the victim 's family .
A: Right
A: and , the , the other thing is that , you know , I was reading through a book on , uh , geneo , human geneo research
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there , more and more things like schizophrenia
A: and why , does it just turn out to be genetic or biochemical in origin .
B: Right .
A: So if someday we can go to Jeff Dahlmer and say , well , the problem is you , you 've got an endorphin imbalance
A: and , you know , if you take this regularly , you 'll be a sane and productive member of society you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you really get back to the question of , you know , is someone responsible for their actions .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I , I think on some of it , you have to say someone 's responsible for his actions .
B: I never like the , uh , the defense , Well , I never liked the , uh , insanity defense .
A: Society made me do it .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , anyway I , uh , I , uh , oh ,
A: yeah .
A: I did forget to ask you .
A: What is your name by the way ?
B: Uh , I 'm Ann .
A: Oh , you 're Ann .
A: Hi .
A: But , uh , anyway , I , uh ,
A: lot of , lot of interesting procedural things I think would be a good , be a good change if we 're going to be talking about the subject tonight which in some I guess criminal courts the
B: Criminal courts ?
B: Yes .
A: Yeah .
A: the one of which was , uh , something , something that 's been going on because of the Rodney King trial here in town
A: and that is , uh , and that is the exclusion of jurors because of or in spite of their race . Uh ,
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
A: Well , they , they , uh , the , the people that
A: the , uh , the jury that 's trying , uh , the officers in that case , is , is an all white panel .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And there 's been a lot made in the local papers of that , fact .
B: I see .
B: I ca n't ,
B: I 'm a little surprised they did n't get a change of venue on that one .
A: They have .
A: They have .
A: They moved it up to the county north of here .
B: Oh .
A: Um , it 's in Ventura
A: and there 's , there 's still quite a bit of publicity obviously ,
A: and it 's kind of , it 's kind of debatable whether you could get a fair trial almost anywhere because that , uh , that ,
B: Well , that videotape was just horrible .
A: Yeah .
A: It was everywhere .
B: Yes .
A: So you know ,
A: and I , I think it would be very difficult to find someone , uh , find a panel that would be , not have seen it and , and known of what was going on .
B: Oh , I agree with you
B: but I ca n't imagine that they would do an all white jury without having some sort of , of discrimination or , or , you know , uh , appeal on not having a jury of his peers and all of that kind of stuff .
A: Exactly .
A: You know , um , the you know ,
A: I , I 'm kind of torn on this issue .
A: It 's like they 're saying well on the one hand they 're not , he 's not getting a jury of his peers which is in some ways I think true .
A: But on the other hand , it 's , it 's also saying that white jurors are not going to , are not going to convict .
B: Right .
A: Uh , you know , they 're not going to do their job . Which is
A: the whole , the whole point of being on a jury is to convict or , or , or , uh , let go based on whether , or not the person , whether or not the evidence says , that there 's enough
B: Exactly .
B: Based on fact .
B: Right .
B: How interesting .
B: Oh .
B: So what 's the prevailing thought within the community ?
A: Um ,
B: I mean you know , what the news media is going to make of it ,
B: but what about the community ?
A: They , well ,
A: I guess it depends on who you talk to .
A: I have n't talked to , uh , I have n't talked to a whole lot of black people on it
A: but I , I rather imagine there 's , there 's some snickering about it . And a lot of the usually fatalistic , uh , here we go again folks , kind of stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , my goodness .
B: That ca n't be good for Los Angeles either .
A: No ,
A: no .
A: I , you know ,
A: on , on , on one hand you know , on the one hand you almost hope that they convict them because it 's they have that very strong piece of physical evidence showing , these people beating the heck out of this guy . Um ,
B: Oh , exactly .
B: Unfortunately that kind of thing is not limited to a big city like Los Angeles .
B: You 're going to have it just about anywhere .
A: Uh-huh .
B: There . * listen
A: Well ,
B: But that 's , that 's interesting .
A: Yeah . Um
B: What about the judge who 's hearing the case ?
B: Is he going to be impartial ?
B: Is he going to , be a a good adjudicator ?
A: I don't know . You know ,
A: and , and again there 's something else you know , there was a uh , something else along those lines .
A: There was a girl out here named
A: I don't know if it 's , it 's got , it 's got as much notoriety
A: but it 's rather almost as infamous here as it was , as it was with , uh , the Rodney King problem .
A: Um , a girl walked into a Korean owned store
A: and , uh , they , she had a dispute , black girl .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She , she had some kind of a dispute over some orange juice with the , with the owner of the store .
A: The owner of the store popped her .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
A: And , and , oh , of course , they ,
A: you know , the criminal case went up
A: and , and the judge gave the woman who shot her , shot the girl a , uh , uh , practically a suspended sentence .
A: I mean it was it was just ,
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: she gave her no time in jail , you know , all of these things
A: and then , oh , there 's we have these , we have people wondering around with petitions trying to get the judge ,
B: To get that judge recalled I would think .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Huh .
B: That 's almost when you kind of wish that there where standardized sentences .
A: Yeah .
A: It would make , it would make life easier .
B: It would .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh ,
A: But ,
B: you would know , the whole world would know what you were facing .
B: And then it 's a matter of , of deciding ,
A: Okay .
A: Uh , before a couple of years ago , I had a , a very narrow view of , of nursing homes
A: and it was , uh , more like a funeral home .
A: I always joked around about it being a funeral home and not really a nursing home .
A: And , uh , then I had to do some volunteer work here in Tyler , Texas
A: and I went to one
A: and it just had a very good activities director .
A: Everyone was cheerful
A: and now I don't have such a bad view of nursing homes anymore .
A: But I , I certainly would n't want to send my parent unless it was an absolute last resort .
A: Uh , I have a sister that is in nursing school
A: and she 's real interested in geriatrics .
B: Well , that sounds good .
A: Yeah .
A: So , uh , she , she 's real interested in , uh , what Ann Richards has been doing .
A: She 's , Ann Richards is really cracking down on , uh , the nursing homes
A: and , I don't know , you would n't know anything about a Texas governor
B: I 've heard the name
B: and that 's about all it goes .
A: Okay .
A: Ann Richards is our governor in Texas
A: and she 's really cracking down on restrictions and what goes on in nursing homes .
A: And , uh , my sister 's real interested in that and , and getting into the , to that side of nursing .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's one problem with the , the nursing home environment .
B: It , the elderly , even out of the nursing home , are very open to abuse .
A: Right .
B: Uh , you know , they don't always have their full wits about them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They 're not completely up on what should be going on or what 's not going on .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it can be pretty sad .
B: I 've got a , had a grandmother who had a stroke .
B: And she was in a nursing home for four or five years before she died .
A: Oh .
B: And , you know , it 's the type of thing that she was living down in Florida .
B: My families was up in Maryland
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the other part of her family was up in , uh , New York state .
A: Right .
B: And , you know , it was very difficult for either them or my grandfather to take care of her since she was , uh , you know , could not do very much for herself after the stroke .
A: Right .
B: And , you know , the nursing home was the , you know , best facility to put her in . You know , besides moving her up which is not a practical solution since both my parents work
A: Uh-huh .
B: and both my , uh , aunts and uncle work . Which means it 's , you know , very difficult for
A: Right .
B: you essentially need to have someone taking care of the person full-time .
A: Right .
B: And , you know , there 's also a lot of medical problems that ca n't always be completely handled in the home . Which makes it , you know ,
A: Right .
B: it 's a necessary evil I think .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It sure is .
A: And some of the really nice ones that really take care of their people are so expensive . Because cause they can afford to hire the people that are really going to care for the older .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: And , you know , even there you have to watch out for , you know ,
B: you get one person who 's a little bit dishonest working in there
B: and , you know , the elderly sometimes have a lot of jewelry and other stuff that just very easily tends to disappear in the nursing homes .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Right .
A: My grandfather passed away several years ago .
A: I was much younger .
A: But , uh , he was in the nursing home the last several years of his life
A: and someone visited him every day .
A: My grandmother did .
A: But , uh , if she could n't , someone visited him every day .
A: It was in a very small town nursing home .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , people did n't get paid much there at all .
A: They did n't care about what went on .
B: Yeah .
A: They would let a , let a patient get a lot of bed sores .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , the , the people living in the nursing home would have all kinds of needs that would n't get met because they were just old people .
A: And then , the nurses and doctors really did n't put any for , forth any loving care for them .
B: Either that or they 're just so understaffed that they ca n't afford to put in the , uh , care that they need . Cause it 's , you know ,
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: an elderly person can , you know ,
B: it 's like a newborn baby .
B: You need to have twenty-four hour care uh , answering all the needs cause they ca n't do much for themselves at certain points .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: And nurses get so worn down .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And , you know , there 's a lot of , number of
B: the elderly are very , you know , complaining because they remember the way that things used to be . And remember being able to do things for themselves which , you know , they no longer can .
A: Right .
A: Oh , sure .
A: And they feel they feel pretty helpless .
B: And it , very , very hard for them to accept that .
B: We just , uh , moved my grandfather into , not a nursing home but , you know , a transitional type facility .
A: Is it , uh , like a retirement center ?
B: More of a retirement home .
B: He 's got his own efficiency apartment .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they provide one meal a day .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , you know , the rest of the housekeeping and other meals a day are up to him .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But they do have , you know , group activities going on .
A: How 's he handling that ?
B: Uh , he 'd much rather be living alone in his apartment down in Florida .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , you know , to move into that facility we moved him from Florida up to Maryland
B: and it 's , it 's a bit of a shock to the system , weather-wise , if nothing else .
A: Ooh .
A: Oh , sure .
A: There was n't anything like that , that you could do in Florida ?
B: Well there was stuff like that in Florida
B: but ,
A: Uh , so , uh , what are your benefits like at your job ,
A: and how do you feel about them ?
B: Uh , pretty good , actually .
B: I work for Hewlett Packard
B: and they have , uh , a pretty good , uh , benefits package .
B: In fact , they 're , they 're kind of known , uh , for having good benefits .
B: The pay is n't fabulous ,
B: although I saw a survey recently
B: and I 'm actually making just about as much as , you know , I 'm making actually over average , over the average for my career , my experience and all that stuff which kind of surprised me .
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: Uh-huh .
A: What kind of a degree have you got ?
B: I 've got a Bachelor 's in electrical engineering
B: so ,
A: Oh .
B: And I 'm not , like , a hugely advanced degree or any that
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , anyway , the , our benefits are pretty good .
B: We 've got stock purchase program and a ,
B: that , that 's pretty generous , although you have to hold the stock for two years before you get the company contribution which is , kind of a , a pain ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , there 's a four O one K plan uh , for , uh , sheltering some taxable income .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , there 's ,
A: How long have you been with them ?
B: I 've been with them for seven years .
A: Uh .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's good .
B: And , the best thing , and a lot of the stuff , the best thing is like four years or five years , it 's pretty soon , you 're completely vested in the retirement plan and everything ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , it 's not
B: but there 's full , uh , there 's several medical plans to choose from , uh , that cover pretty much everything .
B: I don't get sick that often ,
B: so I don't pay much of it ,
B: and I pay five dollars every time I visit the , the hospital that , you know , for a checkup or whatever .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , they don't cover eyes though ,
B: and I , I have contact lenses ,
B: so that 's kind of a pain .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , you know , I I can live ,
A: But , for all practical purpose , you are almost a hundred percent covered .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: So that you 've got small , small things to gripe about .
B: Right .
A: Wow .
B: And ,
A: Well , that sounds like you must feel really good about it .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and , and the dental plan is
B: The dental plan , I pay absolutely nothing because , uh
A: Wow .
B: I , I guess they would charge a little bit if there was some orthodontia or something for one of my dependents or something like that
A: Uh-huh .
B: but that 's not the case ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , I guess nothing .
B: It 's fabulous .
A: Wow .
B: Uh , the ,
B: what about you ?
A: Well , I , uh , work in Washington at the Naval Research Laboratory .
A: I also have a part time job at a law firm
A: and I get no benefits from them , to the part time work although , they pay better per hour than my , my sort of , quote , real job does .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and benefits , through the government are , uh , really ,
A: uh , they just , uh , they 're not the greatest .
A: Uh , I , before I , I , uh , uh , got my degree
A: I 'm , uh , a computer scientist
B: Uh-huh .
A: and before I got my degree , I had , uh , done paralegal work for law firms here in Washington
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , at that time , I was in gravy city .
A: Uh , the law firms in this town are not , you know ,
A: for a long time were just rolling in the dough in the early eighties
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , benefits were just amazing
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we had everything paid for ,
A: and , uh , anyway , with the government , it 's not , uh , quite that nice a deal .
A: Uh , but it 's , you know , it 's , it 's okay .
A: What we have to do is , we have to pay , uh , about twenty percent of our , uh , uh , our costs
A: and it 's deducted from our check each month and that sort of thing ,
A: and the plans that are available to us , uh , range from kind of mediocre to really sweet
A: and , uh , so I , I think I 'm actually involved in a relatively good plan at this point .
A: Uh , but , uh , it could be better ,
A: that 's for sure ,
A: and , uh , but , you know there are other things that you get when you work for the government uh , in , in terms of , uh , more relaxed atmosphere .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's really nice to be , for me , anyway , to be able to work in , uh , a research atmosphere , uh , where I don't have to , uh , uh , you know , worry about , uh , academics or anything like that ,
A: and , so I 'm , I 'm really kind of happy about that end of , of things .
A: It 's , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: one of the things with my company is that they 've , uh , got a reputation for a lot of job security
B: and , uh there 's a lot of different things that they do , lot of different divisions even this area , in the San Francisco Bay Area that they do ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so there 's ,
B: I , myself have moved around quite a bit within the company
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's , and I , and I have n't had to move my residence to do that .
B: You know , I still live in San Jose
B: and ,
A: Wow ,
A: that 's fabulous .
B: Yeah
B: it ,
A: You see , now that 's , that 's interesting ,
A: because I have a cousin whose husband works for Hewlett Packard up in the Massachusetts area .
B: Oh , yeah ?
B: Yeah .
A: He , he lives in Andover
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , the work that he ,
A: he 's , uh , specifically an engineer and , and does work with , uh , the Hewlett Packard machines that do , uh , uh , sonographic imagining
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: and , uh , I 've been over to see his complex over there
A: and it 's amazing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's , it 's all ecologically designed
A: and , and , uh , he seems really , really happy with the , the set up .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And ,
B: In fact , I know a guy who works at Andover who used to work , who I used to work with out here
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he moved his family back east a few years ago to , to take that position .
B: Kind of interesting .
B: Uh , anyhow ,
A: Steve , uh , with the election year and whatnot coming up , do you think we ought to cut taxes , raise them ,
A: or , or , or what do you think ?
B: Well , that 's , that 's a really hard question .
B: I do know that , uh , politicians always talking out of both sides of their mouths .
B: Uh , I
B: let 's example , uh ,
B: our friend , the President , right now , says no new taxes ,
B: we should and especially , if anything , be cutting taxes now because of the recession
B: and at the same time , the budget he sent to Congress has tax and fee increases ,
B: so , uh , I know the politicians , uh , are n't , are n't straightforward .
B: Now , in terms of economics I 'm not ,
B: it 's hard , hard to call .
B: It really is .
A: Uh-huh .
A: See , I never thought really , it 's , uh , I never really thought that , that the , the question really had to do whether or not we 're paying too much or too little .
A: I , I always that the , the real question was is , are we getting a reasonable return on , on investment .
A: For instance , like Social Security tax or uh ,
A: I mean , that 's , that 's tax
A: we 're paying money
A: and , and supposedly this money is going into some kind of fund so that when it comes our turn to retire , the money will be there for us .
B: Right .
A: So that 's ,
A: yeah , you know ,
A: when I , when I see that money taken out of my paycheck each , each week , I , or each , every other week , I , I really think that money 's history
A: and you know , so as far as return investment , that 's not , that 's nothing
B: Yes , uh ,
A: and we 're not even going to get the exact same number of dollars back .
A: Uh , someone was telling me that there is a , uh , uh , there 's still an office in , uh , you know , staffed with , with people there and , in D C that are researching to find a cure for polio , which ,
A: I may be wrong ,
A: but I believe that the cure for polio is already founded ,
A: but , but supposedly once you have an office in D C , or , you know , and , and staff it with people , it 's really tough to close it down
A: and , and they just have n't yet .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I 'm not exactly sure , uh , about polio in particular .
B: I know we have a polio vaccine come will prevent somebody from getting polio
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm not sure if we know what to do in terms of curing some who has already gotten polio .
A: Well , that might be the difference .
A: I don't know .
A: Uh , the other thing that , uh , I remember seeing on T V lately is , uh , had to do with ,
A: it 's like seventy-five percent of the historical sites in America are in the home districts of very powerful people politically
B: Right .
A: that , that for some reason , historical sites with , you know , the , the full federal money and everything seem to appear as , as almost as like political favors to , to very strong politicians .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's funny because , uh , it was one of the things that Bush is trying really hard to get ahold of is the line item veto where , uh , you know , Congress is able to attach all kinds of , uh , funny amendments for individual , uh , congressional districts to the , to the main budget proposals
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the poor President has , has to , uh , either accept or reject the whole thing .
A: So , it sounds like you , uh , you think that , that we 'd be able to save some money by , uh passing the line item veto .
B: Oh .
B: I , I think the line item veto is not , not , is not necessarily a bad thing , assuming that the , uh , the , the President , uh , uses it to get rid of , uh , this kind of waste .
B: On the other hand , uh , it , it assumes that you have lots of confidence in your President not to veto important things . Uh , and just to get rid of the unimportant things .
A: Yeah .
B: And whenever there 's that kind of subjective judgment , there 's always going to be a dispute as to , uh , where the where the boundary between waste and , and necessity is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I 'm not , I 'm not sure that , that that will help solve our problems ,
B: but there definitely is , is a problem with ,
B: uh , I forgot ,
B: there 's a political term for this stuff , pork barrel or something .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh ,
A: Pork barrel politics .
B: Pork barrel politics .
B: there has to be some way to do it .
B: I know state governors usually have line item vetos
B: and , uh , I lived in Massachusetts for a while
B: and , uh , when Dukakis vetoed certain things , there was a big uproar and was n't necessarily so popular .
A: Yeah ,
A: but Massachusetts was n't , when Dukakis was there , anyway , was n't in that great shape financially .
B: at least at the end .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , I don't know ,
A: I ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they were very good at first ,
B: they were in very good financials at first
B: and , uh , that 's part of the reason he became a nominee is because things went so well .
B: And then , of course , the bottom fell out .
A: It 's , uh , I mean , it 's , it 's tough .
A: I mean , there 's , there 's two ways you can kind of go to get out of tough financial situations .
A: I guess you can like raise taxes and then create like job programs and whatnot
A: or you can hope that if people keep their money that they 'll spend more and create jobs and , and whatnot .
B: And spare the economy .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's really , it 's a hard balance . It , it definitely is .
B: Even not for government , even just , say , for a small business .
B: Uh , I know some ,
A: Uh , well , I 'm not sure how it is in Georgia ,
A: but in , in Pittsburgh the the crime rate really is not very high at the moment .
A: Is that , is that true for , for Atlanta ?
B: Atlanta is kind of high .
B: Uh , it 's , it 's lower than it has been in the past .
B: Uh , I guess nineteen ninety is when it start to drop off ,
B: and usually around the Christmas season is usually when the crime rate is a little bit higher .
A: Yeah ,
A: I ,
A: that 's probably not true only for Atlanta , but for just about anywhere .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , what kind of crime problem do you usually run into ?
B: Any specifics
A: Well , uh , the least , what , from what 's on the news , uh , there are very few , like actual robberies reported , uh , uh , of , of residences .
A: What 's more likely to occur is , uh , robbery of , uh , you know , knocking over a , a small store or a car theft , you know , it , things of that nature .
A: Very few , uh , assaults ,
A: although on the college campuses , uh , there are , uh , cases of , you know , like people getting machine from a , from an automated teller and , you know , somebody trying to , to device a scam for , for , uh , getting the money for them that actually preys mostly on foreigners .
B: Um .
A: But mostly petty things and , no , nothing , nothing really too big .
B: Right ,
B: well , I guess here we run into that sometime ,
B: but I guess a lot of crimes are done with apartment type break ins that type , not much home break ins .
A: Right .
B: There are some , but not , not very high .
B: Uh , as far as tellers and things like that , it 's not extremely high either .
B: There were one case where , uh , this one guy , uh , was taking women from the teller and , and , you know , making them give him money and stuff and then at the same time , raping them all ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , so that 's kind of like a double assault there .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , a strange case that , uh , that happened , oh , it 's about , about a year ago was someone actually stole a complete automated teller machine .
B: Really ?
A: It was a free standing machine
A: and they backed up into it with a truck and put it on the back and drove away with it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , wow .
A: Now , there 's a crime for you .
B: Yeah ,
B: there 's a crime .
A: Yeah ,
A: but , uh , I guess most of the things that happen around here are , are pretty , uh , innocuous .
A: Although , uh , from what I hear in the news ,
A: and , and I , I saw an episode of the T V show , COPS uh , one time that was in Pittsburgh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it , it , it did surprise me , because , you know , they were doing drug arrests and thing , and things like that ,
A: but I , I don't really think those things happen too often because , like I said , from what 's reported in the news , at least , it 's , it 's not all that common .
B: Oh , okay .
B: I don't know ,
B: crime situations here , they ,
B: like I say , lot of , lot of cases is usually just apartments and , and break ins and things like that
B: and a lot of it is due to drugs . Uh , drug related , you know , in , in most cases ,
A: Yeah .
B: it 's not like , uh , it 's someone do steal a , a or television or V C R or something like that
B: it is for drugs , you know , because you really ca n't on the street make any money off of it per se , you know ,
B: you going to get ten or fifteen bucks for it
A: Yeah .
B: so you really not making a sizeable profit .
B: So it 's not really lucrative to take chances like that , you know , even though it , it does exist .
A: You know , I , just to diverge a little bit , uh , I live in an apartment .
A: Right now I 'm finishing out my last semester at the University of Pittsburgh
A: and , uh , the apartment like would be very easy for just about anyone to break in
B: Right .
A: But , even so , it , I mean , it 's , it 's still difficult for me to convince my apartment mates to , to like lock the doors when they go out you know , and things like that .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , it would be so easy for someone who is motivated to do so to just , you know , sit out back , take a look at when people are here and when they 're not just come in , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: there 's a T V and a V C R
A: and , they could , uh , they could get in pretty easy and , and especially , uh , since there are bedrooms upstairs and people leave the door open , you know , while they 're upstairs playing music ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it could still happen then .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: but you 'd be surprised also how , much people watch you that even not , uh , participating in any type crime .
B: I guess there was one case ,
B: I was surprised , uh ,
B: so happened this person worked at the same place ,
B: I work for Georgia Tech
B: and they work at the same place I did ,
B: but I did n't know that they had been watching me
B: because I was getting ready to , to go in my car one morning
B: and the first thing they said is , uh , you must don't have to be to work at eight , you know ,
B: like shock ,
B: I , uh , get a lot of my news driving home from work listening to ALL THINGS CONSIDERED on national public radio .
B: Uh , that is one of my big sources for current events information .
B: Uh , I really like that coverage .
B: My wife , uh , on the other hand is home most of the day
B: and she watches a lot of the cable news network .
B: Have you seen , uh , have you , uh , ever heard of ALL THINGS CONSIDERED ?
A: No ,
A: we don't have the , uh , national public radio in , in my area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I can hear it at the , uh , uh , oh , the college town nearby when I 'm in Stillwater , which is about an hour away ,
A: but the F M signal does n't reach this far .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I 'll listen to shortwave quite a bit .
A: It gives you a whole different perspective on the news , uh , when you hear it from , say , a European point of view , or from the country of origin .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I agree with you , too , on the , uh , uh , the cable channel , C N N and HEADLINE NEWS .
A: Uh , I 'm not too satisfied with our local newspaper uh , which is why I rely on shortwave and , and then the cable , cable , C N N .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm , uh , interested in the , in the shortwave aspect of it .
B: Uh , how do you find that the , the coverage from other places in the world uh , compares with the American coverage of ,
B: how do you think that , uh , the viewpoints differ ?
A: I think a lot of it is just , uh , the fact that in the U S you 're so far removed , uh , in a lot of cases from , say , conflicts
A: or , or it 's not happening in your backyard
B: Uh-huh .
A: so it 's , it 's more of a , it 's not as a personal , uh , the news is n't as personal in what we receive domestically than , than what 's on shortwave .
A: It 's , B B C is , uh , oh , I don't know the right word , is , is almost , uh ,
A: they almost take all emotions out of it when they report it
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it just ,
A: they seem to give more of just the facts than opinions .
B: Do you think , then , that , uh , the American media is presenting an opinion along with their facts ?
A: Uh , very much so ,
A: very much so ,
A: and I , I think a lot of it is , uh , especially T V news ,
A: they don't really have the time and a lot of them don't have the education and the background to , uh , oh , to really decipher the news and to really explain it .
A: I mean , I , you know , I think it 's important to interpret it ,
A: but a lot of times the person does n't have the experience to , to do the interpreting .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Which , uh , which approach do you find to be , uh , more useful , the , the interpretive approach or the straight reporting ?
A: Oh , I like the straight reporting .
A: Uh , and then I , I hope to be able to form my own opinion of it .
A: It 's , it 's nice to hear someone 's interpretation of it
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , I always think it 's humorous when , when the President gives the State of the Union and , uh , for thirty minutes
A: and then for an hour and a half you hear different commentators explaining what you just heard .
A: And a lot of time I don't hear exactly what they , what they write into it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I , overall , I think I would rather hear just straight reporting .
B: One of the things that I found interesting last year during the , uh , the Gulf conflict was a sentiment against , uh , Peter Arnett , who had stayed in Iraq and was presenting , uh , some of the things that were available .
B: Uh , there was a , there was , uh , a piece where he was showing a bombed out building where there was obviously a crudely , uh , uh , hastily erected sign saying baby milk factory ,
B: and while he was being severely , uh , censored and could not make any judgment call on this , it was fairly obvious that it was a piece of propaganda ,
B: but people were really down on him for reporting the fact that , you know , this is n't a baby milk factory ,
B: how could he say it was , uh ,
B: I , I think that , that to me showed that the Americans were really getting used to having the , not just the facts , but also the conclusions and opinions spoon fed to them .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I think people are , people have that opinion .
A: They , they want to sit down in front of the TV and , uh , or at a , read a magazine or U S A TODAY and read in four paragraphs , uh , and , and find out
B: So , let 's talk about the , uh , wonderful abuses in the State of Pennsylvania of personal property taxes whereby you can purchase something mail order
B: and after the fact , the State of Pennsylvania can find out about it and send you a bill for the sales tax appropriate to that item that you purchased as well as interest and penalties from the time that you bought it .
B: What do you think ?
B: Is Pennsylvania kind of out of line there ?
A: Well , actually , I don't think they 're out of line .
A: Devil 's advocate possibly ,
A: but it , you are trying to avoid paying taxes
A: and whether or not you agree with that law , you 're still circumventing it .
A: You are legal in , in your circumvention of that law .
B: What , what if you 're not doing it in order to circumvent the law though ?
B: I mean what if you don't even realize that you 're subject to paying , uh , income tax on something that you purchase mail order ?
A: Really , I , I , I don't think that 's a valid argument .
A: I think that most people are quite aware they 're not paying that six percent sales tax .
A: Um , naturally some , some things you just ca n't find in your local K-Mart or , or , uh , Bryn Mawr stereo dealer .
A: Uh , but then why not pay , pay the sales tax
A: Corporations have to ,
A: why should an individual just because it 's , just because the state ca n't really find out about it , be able to avoid paying sales tax ?
B: Well , I mean , it seems to me that , generally , at least in my own experience , when I purchase something mail order , it 's not to circumvent paying sales tax to the State of Pennsylvania .
B: It 's because , I 'm sorry , the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania .
A: Yes .
B: Uh , it 's because I , I ca n't find the item that I want at a competitive price anywhere in my local area .
B: So I go outside the area for that .
B: And I think that it 's not my responsibility to police myself and pay Pennsylvania what they believe they are owed even though , you know , the revenue stream went to another state .
B: I don't , I don't think that that 's my responsibility as a , as a conscientious consumer .
A: I , I 'll agree it , it 's not your responsibility
A: but , is it also legal , for you to do that ?
A: from what I understand from various net readings , it , the Federal government is going to try to legislate a more aggressive enforcement of state tax schemes , uh , in , into place in the next few years .
A: It is , it is a lost revenue stream right now
A: and states can use all the revenue they can get .
A: With some , with something like that , do your arguments still apply ?
B: Well , I think that if , if policy is established and if a mechanism is put into place to promote the collection of taxes in this fashion , then I don't argue with it .
B: Because it 's not a burden on the consumer to remember that oh , I bought this out of state .
B: I need to Xerox the receipt and make out a check for six percent and send it to Pennsylvania .
A: Which is exactly what businesses do at the present .
B: Right .
B: But the point is is that businesses do that .
B: The business that you purchase the thing from is responsible for collecting the appropriate sales tax and forwarding it to the state in question .
B: That 's a cost of doing business .
B: The burden should n't be placed on the consumer .
A: And I , I I was actually talking about businesses purchasing something mail order and then having , having to pay sales tax on it .
B: Uh .
A: That 's my understanding of the way , uh , the way it works .
A: Usually , the , the person ordering does n't pay .
A: But the accounting department will , uh , suck up all the bills at the end of the month and realize how much they have to pay .
A: And there there are some substantial , nasty penalties , um , if you , if businesses try to avoid that .
B: Uh , do you mean businesses from the point of view as , of , of selling things to a consumer and then being responsible for the sales tax ? Or purchasing .
A: No .
A: Businesses , uh if purchasing things mail order ,
A: if , if I 'm a computer consulting firm and I see these , this great deal on forty-six mother boards , uh , from , from say Utah .
A: Um , I , I might buy the mother boards from Utah but then still have to pay Pennsylvania sales tax .
A: My accounting department will at the end of the month .
A: I think that I think that 's the way things work in Pennsylvania .
A: And I know they work that way in , uh , say here in D C .
B: Yeah .
B: See I 'm unfamiliar with that because I don't , I never see that end of the business .
A: Yeah .
B: So , my only experience has been from the point of view of a consumer .
B: Uh , but , if that 's the case , if the business is responsible for policing themselves , then I think some well defined mechanisms need to be in place so that , uh , the opportunity to forget that you owe sales tax for something , uh , can be avoided .
A: That 's true .
A: a a big hole does exist right now , uh , in that consumers can just say oh , I , I forgot that .
A: There , there is no well defined mechanism at all
A: and , and that it is a a loss . I , I think is that the Federal government will try to establish a mechanism just to do just that in in order to gain the revenue that 's being lost .
A: Uh , I mean , I , I don't know if I agree with that .
A: But it , but ,
A: Kathy ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Do you ,
A: So , what is your , uh , family ,
A: what do you usually do as far as budgeting ?
B: We have a very detailed budget . Because my husband is a finance major .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we have , you know , we have money that we take out each month that we , uh , you know , for food and , and for , for gas and things like that .
B: And then we put aside so much money each month for birthdays and for Christmas and for , uh , other things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Then we take our major purchases we want to make during that year
B: and we budget them into what we call our , our needs and wants list .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so , uh , the things that , like a vacation .
B: We have a vacation fund .
B: We have a fund for the things we need . And then a , for the things that we want .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , and we 're continually putting into those , you know , each month how much we 're going to need
B: and then we know the month that we 're going to have enough to get that particular item .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So we very rarely buy anything on credit .
B: Everything we buy is paid for .
A: Yeah .
A: My husband is a finance major also
A: And , uh , we kind of have the same plan .
A: Uh , we have one credit card
A: and every month we put , uh , you know , the same amount in for retirement .
A: Uh , and we budget , we 're , our , our new thing to our budget is we just had a baby .
A: So we 're , budgeting , uh , each month , uh , an allowance for his education starting now .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: So that 's in our budget every month now .
A: That 's the newest addition .
A: But we too do the same thing as far as , uh ,
A: we have a set amount
A: we take , oh , one big vacation a year and then maybe , you know , three small vacations .
A: So we , you know , an , exact amount that we spend on that each year .
B: Right .
A: And ,
B: Uh , we have found that we spend less money if we pull out the money . Uh instead of just writing checks for things .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: If we actually pull it out and keep it in a safe here .
A: I see .
B: And we actually pull out the money each month that we want to put in for birthdays , that we want to put in for , uh , the vacation . That we put in for Christmas .
A: Like you have a separate account for that then ?
B: Well , a lot of that , uh , I don't know how safe it is .
B: I guess , uh , we keep it all in a safe here at the house .
A: Oh , I see .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so it 's actually pulled out .
B: Then we keep our
A: Oh , I see .
B: we have a savings account for the kids ' education .
B: That money goes into there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Each of our ,
B: we have three children .
B: So they each have their own account .
A: I see .
B: That money is put into each month .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Does your husband deal in , uh , stocks and bonds and mutual funds and all that kind of stuff ?
A: does he invest in that and for long-term ?
B: He does somewhat .
B: Yeah .
B: He does somewhat .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , we have an investment plan .
B: Yeah .
B: I guess he does .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , we have really found ,
B: this is the first year we 've done it this way .
B: And we are really saving a lot of money .
A: Really .
A: Because you 're , you 've , you 've sat down with a piece of paper and said well let 's see what are we going to ,
A: so what goes into that , that particular thing ?
A: It 's vacations , Christmas .
B: Christmas , birthdays , uh , car maintenance , dental , medical ,
B: we just averaged out how much last year we used per month on medical and how much we used on dental
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , and so now when we have to come up with that deductible that our insurance does n't cover rather than wondering where it 's going to come from ,
A: Right .
B: we have it , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And when , when we see something on sale , uh , instead of just looking in our checking account and saying well we 've got enough and getting it , and then when something comes up , you know , kind of scrimping to pay for a medical bill . Everything 's taken care of .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we 're finding that we even have more money than we thought .
A: Really .
B: Yeah
A: Well , you know , uh , what do you do as far as ,
A: I , I take it ,
A: do you , uh , run the family budget as far as , uh , groceries and that sort of thing ?
B: I do .
B: Uh-huh .
B: All the money .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And how , what 's that ?
B: All the money is turned over to me .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you have a set amount that , that you spend each month
A: or or how do you work that ?
B: Yes .
B: I have a set amount .
B: It 's very generous
B: and I usually have extra .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so then that can go , uh , you know , either back into our checking account
B: or I can just carry it over .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , you know , there are certain months of the year that you 'll spend more on food than other months . And certain times when that will be left over .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But that 's completely up to me how I do that .
B: And then , uh , because I don't work . I stay home .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I do too .
A: I stay home also .
B: And so it 's kind of my money
B: and I also get my own money to do what I want to . Go to lunches , you know , and do that kind of thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We have a clothing , uh , envelope for each of the kids and for myself and my husband that we put how much we figure we need each month on clothing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It really works out great .
B: We 're finding that we have a lot more money to spend on things like that .
B: And we 're ,
A: Yeah .
A: What , what ,
A: as far as like big things like something comes up and you have to buy a T V or a big item , like for the house .
A: How ,
A: do you have like a household ?
B: Yes .
B: We have a household budget .
B: Like we 're going to need to buy a bed for my daughter that 's coming out of her crib this year .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And also , we need a new bed .
B: And so we 've got both of those budgeted
B: and we put a certain amount in each month
B: and we know which month we 'll enough saved to go buy those .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And if we find one on sale before then , then we can just take that and put it towards
A: Well , here in Logan , Utah , we 've got a nice little valley here
A: and it 's like crystal clear all the time except for during the winter when the inversion sets in
A: and then we get a little bit of pollution in the valley .
B: uh , it 's like low impact aerobics
B: but at , it ...
A: Oh , instead of hopping and jumping you just step
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: you , you have a step
B: and you literally step up on the step and move your arms ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's , it 's new ,
A: Huh .
B: it 's fun .
A: I probably could n't do that because of my knee
B: Uh-huh ,
B: bad knee
A: Yeah .
B: Um , and , uh , I do toning a lot and , uh , some ,
B: every once in a while I play tennis ,
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm not too great at it
B: but I , I try to play ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've , I 've kind of gotten out of the habit myself ,
A: I mean , it 's
A: I guess what I do now is I play softball , right now ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's about ,
A: well , right now I 'm on two teams
A: so it 's four nights a week .
B: Gosh
A: But , uh , uh , so I enjoy it
A: but , as far as , you know , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: instead of having to join a health club and make myself go out there , I went and bought a weight bench , and don't ever hardly use it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Ha ,
B: right ,
A: I need to make myself do that .
B: yeah ,
B: I slacked off a little because of , um ,
B: I 'm about to graduate from college
B: and so this past couple months have been really hectic
B: so I have n't really gone ,
B: and I 've really faithful these past two months of going to the health club and working out
B: but ...
A: What school you going to ?
B: I 'm at East Carolina .
A: Oh
B: But , um , no ,
B: I , uh ,
B: my step classes and toning is about the only thing
B: well , I mean ...
A: Now what 's , what 's toning ?
A: Is that lifting weights ?
B: It 's , um , like isolated movements for each muscle certain muscles groups ,
A: Oh , okay .
B: you can do with ,
A: Isometrics , stuff like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: you can do it with certain , you know , you can do it with weights if you wanted to
B: but , you know , you leave out of there
B: usually the next morning , if you have n't done it in a while , you wake up the next morning
B: you 're like , oh , no ,
B: what did I do to myself
B: and your whole body aches , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , I know I 'm looking forward to getting back into getting into shape ,
B: uh , I feel like I 'm out of shape
B: but I feel guilty for not going , because I really I 'm , I 'm so used to going for , you know , three or four years now .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , stayed in pretty good shape during school .
B: But , um ,
A: I played baseball , all the way through
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , working out six hours a day , usually six or seven days a week that kind of , kept us all in pretty good shape ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: But , uh , ever , ever since I got out of school , you know , just jumped right into the job
A: and , I guess the job that I 'm in it 's stuff to stay on any kind of a regular schedule . * listen ; possible typo stuff = tough ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because I work some weird hours and do some traveling .
B: Uh-huh .
B: No ,
B: some , um ,
B: I walk a lot because , uh , you know , being in , in school we ,
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know if your campus was anything like ours ,
B: but our parking lot 's in one end of the , of the campus
B: and the school , the buildings are all at the other end ,
B: so .
A: No ,
A: I did n't have , well , much of a problem
A: we , I guess I went to a small Baptist school
A: and we had about , when I was there , maybe thirteen hundred people .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: that 's if ...
A: So , it 's pretty small .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But I usually get in at least a couple of miles at work just walking around the plant .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , uh ,
B: I live , I live on the second story apartments
B: so I walk up and down stairs all day long ,
B: so .
B: Uh ,
A: Uh , we 've got a one story house now
A: that 's , that 's enough .
A: I guess I push the lawn mower around
A: that 's , fairly regular
B: Yeah
B: one of the exercise ,
A: Yeah .
B: I , I , um , would like to start running .
B: I 've never been much of a runner
B: but I want to start ,
B: I want to run
B: but I don't , I don't know if I 'll be able to , to do it .
A: What
A: just , because you don't like to or because , because you wo n't be able to .
B: I 'm , I 'm afraid I wo n't be able to .
A: Oh , if you do , if you do aerobics you should n't have any problem running .
B: I
B: Yeah .
B: I hope not . Um ,
A: We 've , we ride our bike occasionally but again not nearly often enough
B: Uh-huh .
B: I don't even own a bike ,
B: I think the last time I was on a bike when I was about twelve ,
B: so .
B: Uh , I don't know ,
B: I 'd be afraid , afraid I probably forgot how to ride a bike , you know .
A: No ,
A: you ca n't forget how to ride a bike .
B: Yeah ,
B: but , um , no ,
B: I guess that 's about the only form ,
B: I 'm trying to think of , of other things that I do that will be considered exercise ,
A: Yeah .
B: there are things I should do .
B: I know
A: Now , when I was going to ,
A: I , I went to a junior college for a couple of years and played baseball and then transferred ,
A: well , when we were at this junior college , uh , our coach , you know ,
A: we ,
A: one semester the whole team was required to take aerobics
A: and the next semester they were required to do weight lifting .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , they , uh ,
A: I mean , it was a regular ,
A: I mean , we had it for course credit ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but still , I mean , it was pretty high impact stuff ,
B: Those aerobic classes are , are tough the , the high impact .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Definitely are , are tough classes .
A: Yeah ,
A: and she 'd , uh , you know ,
A: most of the guys were all in one class
A: so she 'd kind of lay it on occasionally , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: First at eight , I think we had
A: eight o'clock in the morning , was our class .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Wake up .
B: Well , now they have those , uh , those exercise bands now that are better that you can use for like toning instead of using a weight ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you have like bands ,
B: I don't know , if you 've seen them ,
A: Yeah .
B: they 're ... Yeah , they 're , they 're weird .
A: I think my wife has some .
B: They 're , uh , you they 're just made of , I guess it 's different kinds of rubber ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , and they get ,
A: Or sand even some of them ,
A: well , no ,
A: they 're elastic
A: so I guess it would n't be sand .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And there 's some that , like the different colors denotes how much they , how much the tension I guess they are and how easy they are to move .
A: Huh .
B: Uh , there 's like , I know there 's purple , gray , and , uh , green .
B: And some of them are real short
B: and they 're the ones that are the tough ones to use , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , those classes I , I enjoy .
B: Uh , I think , uh , with the aerobic classes you have to get an instructor that 's fun .
B: If you don't have one that 's fun , and not enjoy it , look , not acting like she 's enjoying what she 's doing , the class is not going to get out , uh , what they should get out of the class .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , if the ,
A: So , are you going to get into instructing ?
A: Well , what are you studying ?
B: Oh , I 'm an interior design major ,
A: Oh , okay ,
A: not in the , not in the , aerobic instructor type field .
B: Oh .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: oh , I could never do that I don't think ,
B: I 'd rather just be the student ,
B: And , uh , Occasionally I do the weights at the health club but low weights just ...
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: the , uh , the , some of the Nautilus equipment that I started seeing at the one that we used to go to was really interesting ,
A: I mean , they , they , they really know how to isolate each of the different muscle groups , with those things
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , man , they are , it ,
A: I don't know
A: to me that was just too much of a hassle to get all geared up and take the time to drive over there , and workout and then drive back
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Well , they , um , I just noticed at our health club they put these computerized one , these computerized machines ,
B: and you set a speed on it and the weight
B: and it , and it makes you do it .
B: And it tells you
B: like if you 're going too slow it will say , my grandmother could do this faster than you . And stuff like , a turtle goes faster
B: and , um , it tells it
B: and the whole place can hear what this machine is telling you .
A: A little negative reinforcement there while you 're going .
B: Yeah
B: So , uh , do that , stuff like that
B: but just I 've never used those machines
B: I just use the regular machines and the free weights , you know , like little five pound hand weights and eight pound hand weights .
A: Yeah .
B: to do , you know , some bicep , tricep exercises .
B: Sit-ups , of course .
A: yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's where I 'm really starting to get noticeable ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm just getting real soft in the middle .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I think that 's , uh , number one problem with everyone
A: Uh-huh .
A: I have n't really started to put on a lot of weight
A: I 'm , I guess I probably put on about ten , nine or ten pounds , since I stopped playing , which was about four years ago .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I 've , just myself I just notice myself just really , real soft
A: and I 'm sure I don't have near the endurance that I did ,
B: Yeah .
A: But I , I intend , I keep saying I intend to get back into it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I just need to , put the old nose to the grindstone ,
A: I , I , I guess at that point it would turn into a task ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't consider it fun doing that ,
A: but .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I plan on getting back , once I graduate next weekend .
A: Next weekend ?
B: Next weekend .
A: All right .
B: Yeah ,
B: one week ,
B: Then I plan to get right back into it .
B: You know , it 's , it does a lot for you I think .
A: Yeah ,
B: Makes you feel a lot better .
A: oh , no ,
A: yeah ,
A: there , there 's no , no question the , the end result is great
A: and I , I mean , I enjoyed , you know ,
A: we ,
A: when I was playing ball we could like run all day and not be tired , you know
B: Uh-huh ,
B: and I mean you feel so much better , about yourself .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Just you know , you don't feel guilty when you eat that cake after dinner ,
A: Oh , I still don't ,
A: but That 's a problem .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Well , good luck on your graduation and your ...
B: All righty ,
B: well , thank you .
B: It was nice talking to you .
A: Yeah ,
A: you too .
B: Okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Bye .
A: seems to be a , a topic that 's going to probably take about a generation to , uh , catch on , it seems , or maybe a generation to two
A: And we may have to do it out of necessity as far as moving that time schedule up .
A: Uh , it does seem to be a lot of habits to break .
A: I , uh , was n't raised as a kid on it ,
A: but my kids are
A: and so they , they tended to want to grab the aluminum cans when that was one of the first things to do ,
A: and we were doing all right there until , uh , the price dropped out
A: and they were n't worth anything anymore .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And we
A: it took us , almost a year to get a garbage sack full .
A: We just don't drink that many .
A: So as far as at home use , uh , we 'll pick up a six pack every once in a while or for whatever occasion of Doctor Pepper or something
A: and , and by the time we gathered up enough crushed cans to take it in , uh ,
A: at the time it was still , oh , about forty or fifty cents a pound ,
A: and we came out with about a dollar
A: it just really was n't worth it .
B: And a lot of hassle all year round
B: and cans laying ,
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: So , they , they realized , you know ,
A: well , of course to them a dollar was a dollar at four and five years old .
A: That was n't , uh , that was a big deal ,
A: but we decided it was n't worth us keeping it
A: and then , uh , T I started keeping up with , uh , cans there ,
A: so occasionally I 'll bring whatever I 've got laying around the car or the like and throw them in there .
A: Least it gets back into the system ,
A: but , as far as a habit at the house , uh , I have n't started on anything other than just whatever the city wants to pick up .
A: Have you all got the individual containers yet ?
B: No ,
B: I read in the paper this week where maybe ,
B: I don't know if it was ,
B: I guess maybe this week someone may start getting them if the truck that picks them up is outfitted in time .
A: Um .
B: But , it , it should be starting , I would stay probably in the next month if , if everything goes that
B: I 'm not sure all what we 're going to have to do , whether we have three separate containers ,
B: I really don't understand that part on what they 've told you to separate everything .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: it seemed like , uh ,
A: if , if I recall , it 's been a long time .
A: They 're way behind schedule on that particular part of it .
A: They were fine on the green , big green containers
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , seems like they said they were just going to have a bin
A: and all different types would go in there
A: and then that they would sort it as as needed .
B: Oh .
A: It , it seemed that there was ,
A: at the time anyway , it , the thinking was that there was too much not getting sorted properly and that at , at the collection sites where everything 's clearly labeled and people that happen to go to that kind of trouble to do it , happen to do it pretty well , uh , those are okay to have the general public doing the sorting .
A: But when it comes down to just general purpose trash , that all the houses , uh ,
A: the success rate of getting it sorted properly seemed to be poor ,
A: so they felt that having one guy just sit there and run through it real quick was better than , than having a household try it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I , I don't know ,
A: that sounds like an awful lot of labor to sort the entire week 's worth of trash for a house .
B: Well , it would get messy , too .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
B: I , I , I know other places when they recycle , they have to , like , wash out their glass jars and whatnot . And , uh , which we 're not in the habit of doing .
A: Right .
A: That 's true .
B: I was brought up , uh , you know , long time ago , that they did n't even have cans .
B: They had bottles
B: and you 'd return them to the the grocery store
A: Right .
B: and you 'd get our money back
B: and that , that was all well and good .
B: They don't seem to still be doing that .
B: If they could just eliminate the cans and use glass ,
B: but , I guess this day and age they don't .
A: Yeah .
A: They don't do that .
A: We live next to a set of railroad tracks
A: and it seemed to be a very popular thing for people driving by that highway there , by our tracks to throw the bottles at the tracks and try to crash , you know break them ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , they were n't that successful ,
A: so there were a lot of bottles to be returned
A: and we just walk about a half a mile in each direction and gathered up enough to buy whatever we wanted for the day
B: Uh-huh .
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: and they , uh ,
B: I , I think kids don't appreciate , maybe the value of money , that it 's so little that they don't care ,
B: they can get more somewhere else .
A: Yeah ,
A: just a little bit of begging will
B: Uh , for a good ,
B: right .
B: They 're ,
B: the nickels , the dimes or what , I suppose it might be quarters , fifty cent pieces in these days , that they would get , they , the kids just don't seem to , to care that , that much about a small amount of money .
A: Right .
A: Well , I wonder ,
B: But , we , we did buy a can crusher
B: and we are crushing cans
B: and when we buy the soda when it 's on sale for ninety-nine cents ,
B: so I would say in the last three years , we 've probably used a lot more cans than ever before .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , it was just easier to do that than to open a large liter bottle and then have it go flat .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: So that 's the main reason we 're , we , sort of are into cans at this point rather than the liter bottles
A: Where do you take your cans ?
B: Well , as you say , it takes a while to build it up .
B: Since we 've had the crusher all summer , we I guess we just now maybe have a bag full that we have n't oh ,
B: I think the kids , when we were on vacation , they said they did take them to a , a recycling place , probably at one of the
A: Hello , Lynn .
B: Yes .
A: Okay .
A: Do you have any pets ?
B: Yes ,
B: I have a dog and cat now .
A: Oh , what are their names ?
B: Tibby and Liberty .
A: Which is the dog and which is the cat ?
B: Tibby is the dog
B: and Liberty is the cat .
A: Uh , wife and I , we have , we have two cats .
B: Oh .
A: Uh , one 's real nice ,
A: but the other one is a , well ,
A: she 's pretty wild .
B: Oh Ours are pretty calm .
A: Yeah ,
A: are they , um , just house pets ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's what ours are too .
B: Yeah .
B: Our cat we got from the pound the day the night she was going to be put to sleep .
B: So that 's why we call her Liberty .
A: Oh , really .
A: Oh , well , that 's a nice , nice story . Um .
B: Do you want to hear about my other animals I 've had ?
A: Sure ,
A: sure .
B: I 've had a skunk
A: Yeah .
B: I 've had a Burmese python ,
B: I 've had rats ,
B: I 've had mice
A: Wow .
B: uh , let 's see ,
B: I 've had gerbils ,
B: I have , I had a son , he 's now gone from the home , that was an animal lover .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So at one point I had a snake , skunk , dog and cat running loose in the house .
A: Wow .
A: Um , do the skunk , uh , was it kind of like a cat to have around the house ?
B: Yes
A: Yeah .
B: it was litter trained
A: Yeah .
B: and we had it perfumed
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it was very aggressive .
A: Right .
B: But all the , all three of them , dog , cat and skunk , used to chase each other all through the house .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and the skunk .
B: And the only thing we have with the skunk , he was very , very protective of his territory being the sofa and the blanket on the sofa .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Um .
B: Nobody came near it when he was there .
A: Oh .
A: Uh , I had , I had a dog one time ,
A: and , uh , he chased after a , after a skunk and got sprayed
B: Oh .
A: so we had to , we had to give him a tomato , tomato juice bath , and , uh , get him cleaned up ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they um , ours would still back up to the dog or cat when he got mad and try to perfume them ,
B: but the glands had been removed
A: Uh-huh .
B: so ,
A: Right ,
A: but I suppose it was still in the instinct of them to to back up and get ready .
B: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: why , I don't know ,
A: I , I think they 're kind of nice to have ,
A: they 're kind of , you know , just relaxing to , I don't know , to pet and to ,
A: I don't know ,
A: when they like sit up on your lap and stuff like that , just kind of enjoyable to , you know , have like ,
A: I don't know ,
A: something giving you some affection as well .
B: Yeah ,
B: I always said if I Well , I always said if I died I 'd come back as a dog
A: What , what do you think ?
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: That 'd be the best way to be .
A: Yeah .
A: Um , do you like big dogs or or little dogs ?
B: Well we had a German Shepherd
B: and he had dysplasia
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he had it for about three or four years where we just about had to lift him and carry him every place he went .
A: Really .
B: So , when he died , we got a little one .
A: Yeah .
B: But our shepherd was almost thirteen years old ,
B: and it just , you know , was almost cruel because ,
A: Uh-huh
A: almost cruel for him to , to walk .
B: Yeah ,
B: he just , he could n't get up ,
B: he could n't walk ,
B: so , he was a hundred and twenty pounds ,
B: so it was a chore .
A: Wow , yeah .
B: So we said the next time around we 'd get something little that if something happened , it would be easier to carry .
A: Sure .
A: Yeah .
B: And then we 've had three cats in our married life ,
B: and we 've got a calico now .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 've got a calico cat too .
B: Do you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: she 's the , she 's the nice one .
A: We , uh , we used to live in an apartment
A: and like , our cats never went outside ,
A: but , um , the neighbors used to let their dogs out ,
A: and our neighbors were , I don't know , kind of slimy ,
A: and , uh , our cats wound up getting fleas , uh , from the apartment that we were in
B: Um .
A: so , we had to , we had to flea bath them
A: and it was , uh , it was an experience that they did n't enjoy at all .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , don't even talk to me ,
B: I , when I was single I had gone away for the weekend ,
A: Yeah .
B: and my husband , then fianc3e , was to keep my cat ,
B: and he let her out ,
B: and my house was loaded with fleas ,
B: I mean , you walked in
B: and your legs were just black .
A: Really .
B: And we had such a time , and never got the cat back .
A: Really .
B: Yeah ,
B: I found it , you know , in the street .
A: Oh .
B: I was a social worker at the time , and found it ,
B: Now is it Stacy ?
A: Angie .
B: Angie ,
B: I 'm sorry .
A: Okay .
B: Well , now , so if you were going to have a dinner party , what would you make ?
A: Um , let 's see ,
A: uh , I like seafood .
A: Uh , let 's see ,
A: uh , shrimp , steamed uh , shellfish with maybe herbs .
A: Uh , spicy lobster with linguini .
B: That sounds good .
A: Yeah .
B: Now what is , uh , what is , uh , the steamed shellfish you said ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: And what would that be like , a clam or , uh ,
A: Right .
B: Okay .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , I think hors d'oeuvres are good , too .
A: Uh , and that way , you can have a variety . Uh ,
B: So if you have a , a dinner party and you 're going to serve , uh , seafood for supper , what type of , uh , hors d'oeuvres would you serve prior to the meal ?
A: Uh ,
B: Like cheeses or fruits or vegetables or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: fresh vegetables would be good
A: or , uh , just ,
B: Probably not nachos and dip , huh ?
A: No .
B: And would you , uh , would it be appropriate to , uh , drink with the , uh , prior , when you have the hors d'oeuvres ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Okay .
B: And then when you serve the meal , what type of wine would you have with , uh , with the , with seafood ?
A: Oh , all these hard questions
A: Uh , what , white wine ?
B: That would be my guess .
A: Yeah .
B: And , And then , uh , uh , dessert .
A: I 'm not really a drinker ,
A: so I 'm not , I don't know a lot about that .
B: Something sweet ?
A: Oh , goodness .
A: Uh , chocolate , something chocolate .
A: Uh
B: You must like chocolate .
A: Yes .
B: Well , let 's see .
B: Usually when we have a dinner party , I always , I like to grill .
A: Oh , you do ?
B: So , we might have some cocktails ahead of time and maybe some , uh , some dip , uh , some cheese .
B: One of our favorites is , uh , to take some , let 's see Philadelphia cream cheese I think , is that what comes in those little blocks ? And pour cocktail sauce over the top of it and then get these little canned shrimp and , uh , wash them and cool them and then dump them in the , uh , sauce and then take crackers
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: and then you just dip the cracker in the sauce with the clams and the cream cheese
B: and you have a real nice dip that goes good with a cocktail .
B: And then I like to barbecue , like steaks or pork chops .
B: And then we have , uh , oh , lot of times we 'll have baked potatoes with them and a salad
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then , uh , I don't know what we usually have for dessert .
B: Cake sometimes ,
B: but , uh , that 's what we would do for a dinner party , I guess .
A: That sounds good , too .
B: But that 's , I guess when you talk about dinner party , that 's probably not , uh , that 's more for like when friends come over .
A: Traditional
A: right ?
B: Traditional ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I would n't be the big , uh , snotty kind .
A: I just started , I just really started , uh , uh , learning about that
A: and I bought a Martha Stewart ,
A: I don't know if you 've heard of her .
B: Huh-uh .
A: Her cookbook
A: and she talks about catering and , uh , you know , goes into , goes into all that and the different types of , uh , uh , different types of parties , you know , different types of foods .
B: Oh , well , do you work in a , uh , in a setting where you , uh , are in the food business ?
A: Um , my father owns a restaurant .
B: Oh , in , uh , Is it in Dallas ?
A: It 's , it 's just a , uh , a cafe ,
A: so it 's not really anything , you know , that I want to ,
A: it 's not the same
A: Uh , it 's in Lewisville .
B: Okay ,
B: all right .
B: So you graduated from which high school ?
A: Trinity .
B: Trinity ,
B: okay .
B: And that 's a public school or private ?
A: That 's public .
B: Huh , okay ,
B: I have to get to know this area a little better , I guess .
B: Uh , well , is your father 's cafe , uh , one that you could cater out of ?
A: No ,
A: uh-huh , * listen ; mistranscription of 'uh-uh ' ?
A: it 's not .
B: Um , and he 's not interested in letting his twenty-one year old daughter experiment with it probably .
A: Uh .
B: Well , let 's see ,
B: what else for catering . Uh ,
A: Let 's see ,
A: what about Hawaiian luau .
B: Oh , that would be good .
A: Could have , uh , uh , fruits and , and pineapple , uh ,
A: let 's see , uh ,
B: And you could actually go with , uh , a chicken if you wanted to .
A: I think , I think decorating your food is , you know , really ,
A: Uh , we have a Sheltie Collie , a miniature Sheltie .
B: Do you ?
A: Yeah .
A: It 's about , oh , about six months old ,
A: and we 're
A: we live in an apartment ,
A: so , we don't have a yard ,
A: so it has to stay inside
A: and we 're having a difficult time trying to train it .
B: How old is it ?
A: It 's about six months .
B: Uh , you , you 're , you 're in the roughest stages of pet ownership , I think .
A: Really ?
A: But they 're supposed to be real intelligent dogs ,
A: but I guess every one , one one , one of them , or every once in a while , you get one that 's not so intelligent because this one , it .
B: Well . I don't , I don't know if that has anything to do with the intelligence , really , the , the , the training bit , uh .
B: I 've had dogs through the years .
B: Right now I 've got two , and three cats ,
B: but , uh , and my son and daughter-in-law have kind of a Sheltie mix ,
B: and we watched it this summer for two to three months ,
B: and it was n't trained quite fully either
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , but it was a sweet and an intelligent dog .
A: Yeah ,
A: so how 'd you all , how do you ,
A: what 's the best method ?
B: I don't know .
B: I , I 'm old fashioned ,
B: and when I got my , my dogs , when they , when they did something I hollered at them and threw them outside .
A: Right .
B: They say that 's not the way to do it now .
B: You 're just supposed to
A: Stand outside with them until they .
B: No ,
B: just , just , put them outside , I guess . Unless you catch them in the act .
A: Well , we 're hardly ever at home ,
A: so it 's kind of difficult ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , you know , you don't want to , you don't want to spank it or scare it , or anything like that ,
A: so .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: you don't want to do that ,
B: but , uh .
A: Yeah ,
A: we , we try to take it , you know ,
A: it gets , it gets frustrating when you take it outside
A: and , you know and then it runs right inside
B: Does , does it just want to sniff around ?
B: Does it just want to sniff around and play when it 's outside ?
A: Yeah ,
A: a lot of times ,
A: and you know , it wo n't it 's little job outside
B: Yeah .
A: and it comes inside .
B: Have you praised it and given it a treat maybe when it does something outside ?
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: we 've tried that ,
A: and , uh , you know , there 's certain spots in the house where he likes to go ,
B: Yeah .
A: so , and he chews on plants and all that ,
A: but , you know , that 's natural for a little puppy . Huh ?
B: That 's nothing , huh .
B: Well , it , it , it 'll , it 'll catch on pretty soon , I 'll , I 'll bet you .
B: I , I have a sixteen year old , almost sixteen year old Golden Retriever ,
B: and she 's gone the other way ,
B: because she 's so old , she does n't have much control
A: Oh , really .
B: so we 're battling with that problem
A: Oh , that 's sad .
B: and she still feels good .
B: Uh , she ca n't hear worth a darn or see very well ,
B: but she 's got a great appetite ,
B: and she knows we 're there , by smell .
A: How old is it ?
B: She 'll be sixteen in May .
A: Man that 's sad .
B: And yeah ,
B: but we ca n't bear to do anything because she 's been our friend for all these years ,
A: Oh , of course not .
B: so we 're putting up with all her accidents ,
A: I could n't .
B: and the
B: two nights ago , she had diarrhea ,
B: and so that was a bad one .
B: But , uh , I think we 're buying a carpet shampooer this weekend
A: That is really sad .
A: What , what 's the deal ,
A: we , we try to , we 're trying to take it on walks now , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we ca n't because it 's not accustomed to being on a leash
B: Yeah .
A: and so it , I mean this dog really feels like it 's being killed or something when you try to , you know , tug on it to walk it .
A: I mean , it just goes like a mad dog ,
A: I mean it just jumps up and down and starts yapping ,
A: and it 's , you know , I mean , it 's not even close to even being trained on a leash .
B: Does it , oh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: You know , maybe you you can get it signed up this spring or summer for some of the dog obedience classes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , we 've heard bad , we 've heard some bad things about some of those , you know ,
A: they sometimes misuse their license or whatever you know ,
B: Oh .
A: they treat them bad .
B: Well , you know , we went , we went to the junior college , Richland
A: Oh , really ?
B: and we took ,
B: my , my daughter was living at home then ,
B: and she took our Golden Retriever , oh , not the Golden Retriever , the Norwegian Elk Hound over there
A: Oh , really ?
B: and , it , it , it 's a pretty good class ,
B: and they did pretty good , except this dog is ,
B: she 's just pretty ,
B: she 's not smart
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , she did n't learn a lot ,
B: but it , I think it calmed her down a little bit ,
B: and she 's used to being around other dogs now .
A: How long did it take ?
B: I think it was like a six week program .
A: Every , what ?
B: Uh , I think it was one night a week for like six weeks ,
A: Oh , really ?
B: and , uh , you know , it was a group class , outside .
B: It was fairly reasonable , too .
A: Well , Sheltie Collies are , you know , timid ,
A: and they don't really ,
A: unless they get used to something , they 're really nervous
A: and .
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're , they 're usually , a high-strung dog are n't they ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: and , uh , if they 're not accustomed to something , they , they 're really scared .
A: So .
B: Um , our , our friend has a ,
A: Okay ,
A: um , I guess we 're going to talk , describe , uh , job benefits ,
A: and so what do you think , next to salary do you rank , is the most important job benefits ?
B: Uh , I would say the medical , uh , group insurance area as far as , uh , covering medical costs for yourself or family members .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , um , does your company have good benefits in that , in that regard ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I think ,
B: I work for a public school system , district
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , so it 's different than a company where most companies fund almost the entire thing ,
B: where the school district does , um , the employee must pick up a greater figure in the way of , uh , costs .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: But overall , um , I 've been pleased with it over the years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think the biggest frustration is because of the cost of insurance going up every year , our district has had to alter , uh , you know , change companies ,
B: or now we 're on a managed care thing , which has stressed a lot of people out although it has not disturbed me any .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I see .
B: How about yourself ?
A: Uh , well I 'm ,
A: my medical coverage is with an H M O
B: Uh-huh .
A: um , so , that 's , in my opinion , that 's that 's bordering on a health clinic ,
A: but it seems to be a good way to maintain costs and still provide a good amount of coverage .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: Um .
B: Our district did that for the ninety-one and the ninety school year , or calendar years ,
B: and I was in the H M O ,
B: and , um , I was because my , my same doctor , you know , agreed to be in it for , uh ,
B: they usually sign a contract or something
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , um , uh , I did have surgery last summer
B: and I paid ten dollars when I went to see him that first day ,
B: and I 've never seen another bill ,
B: so I I have to say it really works .
A: Right .
B: But , again , I was fortunate because my doctor agreed to be in it .
B: Uh , if you 've been going to a doctor for , you know , ten years or something and he elects not to join , it can be very stressful for you know , those people .
A: Yes .
A: That 's right ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 'm , I 'm fairly young myself ,
A: I 've only been ,
A: when I first started working which ,
A: three years ago is when I first got into full time employment
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , at that time I immediately joined the H M O ,
A: and I never really ,
A: so the only doctor I , I 've kind of consistently had has been through the H M O ,
A: and , uh you know , for me it 's worked out real good .
B: Yeah .
B: Right ,
B: but if you , you know , have a family and , and , um , everybody 's gone to different doctors , uh , it is hard to give up somebody who you feel knows you and your body and your , just has , you know , all the medical history
B: and you feel comfortable with it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I 'm sure it would be very stressful
B: and , my husband and I have just elected that if that happens , I will go and just pay .
B: You can continue to go to your own doctor
A: Uh-huh .
B: but your benefits are not as , you know , good ,
B: so , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: um , like you , you mentioned you work for a school system .
A: I work for , uh , Georgia Tech in the research branch ,
B: Oh , all right .
A: and I guess another one that , that I rank up there high is the , uh , kind of job flexibility and time off , um , I enjoy as a benefit .
B: I do too .
B: Are you talking about like Spring Break
B: and ,
A: Right
B: Right .
A: yeah ,
A: getting a lot of breaks between quarters and that , and having a lot of vacation .
B: Right .
B: It , it really , um ,
B: I don't think most of our teachers ,
B: now I 'm not a teacher ,
B: I am a secretarial executive assistant ,
B: but I don't think the teachers could stand the stress all , all year long frankly .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It is just , Texas has really , um , you know ,
B: they want everybody educated , no matter what it costs ,
B: uh , and it , it would be just ,
B: we all look forward to ,
B: like in two weeks we have Spring Break ,
B: and I don't know who looks forward to it more , the students or the teachers and the staff .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: What do you do there ?
A: Well , um , I 'm not actually on the teaching faculty ,
A: but we have a large research organization associated with the university ,
A: and that 's who I work with .
B: Okay .
A: Um , and we 're given , you know , a good bit of flexibility in what we do .
A: We can kind of pursue our own interests in terms of the research areas that we study .
B: Well , that 's good .
B: Yeah ,
B: I would think that that type of employment , you 're , you 're , one day you might be really tuned in and the next day , oh , a little luke warm or something
A: Right .
B: and , um , it 's good that they allow you that .
A: Right .
B: It , um ,
B: as I say , the schools ,
B: now we do have to work , you know , the day ,
B: but we do get many days off ,
B: and , uh , we all look forward to it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's the only reason I work there , is that my children now have graduated , and graduated from college
B: but at the time , I worked there because my hours and days were the same as theirs
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I 've just continued to , uh , stay there
A: Are there , are there any things that , that you 'd like to see changed in terms of the , the benefits ?
A: Okay ,
A: I guess it took ,
A: so I guess the recording has started now .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh .
B: So , have you ever served on a jury ?
A: I served ,
A: I was in the Air Force , and served on a court martial , uh , board a couple of times , which is very similar to a jury .
A: A lot of the same rules apply .
A: Have you ever served on one ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I finally served on one last year .
B: I 've , um , been voting for years ,
B: and I could n't figure out why I had n't been called yet
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I finally was .
B: So it was an interesting experience .
B: I was kind of boring . * listen ; should I be `` it ''
A: Was it civil or criminal ?
B: Uh , it was , uh uh , it was , uh , well , let 's see , it was municipal court
A: A grand jury or ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so it was a combination of , uh ,
B: and I was in the pool for a couple of weeks
A: I see .
B: so it was a combination of criminal and civil ,
B: and they had , uh ,
B: well most of the time we , we spent sitting around in the jury room and getting to know the other potential jurors
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then , it was always exciting when we got called to , to , to go , because then we thought we might be able to do something else besides , uh , just sit in the jury room .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , did , did the judge , uh , hand down sentences
A: or did you folks do that ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: the judge did .
B: Uh , I , uh , I had a hard time getting seated on a jury .
B: I kept getting , uh ,
B: I 'd be questioned , uh , for empaneling the jury ,
B: and they kept , uh , dismissing me .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Um .
B: Course they don't have to give a reason ,
B: but it 's just whether the prosecutor or the defense attorney feels like , you know ,
A: No .
B: they want to get the best , uh , mix for their case ,
B: so they ask all kinds of wild questions .
A: That that 's a science in itself .
B: Yeah ,
B: well I kept getting called up for drunk driving questions ,
B: and I think part of it was they did n't , uh , they did n't like the fact that I don't drink any more .
B: So .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I see .
A: Because you 'd probably be , uh , too puritanical
A: and
B: Yeah ,
B: that was probably it ,
B: although in my case I might have been more , uh , sympathetic with the person who got caught ,
B: I don't know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , were , were the , uh , sentences that the judge handed out what you thought to be fair ,
A: or would ,
A: if you were deciding , do you think that they would have been different .
B: Well , I was never there , never there for any sentencing .
B: Uh , I finally got empaneled on one case , uh , on my next to the last day ,
B: and , uh , we got into the , uh , jury room to , uh , decide the case ,
B: and there was one guy on the jury who announced to everybody that he did n't need to deliberate , because he 'd already decided that the guy was , uh , not guilty ,
B: and he would never vote for guilty .
A: Huh .
B: So , uh , they appointed me jury , jury foreman
B: and I , uh , did n't think that , uh , going in without deliberating allowed us to reach a verdict ,
B: so I told the judge that we were n't , were unable to reach a verdict because we could n't get one member of the jury to deliberate .
A: Um .
B: So the whole thing had to be tried over again .
A: Wow ,
A: I bet that made him happy .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was , uh , it was funny .
B: The , uh ,
B: I I , I don't know ,
B: I , uh , I did n't , uh , uh , I did n't like not being able to deliberate .
A: Right .
B: I , uh , I , I wanted to vote guilty for the guy ,
B: and the other people were kind of mixed
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , the guy had to go through the whole thing all over again .
B: Cost him a lot of money ,
B: I 'm sure .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , how many members were on the jury ?
A: Was it a six or twelve member jury ?
B: Uh , it must have been six .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's kind of curious to me .
A: I did n't realize until the , uh , Wayne Kennedy Smith trial , uh , a few months ago that they had six member juries .
A: I thought that they , you know , it was always twelve , twelve men tried and true , so to speak .
B: Um .
A: But , uh , apparently for some , some crimes , it 's permissible to have six people sit in judgment .
B: Um .
A: I know on a
A: getting to this unanimous thing , whether , you know , a jury should be unanimous or not , or not , in a court martial case it does n't require the jury to be unanimous .
A: It 's a simple majority , you know , rules .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , let 's see ,
B: is it on , uh , capital crimes that they have to be unanimous
B: and ,
A: Probably on capital ,
A: I don't know ,
A: we were n't , we , we ,
A: the two that I were on had to do with drugs
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , we were , uh , unanimous is acquitting the person , even though we in our , in our , uh , gut felt that the individuals were both guilty just because of the friends , because of various things ,
A: the government really failed to prove its case ,
A: and , you know , being fair to the person , if the government does n't prove its case , no matter how you feel , you have to go by what 's offered as proof ,
A: and we had to acquit him in both cases .
B: Uh , it was too circumstantial ?
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: it was , yeah , in some of the critical things , like the special investigations , at one time in one of the cases had videotaped this person ,
A: but something happened to the camera and the tape and
B: Um .
A: all they could do was testify ,
A: Do you ever think that there 's a crime that 's just so heinous and so bad that the person who commits this crime just does n't deserve to live anymore ?
B: That 's a good question .
B: Uh , there would be a point , there was a point where I would have said , no , that no one would deserve to die for , for a crime that he committed .
B: But , uh , since I 've become a parent and since I 've seen , uh , things like Jeffrey I really have to question that .
B: I really , uh , I , I ca n't conceive of someone being that brutal to that many other people .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , try and figure out what would be a suitable punishment .
B: Uh ,
A: Of the statements made by people against the , the death penalty , um , I , I like the statement made by Cuomo .
A: Cuomo I believe is ,
A: um , he 's , he 's governor of New York
A: but , uh , he 's , uh , against the death penalty .
A: But , um , he said that he would , he would want to , to seriously hurt or if not kill someone if , if they did something to his wife .
A: And that 's ,
A: but , but , even , even in that in that , uh , uh , situation he would he would hope that there would be people around him who would , uh , keep him from doing the , doing the things .
B: Oh , it 's a , uh , it 's a question of your , your gut reactions to something like that versus an intelligent reason response .
A: Right ,
A: exactly .
B: Uh , and that was the thing that , uh , killed Dukakis back , uh , four years ago when someone asked him a similar question
B: and he , he thought for a second and gave a thoughtful well reasoned reply when , uh , people wanted to see if he was going to go for an emotion uh , a gut level reaction .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I think that the people who are strongly in favor of the death penalty are really working from that gut level .
B: Uh , you know , whether it be a biblical force , uh , you know , the eye for an eye , a tooth for a tooth , a life for a knife , life type logic or just , uh , uh , some sort of anger at putting putting , uh , murderers up in federal pens for the rest of their life , uh , while we foot the bill .
A: Yeah .
B: I think people are , are working at that from more of a , uh , a gut reaction than a , a reason humane one .
A: See , I don't think the decisions that are going to be made on on the death penalty until we decide what our prison system is intended to do .
A: Are they reformatories , where we 're trying to take people who ca n't survive or , or that , that are n't conforming enough to society so that , that we work well together .
A: Or are they ,
A: is it a penal institution ?
A: Is it , is , is it designed for punishment ?
A: Um , the death penalty surely fits in well with , uh , in a penal situation where you 're trying to punishment .
A: Uh , perhaps not in the manner that we do it
A: but , but it , in , in theory it fits in .
A: In system , in a reformatory , I mean
A: if you , if you put someone to death you obviously , ca n't reform them .
B: That 's true .
A: So .
B: Uh , the other argument is that the death penalty is a deterrent
B: and I really don't , uh , agree with that .
B: I don't think anyone who would commit a , uh , a crime that would get them the death penalty would stop at the moment and say , well , I was about to kill and dismember this person
B: but , oh , if they catch me they 're going to kill me
B: so I better not do it .
B: I , I just , don't think that , uh , that it works that way .
A: Yeah .
A: I don't think it 's done .
A: I don't think we run it as a deterrent .
A: I mean people say that ,
A: but , I mean , if it was really a deterrent , I mean I think like horse thieves in the old west , you know ,
A: they saw other horse thieves hanging by the necks every once in a while .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And if we really if it was really seriously going to be a deterrent , I would think that it would be public .
A: I mean I don't think it would be this private thing because nobody ever , nobody ever sees it .
A: If someone ever ,
A: if , you know ,
A: like say some young kids or something like that that might be inclined more towards a life of crime , had to sit and watch and , and see a guy burn or , or , you know , something or shot by a firing squad or something like that .
A: I would think you 'd make a bigger impact on their life rather than , you know , telling them that there 's , there 's protestors out here at the , you know .
B: Well , I , I don't know if that would really work that way or not .
B: Uh , there 's a lot of violence ,
A: Um , are you working right now ?
B: Uh , yes ,
B: I am .
B: I 'm working in the computer science department here uh , at C M U .
A: Uh ,
A: What kind of , what kind of work do you do ?
B: Uh , I 'm doing basically system , system design work and , uh , implementation work for the speech , for the speech group uh , here .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh .
A: is that how you heard about this thing ?
B: Yeah ,
A: Uh ,
B: actually through electronic mail .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Me too .
A: I work at , uh , the Georgia Tech Research Institute .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I 'm a co-op student
A: so I work and go to school about halftime .
A: And , uh , I really don't have any job benefits to speak of .
A: We 're kind of , um ,
A: I don't know ,
A: they just kind of forget us on that end .
A: We don't really have any vacation or , you know , sick days or health care or anything really
A: so .
B: Right .
B: So it 's pretty fair they 've got you slaving away , at , at this point
A: Exactly .
A: Exactly .
B: Yeah .
A: What about you ?
B: Well , um , I 'm research stuff here now
B: so what they , they have , uh , um , okay , benefits package .
B: It 's not quite as good as industry
B: but one of the significant , um , benefits here is that you can take , uh , up to two courses a semester , um ,
B: and they pay for you know , pay for the classes .
A: Huh .
B: So , that works out to be , um , a reasonable , a reasonable benefit .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , they do that I think if you 're , uh , research here
A: then I know of some of the people that have gotten their masters
A: and I think that , um , they might , you know , pay for that . Pay for the classes and stuff
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I know they let you , they 'll let you decrease how many hours you work by kind of percentage .
A: You know , they 'll let you work halftime if you want to , if you want to finish ,
B: If you want to , do it quickly .
A: you want to ,
A: Yeah .
A: They 'll let you work , decrease your number of hours by any percentage just , just about so if you want to get your masters
A: and then , I think of course you get like a , with your extra degrees you get a pay raise due
A: so that will probably help out .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: So I , I don't know in , in terms of other things , other benefits other than sort of monetary
B: I 'd , you know , I ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we , we do .
B: We have to contribute a certain amount , uh , to it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's kind of split between C M U and , and , you know , the employee .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think , I mean that 's pretty , that 's a pretty important , uh , part of it there because that , that can be really expensive if you ever have any health problems .
A: My dad , I think my ,
A: I 'm still covered on , with my dad 's , uh , health plan at his , where he works ,
A: but it would definitely be something to look into once I get my own .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: and it 's also , right now it 's , uh , the ,
B: like everywhere else , uh ,
B: here in Pittsburgh the health care , uh , rates are , are going up pretty quickly .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's a whole other topic to begin with too
B: but .
B: Yeah ,
B: but it 's , you are right .
B: I , I , I really agree that , that that 's pretty important .
A: the I think the , I guess the only real , um , benefit I guess you could say working , for me working here , besides I mean
A: I 'm learning and stuff because , I 'm at , you know , in school .
B: Right .
A: But there 's , there 's some where , uh , uh , student employees working for the government don't have to pay Social Security tax . that 's about , five percent right there
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh
B: Oh
B: Now that 's a big win .
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: That 's ,
A: That 's about the only real bonus
B: Yeah .
A: I have , so I have to take that into consideration when I evaluate like how much I get paid you know , because if I was working somewhere else I 'd have to , you know , pay an extra five percent , or so .
B: Yeah .
B: I figured for
B: and they 've just raised the , um , income caps on Social Security to the point where you have to be pretty , you have to be pretty well off before you stop paying paying that as well .
A: Huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: well if you could call it a benefit that C M U , I mean
B: the other thing that they allow you to do here while you are working is , is consult for , um , you know , other companies .
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: Um , so that 's , that kind of helps out in terms of , you know , keeping up-to-date with contacts in industry .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , in case , you know , in case you ever need to bail out
A: help a lot .
A: Yeah .
A: See around , around here it 's like , uh ,
A: we pretty much work from project to project on , well , you know , with different sponsors .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There 's not , there is not a whole lot of , you know , funded research from ,
A: Type of music is hot down in Texas ?
B: Uh , well , I don't know exactly what 's hot down in Texas .
B: I know what 's hot down here with me ,
B: so that 's about all I can feel apt to discuss with you since I just know ,
B: I don't ever listen to the radio
B: and that 's usually what 's hot around here
B: so , So , what kind of music do you like ?
A: Oh , okay .
A: Uh , mostly folk music .
B: Folk music .
A: Yeah ,
A: I find myself , uh , listening to a lot of , uh , uh , either old timer or New England , uh , dance bands as well as , uh , just more popular folk music and new artists coming up .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , we 're on totally different wavelengths .
A: Okay .
B: I 'm more , uh , old rock and roll , uh , some new , newer , I guess you would call it heavy metal rock and roll type you know , uh , Van Halen , that kind of thing .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: what about , uh , classic rock type stations .
B: Uh , I don't listen to the radio at all .
B: We live in a fairly small town ,
B: so uh , classic rock for me is what I have , which is like , uh , Doors , Eagles , Jimmy Hendrix .
A: Oh , okay .
A: So , some some of the older Eagles stuff was good .
B: Uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: I , I did n't like , uh ,
A: they started getting a little more , you know ,
A: the type of music , at least to me , it 's , uh , sounds like it 's only sounds good at a high volumes
A: and I don't like listening at high volumes .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , some of their older stuff was , uh , you know , quite enjoyable to me .
B: Yeah ,
B: well they ,
A: You know , Hotel California and that era .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: that does , that 's something you don't , does n't even sound good loud really . You know .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , definitely .
B: Uh , so , anything new you like coming out now , other than folk music , some I might know of .
B: I don't know any folk music at all .
A: Well , down in Texas , uh , you know , little , listen to a little country every now and then .
B: Yeah ,
B: oh yeah ,
B: here ,
A: I 'm sure there 's a lot of that down there .
B: Oh , plenty .
B: Way , way more than I can stand down here .
B: I , I don't care for it at all , that Texas twang or whatever you want to call it .
B: I ,
A: Well , there , there 's a Conway Twitty twang ,
A: then there 's the , uh , Dolly Parton , uh , Hollywood sound .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's more , even more commercialized for of country music .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , it 's getting , uh , uh , getting pretty big everywhere , as I see it .
B: Garth Brooks is outselling Guns and Roses
B: so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I think some of them , the artists are even , uh , hitting the pop charts .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's kind of strange that it 's getting as big as it is .
B: Concert tours for country and western sings is , it 's , it 's quite , quite odd ,
B: but , uh , I don't know ,
B: it 's , music is kind of going an odd direction nowadays , I think .
B: It 's becoming not necessarily good music , just popular music , you know .
A: Hey ,
A: I , I , I think most artists are in to make a few bucks .
B: Yeah ,
B: and that 's all it ,
A: But they 're not in it to say anything or give a message which is what they were
B: Yeah .
A: late , late sixties , early seventies , they were they were definitely pushing a message .
B: That 's what it ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's what , what you say ,
B: and , and then music is wrapped around now .
B: Now , it 's the other way around .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I don't , I don't think Gun ,
A: at least to my mind , Guns and Roses does n't have too much of a message , too much to say .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: they don't have anything really important you want to hear .
B: But , you know , it 's kind of odd ,
B: it 's like , it does n't have to be good ,
B: it 's just who does it , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You hear a , you hear a Paula Abdul song
B: and you ,
B: and I think , if somebody else were to play that , you know , they would n't , they , nobody , everybody would think , that 's lousy ,
B: but because she did it , it 's supposed to be good , you know ,
B: it comes to the point where it 's your name , not what you do more than anything .
A: Right .
B: Madonna can do anything
B: and it would be considered good because it 's Madonna , you know .
A: Right .
B: Madonna could start playing folk music
B: and folk music would be huge just because Madonna does it ,
B: so it 's , it 's , it 's really backwards how things are working now
A: Uh-huh
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's the artist , not the merit .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly .
B: So , I don't know , I , I don't know that that 's , I don't think that 's a good thing at all ,
B: but that 's that 's what the , point we 've reached ,
B: so I don't know how how much farther we can digress before we have to turn it around and go the other way , at least .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I don't know ,
A: I know for myself that , uh , for the most part , I don't know which artist is which ,
A: so I listen to a song ,
A: I either like the song
A: or I don't like it
B: Yeah .
A: and then if I really like the song , eventually I 'll figure out who it was .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's about how I am on popular music .
B: I don't , you know , you don't , I don't know enough about it because I just listen ,
B: uh , everything I listen to is what I buy , not whatever they play on the radio
B: so ,
A: Well , you have to figure out what to buy ,
A: or do you just buy along the same artist ?
B: Uh , I ,
B: yeah ,
B: I just mostly buy along the same lines all the time .
B: I don't really switch around to new things very often .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's just , it 's , you know , it 's way to hectic and too confusing .
A: Yeah ,
A: so you keep buying the same artists until you don't like an album , then you stop ?
B: Uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: generally ,
B: or , about the only new music I hear is somebody else that I know will buy something new that I have n't heard
A: Yeah .
B: and I listen to it that way ,
B: but as far as ,
B: yeah ,
B: I don't go out on a limb and buy something new very often unless I 've heard it .
A: Yeah ,
A: see , that 's one thing I like about the , uh , some of the folk music scenes , you know ,
A: there 's a couple of nice , uh , small coffee houses up in New Jersey .
B: Yeah .
A: And , it 's very nice ,
A: you go into the coffee house
A: and , you know , an artist is there
A: and very often the artist will have a an album
A: and , so if you like the artist , you buy the album .
B: Yeah .
A: So you definitely get to try before you buy .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's definitely
B: I ,
A: You know , it ,
A: you , you , you don't always quite get it right ,
A: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: you go first .
A: Well , I have , uh , two kids ,
A: I have one seven and one five
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , they 're in a public school here in Tyler
A: and , uh , I 'm happy with it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm happy with the school ,
A: it 's great ,
A: good teachers
A: good curriculum , uh ,
A: they learn a lot ,
A: they have no problems , uh ,
A: but I do live in the better , well , in the best part of the city ,
A: though , I live in , you know , the real richy part , I guess .
A: I 'm not ,
A: but , everybody around me is
A: and , uh , but they 're ,
A: I have friends that live in the other , the less fortunate or whatever you want to call it part of town
A: and their schools are kind of rundown and , uh , older
A: and they don't really offer as much , I don't know , as , uh , the school that my girls are in .
A: I don't really think that 's fair . You know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , but , you know , I 'm happy with what they 're in ,
A: so , go ahead
B: Well , yeah ,
B: it , it 's , it 's pretty much what I was going to say
B: is there 's a lot of disparity between different neighborhoods and what sort of schools go in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I grew up in New York
B: and uh , the place ,
A: Wow .
B: or not New York City , upstate New York
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I went to , uh , the City of Rochester School District
A: Uh-huh .
B: and a lot of my friends were in one of the neighboring suburbs
B: and it was n't , we were n't too far removed geographically from each other ,
B: but the difference in schools I think was pretty substantial
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , one of the things that probably would have been better if , is if the entire county had had , had just one school system .
A: Right .
B: And that would result in some , uh , could result in more equitable distribution of money
B: because what was happening was , you know , all the very rich people went out to the , move out to the suburbs
B: and the city had a very low tax base so they did n't have a lot of money to work with .
A: Uh-huh .
B: As a result , the schools were rundown ,
B: there was n't as many , you know , of the nice supplies in science class that we would have liked .
B: There was n't as many advanced placement courses , uh , when I was a senior that some other schools had .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it , it ,
B: so I , you know , I think that one of the things , one of the ways to , to , to help schools in general , uh , and get them all to a minimum level of , of , of competency almost , would be to expand the size of school districts so you get a wider variety of people ,
B: and the , the problem with that is then , then , then people will either , the rich people will either pull their kids out of the public school and put them in private schools or they 'll move farther away to get better schools .
A: Yeah .
A: Right
B: So , you know it , it 's kind of , you end up chasing , like a dog chasing its own tail sort of .
A: Also , uh , the , the family environment ,
A: you know , you can come to south Tyler where I live
A: and you have got room mothers in every room ,
A: you 've got art mothers ,
A: you 've got every , every holiday ,
A: there 's parties .
A: All these kids have these really supportive , really supportive parents , always up there for something .
B: Yeah .
A: You can go to north Tyler to the schools
A: and the parents might not could even tell you what their kid 's teacher 's name is . You know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , that has a , a whole lot to do with it , you know ,
A: as far as their learning , I mean , if the parents are n't , uh , you know , willing to go with the kids and find out what they 're learning and if they 're learning you know , they really don't have much of a chance at all .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Why is that ?
A: Huh ?
B: Why is that ?
A: Why
A: You they just don't ,
A: I mean , I mean , I 'm , I 'm up there at my kids ' school ,
A: I know what they 're learning
A: and if they 're up , I call and find out , you know ,
A: is she having problems ,
A: does she need help with anything ,
A: no ,
A: she 's doing fine ,
A: okay , you know , uh ,
A: and I , I know kids that their parents could really give a rip
A: and the kids are not motivated .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: They have no motivation from home ,
A: so they just go to school
A: and , you know , you know , I 'll get through the day , and , uh , bring homework home
A: and , there 's nobody to , to sit them down and say , you 're going to do this .
B: Right .
A: Uh , just , you know , they , they take a notion to do it ,
A: they do ,
A: and , uh , that does n't work either , you know ,
A: they have to have guidance
A: and uh , they ca n't just have it at school and then come home
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there 's nothing , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know that that , that was a big factor for me .
B: I ended up coming out of , of the public school system very well and was very good education , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: ended up getting some scholarships to go to college and which has been , you know , which is really nice ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I think the difference for me was that my parents were , you know , they were definitely , they were always there ,
A: Yeah .
B: was , like , well ,
B: yeah ,
B: of course you 're going to study and do well
B: and that 's the way ,
B: of course , are you ,
A: The last auto repair I had was
A: I have a nineteen eighty-four Nissan truck
A: I had a tune up done
A: and I had , I had the brakes done on it
A: and then , the reason I did that was because I don't have a scope
A: and it has eight spark plugs
A: and it 's hard to , to get get at them
A: and plus the time on them .
A: I just don't have time any more .
A: Uh , as far as maintenance tasks that I do myself , I , I usually change the oil and wash the air filter
A: and I , I had an occasion to change , to have to change the battery once ,
A: but , the brakes , I was really surprised that the brakes
A: I wanted ,
A: I do have the background .
A: I know what needs to be done
A: and I know that the oil needs , should be changed very regularly and all of the bearings
A: and the lube , lubrication system needs to be lubricated and
A: so I , I stay on top of that
A: but I I wanted my front wheels ,
A: I wanted the bearings packed
A: and they wanted something like fifteen dollars , uh , a front or something like that
A: or maybe it was thirty dollars to do it
B: Just to pack the bearings ?
A: just to pack the bearings ,
A: but what I found is that they had a brake job
A: and they ,
A: I had them ,
A: the other thing I let them do some times is that I let them go through and let them tell me what , let them do the diagnostics .
A: That 's free ,
A: okay .
A: And then I can decide whether I want them to do it or whether I can do it , see .
B: Right .
A: And they told me that my , my brake pads were gosh , you know , seventy percent still good , you know ,
A: but still it was cheaper in the long run
A: and uh ,
A: so I just got the the brakes done
A: and I thought that was a good deal .
A: And plus
B: Right .
B: And they repacked the wheel bearings .
A: and they repacked the the wheel bearings .
A: Yeah
A: but , uh , I 've , I 've had considerable experience .
A: I 'm , you might say I 'm , uh , uh , good back yard mechanic
A: and I , you know , I took auto shop in high school ,
A: it 's been a while back ,
A: but I , I still have a pretty good feel for it ,
A: but one thing I did n't know is that when I was messing around with cars and stuff and most of the cars ,
A: I , I had bigger cars
A: and the brakes go out fairly rapidly on those
A: and what I was surprised at is that on my little Nissan I bought the truck with about sixty thousand , I have almost one hundred and ten ,
A: so I drove on those brake pads for , uh , you know , forty-five thousand miles
A: and there was hardly any wear to them .
A: So those small little trucks and cars like that , they just the longevity of the brake pads is really good . Exactly ,
B: You know , they 've gotten to the point that where they don't weigh very much
B: and the the surface materials on the pads is so good .
A: so I , you know , I just did it anyway .
A: I like to , I like to stay up on it .
A: You know , like I just kind of stay up on it
A: and then if you go and like , just about any point , any you know point in time and pull my dip stick and pull it out and look at the oil , the oil is you might say , uh , a white golden brown .
A: You know , it 's not dirty .
A: I , I , I keep it that way because that 's , that is the key to the longevity .
B: Right .
B: Well it sounds like you 've had some good experiences with that
A: So , so how ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , and my experiences have been kind of contrary to that .
A: Oh ,
A: oh .
B: Uh , I , I get a little more involved in the maintenance of my car
B: and , uh and in fact I have an eighty-seven Mustang with a three O two in it that I 've , uh , beefed up a little bit
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Okay .
B: and one of the things that I did was to change the pulley system on it to use under drive pulleys so that the engine does n't have to turn the accessories and can use more of the power to the rear wheels
A: Uh-huh
B: uh , the only catch was the first set of under drive pulleys that I put on it were , uh , not even cast aluminum .
B: They were just pressed aluminum .
A: You 're talking about the vibration dampener ?
B: Well , there 's three , there 's three pulleys that you change .
B: You change the crank pulley the alternator pulley and , uh , the water pump pulley .
A: That 's the vibration dampener ,
A: yeah .
A: Okay .
B: So , when I changed those over , I put on these , these pressed aluminum things
A: Um .
B: and , uh , probably about four months ago the water pump decided to go out .
A: Uh , oh .
B: So in the process of seizing , the belt spun on the pulley and wore through the water pump pulley almost all the way . But not far enough to notice .
A: Um .
A: Uh , oh .
A: Huh .
B: So , I was on my way to work one day
B: and , uh , the water pump pulley split laterally in half .
B: So there was half a water pump pulley still attached to the water pump
B: and the other half was kind of dangling off the end of the crank
A: Uh-huh .
B: and uh , I ,
A: So , the , the topic is hobbies
B: In your spare time .
A: Yeah .
A: Who has spare time
A: Um , I don't really , don't really do any handicraft things like that .
A: I used to . I used to do , like salt ornaments and things .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But that was , oh , good many , many years ago
A: and I have , I really , my spare time
B: Yeah .
A: I usually go do aerobics and read ,
A: and that 's , about it
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I understood that .
B: I 'm , you know , I work full time
B: and I have two kids
B: so my spare time usually involves something with the kids .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , hobbies ,
B: we , I , I ca n't really say that we have hobbies .
B: It 's more like maybe projects or something on the weekend .
B: You know , we like to go out go out ,
A: Yeah ,
A: family .
A: Well , well , that 's what I meant by salt that we , we did that like as a family , little ornaments and , things like that , and just kind of really got into it . Like during the Christmas season , making them up for other people and things like that .
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: But as far as ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 've just never been very skilled at , far , you know , needle , work
B: Uh-huh .
A: And the things I 've tried to do just don't look very good
A: and ,
B: I , I guess mostly as far as , as crafts go , I 've done , um , some needlepoint .
B: I 've done mostly cross stitching .
B: I used to , uh , do like , um ,
B: one that I did for both kids are like , oh ,
B: they 're plaques with , you know , different kind of animals
B: and then you have their birth date on them ,
A: Yeah .
B: and then you have a little picture of them
B: and you frame them and stuff ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but nothing steady .
B: Just when I get some spare time here and there I 'll work on it ,
B: but , you know , it 's nothing that I , can really ,
A: It 's not , like you sit and knit every night
B: No .
B: Not at all .
A: Yeah .
A: I don't even know how to knit
A: and my mother used to knit , you know , all the time
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and I don't even know how to knit
A: I 'm like , that 's a lost art from this family
B: Yeah .
A: So , um ,
A: but , it 's not a very good topic
A: it feels like , if , you know ,
B: No .
A: not when you 're
A: neither one of us are really ,
A: I , I have seen things I really like , you know , that were done , especially like needlepoint .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Needlepoint , cushions and things .
B: Yeah .
A: But , it just seems like there 'd be so much time involved in it , you know , and , and that the petty point and things like that .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's like , God , it , it seems like it 's easier just to go out and buy it already made
B: I don't know what , what , is ,
B: it 's like there ,
B: but here a lot of the country stuff is in , you know , a lot of the woodwork , a lot of , uh , stenciling .
A: Yeah .
B: And , you know , you can go to any , like a flea market and stuff
B: and there 's just tons of stuff everywhere
B: and , you know , people just do it in their garage
A: Yeah .
B: and then on weekends they go out and sell it
B: and during the week they go back and do some more .
A: And see , they do that as their job . Whereas , you know , for us it ,
B: Right
A: and they make it cheaper for us to buy
B: Yeah
B: Definitely .
A: So ,
A: but , and , I mean , I 'm sure it must be relaxing to do things like that
A: because I can remember when I used to do , you know , those little salt , those figurines and things .
A: It was , it was relaxing , you know , creative ,
A: you felt very creative .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , it just was so time , time , involved , you know , so much time involved and the different steps and things .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So ,
A: and ,
B: Okay
B: Well , I think , I think we 're okay .
B: I think we did five minutes ,
B: so we don't have to keep talking about nothing anymore
A: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: Okay .
B: Well , thank you .
A: Okay .
A: I hope you have a good rest of your weekend .
B: Thanks .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Where are you from Tina ?
A: Um , I 'm from Maryland
A: and , um , I have one son who 's almost sixteen months old .
A: Are , are you married , or ...
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: You are .
B: I have , I have two children ,
B: I have a seven year old and a three year old .
A: Oh .
B: And , uh , so I try to spend as much time as possible with them .
A: That 's good .
A: Uh , what kind of things do you do ?
B: Well , um , we do a lot of things with them , you know ,
B: Taylor my youngest is ,
B: or my oldest is in school
B: and so she has a lot of school programs and things like that .
A: Oh .
B: was it a big change in your life , to , uh have a child .
A: Oh yeah
A: Um , yeah ,
A: it 's really nice , uh ,
A: my husband , uh , is working you know , most of the time .
A: He 's working long hours ,
A: but , uh , I 'm staying home .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I 'm just working a couple days a month ,
A: and , um ...
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: What do you do during those , those days ?
A: Um , we spend a lot of time at the playground
A: and we go to the zoo ,
A: and we go
A: and we ...
B: Well you said , you said you worked a couple days a month , though ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: what do , what do you do ?
A: I 'm a nurse .
B: Oh , are you ?
A: So , yeah ,
A: so it 's , it 's , it 's real easy to work out my schedule , you know , to , uh , get in , to , to still stay in with that , an , and to have enough time to spend with Matthew .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: He , he 's , uh , just now really starting to , to get interested in a lot of things ,
A: so , um ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I understand that ,
B: yeah .
B: They really grow up quick . Especially at that early age .
A: Yeah
B: But my , my wife was , uh ,
B: she worked part-time when my oldest was , was little
B: and now she 's staying home all the time ,
B: but , uh , that worked out really well because it 's a big transition I think to have children .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: You know , to go from , you know , nothing , you know ,
B: if you want to do something every night that 's fine ,
B: but when you have children it does n't work that way anymore ,
B: so .
A: That 's right ,
A: and I think a lot of people are , um , are turning to , well , I think , I think a lot of people are realizing that
A: but still there are so many people that are , you know , have their careers first
A: and , it 's , uh , I think it 's really hurting , uh , the kids , you know ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: but .
B: Yeah ,
B: I agree with you ,
B: I , I , I think that my wife leaned that way
B: and I 'm really glad she did
B: and , you know , I 'm glad she 's staying home ,
B: but , you know , I know there are some days when she she wishes she was back at work .
A: I know ,
A: That 's why I like to to , to work a couple days ,
A: I think it 's , uh , it gives me a break .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: well see that 's , that 's why I 'm glad my wife did too ,
B: 'cause she worked either two to three days a week
B: and that got her out of the house
B: and yet she 'd get to spend , you know , three or four days with ...
A: Most of the time at home ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and so .
A: Uh , we had started out like that
A: and , um , I think that was really ideal , uh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I do to ,
B: I agree ,
B: but then when you start having two of them , it 's , you know , a little bit tougher , because you 've got to make a little more money , to make that payoff and stuff .
A: It 's ,
A: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: it 's difficult ,
A: but .
B: Are , are you from the Maryland area ?
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I 'm , I 've , I 've lived here forever ,
A: so .
B: Really .
A: Yeah ,
A: I I live in Germantown ,
A: and , uh .
A: Are you , where are you from ?
B: Um , uh , I 'm in Dallas , Texas .
A: In Dallas ,
A: oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: so , uh , I 'm , I 've lived here like eight years or so ,
B: my wife 's from Fort Worth .
A: Oh , yea- , .
B: But ,
B: yeah ,
B: I work for Texas Instruments .
A: Okay ,
A: oh ,
A: so that explains .
B: Yeah ,
B: that explains it does n't it .
A: Well , um , I don't know ,
A: I , uh , we , we do a lot of things on the weekends together , the family ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: but , uh , as far as during the week , it 's , it 's usually , uh , you know , just my son and I ,
A: and we 're ...
B: Yeah ,
B: what 's your husband do ?
A: Uh , he , he works for Coca Cola .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So he , uh , he manages a plant out here ,
B: Oh .
A: an , and it takes a lot of time .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I 'm sure it does .
A: But , um , it , you know ,
A: we take walks , and go to the library , and try to fill our day with things like that ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: but , um .
B: Yeah ,
B: what , uh ,
B: my wife did some teaching at like , uh , like a private tutoring place . A Sylvan Learning Center this year
A: Oh .
B: and so that , that got me to to be able to spend more time with the kids at night and stuff , you know , 'cause normally if , if they need something they just go to mom . No matter what it is ,
A: Oh .
A: Yeah
B: I mean , I I 'm perfectly capable of doing it for them ,
B: but , it 's so much easier to go to mom ,
A: Right .
B: I guess they get used to it .
B: So ,
B: but , you know , we 'd go to the library and do things like that ,
B: yeah ,
B: but
A: That 's good ,
A: that 's good .
A: I know my husband was real , uh ,
A: in the beginning when he , uh , he was transferred to a , a larger plant
A: and he , uh , he works about an hour and a half away from here , from our home ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , so it takes him a little bit of time .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And I 'm not able to work during the week , uh , because of that .
A: He was , I was working in the evening ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he was coming home
A: and I , I could go to work ,
A: but , uh , their relationship , uh , when I was able to work in the evenings , uh , really grew .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He , you know ,
A: just the time that they were spending together ,
B: Yeah .
A: I think it , it really , it really helped to have that time together .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: it really does
B: because I think you know , you grow closer .
B: Was your , uh , was your husband , I mean naturally a child ,
B: I mean had he been around children ,
B: or ...
A: Uh , oh yeah ,
A: he has , uh , he has seven other brothers and sisters ,
B: Oh .
A: and they have , we have thirteen grand ,
A: well his parents have thirteen grandchildren .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it 's , uh , you know , there 's a lot of kids in the family
A: and , and he really enjoys it .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But , uh , right now it 's kind of a difficult time ,
A: but ...
B: Yeah .
A: And , and the cost of living here is just so tremendously , you know , outrageous
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Um , it 's difficult , uh , to do it any other way .
B: Yeah ,
B: I understand .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm , I , you know
B: it 's , it 's hard because , you know ,
B: then you 're not getting to spend as much time with , at home ,
B: I mean your husband is not getting to spend as much time at home as he 'd want to .
A: That 's right .
B: So , yeah ,
B: that that 's a tough situation ,
B: but then , then again , you know , some ,
B: you got to do what you got to do , you know to get along , too ,
A: Yeah .
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: at least , I , I just consider myself blessed that I can stay home
A: It , uh ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well like I said my wife normally feels that way ,
B: there are days when , uh , I come home and she says here take these kids ,
B: I 'm getting out .
A: I know
B: So she 's , she 's had about enough during those days ,
B: but . But , for the most part , I , you know , I 've really feel like that 's led ,
A: I know .
B: the way that , you know ,
B: like what you said with the cost of living and everything , I think a lot of people ca n't afford to get by on just one salary an and wo n't .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And so I think that 's tended to lead to a decline in , in families and family values especially .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: it has .
B: And I really think that that 's one of the problems the nation 's facing that , you know , we need to do something about ,
B: but I don't know what .
A: I believe that too ,
A: and I think , uh , the kids are where they need to , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: they need to really focus on the children in the in this country .
B: Yeah .
B: Would , would you have said that a couple of years ago , do you think ?
A: No ,
A: I did n't , I did n't even really think about it that much , I mean , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I was aware , vaguely aware of it ,
A: but , um , I did n't it was n't really that important to me ,
A: and , uh , ...
B: Uh-huh ,
B: it 's amazing how your whole focus on life changes after you 've had a child .
A: Oh , it , it really does ,
A: I ,
A: just the whole , uh , you know ,
A: seeing how you really are are , are forming this , you know , the mind
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , you know , in the next year or so , you 'll see so many instances where , you know , he 'll mimic something that you 've done ,
B: and you see , you know , everything I 'm doing , he 's learning from .
A: That 's right .
B: And , and , you think , if I was n't here he 'd be learning that from a baby-sitter or from a day care .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , that 's how they 're developing their patterns .
B: And I think a lot of people either , don't care , or don't realize it , you know .
B: That 's ,
A: Or , or they just put it in the back of their mind and let it slide .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I 've seen a lot of people just say well , you know , he 'll learn everything when he gets into , uh , you know ,
B: Yeah
B: eventually .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's true .
A: but it , um ,
A: I , I know ,
A: even just this first year , that I 've been with , uh , my son , here , um , he 's ,
A: I can just see how much , of , of a difference it makes staying home with him , instead of , uh ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: plus , plus I think it becomes part of part of you too ,
B: I mean , you get to stay home ,
B: I mean it 's not just for him ,
B: but it 's also for you , because you 're both kind of bonding together there too , I think ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: Well it 's been nice talking to you .
A: Well it 's nice talking to you , too .
B: Okay
B: good luck .
A: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: good-bye .
B: Lynn , do you , do you want to start ?
A: Certainly .
B: Okay .
A: Um ,
B: Do you want to tell me about vacations you 've taken
B: or ,
A: Well , I , I tend to , uh , take two kinds of vacations , the vacations to visit family and the vacations to just have a week being cultural and going to the theater and doing sight-seeing and things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Which is your favorite ?
A: Oh , well , I could n't live without the family vacations ,
A: but , uh , my favorite is the , the indulgent ones , where we go off and , and , uh , see places that have interested me since I was a kid , for the most part .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh ,
B: Your family does n't live close , then ?
A: Uh , not anymore .
A: They , uh , they 've been in San Diego for the last few years ,
A: and they 're moving to Florida .
B: Okay .
A: And that 's one of those things ,
A: you just have to go once a year .
B: Yep ,
B: I understand .
A: So , uh , basically it , it sorts out into that ,
A: and then once , about once every three or four years I try to get over to England , because I lived there for a while , some years back .
B: Wow .
B: I 've only been there once .
A: Oh .
B: and I 'd love to go back .
A: Beautiful country .
A: Beautiful country ,
B: And it was ,
A: beautiful people .
B: Yeah ,
B: it ,
A: But , uh ,
A: and I 'd real , really like to go because , um , I 'm fairly recently married
B: we had a great time .
A: and , and my husband has been hearing about these people for years
A: and , uh , but he 's never met them ,
A: so , uh , I 'd like , I 'd like to do that .
A: But anyway , that 's , that 's our typical vacation ,
A: and , uh , we enjoy the family vacations ,
A: but the other ones are very special getaways ,
A: and we probably take one of each every year .
A: How about yourself ?
B: Well , uh , we , we , as you do , take family vacations , uh , sometimes one a year ,
B: and , but this year we 're not going to be taking one for several reasons .
B: But vacations we really enjoy ,
B: I think we 've been on three cruises .
A: Oh , I 've never , been on a cruise .
B: And we , we really love cruises .
B: We 've gone on CARNIVAL CRUISE LINES .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , we 've gone fairly inexpensive from , as most cruises go .
B: Uh , we usually book just a month before it 's ready to go .
A: Yeah .
B: And we get upgraded .
B: Last last two times , in fact , we had an outside room
B: and it was beautiful .
A: Um .
B: And we like not having to take our suitcase in and out of hotel rooms and drag it all around .
B: It 's kind of ,
A: Well , what do you do on a cruise ?
A: I 've never been on a cruise .
B: Oh , my God , you do everything .
B: You , I mean , you can be as busy as you want to be , or as laid back as you want to be .
B: You can sit in the sun all day around the pool ,
B: or you can take part in the games that they have going on .
B: They always have bingo .
B: They have a casino .
B: Uh , they have a massage parlor .
B: They have exercise ,
B: I mean , you can do anything .
A: Huh .
B: And that 's just aboard ship .
B: And then when the ship docks , you get to go sight-seeing and shopping .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's quite fun .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And where have you been on these cruises ?
B: Uh , Nassau , San Juan , Saint Thomas .
B: We 've been there twice .
B: We went two cruises that hit those islands , but with different people .
B: We , we 've gone with friends each time .
A: I see .
B: And then we went to , uh , the western Caribbean , which is , uh , Port , uh , Cancun , Cozumel , and Ocho Rios .
A: Oh , the , the Mexican coast .
B: Pardon me ?
A: That 's all Mexico , I think .
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh .
B: And , but it was wonderful .
B: So we really like those .
B: And , uh , I guess we just like to go someplace , someplace entirely different .
B: We 've been to a few places in this country .
B: We still have a lot to see , though .
A: Where are you from originally ?
B: We 're from Illinois originally .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we 've been down in Texas eighteen years ,
B: and so , like you , we always try to make it , you know , back home to see the relatives .
B: We both still have family there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's fun .
B: It brings back a lot of memories .
A: Oh , yes .
B: Uh , things are different there , though .
B: They 're , uh ,
B: I don't know .
B: It 's just entirely different world than this
A: Well , I , I grew up in Dallas ,
A: so I mean , it 's not , it 's not like I 'm going home .
B: Did you ?
A: My , my parents retired first to San Diego ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they 're going now to Florida ,
A: and so they 're going very nice places ,
A: thank God ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: that will be a pleasure to visit and get to know .
A: I really came to love San Diego and feel very , comfortable there .
A: They 've been there eight years .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , you know , I just grab the car and drive everywhere .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: So it , it is , it is nice ,
A: but it 's not home .
A: This is home ,
A: and , um , and I 've never thought about a cruise .
A: It 's so funny .
B: Oh , they , they , they really are .
B: We 've , yeah , as I said , we 've done them three times .
B: We 'd be going again this , this year if circumstances had n't changed .
B: We , we 'd probably go .
A: Uh-huh .
B: My husband would , you know ,
B: the minute I said the word , he , he , he 's chomping at the bit .
B: He kind of likes the casinos a little bit .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I like all of that .
A: What 's the best part , from your point of view ?
B: I like seeing other countries and shopping in other places .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I like shopping .
B: I can shop anyplace , shop in London and France and wherever .
B: Now , my kids are moving to Toronto ,
B: so we 're going to be able to go up there .
A: Oh , that will be nice .
B: So I 'm kind of looking forward to that , except I hate to see them go .
A: Oh , sure .
B: But ,
A: Sure .
A: Well , go in , don't go in the winter .
B: Oh , that 's what everybody says ,
B: and I , I think it 's ,
B: I think I 'll try to stay away , except my , my second grandchild will be born in in the winter in January .
A: Oh .
B: So that will be hard to stay away from .
A: Well , there are exceptions made for special occasions like that .
B: Yeah .
A: But the ordinary thing is to stay out of the north in the winter and get out of Texas in the summer
A: so ,
B: Is n't that the truth ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Huh . Well , that sounds wonderful .
A: I , I guess I , I would contemplate going on a cruise , uh , oh , all circumstances permitting it .
B: Well , there 's all age groups too ,
B: and that 's , that 's kind of fun .
B: Uh , you , if you sit at a table with a lot of people for your meals , you meet different people .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You may meet people , you know , thirty years older than you , or younger ,
B: and everybody is really interesting ,
B: and everybody is there to have a good time
B: and ,
A: Huh . How long are the cruises ?
B: Uh , we 've only gone on the seven day cruises .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They have shorter ones
B: and then they have ten day ones .
B: But I think seven days is long enough for us .
B: By that time we 're ready to get home and get back to our routine .
A: Yeah .
B: I think most vacations , uh , seven days is enough for us .
B: We 've gone ,
B: I think when we went to England and France , we were there ten , twelve days ,
B: and that was pushing it a bit .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , I tend , when , when I spend enough money to go overseas
A: I , go for a long time .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that , that makes sense , it really does .
B: I mean , oh , we went to Panama too .
A: Oh , that 's interesting .
B: Went to Panama last August .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Our son-in-law is from Panama .
A: Oh .
B: And , uh , we went with our daughter and son-in-law to visit his parents , who live there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And his father is a , a doctor
B: and his mother is a kindergarten teacher ,
B: and they took time off ,
B: it was their winter
B: and they were having a little break ,
B: so they took some time off that , uh , they could show us around .
B: And it , it is a beautiful country .
A: Huh .
B: It is beautiful .
B: They have mountains .
B: We were an hour away from the mountains or an hour away from the shore .
A: That 's really nice .
B: And it , it is gorgeous .
B: They live in a small town called David , which is northern Panama up near Costa Rica .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it 's , it 's just , it 's just a gorgeous country .
B: Most people don't realize it .
B: I think if they could get tourists coming to their country , they 'd improve the economy considerably .
A: Huh . Well , may , maybe now things are calming down again . That will happen .
B: Yeah .
B: We really hope , hope so .
A: Well , that , that 's really great . Uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: I , I mean , as I said , basically all I 've done is go back and forth to parents
A: and , uh ,
B: Well , that , that 's , that 's pretty good .
B: That 's pretty good .
A: And , and , uh , we had , my husband had a conference in L A ,
A: so we spent a week in L A
A: and of course ,
B: Oh , do you like L A ?
A: Uh , I 'm , I 'm , I 'm very unusual .
A: I like ,
B: You ready ?
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
B: What have you seen lately ?
A: Well , uh , it 's funny , when I tried , to make the call the other days ,
A: I thought ,
A: I had n't seen anything since DANCES WITH WOLVES
A: but today I went to see REGARDING WITH HENRY .
B: Oh , I 'm dying to see that .
A: It was really good .
A: We
B: Oh .
A: uh , Jeff Wariner just got out of the hospital
B: Uh-huh
A: and , uh , Jeff and Deeanna went and another friend in the neighborhood ,
A: and , uh , we all liked it .
A: We had both moms and , uh , fifteen year olds and a twelve year old
A: and everyone enjoyed it .
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: And , uh ,
B: Oh , well I am just dying to see it .
B: I went to dinner with some friends last weekend
B: and they said get a baby-sitter
B: and we 'll all go see REGARDING HENRY
A: Yeah .
B: and I said , ooh , I want to see it so bad .
A: Well , my son had gotten to see a lot of movies this summer , on , choir tour and visiting friends and one thing and another . A lot of the ones I had wanted to see
B: Oh .
A: and so since he had this friend up from Houston , uh , and his friend had already seen so many and I thought they decided on this and I thought well , I want to see this one , too .
A: So , we , uh , I
B: Yeah .
A: finally , it 's my first summer movie
B: Oh my .
B: Well , let me see .
B: Was it ,
B: well , we went to see ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS last weekend
B: and that may be ,
B: no ,
B: right before I went in the hospital my girlfriend said come on ,
B: we 're going to the movies .
B: And we wo n't ,
B: well she goes all the time
B: but I go maybe once every couple of months .
A: Yeah .
B: And when I go , I go see two at a time .
B: So we went to see SOAPDISH ,
B: and
A: Oh , was that good ?
A: Cause ,
B: Oh , hysterical .
B: We laughed so hard ,
B: it was just , you could n't hear half the dialogue because everyone in the audience was laughing so hard .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I want to see that and CITY SLICKERS both .
A: I love comedies .
B: Yeah
A: But , that 's what I was
B: that 's the other one that we went to that night .
A: Oh , was it ?
B: And , my face hurt so bad , from laughing because I love Billy Crystal .
A: Oh
B: And course , growing up on , on the back of a horse , you know , and being on ranches and stuff , so much of that was so true
B: and I was absolutely rolling in the aisles .
B: It was so funny .
B: Both of them were great .
A: Oh , well good .
A: I 'm , I 'm glad to hear that because they ,
B: Oh , they are , are
B: we just laughed so hard .
B: And like I said , with CITY I mean with SOAPDISH , it is so cornball
B: and it is so overacted that you 're just hysterical you know .
A: Uh-huh
B: Just , they just carried it off , to the tee .
A: Well , I don't , I don't know if you got to see WEEKEND , um , AT BERNIE 'S that was out a couple of years ago .
B: No .
A: They had a free showing at the Berkeley , um , United Artist .
B: How neat .
A: And , I don't know who was here or whether Jay called a friend
A: and we did n't think we 'd have much chance of getting in
A: but we thought we 'd try it , you know , free movie .
B: Shoot ,
B: yeah .
A: It was so funny and it sounds like , uh , what you were just describing , SOAPDISH , too .
A: I mean , we just , we hurt by the time we came out .
B: Oh yeah .
A: And the whole theater was hysterical
A: and it 's just , it 's just goofy .
A: I mean , it 's , uh ,
A: if you have a chance to rent it , at least ,
A: or it should be out on T V , I would think ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it is .
B: I think it is .
A: Um , cause it 's , it 's just a fun summer light comedy ,
A: make your cheeks hurt laughing .
A: Especially in the theater it was contagious , you know
B: Yeah .
A: I , I imagine the way SOAPDISH was , but , with everyone laughing .
B: Oh gosh
B: I never laughed .
B: And people were just screaming and applauding
B: and , you know , it was just hysterical .
A: Well , I 'm glad you did that before your surgery
B: Oh , me too , because I don't even know if I could live through it now .
A: Yeah
B: I mean I 'm getting around real good
B: and I 'm just still real sore .
A: Yeah .
B: And today I was , I , course I went back to work two weeks after , uh
A: Oh , gosh .
B: but see I don't have permanent work .
B: I , right now I 'm working with a temporary agency .
B: And so , the second week I was out of the hospital I went up and worked half day on the computers cause you can learn all the software for free .
A: Oh .
B: Oh , so I went up to do WordPerfect cause that seems like that 's what everybody wants ,
B: and I was up there half a day and came home and collapsed .
A: Yeah .
B: And then they called me to see if I wanted to work a day .
B: And I said , yeah ,
B: and I went
B: and of course it took me the whole weekend to recover from that .
B: And , uh , I worked about three days a week ever since , two to three days a week .
B: And so I went to my doctors last Thursday ,
B: and this was my fourth week checkup
B: and he said well gosh , you 're just healing really well ,
B: I just ca n't get over this .
B: He says , in two weeks you can go back to doing your crazy normal things .
B: If you want to play ball , you can go play ball .
B: He says , now I 'm not going to say you 're going to feel like playing ball
B: but you can if you want to .
A: Yeah
B: And , uh , you know , he was teasing me
B: and he says , yeah ,
B: you 'll be out there waterskiing ,
B: I can just see it now .
B: And , uh , he says so you just take it easy for two more weeks .
B: You 've only got two more weeks .
B: I said okay fine , I , I will , I will
B: Whatever you call easy , I 'll do it , you know .
B: But and I 've been out trying to find a job because this is just not cutting it .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah
B: And so , I don't , I 'm real glad that we did n't go see those funny ones when I was , when I 'm still sort of on the sore side .
A: Yeah
B: But ,
B: well , what 's your next ,
B: have you seen ROBIN HOOD yet ?
A: No ,
A: that was one , uh , Jay got to see with a friend
A: and so I
B: Uh .
A: and to try and , uh , try and find time it 's hard , uh , with Jim 's schedule , too , just to get a time that we can both go .
B: Oh yeah .
A: And , uh , I 'm holding out for CITY SLICKERS for the two of us because , uh , we had friends that went to see that and said , you know , it 's just perfect for our age group
B: Uh-huh .
A: and because I think he , he needs a comedy , too .
A: Uh , and that 's what he would have liked to have seen REGARDING HENRY , too ,
A: but knew that , uh ,
A: we 've , we 've got a lot of company this summer , which is wonderful .
A: We 're really enjoying it
A: but some of the different things we 're doing , uh there 's just not a time , enough time to do it all
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he said , well , realistically You know , he knew he could n't get them all in .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , Jay really liked ROBIN HOOD .
A: Um , when the choir group went to see BACKDRAFT and they thought that was , uh , it was funny cause he sounded like the critics .
A: He said , you know the plot line and the characters , uh , you know are n't real big
A: but the , the fire scenes and the you know that action part is fantastic .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , he thought ROBIN HOOD was great .
A: It was real different then you 'd expect ,
A: but but he enjoyed it
B: Oh really ?
A: and so ,
B: Well I went ,
B: course I am a Kevin Costner fan .
A: Yeah ,
A: me too .
A: And yeah ,
B: Supreme .
A: I really , uh , like him a lot . Which is why , DANCES WITH WOLVES was the last movie we had seen for several months
B: Uh-huh .
A: but ,
B: Gosh , was that wonderful .
A: It was ,
A: I , uh ,
A: in fact , uh , a friend from Germany was visiting in March
A: and we wanted , we did n't , ran out of time , we wanted to take him to see it .
A: We were going to sit through it again cause we really wanted him to see it , too .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Uh , I just thought that was terrific .
A: And I really enjoy Harrison Ford which is one of the reasons I wanted to see ,
B: I do , too .
B: I think he 's really good .
A: And he 's very good in REGARDING HENRY .
A: That 's not an easy part to play , I , I don't think
B: I would n't think .
B: Well , my kids are going to their Dad 's tomorrow night
B: so I sort of think I may go do that .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's at , that one wo n't your sides
B: Good
A: Um , it ,
A: was this the first time you got to see ONE HUNDRED AND ONE DALMATIANS ?
A: Or ,
B: I
B: my parents took me when I was probably somewhere between Ashley and Jamie 's age begin to
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we went to the ,
A: my number .
A: Okay .
B: Okay .
B: So are you a , a , a golfer
B: or are you a spectator ?
A: Oh , I 'm a ,
A: I play golf
A: but I don't actually play golf .
B: Well , I 'm the same way .
B: I , I go out there and hit the ball .
A: Yeah .
A: Hack it all over the place ?
B: Yeah .
A: It 's sickening , is n't it ?
B: Um , uh , well , in the Carolinas it 's , it 's just , you know , we 've got a bunch of golf courses around here .
A: Yeah .
A: We 've got tons up here
A: but I don't know .
A: How do you feel about your game ?
A: I guess that 's a good question ?
B: Uh , well , I mean I 'm not a serious golfer at all ,
B: uh , uh , a friend of mine goes golfing a lot
B: and he drags me out every now and then
B: and I , uh , I don't have a , I don't really even have a game .
B: I usually
B: when I go out and play golf it 's usually like at a , at one of these par threes that , you know , you ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , um , I like watching it on T V .
A: Yeah ,
A: I like that too .
A: I don't know
A: I try to play ,
A: but God , I , a couple years ago I played two , three times a week and got lousy .
A: I guess that 's the best I ever got was lousy .
A: And I thought I was really improving and the big break was going to come
A: and then I got worse again
A: so .
B: get they , they say I hit worm burners because I , I ca n't hit it up in the air .
A: Yeah .
B: So I 'm pretty bad
B: but I , I , I get great distance hitting it , you know , across the ground ,
B: and if it 's going over water or something one of them have to take the shot for me because I 'm ,
B: but I 'm getting better .
B: I 've got where now I can hit it in , in the air some of the time .
A: That 's pretty good .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , so I 'm kind of a novice at it .
A: Um , I 'm that and worse .
A: I , I play
A: next year I ,
A: actually I take it kind of seriously
A: but I 've been doing so bad .
A: Next year , I always say this every year , but next year I 'm starting over from scratch .
A: I 'm going to go take lessons and everything .
A: I 'm going to do it right , and see if I can actually play this game or not .
B: Well , that I , I guess that 's what I need to do is , is get some kind of lessons or something .
B: Because I , my , my tee off is not bad ,
B: I mean I 'm , I 'm good up to everything else putting and stuff like that
B: it 's just , that , that initial tee
A: Yeah ,
A: what do you do when you 're putting ?
A: That 's a good thing .
A: That 's something I could learn actually .
A: That 's when I do my worst .
A: I finally get to the green
A: and I think I 'm doing all , all fine
A: and then ,
B: Just walking around the hollow and making sure there 's not really ,
B: you know , checking the ground and , and so forth , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: See how it 's going to break or whatever .
A: Can you really see it though ?
B: Yeah .
A: What about the speed ?
B: If you get , if you get down on the ground you really can .
A: Can you tell but can you tell how , how fast you 're going to hit it ?
B: Um , well , if you know if it 's up on a slope that you 've got to hit it not kill it
B: but you 've got to hit enough speed and the right angle that it 's , it 's , you know ,
B: because when it 's going up a hill it 's going to break in a direction .
A: Yeah ,
A: but you can feel that ?
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know
A: I have , I can get it within like , you know , four or five feet or something
A: but I don't have enough field .
A: Now I 'm T V watching .
B: Yeah .
A: They make you die at the hole every time .
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , it just dies and rolls in .
A: I don't know ,
B: But I ,
A: it 's hard for me .
B: The , the ,
B: it 's , it 's like I said
B: once I get up on the green I 'm fine ,
B: but that , that tee shot , uh , it , you know ,
B: when teeing off I 'll go probably a hundred feet across the ground
B: so it , it takes me awhile to get to the hole
B: but ,
A: Once you 're there , you 're all set though .
B: I 'm all set .
A: We should play team golf then .
A: I 'll get us there
A: and you put it in .
B: that sounds good to me .
A: I
A: oh , the T V golfers they do that .
A: It takes them two to get there and two to get it in
A: so it 's fifty percent .
A: And me it takes me five to get there and five to get it in .
B: Well , it , it , it usually takes me about probably two , two or three to get it there
B: and , and then , that 's according to the hole
B: and it
B: uh , uh , maybe one or two putts .
B: It 's , according to where I 'm at on the green .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's good .
B: But the friends I play with , uh , they play all the time
B: and , and they 're really good .
A: Joe Pros ?
B: Uh , they 're not Joe Pros
B: but they , they golf in the high sixties low seventies
B: so I guess they 're pretty good
A: That 's pretty good .
A: For eighteen ?
B: Yeah .
B: For eighteen .
A: Wow ,
A: that 's pretty good .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm talking to the wrong guy .
A: Your shitty golf is probably the best golf I 've ever seen .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: that 's not my golf .
B: That 's my friends .
B: Mine , mine ,
B: I 'm , I 'm usually in the eighties or nineties
B: so I 'm , I 'm not good
A: If , when I 'm in the nineties I 'm feeling good .
A: I 'm usually around a hundred .
A: That 's my thing . Around a hundred .
A: You know , I can hit a great drives and think I 'm going to do all awesome on this hole
A: but it ai n't going to happen .
B: Well , I either , teeing off I either slice it
B: or I hook it ever single time
B: and , and I alternate .
A: Well , it 's a good thing with me I slice it every single time .
A: That 's good .
A: I aim ,
B: Okay .
A: Okay .
B: Universal health insurance ,
B: right ?
A: That 's right .
A: What would we like to say
A: I think ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: I think that 's what the subject is about .
B: Did you read , uh , the article in the paper today about this particular subject ?
A: In the Dallas , the MORNING TIMES ?
B: Yeah .
A: I guess I did not .
B: Uh , the state of Washington and the state of Minnesota is , uh , going to begin testing a program , a state funded program for citizens of those two states
B: and there 's fourteen other , uh , states that are considering it . Least according to the article in the paper this morning .
B: I think it 's a trend that 's , that 's , that 's , uh , probably may go nationwide eventually because I think national health is something that we all need .
B: It 's getting to a point that you have to have it ,
B: you have to have some form of health insurance .
A: Well , it 's been interesting that we ,
B: Extremely expensive , though .
A: Yes .
A: So we live in a society , though , where everyone if you ask them on polls , will , uh , say that they think that everyone has a right to health care .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And yet , I don't think we 've ever quite decided who 's really supposed to pay for it .
B: Well , that 's the thing , you know ,
B: uh , unfortunately the ones that currently pay and pay the premiums for health insurance are , are paying for the people that don't have health insurance .
A: Which is why people are talking about
A: we ought to just admit it perhaps and then try and somehow subsidize it in a way that 's more fair .
B: Yeah .
B: I don't think you , uh ,
A: You have health insurance ?
B: Yes ,
B: I do .
A: Through your company ?
B: Uh , through my company ,
B: yes .
B: But I have been in a situation , uh , recently where I was laid off from a position as a sales manager of a company and was off work for about a year
B: and my wife developed cancer .
B: We did n't have any insurance .
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: And it was a go to Parkland type situation .
A: That 's must have been hard
A: How was your care at Parkland ?
B: Uh , because it was a life threatening situation , it was very good .
B: Uh , as it , as it turned out one of the top , uh , people , or one of the top doctors in the state that is involved in cancer treatment was at Parkland .
A: But , yet , Parkland is not free , either .
B: No ,
B: it 's not free ,
B: but , uh , It 's , it 's a situation that because I did n't have any insurance and I was on unemployment , it was paid by the county .
A: Is it affordable ?
A: So you did have a good experience .
B: I had a bad experience as it turned out .
B: Uh , I was fortunate that there was Parkland .
A: Is your wife better , I hope ?
B: Uh , no she passed away .
A: I 'm real sorry .
B: That 's all right .
A: Sure . * listen ; is this a question ?
B: That happens .
A: It does happen ,
A: but it 's very sad .
B: Yeah ,
B: but in any event , uh , I 'm in favor of national health . If I had to vote for it .
A: Well so am I .
A: Actually , uh , I 'm a pediatrician
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: and I feel very strongly about , uh , children , and , uh , developed very strong feelings about this during our measles epidemic last year . Where we certainly proved that we 're not doing a very good job with preventive health care among children and particularly the children who need it most .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , I 'm really quite active in trying to , uh , be proactive at least for children 's issues .
A: It 's very complex , very complicated ,
A: but , uh , I strongly believe that all children have a right to immunization , glasses , hearing aids basic health benefits .
B: Well , I , when I grew up and
B: I grew up in south central Kansas , uh ,
B: we had ,
B: and my mom worked for the health department , the county health department
B: and we had x-rays every year ,
B: we had a dentist come to our school and , uh , check our teeth once a year at least .
B: Uh , we had all our flu shots taken care of , our measles , mumps , rubella and all that other stuff .
A: Um .
B: And , uh , when my children were growing up , we did n't have that .
B: We had to pay for it , which I was n't opposed to paying for it .
B: I had the money to pay for it ,
B: but I 'm sure that there were people that don't .
A: Well , and the costs have , so much has gone up so much .
A: The cost of immunizations for example , uh , and just the legal the legal benefits , uh ,
A: that has really forced people into doing a lot of things unnecessarily , et cetera .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , well , I don't know ,
A: it 's , it is interesting ,
A: in case you did n't know , Texas leads the nation in uninsured children .
A: Thirty-one percent of all Texas children do not have insurance and are not on Medicaid .
B: Did not know that .
A: So , uh , one out of every three children has nothing to reimburse them for their health care .
A: And I work in the children 's Parkland system
A: and it 's pretty overwhelming to me .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , it 's pretty hard to be indigent and to be dependent upon indigent health care systems in Dallas county .
B: Okay ,
B: so now what are your opinions on recycling ?
A: Well , I definitely think that we need to start recycling .
A: I think it has got to be an individual responsibility until ,
A: I think if we wait , uh , which is happening until somebody says we have to do it it is going to be to late .
B: Yeah .
A: I have heard reports around here that the landfills will be full by the year two thousand .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have heard that too .
A: And that is not too far away ,
A: but I don't know how it is there .
A: It is very difficult here even if you care like I do to do much .
A: I take , my paper ,
A: I can take plastic and paper bags back to the grocery store
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I can take plastic like milk cartons or if they have water in them
A: and there are some fire stations I can take newspapers to
A: and that is very inconvenient cause I have to wait until I have enough of them to make the trip worthwhile .
B: Well see , I started saving newspapers
B: and I would take a ton of them
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , that 's , I ca n't remember where I went to take them ,
B: but they would n't take them .
A: Yeah .
A: It is real hard to find a spot
A: and then , I don't know if you note , even doing that , the amount of trash we throw away is incredible
A: bottles
B: Oh I know .
A: glass
A: that can not be , it could be recycled ,
A: but there is no place to ,
B: There is no really recycling facilities .
A: No .
A: We have a pilot program in Arlington going on I think in the north part of the city where they are have people people separate the garbage as , the trash as they put it out .
B: I think that is a good idea .
A: And I think that is what it is going to have to come to . Where we are just forced to .
B: Besides , well like a law or whatever .
B: that 's how it is in New York is n't it .
A: Yeah .
A: I think so ,
A: just because they have to . You know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: And you get ticketed if you don't do it right .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
A: And I think it is going to come to that because some people will just not go to the ,
A: it 's , It 's trouble for me to do what I do
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , I am willing to do it
A: but ,
B: Plus you have to have a place to store all of it
A: Yeah .
B: and see I live in an apartment .
A: Yeah .
A: It is very difficult .
A: Like our garage is always full of sacks of newspapers
A: and , so , I don't know .
A: I think there needs to be more places
A: and also I have a real strong opinion .
A: In Iowa , the state I am from uh , I believe it has gone up to a dollar now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Every time you buy a container , no matter what it is , whether it is glass , whether it 's a beer can or a fifth of whiskey or a pop or whatever , you pay ten cents for it
B: Yeah .
A: and then you take it back to the store
A: and you get it back .
B: Uh , so that way it kind of forces you to recycle .
A: You are forced to .
A: And , uh , you also don't see the litter there .
A: People just ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: It makes it worthwhile to take it back
A: and I 've just started drinking a new water called Clearly Canadian ,
A: I don't know if you 've tried it
B: Yeah ,
B: I have seen them .
A: and they have on the it 's five cents , that they pay five cents
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it even shows the states that ,
B: That take them back .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , some of them are five , some are ten cents .
A: I am looking at it right now .
B: Is Texas one of them ?
A: Texas is not one of them see .
A: So , I have to throw them away cause there is no place to take glass .
B: Yeah .
B: No ,
B: I don't think that there is enough being done .
B: Now , I work at J C PENNY at their corporate headquarters .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we have a paper recycling program that , uh , is company wide
B: and I do the recycling for that .
A: Do they save like the paper they they use at the office paper .
B: Yeah .
A: Good .
A: Because there is a lot of waste there is n't there .
B: Yeah .
B: And I know there is a lot of computer paper that you ca n't use .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: But , uh , we use to have , uh ,
B: I mean , I don't even remember how much money that they 've , uh , I mean , the money that they 've made from the recycling program .
B: They have donated it to charities .
A: Right .
B: I mean they have made a substantial amount of money from it .
A: Yeah .
A: Something else I think we do can do is support companies that encourage
A: like , I have decided Downy Fabric Softener now has where you can buy a little carton
B: Yeah .
A: you add
A: well , I image everybody else will start doing that sooner or later ,
A: but I am going to stick with Downey because they were first .
B: Yeah .
A: And I want them to have my business .
A: And I think packaging could be done much better .
A: There is so much plastic .
A: But ,
B: Well I know ,
B: you see some of the stuff
B: and then when they come out with the new things , you are like , well why did n't you think of that before .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: And I think that it 's just people have got to be aware .
A: Unfortunately , there are a lot of people that just don't care
A: and they don't want to think about it .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: And , uh , I just look at it , I don't want my grandchildren looking at me and saying why did n't you do something .
A: You know , I want to feel like I at least tried .
B: Yeah .
A: And I don't know .
A: It just may overwhelm us here when we run out of places to put it .
A: Then we will be forced to .
A: It may be too late .
B: Do they not ever , I mean , I don't know that much . Do they not ever burn trash or anything like ,
A: Very little .
A: That 's another thing that ,
A: see there were no ,
B: Then , that 's pollution .
A: I know Amway .
A: I use a couple of things from Amway that it says this is burnable material .
A: Well , that does n't do me any good because I don't have any place to burn it .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know .
B: I guess you run into the pollution factor .
A: Yeah .
A: And then just like the glass bottles , that it says on the bottle I can get ten cents , but not in Texas .
B: Yeah .
A: And there is no place I can take glass to .
B: Uh ,
A: So , I still throw away a lot of glass .
B: It is really sad .
A: Yeah .
A: And then the packaging thing really grips me .
A: You buy some
A: and it 's got a great big piece of cardboard and a great big piece of plastic ,
B: Well , uh , I myself am not in favor of drug testing in the work place except in , in specific , uh , very specific in this , uh , very specific examples such as , uh , transportation workers , as in , uh , air traffic controllers , bus drivers and that kind of thing .
A: Well .
B: Um , I don't really think that it 's , uh , too many ,
B: I think it 's a severe invasion of somebody 's privacy to say , well , we 're going to look at your urine and then decide whether you 're , uh , you know , worthy of working for us .
B: I really don't see that that 's a very , very valid , uh , thing for a company to say ,
B: and I , personally , I don't think I would work for somebody if they were going to reject me on the basis of what 's inside my body .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , I guess I basically agree that , uh ,
A: do you think it 's okay for a company to reject somebody knowing that they 'll take drugs ?
A: I mean suppose they found out some other way ?
B: Well , I think , I think we , I think the problem here is , is that a , a drug test does not necessarily imply that someone is taking drugs or not taking drugs .
A: Yeah .
B: There 's too many cases where it can , you know ,
B: there can be false positive results , and that , that sort of thing .
B: I don't think there 's any definitive , you know ,
B: okay this person is taking drugs ,
B: so we don't want him here .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , like I said , some industries , though , I think it 'd be very necessary ,
B: I would n't want any air traffic controllers high or anything like that when I 'm flying in an airplane .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , I , I just , I find it to be pretty offensive that , that it 's such a , a big deal .
B: I mean , if your employer 's not going to trust you
B: or , you know , it ,
B: I just , I think it 's a whole trust issue .
B: I just ca n't see it .
A: But , have you ever been in a situation where you , you were drug tested
A: or ,
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: I have been .
A: Yeah .
B: I. I mean , I was very offended by , by the whole process .
A: I once too ,
A: so .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean it 's very humiliating ,
B: and , I mean , I 'm not speaking in favor of drugs or against drugs ,
B: but I , uh , I am totally against that sort of a , uh ,
B: I mean it 's , it 's a pretty personal thing when somebody says I want to look at your urine before I 'm going to talk to you .
A: Yeah .
A: I had it during a job interview ,
A: and I just thought it was dumb of the company , at a point where they were trying to convince me to , to want to work for them to do this ,
B: Right .
A: and I 'm just like , well , uh , I 'm not even going to think much about it if you 're going to treat me with this much respect even before you 've gotten to know me .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: That 's , that 's basically my opinion on it , right there , is that it 's just , you know ,
B: I did , I , I was in the same sort of situation as ,
B: it was a job interview
B: and then you had a physical , where you were drug tested ,
B: and it 's ,
B: I just ,
B: and I know people who have been drug tested and who have not , you know , been hired by a corporation which , uh , you know ,
B: I really .
B: The other side of it is , is , besides its being an invasion of personal privacy , as in my , it 's my bodily fluid
B: and I don't really want you to look at it , or or something pretty basic like that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: just to the fact that I don't know that it is a company 's business to regulate what its employees are doing when they 're not at work .
B: I mean , during the eight hours , during the day , when they 're supposed to be there , I think they have every right to say this is , these behaviors are acceptable and these are not ,
B: but when it enters into what they 're doing when they 're not at work , I find that to be fairly offensive also .
A: Yeah ,
A: well like you say , I mean , if it 's not a critical kind of job where someone could get hurt , then really what people ought to be doing , I mean , the , the employer ought to be judging you on how well you do your work rather than on these other factors .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: And , I mean , if you are doing drugs and it 's causing a problem , then they 'll notice it for other reasons .
B: That 's exactly right .
A: Yeah .
B: And also I just think it , it gets a lot ,
B: I 'm a big , uh , supporter of personal freedoms and personal privacies ,
B: and I think that it just moves down along a line that , that I really would find bad if , if most people went down that line into regulating employees ' lives outside of work , you know ,
B: there 's already talk of people ,
B: well , we 're not going to hire you if you smoke .
B: Well , you know , I , I can see how they can say in the work place we , you don't want them to smoke ,
B: but when somebody leaves work , I don't think that it 's the employer 's right to regulate their life style at all .
A: Well , do you think it 's , should be illegal for an employer to do this
A: or ,
B: Uh , I really think it should be , except as I 've mentioned twice now , in the specified industries or , or jobs , because there are certain things where it 's just vital that a person is clear minded at all times .
A: Yeah .
B: And other than that I think , I do not think it should be allowable .
B: I think it should be illegal for them to , to want to do that .
B: It should , it 's kind of the big brother syndrome ,
B: I mean , I just ,
B: anything like that just kind of scares me .
A: I tend to , to view it ,
A: even though I don't think I 'd work for a company that did that , I sort of want to defend an employer 's rights as opposed to an uh , in addition to an individual 's rights ,
A: but an employer , really , I think , has the right to hire someone on any basis they want to
B: Right .
A: and if they say they don't want smokers , I sort of feel like an employer should have the right to decide whether they want to allow that .
B: Right .
A: Uh , and I don't really ,
B: Okay .
A: Okay ,
A: I thought it was supposed to give a recording ,
A: but anyway , uh , well , I do take care of pretty much all of the stuff for , for my wife and for me
A: and uh , I , embarrassed to say , it 's pretty trivial .
B: Uh-huh .
A: All we , all I do is , uh , keep a list of things like debts that are outstanding and every two or three months update that and every once in a while make a list of what we spent that month ,
A: but I doubt I do it more than three times a year .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: do you use a computer ?
A: And ,
A: No ,
A: I work with them all day ,
A: I 'm in computer science ,
A: yet I I do everything on paper
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I don't even use a calculator for the stuff I 'm doing because it 's all pretty round numbers .
B: Yeah ,
B: mine is really simple , because I got all our bills paid off when , uh , he was a Marine ,
B: he went to Saudi Arabia
B: and while he was gone I got all of our bills paid off ,
B: so really the only bills I have is rent , utilities , insurance you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so they come in ,
B: I pay them ,
B: and that 's it you know ,
B: that 's about the extent of it , you know .
A: Yeah
A: that ,
B: I don't really have this major budget or anything .
B: I just really , I 'm real thrifty .
B: I take care of , you know , two children and me and uh , just real careful with the money , you know . What little we have
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , that 's what I do .
A: Yes ,
A: it 's pretty straightforward .
A: It 's
A: I ca n't imagine having to go into real complicated stuff and making you know , fancy budgets .
B: No .
A: It seems like if you 're getting to that level , you 're not in real good control .
B: Uh-uh .
B: You know , I mean , I , I , I 've never liked credit cards and a lot of debt , you know ,
A: Uh-huh
B: you buy something on credit
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you pay twice as much for it when you get done . You know
A: Yeah .
B: so ,
A: Actually , I mean , I like using credit cards for everything , but just paying off the bills because that way it 's a record of everything
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I don't have to worry about keeping records of anything else because they come in at the end of the month .
B: I don't have too many , I don't have too many weaknesses ,
B: but I found out a credit card was one of them . You know ,
A: Uh .
B: it 's so much easy , easier , you know , if something 's on sale if you 're a woman and you 're a sale person ,
B: it 's like , oh , it 's on sale ,
B: let 's go grab it , you know
B: so , uh , and if you don't have the money , then use a credit card ,
B: so , I got rid of them credit cards . You know .
A: Yeah , I guess if that 's if that 's a weakness , that 's a good thing to do .
B: Yeah ,
B: that was my weakness
B: It was n't bad ,
B: I mean , I did n't have like thousands of dollars , you know , and like that ,
B: just , I just learned that that was n't for me , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Sure .
B: So , but I , self-employed , you know ,
B: I have my own little cleaning business type thing ,
B: so , uh , I keep ,
A: Do you find trouble keeping the records for taxes and all that
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: it 's not hard ,
B: I just keep it in a notebook and write down what I 've made and , uh , you know , what it 's going to have to go for that month
B: and you know , it 's not that , not that hard . Not at all .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , that 's good to know .
B: So , I always do my own income tax , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: Do you ?
A: I don't understand the idea of paying somebody to , to do it .
B: Huh ?
A: It seems like it 's absurd the number of people who end up having to pay somebody to do it .
B: all you got to do is read a book , I mean read the little book they send you fill in the blanks and go .
A: I ,
A: Yeah ,
A: just the form .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , it seems absurd that people will pay , you know , some bucks just to get someone to ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and a lot of them .
B: it 's dumb
B: I guess if you had some really complicated stuff ,
B: but I don't ,
B: so , I don't mess with it .
A: Yeah .
B: But , I don't use a calculator either , you know
A: I , I don't trust myself with using a calculator or computer , too much stuff like that because I want to make sure that , that I , I keep on top of the numbers and understand what 's going on .
B: I don't , I don't have that that many , you know , things to add up
B: so ,
A: I know too many people who use a calculator
A: if they make a mistake , they find out two months later because they were n't paying attention .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And , And it seem ,
B: And we have a ,
B: I bank at N C N B here
B: and they have a number that you can call in ,
B: and I always call in and , like , once every other week or so
B: and I will , uh , check off what checks have cleared
B: and ,
A: Yeah .
B: Do you do that ?
A: We have the same thing .
B: You do too ?
A: Yeah .
B: And I always check them off and , you know , check my balance and my book and , you know , because I always want to know exactly what I have , you know .
A: Sure .
B: I do that real often .
B: I do that ,
B: so anyway ,
A: Okay ,
A: so , what are , what are your views on capital punishment ?
B: I have ambivalent feelings because I don't think it serves as a kind of deterrent we would like to think it is .
B: But , on the other hand , it is very , very expensive to maintain ,
B: you know , Texas has one of biggest criminal justice systems in the country .
A: Yes .
B: And it 's eating us alive budget wise
B: and , uh ,
A: So are they currently practicing capital punishment in your state ?
B: Yes ,
B: we do practice capital punishment ,
B: but the nature of the , uh , courts and the appeals and the stays and all that means that it 's a very long haul before anybody 's ever executed .
A: Yes ,
A: that 's similar to Georgia .
B: Yeah .
B: And then , I was reading in the paper just this morning , it 's interesting because I had forgotten , I guess , that I wrote this little topic down , that it costs more to execute somebody than it does to keep them . Because of all the costs of the appeals and all that you know .
A: That 's probably true considering ,
A: Yes .
A: Yes ,
A: uh , I guess in a way that , it , it kind of defeats the purpose of having capital punishment if ,
B: Well , I think capital punishment is supposed to be primarily a deterrent to other people . You know , who would see it .
A: Yes .
A: Right ,
A: that would be the intent of it .
B: Yeah ,
B: but I 'm not sure how successful that is .
A: Well , I think it would be more successful if it was applied in a more expedient manner , if there were n't so many appeals .
B: Quicker maybe ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: if , if the person who 's going to commit the crime knew that they were going to be punished severely , possibly capital punishment ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: What , what kind of work do you do ?
A: Uh , I 'm a research engineer ,
A: I work , uh , with Georgia Tech .
B: Um , well , see , I 'm a school principal .
A: Um .
B: Elementary school .
A: Yes .
B: And in a very poor section of town with predominantly Anglo kids .
B: And I see kids already that are going to be criminals in spite of everything we can do
A: Um .
B: and , see , I 'm afraid I think if we would take the equivalent amount of money and invest it in young people , that ,
B: I mean , course , you could n't do that because you got to do something with the ones that are already there
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I think we would make a bigger investment in kids ,
B: we 'd have fewer decisions to make . Down the road , you know .
A: Um , that 's probably true ,
A: but I guess there 's other factors that ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: But , pumping more money into the school system is a good thing ,
B: Well I 'm not talking about just in the school system .
A: but it 's not going to ,
A: Oh , I see .
B: See , I 'm talking about ,
B: like , in , in ,
B: uh , I 'm afraid I think that there are kids who just ought to be taken out of their homes and reared .
B: Uh , I know the institutions don't work that well ,
B: but a bad day because I all these kids through my office .
B: I have a school of five hundred and thirty-seven kids .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Five hundred of them are good , solid kids
B: and I have the same thirty-seven in my office every day .
A: Um .
B: And a lot of their parents are totally irresponsible .
B: Some of them in the penal system .
A: So that 's a difficult situation .
B: And , you know , you just see those kids going down the road .
B: Now , not all of them will commit offenses that have to do with capital punishment ,
B: but some of them have already been in youth centers . And that kind of thing ,
A: Um .
B: and if we had something to do before they get to be full-blown adult criminals ,
B: and I 'm not talking about necessarily in the school system ,
B: I 'm not sure that the school system should be the agent of all the social action .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think that 's one reason we have problems in schools , uh ,
B: and some of them are our problems ,
B: but a lot of it 's because everything society wants , we are supposed to do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But that 's another subject
B: but ,
A: Well , that 's probably true .
B: Anyway , I dealt with two or three kids today that are going to end up where somebody has , making a decision what to do with them .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: I guess that 's not an easy solution .
A: There 's , there 's no easy solution for that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I don't , I don't know that there is an easy solution ,
B: but if you could find a way to prevent some of it , and I 'm not sure what it would be . It would be money better spent than ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: do you know it costs more to keep an inmate on death row than it does to send a kid to Harvard ?
B: That 's true .
A: I 'm sure it is ,
A: yeah .
B: Statistically , that 's true .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: I don't , I don't ,
A: certainly capital punishment is n't going to solve a lot of problems
B: Uh-huh .
A: but ,
B: Are you for it ?
A: Uh ,
B: I 'm for it in in some cases .
A: I guess I am for certain
B: Yeah .
A: yeah ,
A: in certain crimes .
B: What kind of crimes would you use it for ?
A: Uh , premeditated murder . Crimes of that nature , I think should definitely ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: any mass murderer type individual .
B: I , I would consider it for sexual abuse of children , on going . You know , not one instance , but perpetual abusers of children .
A: Um .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , you always have castration
B: Well , you know , somebody elected that recently .
A: Yes ,
A: I read about that
B: And all the civil rights people are up arms about it , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh ,
A: Okay .
A: Well , um , I used to work in a day care center .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I worked in , um , in all the different areas of the day care center
A: and it is , they can be deceiving to people .
A: I did not work there long because I could n't handle the , the treatment that the children got ,
A: and this is supposed to be a very well-known center here in Tyler who had two or three , um , centers , all over , you know , the , um , city
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they would , um , be one way when the parents were there and be another way when the parents left .
B: Yeah .
A: So , um , I think you need to make , you know , if you do , do day care centers , you know you should make frequent checks and , um , to check in on them when they 're not expecting it .
B: Yeah .
A: Because they do , do things differently when you 're not around ,
A: so .
B: Well that ,
B: I know
B: the things that we kind of looked at is , is you want to see how many teachers you have . And , and how many kids they have and how they break it up .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: Because we had , we had one that sounds kind of like what you were in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It , it was a really good one ,
B: and in fact , it worked out for us because my wife , we kind of bartered .
B: My wife did artwork for them
B: and then , you know , so we got our day care free .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But they did n't have enough teachers
B: and ,
A: Well , this one was set up good .
A: I mean they had two teachers to every room . Um , sometimes three .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they had a good system like so when you walked in , everything looks cool .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The problem I had was that they did not show affection to the children enough .
A: They did not show them care to these small children who are being left .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , they ,
A: one time I picked up this little boy who was crying
A: and the owner came and just chewed me up one side down the other . You know ,
B: Huh .
A: he said you are going to have every child in here wanting you to pick them up .
A: And I said , no ,
A: this child was crying and needed some comfort , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: what is your problem .
A: So , um ,
B: Did , did they separate them by age group ?
A: Yes .
B: Because I 'd think , you know , I think that 's one thing that was important .
A: Right .
A: They did , they had like , um , the , the crawlers , the babies that did n't walk in one room . The ones that were starting to walk in one room .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Then they had like the , um , three , three year olds , upper fours , lower fours , upper fives , lower fives . You know , just like that .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , they really did separate them well .
B: it sound ,
B: yeah ,
A: It was just the teachers themselves .
A: Right .
A: But ,
A: yeah ,
A: that they 're not ,
B: Affectionate people that they 're , they 're kind of may be parents themselves or something .
A: Yeah .
A: Their system ,
A: Right .
A: But their , but their system was , was great
A: but , um , the , you know , the caring just was n't there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The one woman that taught that did the babies . I worked with her
A: and she was fabulous .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She loved them babies ,
A: and she loved them and cared for them .
A: But , um , every one of the others that I saw was just screaming and yelling and , um , you know , would make me a nervous wreck ,
A: so , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I , I think that 's probably a really important thing because you can have doctorates and P H D 's and all that kind of thing and , you know , know all the technical stuff ,
B: but if they don't reach out and touch the kids , then that does n't do any good .
A: Yeah ,
A: these kids are just in a day care center all day and , uh , with no , any type of emotional , you know , getting love , getting care ,
B: Yeah .
A: they 're just there . You know . Going through this routine , which is lousy .
B: Yeah .
B: The other , the other group that we had was kind of interesting .
B: The other one we went to the , it was a husband and wife team
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we knew them from other associations
B: but , uh , it was kind of interesting because she was kind of the strict one ,
B: and I think , you know , she would , she 'd put her arm around the kids and talk to them and stuff , you know ,
B: but he was actually the more , um , the more , uh , what , demonstrative type . The more loving
A: Uh-huh .
B: he would , you know , laugh with the kids and play with the kids
B: and and it was kind of interesting to see that , that it was actually the man in the group that , that did that side of it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: you don't see that much .
B: Yeah ,
B: so they had a really nice balance .
B: We liked that one .
B: In fact , it was called Humpty Dumpty Play School or something ,
A: That 's cute .
B: but they also did , they also did some of the teaching things
B: and then they had , um , you know ,
B: obedience , obedience was important .
A: Yeah ,
A: that has to be with a day care center .
B: And you know so they , you know , they used , uh , oh , I think they used the ,
B: you probably heard where , you know , where you stand in front of the clock and get your power back to control yourself .
A: I 've never heard of that .
A: That 's , that 's a new one , on me .
B: And it 's , it 's one ,
B: Uh , I ca n't remember what they call it actually
B: but you just stand them in front of a clock
B: and , you know , it has a second-hand that goes around .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they have to stand there ,
A: Um , what 's our topic ?
B: Taxes .
A: Taxes .
B: Do we pay too much ?
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Um
B: Well , do we ?
A: What do you do ?
B: Um ,
A: I guess that ,
A: I mean it all depends really on what kind of bracket you 're in .
B: My tax bracket is , is pretty high up there .
B: I pay the , I generally pay the maximum tax bracket .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I think that we 're paying too much
B: because I don't have any children .
A: Right .
B: And I pay a lot of property taxes .
A: Oh , sure .
B: I don't have any , um , I don't , you know , I don't use an awful lot of city services .
B: It , it , you know it 's like I have to work I have to work all the time just to make enough money to pay the taxes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: And , um , there 's so many people who want a , a of the federal money or the state money or whatever it is
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I just ,
B: sometimes , many times I end up feeling like I 'm paying too much in taxes .
A: Right .
B: How about you ?
B: Do you pay too much ?
A: Uh , well , no ,
A: I ca n't really complain .
A: I 'm a student , um ,
A: and I I work as a co-op at , uh , Georgia Tech Research Institute .
A: And , uh , I 'm going to get back most of what I earned , I mean most of what I pay in taxes
A: and , uh , and , uh , one of my parents is still claiming me .
B: Well , when you when you go out into the , uh , when you go out into the working world it , it changes quickly .
A: Huh ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm sure
B: Um , you look at your paycheck
B: and you go , oh , my gosh where did it all go
B: Um , what kind of , what kind of ,
B: uh , well have you pay a lot of in
B: have you been out working and then gone back to school
B: or are you , did you go directly from high school into , into college ?
A: I went ,
A: well I did work , um , just very for some time
A: but I did n't make enough money to really make , too much of a difference .
B: To worry about it .
A: Right .
B: Have you , have you been active in , in politics trying to , concerning this ?
B: Have you like worked on political action committees or something like that ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I have n't .
B: I , uh , I have n't done any of that type of work myself .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , but every once in a while when I hear up here at , at , uh , in D C area , um , one of the radio stations has been talking about the , the Congress ,
B: um , Congress has added too towards the Members Bank there , you know ,
B: there 's a bank that they all bank with ,
B: and I guess it went defunct recently .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And one of the Congressmen has , has written in the last three years about a thousand bad checks .
A: Huh .
B: And we , we the taxpayers float him a loan for all all those bad checks , no interest , no repayment schedule .
A: Oh .
A: Really ?
B: And , um , it 's causing quite a stir up here , because we 're so close to D C anyway .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's really kind of curious to watch this thing occur .
A: Oh , sure .
B: Um , I , I , I think we pay too much .
B: And I 've , I look at my paycheck
B: and I make ,
B: well , let 's see .
B: They take out in state and federal taxes
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think I pay forty-two percent .
A: Wow .
B: Forty-two cents out of every dollar I make goes to the government ,
B: and then they charge me sales tax
B: and they charge me gasoline taxes ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: taxes .
B: and they charge me all these others ,
B: and it 's just too expensive .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I ca n't believe that
B: I , I 'm just thankful that I don't get all the government that I pay for .
A: Huh .
B: You know what I mean ?
A: Yeah .
B: Do you , have you used , um , student loans and things like that that were guaranteed by the government ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I have n't .
A: Uh , I , uh , my father pays for my , my schooling , my tuition .
A: So , uh , I 'm , I have n't made use of that .
B: What are you studying down there ?
A: Physics .
B: Physics .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , that sounds like a fun , fun field .
A: Everybody says that
B: Scientific .
A: Huh .
B: Heavy science .
B: Are you like in the particle , particle research or anything like that
B: or is it more , um , applied physics ?
A: Um , I have n't , I have n't gotten too terribly much into my major yet .
A: Actually , um , the , the degree I 'm getting is physics .
A: There 's a different one for applied physics
A: so I guess you could call it more straight stuff than applied .
B: Okay .
B: Well maybe , maybe you can figure out how we can stop this inertia that 's , come rolling towards , whatever it 's rolling toward .
A: I doubt about that .
A: Are , are , is America , I mean are we pretty , pretty steep compared to most countries ?
B: Actually , I don't think we are .
A: No ,
A: I don't think so either .
B: Um , like , like Europe , um , England . I know the taxes are a lot higher .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But they do have socialized medicine and things like that .
A: Yeah .
B: And , um , I know I was reading in the paper I believe yesterday that , um , they 're talking ,
B: or maybe it was on the
A: I don't think anybody pays too little .
B: No ,
B: I would tend to agree very highly .
B: I think that we 're all paying a little bit too much taxes and not seeing too much good come out of it .
A: Do you get hit up for local taxes there ?
B: Yeah ,
B: we sure do .
B: Here in Indiana we pay , uh , we pay county income tax , state income tax ,
B: we pay five percent sales tax ,
B: uh , you name it , they tax it .
A: Oh , so you get the whole smorgasbord .
B: That 's right
B: we ,
A: Well , I , I actually live in New Hampshire tax free or die . Uh-huh
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Which is probably pretty nice ,
B: but I 'll bet that means your state sales tax is pretty high .
A: No ,
A: actually there 's no sales tax in New Hampshire either .
B: There 's no sales tax either ?
A: No ,
A: what there is , is very high property taxes because that 's how they fund schools and everything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The only problem is I work in Massachusetts ,
A: so they they hit me up for the five percent there .
B: Right .
B: Taxachusetts
A: Yep ,
A: but , it ,
A: well , you know , we ,
A: it 's only a state tax here , no local .
B: Uh-huh .
A: got a five percent sales tax .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , the problem is that so I 'm paying state tax even if I don't live here .
B: Right .
A: But , at least on things like stock options and things like that , they don't tax me .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So that 's not too bad .
B: No ,
B: I , uh , I really think that , here in Indiana at least we pay a , a whole , uh , just too much tax .
B: I worked in a factory , uh , last summer
B: and , on the average , I was losing twenty percent of every paycheck to taxes
B: and I don't feel that I really get a whole lot of return from that .
B: I mean , I don't utilize all , you know , it really , any government welfare services .
B: Of course , I drive on the roads
B: and I , you know , went to the schools and stuff ,
B: but I really feel that , that I 'm just getting overtaxed .
A: Oh , I , I mean , I , I 'd consider twenty percent lucky because just on , I mean , you know , when you figure out just on feds , you know , I actually hit the thirty-one bracket this year , which was no fun .
B: Uh-huh .
B: No
B: that 's , that 's not any fun .
A: Right ,
A: and also , you know , then you figure out seven or eight percent for F I C A which is taxes where
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: most people forget about them , because you 've you know , you ca n't always get your F I C A back at the end of the year .
B: Right .
A: But , so , you know , and then , you know , like a five percent surtax , I 'm paying forty percent tax .
B: Yeah ,
B: which is just outrageous
B: and a lot of it ,
B: and if you look at the way the government is run these days , it just seems like a lot of it 's going to waste .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I , I mean , I think there 's some people , there , certainly are some things where you need infrastructure
A: and you need you you know ,
B: Right .
A: things government does better , you know ,
A: I government does a better space program than you 're going to get out of private individuals ,
B: Right .
A: but , you know , I think , you know , you look at things like , you know , tax subsidies to tobacco farmers because Jesse Helms wants it that way
B: Right
A: or , You know , and , and just tremendous amounts of , you know ,
B: That 's right ,
B: got to keep those farmers happy .
A: so much of it , is now just going to service debt or you know , is going in , into , into programs that , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: yeah ,
A: they are , they are a fat .
A: You know , I think the military is really fat .
A: I think that a lot of the , the H E W services , although they 're providing necessary services , have too much fat in them .
B: Right .
B: there is just way too much bureaucracy
B: and so much of that tax money is going just to keep that bureaucracy running , keep the paper shuffling around instead of real , you know , good programs .
A: You know , like we ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , we , we spend a fortune for things like V A hospitals
A: and , you know , then you look at how well they 're managed , you know ,
A: I don't think we 're getting our money 's work out , worth out of there .
A: I think it 's all going into , into bureaucrats .
B: Right ,
B: and a lot of it 's feeding that .
B: Just , I just , I really , especially in the election year , I mean , I 'm really thinking a lot about this , the economy and questions like that and , and just the whole ,
B: it seems like everything is really screwy right now as far as the economy , uh , the government goes and our , our whole economy in general
B: and our taxes just are going to keep rising no matter what happens
B: and especially when you 've got the Bush administration who has increased government expenditures , uh , beyond what any other President since World War Two has done
B: and yet he supposedly ,
A: Well , between him and Reagan ,
A: yeah .
B: Right
B: right ,
B: yeah .
A: great
B: I mean , I just read something that , two thirds or three quarters , I 'm not exactly sure of our national debt are , was created during the Reagan Bush era who are supposedly fiscally conservative .
A: Oh , oh , yeah ,
A: they think ,
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: and then they go I 'm not
A: Congress , they 're the fault for it .
B: Right
A: But , you know , the other thing is , it 's tricky , though ,
A: because like in New Hampshire , they say , oh , all right , let 's cut the military budget .
B: Right .
A: Well , yeah ,
A: then , you lose half your jobs in New Hampshire
B: Uh-huh .
A: you lose ,
A: Connecticut goes ,
A: so , you know , it 's like , you know , it 's very tricky to balance off , because then you hurt , you know ,
A: if the , if the , if people lose their jobs , then they become a load
A: and they 're not contributing taxes .
B: That 's right .
A: So , you know , it 's , it 's very hard to say , you know , this is what we should cut .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's really ,
B: that is the ,
B: especially that defense , cuts in the defense is really a Catch twenty-two double whammy , because like you say , if you cut defense , well , that 's great ,
B: that 's going to lower our national expenditures ,
B: but then you 're going to have people on welfare
B: and they 're not putting taxes in .
A: Who are n't contributing .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: So that 's , that 's really ,
B: it 's ,
A: And , uh , in our ,
B: I 'm glad I 'm not the one who has to come up with these policies .
A: Right .
A: But , what 's very funny is in our town meeting they were
A: this , this guy had , both for our school district meeting and our town meeting had this proposal which , unfortunately violates New Hampshire constitution for our local town to do it to , uh , have you , have people line item their taxes .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: They say I want to pay for this and this and this and this and this .
A: Course , the only problem with that is then nobody paying for the necessary services they don't use .
B: That 's right .
A: Yeah .
A: the one will take ,
A: uh , okay ,
A: let 's see ,
A: I guess , uh , I can start .
A: I 'm actually , we 're actually trying to find one now because our family 's growing .
B: Are you really ?
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , so I 'm looking at , uh , something larger than what we have .
A: We 've got , like , an eighty-four Charger that 's about gone and a , uh , an eighty-nine Horizon .
A: So , I 'm looking for something , uh , littler bigger ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: which are both kind of small .
A: yeah .
A: Uh , so we were thinking mini van for a while
A: and , uh , we 're looking at , uh , some just four door , five passenger sedans as well .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Are you looking for an American car
B: or , you open to buying foreign cars ?
A: Uh , I don't really have a preference either way I guess . You know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's , you know , it ,
A: I guess the American cars had a bad reputation
A: but I have n't had any real substantial problems with the ones I 've had .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Personally , I have a Japanese car right now ,
B: and I really like it a lot .
B: Uh , I think the Japanese really build good cars
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I know that kind of rubs against the grain right now in the whole , uh , you know , buy American , keep American auto workers working right now ,
B: but I feel that the Japanese have really produced a much higher quality product than our , uh , car manufacturers have for a while .
A: Yeah .
B: If I were to buy another car , I would be , uh , I would be partial to buying another Japanese car ,
B: but I would also look at American cars ,
B: but when I bought the car that I bought now , I did that also
B: and I just felt that the Japanese car was a much better product .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , even if it 's just details , it seems like , uh they , you know ,
B: So , if I were ,
B: Right .
A: I
A: there 's a door seal that does n't quite seal
A: and you have to take it back every once in a while .
A: It 's clearly just a , a design problem there .
B: Right ,
B: it is .
B: Uh , I 'm kind of ,
B: right now ,
B: the next car I buy is going to be sort of a sports car .
B: I would really like to have a sports car .
B: Uh I don't really , I don't have a family ,
B: so I don't need a , a mini van or such to , uh , haul people around in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I 'm looking for more a , a two passenger car that , uh ,
A: Oh , like a Miata or something like that ?
B: Well , I like the Miata ,
B: but I don't like it enough to buy it .
B: I would buy something ,
B: actually the , the car that I really like right now is an Eagle Talon , which is an American car .
A: Um .
B: But , uh , something along that lines .
B: Uh , because I have a , an economy car right now , which is okay ,
B: but uh , I think I , I 'd like to move on to something a little better .
A: Yeah .
A: interesting .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess probably the factors we 'd use to compare are a little different because I look for , you know , size and safety , and then mileage .
B: Right .
A: Probably ,
B: Right .
A: Uh ,
B: That 's ,
B: when I bought the car that I bought , I was looking for mileage ,
B: and I was looking for , uh , dependability and something that was going to last a long time . I was that I would get a , for the money that I was going to spend , that I would get a return that was , that was worth that money .
A: Yeah .
B: So ,
A: Yeah
A: I I think in terms of computer terminology , I look at , you know , price performance and things like that . And then a little bit at life expectancy , I guess ,
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
A: but it , you know depends on what you , what you pay initially .
B: Yeah .
A: But , you know I 've got a hundred and twenty-five thousand miles on the Charger .
B: That 's right .
A: Actually it was my wife 's car that she brought into the marriage
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she got just a commute between Cincinnati and Dayton .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's , you know ,
A: we , we had to replace the friction plate and the transmission at thirty thousand miles ,
A: but uh , the other ninety four thousand have been just fine with it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , But , uh ,
B: Okay .
B: Uh , I 've had , uh , I 've had one or two American cars I think ,
B: and , and they were okay .
B: I had a Pontiac once
B: and , and I never had a problem with it ,
B: but , uh , my mother had a Dodge at one point
B: and I , I had driven it a few times
B: and I really did not feel that it , that I would buy a Dodge just from ,
A: Um .
B: well , actually , I had a , uh , a Dodge Omni at one point
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that was , I think , what really prejudiced me against American cars was because I did not feel that it was a very quality , uh , car .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I guess you 'd have to say , if I was looking , I would definitely be looking for a foreign car .
A: That 's interesting .
A: But ,
A: yeah ,
A: it , it 's hard to beat some of the ,
A: uh , like , I guess , in particular , we 're looking at a , like a ninety-one Corsica , uh , buy back at a , they say G M sponsored auction ,
A: but I think they 're obliged to have these things because Hertz and Avis and those folks have it in their contract that they can sell it back to G M after , you know , it 's , after they 've used it for six months and put you know , twelve or fifteen thousand miles , on it
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: and you can get those for like eight thousand bucks if you ,
B: Which is a good deal .
A: Yeah ,
A: because I guess , uh ,
A: I mean , well , ninety-twos , granted , but the new ones , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: fourteen to sixteen is what they go for on the lot ,
B: Right .
A: so all the depreciation has been taken off
A: and , the dealer comes out okay you know ,
B: Yeah
B: that ,
A: don't what kind of , I don't know what G M corporate , kind of hit the , I don't know what kind of hit they take on it ,
A: but sounds like everybody 's had their chance to make their money off it
A: and So , but , uh , I don't know ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm sure they did .
A: we keep looking at that mini van .
A: It 's just , you know ,
A: we can get a , like a Caravan for , twelve , five
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: but that 's a little bit more than we want to spend right now .
A: But , uh , uh , it 's interesting ,
A: but , uh , I don't know ,
A: if , if , uh , it seems to be ,
B: Well , Julie , uh , are you in a situation where you 'd soon need to deal with , uh , special care for elderly ?
A: Well , I don't know .
A: My grandfather is ninety-two years old .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And he is still living by himself .
A: My grandmother died a couple of years ago
A: But he does n't want to , to move away .
A: He lives in a little farmhouse on a farm .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And he recently had to have an operation
A: but he just really does n't want to go to a nursing home .
B: Is he able to , uh , still do everything himself pretty well ?
A: Well , he was until this operation .
A: He has arthritis .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And now I don't really think he 's doing that well .
A: And my , a lot of my aunts and uncles live near him .
A: And I have one aunt that really looks after him a lot .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , my great-grandfather was put in a nursing home when he was a hundred and three .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , died six weeks after they put him in the home .
B: Yeah .
B: And I 'm sure that kind of thing would influence your grandfather 's feelings .
B: Because , uh , I you know , I think for a lot of people it really is the decision of , do they still have some of their life left .
B: And and , for , for , I 'm sure , a lot of people going into a nursing home it 's like saying my life is over
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I 'm just here for the rest of the stay
B: And so I , you know , I guess most of the time when I think about somebody going into a nursing home , it 's more a case of where they are not able to look after their day-to-day needs .
B: Yeah
A: Uh-huh .
B: they have can look after a lot of things
B: but there 's some of the day-to-day needs that they just are not able to deal with physically anymore .
B: Uh , I know my , none of my grandparents were in a nursing home .
B: They generally were able to have someone care for them at home
B: and they died
B: But they were all , goodness , younger than your grandparents
B: Like they were in their eighties . That type of thing
B: Uh , but I did , uh , you know , I guess ,
B: uh , when I think nursing home I do think of people that are not able to do , take care of themselves physically . Uh
A: But I just don't think that nursing homes really do a very good job .
B: And that 's , that 's difficult part .
B: Because I think what they often get used as is , uh , almost like a very high level or long-term care for , uh , similar to a hospital .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I know , like here in Saskatchewan , we have our hospital care the care actually for the older people graded in level , in four levels .
B: And a level four type of care would be someone that really requires long-term hospital care . Generally are not able to look after themselves to very , to a very great extent , physically
B: Often times they even have mental difficulty with senility or Alzheimer 's Disease or those or , or physical and mental handicaps . Uh , you know , where they really require twenty-four hour supervision of some kind Even though it may be minimal
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , but I think that it can be helpful in that , uh , it gets people the level of physical care they need . Uh ,
A: But I don't , I mean
A: at least , I mean I think some nursing homes do that .
A: But I think a lot of nursing homes really , uh , are guilty of neglect .
B: Yeah .
B: I and I think it happens more in areas where it 's , uh , I guess , uh , a broad social medical system where , uh , you know , there 's government medical care and that kind of thing .
B: If it 's the lot where it 's funded by the individuals
B: and , and I guess that 's sort of my lack of understanding .
B: I think that a majority of the places in the U S , uh , you know , there is some government aid available ,
B: but the majority is to the availability of the individual to pay
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , if you 're not able to look after yourself , then you have to rely ,
A: Recently graduated from high school . Meaning like , uh , you know , three or four years ago .
A: I 'm a senior in , in , uh , college now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I ca n't really talk too much about the problems with , uh , public education in detail because the school system I went to was , uh , really superb even though it was a public school system .
B: Really ?
B: Yeah .
B: I feel that my , uh ,
B: I 'm a junior in college now .
B: And I go to Tech , Georgia Tech ?
A: Oh .
A: Okay .
A: Yeah .
B: And I ,
A: I got a friend who goes there , by the way
A: I want to talk to you about that afterward ,
A: okay .
B: Okay
B: Uh , I 've ,
B: the high school I went to was , uh , was a good one also .
B: And I , well , I guess you could say one of the problems with the public education system is the disparity between different schools .
B: Because the one I went to was , you know , I 'm sure a , a lot nicer than , you know , a lot of the inner city schools and the things around Atlanta .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: was a , a , it 's more or less a suburban school system ?
B: Yeah .
A: Yes .
A: That , that was true for mine too .
A: Uh , although I I 'm sure to some extent , that money is part of the problem in the disparity ,
A: but I don't think , I honestly don't think that 's the biggest part of it .
A: You know , I think that , uh , I mean I know that in my town , you know , most of the , most of the parents , they 're valued education .
B: What
A: And , uh you know , and so the students were , you know , to some extent , motivated to learn .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: I mean know
B: Yeah .
B: And I 'm also
B: I mean , in the , in those places where , uh , like the economy is really bad , they might , you know , be more tempted to , to quit school and get jobs and that kind of thing because they need the , you know , money to put food on the table and stuff like that . More than they would you know , in areas where they
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
A: But but , uh , I think , I mean even more than that , even , I mean if you drop out in high school you should still be able to read you know ? Which it I mean it sounds like , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
A: now I think maybe it 's started changing in the past few years because , uh , they have of these , uh , sort of mandatory tests if you have to take before you get a diploma .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , but , uh , certainly before that , there were people that , you know , would graduate from high school and could barely read .
A: Uh , and that 's just sort of inexcusable
A: and you ca n't really ,
A: I , I , I mean I just ca n't even picture how that could happen . You know , except maybe to someone whose , you know , really badly learning , uh , disabled or something .
B: Yeah .
A: But these people obviously were n't .
B: That 's hard for me to say since I did n't , I did n't really grow ,
B: well when I went to elementary school it , it was n't in a great area
B: but I still , I mean , I learned to read , started learning to read when I was in kindergarten , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: So I guess I ca n't really I ca n't say what it would be like to , uh , grow up in a really oppressed region
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I guess the whole , the whole environment and attitude towards school and learning is different for the people .
A: Yeah .
A: And I think that 's almost a bigger factor , than anything else probably .
A: I mean , I don't , I think you know , people just ,
B: So , I guess the problem is the , the thing to do is to try to , uh , to get some kind of motivation to learn
B: and ,
A: Yeah .
A: And , again , I don't , I mean
A: got know the , you know , how qualified , I mean ,
A: I think it 'd be interesting to , you know , to spend a couple of days just looking around an inner city school . Uh , you know , sort , sort of maybe from elementary through , uh , high school . You know , just sort of to get a feel for what it 's like .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think that 'd be an interesting experience .
A: But , uh , I have n't done that
B: No ,
B: I , I ca n't say that I have either .
B: But , uh ,
A: But I do , I do think that , uh , I mean , public education in general I think can work .
A: And I think it 's a good thing .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've , I 've heard some , I mean I 've heard statistics and things that , that compare a public education to a private education . I mean within like , within the same , uh , income groups .
A: Yeah .
B: If you compare the , like the people that could have , that could have sent their kids to private schools and the people that , you know , the people that , uh , did send their kids to private schools .
A: Yes .
B: I think they compare you know , fairly well .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: I mean , I don't , I honestly don't really think I could have , you know , done much better than I did in the school system I was in . mean
B: Yeah .
B: I , I , I , my schools , I mean , there ,
B: I have a lot of
B: once , once it seemed I got into high school , they had a lot of , uh , accelerated programs and all kinds of stuff like that .
A: Yeah .
B: That , I mean , that makes a big difference
B: cause I wondered when they 're taking classes with , uh , with people that are really , are interested in the , the subject and stuff like that .
A: Yeah .
A: I mean , and and in the ,
A: once you junior high , uh , start junior high , starting in eighth grade all the way through high school , there were four levels .
A: Well , no ,
A: I guess it in junior high , it was still three .
A: Then in high school it changed into four levels of , uh , of instruction in the major subjects . Uh , which ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , actually I think that works pretty well .
A: and that , that makes ,
A: Okay
B: How are you ?
B: You want to go ahead and start talking about whether you budget
A: Yeah .
A: Well I , I , I feel like , uh , I am from Mars .
A: I mean I 'm fifty years old
A: and , uh , I 've been divorced for , um , eighteen years .
A: But I 've two kids and all .
A: But I , uh , I , I 've never had a budget
A: and I don't , uh , do any planning
A: and I don't know ,
A: I don't , uh , uh , I don't have a long-term financial plan .
A: I don't try to control my expenses .
A: But I 'm , I 'm glad you 're a stranger .
B: That sounds kind of like me .
A: But , really , I 'm , I happy , I , I , well I 'm curious how other people live .
A: Uh , so maybe we should start with you
A: What do you do ?
B: About the same thing .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
A: Maybe they 're going to arrest us both .
B: I 'm even in worse shape because I have eight children
B: and , uh , we live from hand to mouth
B: We hope that there 's enough money at the end of the month to pay for the bills and if there 's not , then we due for the next month .
A: Wow .
B: A couple of times we 've tried some things
B: and they worked
B: but I 'm not disciplined enough to keep doing it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The best program we ever had is at the beginning of the month we took and , uh , took my check and divided it out into envelopes and then paid for the expenses out of that envelope
A: Yeah .
B: and when the envelope was empty then you did n't have any more money to spend in that area .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that worked out real well cause we did n't have to keep writing down what we 'd spent .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It was just that when that was empty , you knew you were out of money .
B: And we did that pretty successfully for about three months
B: and then we started borrowing from one envelope to put it in the other envelope
B: and in about two months we were back to doing the same thing we always do .
A: Huh . The , uh ,
A: I had a part-time job around , oh gosh , fifteen years ago , seventy-six ,
A: and , uh , uh , this was a sort of a career shift at the time
A: and so I was willing to take a half time job to do that .
A: And I actually did ,
A: my bank account would , uh ,
A: I 'd , I , I kept bouncing checks , just at the end of the month
A: but I , I had miscalculated .
A: I , well I did n't keep a balance
A: It 's one of the problems this very
A: I never had to in the past .
A: I always kept plenty of money in my checking account ,
A: but when you 're only earning half the salary . Even though I was n't spending much money , I sometimes I sometimes would just ,
A: things would get to tight .
A: Uh , and sometimes what I would do is keep a piece of paper in my wallet
A: and every time I , uh , I spent money , I mean cash mostly , I would , uh , write it down so I could see at the end of a month how much I spent on food so I could do better planning .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I would forget to write the things down
A: and it , that I , I don't know if I ever went as far as three months or not in keeping that kind of data .
A: I certainly have n't done that in sixteen years or whatever .
B: I even find now like with the automatic tellers , I 'll go take money out of that
A: Yeah .
B: and then I forget to take that out of my checking account .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: So I , I , I leave a little bit of a slush fund in my checking account and I figure that , so the balance showing in the checking account is always somewhat different that what 's really there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I figure that gives me room for the mistakes I make .
A: Uh-huh .
A: The , uh ,
A: I , I have to say that ,
A: let 's see , at this point on , I don't run out of money .
A: Uh , and it , uh ,
A: and I don't , I mean
A: someday , if I were to get remarried I might want to buy a house which requires lots of money which I don't have
A: and I , I , I think my strategy if , if I may , is to , is to not spend money .
A: I mean I don't have expensive tastes .
A: I don't go out .
A: I mean I buy a car ,
A: well the last car I got rid of I 'd had ,
A: it was nineteen years old .
B: Yeah .
A: people were embarrassed for me .
A: I mean it was , it was a good car
A: and ,
B: it still running .
A: Oh , it was great .
A: My , my mechanics loved it because it was an old , it was a sixty-five Buick
A: and it just would n't stop .
A: Uh , and it ,
A: I , I just did n't feel the need for a new car .
A: It is n't like I could n't afford one .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and now , I mean I , I don't , uh ,
A: I tend to eat expensive food .
A: I mean I don't mind buying a good steak
A: but for me , I only do that every week or , without even , I mean , maybe once a month .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean you buy a , a tenderloin steak , it costs outrageous , like twelve dollars a pound .
A: You buy a , a , less than half a pound so it 's six or seven dollars .
A: To me , I realize if you have eight kids you 're not going to run out and do that .
B: Not very often
A: But , but I 'm just , I 'm just saying as a single person , that 's , that 's a drop in the bucket .
A: And so if you 're extravagant on how you buy food , it does n't add up . If you 're buying , I mean if you 're not going to super expensive restaurants , which I don't care to go to .
B: That 's right .
A: So , so that 's , I think , one of the reasons I don't need to budget is that I don't have , I don't , I don't have to hold myself back from buying that expensive thing because I ca n't afford it , because I 'm not interested in that expensive thing .
B: lot
A: You want to go first ?
B: No ,
B: you can start
A: Okay .
A: Uh , one of the things they talked about was , uh , did we , what do we think about a judge making the decision ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I really don't agree with that
A: I think that the trial by jury is better , uh , you know , than having a unanimous decision rather than to have one person be responsible .
A: I don't think that they could be objective in every case , every time .
B: Right .
A: you know what I mean ?
B: Right .
B: There 's , there , this topic is kind of mute . Uh
A: Yeah .
B: there , there 's no way .
B: We , we could n't survive in a in a juror in a trial system without a jury .
A: Right .
B: Uh , one man can never be , one man , one woman can never be objectionable in every case .
A: That 's it .
B: Uh , every person has their opinions
B: and that 's why jury selection is often very difficult . Uh .
A: Well , I , I feel the other thing too , uh ,
A: they were saying , uh , you know , what new ways could could it , you , you know , change the system .
A: I , I really think that , uh , we spend a lot of time , uh , going through appeal after appeal after appeal after appeal ,
A: I mean , if you go to a trial by jury and especially if a person has confessed . If they have been caught , you know , point blank in the crime . There 's , uh , no question
B: Right .
A: it 's beyond a reasonable doubt .
A: You know , all these things .
A: I mean , you know , we 've gone through this over and over again .
B: Right .
B: They should n't allow an appeal .
A: And it can go on for ten , twenty , years .
B: Yep .
A: I , I think this is a little ridiculous .
B: Uh-huh
A: I think the only people who benefit from that are the lawyers .
B: Oh , that 's right .
B: I work for a law firm
A: I , I 'm serious .
A: And I think that the lawyers have caused a lot of the problems that exist in the in the criminal system today . With plea bargaining .
B: Right .
A: You know , if someone is
B: Well plea plea bargaining is a different story .
A: Well .
B: Plea bargaining is something completely different .
B: That , that actually prevents trials . Or at least speeds them up .
A: Well , I know .
A: That 's what I 'm saying .
A: But I think a lot of , all of the whole criminal system is messed up in , in that regard .
A: I mean , you know , people who commit , uh , crimes that they ,
A: I don't know how it works exactly
A: but you know , they get lesser sentences
B: Right .
A: and I understand that the jails are full of people , you know , uh and that they have to do something .
B: Right .
A: But , I think that the reason they are full is because they know that they can get away with it .
B: Huh .
A: you know what I 'm saying ?
A: That we don't have , uh , well a lot of states don't have capital punishment .
B: Right .
A: And , uh I , I think they should .
B: We do
A: I , and I think if a person is guilty of taking someone 's life and like you say , it 's , it 's , there 's no doubt whatsoever . Like drunk drivers that kill people
A: and , uh , you know , all
B: Right .
A: they , they 're caught dead to rights .
A: I , I just think that that 's , they 've , they 've taken a life
A: and if , they should pay for it with their life .
B: Right .
B: When you 're saying as far as the appeal , uh , procedure was concerned .
A: Yeah .
B: We just have the case ,
B: I 'm , I 'm sure you 've probably heard of Marion Berry .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , his last appeal was , was denied two days before his sentence was up
A: Oh , really .
B: So , I mean , his appeal was denied
B: and two days later he got out of jail For cocaine possession .
A: It , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , that was absurd
B: There is never , there was no reason the appeal process should have dragged on that long for a six month sentence .
A: I know that , that
A: Uh-huh .
A: And , I don't know .
A: Uh , what would you do to change it ? To make it better ?
B: Well , uh , the , the only I can , I you know ,
B: the , appeal procedure is the only thing I can possibly think of .
B: Uh , like I said , as far as removing of the jury and having the judge sentence , that 's absurd .
B: There 's no way that could work .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I , I , I don't agree with that at all .
B: Uh , but ,
A: Imagine the guilt that person would have .
A: I mean burned out .
B: Oh , exactly .
A: There 's there 's no possible way that you could , uh , you know , feel good about yourself .
B: Exactly .
B: Right .
A: If you had to do something like that , day after day .
B: No one would want the job
A: No .
A: Not really .
B: Uh , and , you know , like I said , the , you know , everyone has their opinions about every case .
A: Well , do you think people should have a trial is they 're caught dead to rights like ,
B: Oh yeah .
B: I , I feel that everyone is , everyone is , uh , entitled to a trial by jury .
B: That , that , that right
A: I mean , supposing I come up to you and I just point blank kill you .
B: Well , I mean , were there witnesses ?
A: In other words you 're saying that , you have to find out whether it 's premeditated or what the circumstances were .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: That you ca n't , you ca n't remove the jury regardless of the case .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean you could have fifty people in audience watching a murder take place
A: Yeah .
B: and you , you 'd still , there 's still mitigating circumstances
A: Well , I , I ,
B: Okay , Mary .
A: Yes .
B: Um , the , uh , the latest one I 've seen , uh , had to do with a , uh , uh , the , uh , basically a manhunt , um ,
B: and it was , uh , it was called MANHUNTER , actually .
B: Uh , the , uh , the guy , uh , apparently had a , a , mental disfunction in which he needed to go out and just slay people . Uh , just , uh , kill them with , with as much blood and , and guts as possible .
A: Oh , how awful
B: It was true , it was truly awful .
B: It was not one that I picked ,
B: but , uh , uh , it , it did show some , some , uh , some interesting things about the F B I
B: because they were the , the , uh , the characters trying , trying to get him were F B I people
B: and , uh , uh , of the , of the few good things that were in it , it did show , uh , a lot about the F B I . About the training , and , and how they go through training and how they try to , to develop , uh , uh , a mental picture of who they 're looking for before they go out and do it and all the different ways they go about doing that .
B: And it was , uh , uh , it was pretty telling about the , the , the F B I and their procedures .
A: I wonder how truthful all of that was or whether there was fiction .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I imagine a lot of it had to be fictional just to keep the F B I , uh , going , I guess .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , they keep it rather secretive ,
A: yes
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Well the most recent movie I saw , uh , I 'm afraid was , uh ,
A: well two , two of them actually .
A: Uh , the RAIN MAN was one .
B: Oh that was great one .
A: Was n't that fabulous ,
A: and , and DRIVING MISS DAISY .
B: Oh , I loved it .
B: You know , I have n't seen that one yet ,
B: and I need to go see it .
A: Oh , you need to see that .
B: Yeah .
A: That is the most heart rendering story of relationships between two people . Two diametrically opposed people from the stand point that one was Jewish and one was black
B: Uh-huh .
A: and this all took place in the South .
B: Oh my .
A: And , uh , normally never the twain shall meet .
B: You bet , especially in the South .
A: Yes ,
A: right ,
A: and , um , uh , it , it really was a fantastic movie .
A: The acting was phenomenal .
B: Well as , it , as I recall it got some Academy Awards , did n't it .
A: Oh yes ,
A: Jessica Tandy won best actress
A: and , uh ,
B: Oh yeah ,
B: that 's right .
B: It , it might have one best picture , too .
A: Yes
A: it did ,
A: yes
A: it did .
B: Yeah .
A: Just as RAIN MAN , uh , with Dustin Hoffman , uh , that , that was tremendous and Tom Cruise .
B: That was ,
B: yeah ,
B: I , I think it was more a lesson for Tom Cruise than anything else in terms of , uh , of how to act from Dustin Hoffman ,
B: but , uh .
A: Yes ,
A: uh , oh , that was , that was , uh , what the , much of the hype was that Tom Cruise learned so much from Dustin Hoffman .
B: Yeah ,
B: it must have been great just being with him on , on a daily basis and seeing how he prepares for his , for his lines and all that stuff .
A: Yeah
A: and a good bit of that was filmed right in Cincinnati . Which is just forty-five miles from , from where I am , where I actually live in a suburb of Dayton .
B: Oh .
B: Is , is the Kmart there ?
A: Oh , we do have Kmart here ,
A: you better believe it .
A: Is n't there a Kmart everywhere ?
B: That was , that was so funny ,
B: he had to ,
B: or was it Kmart .
A: Yes .
B: He had to buy his underwear at Kmart .
A: Right ,
A: right
A: yeah .
B: That was hilarious .
B: The , the , I guess the , the first , the first , uh , scene in that movie that really got my attention , uh , concerning the , the disease and all that was when he , uh , dropped the , the , uh , the toothpicks ,
A: Oh yes .
B: and he was able to count the number of toothpicks just by a mental image .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
B: Unbelievable .
A: Well , you know there are people , uh , referred to as savants also , uh , who can do most phenomenal things
B: Yeah .
A: and everyone feels they are totally retarded .
B: Yeah ,
B: because that 's the way they , they might seem outwardly ,
A: That 's right .
B: but , boy there 's a lots going on in there
A: It 's amazing
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: and I , the , the , I think the , the best thing about RAINMAN was the , uh , the way that they put together the , the real awfulness of the , of the , of the disease , only ,
A: Yes .
B: an , and then they balanced it with the wonderfulness of it , you know ,
B: and , and , and you need to , to work with it , uh , you know , certainly on , on a daily basis but then then again work with it toward a good end . Not , not toward winning in Las Vegas , for example .
A: Yes
A: and the ,
A: Right ,
A: well the warmth that developed between them
A: and again it , I think was a picture of relationships .
B: Yeah .
A: Again the relationship , uh , between the two , uh , that , uh , never would have occurred , uh , by accident .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: I was , uh , I was so impressed with that movie
B: I saw it three times .
A: Did you .
B: I can , I can tell you , oh , so much about that movie , just because it , it really rang , uh , rang a lot of my , uh , my personal background .
B: I , I have a , a brother myself that 's , that 's older
B: and , uh , he 's not , you know ,
B: nothing , nothing , of course , serious is wrong with him
B: but , uh , but we have gone through these , these lapses of , of a relationship , somewhat , sometimes ,
A: Yes .
B: and then , you know , uh , for , for , for no real , you know , direct reason , I guess , uh , we , we get into , uh , uh , a really good relationship for a while and then , you know , back and forth
B: so I , I was really able to , to relate to the , the relationship aspect of the movie between the brothers .
B: That was neat .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well that 's tremendous ,
A: that , it 's good because it does make you think , about your own family .
B: Yeah ,
B: a lot .
A: And see it did bring out a lot of thoughts between you and your brother .
B: Uh-huh .
B: No question ,
B: he , the , he was , he 's one of these guys though that does n't really like to go see movies like that .
B: He likes the bang them up and shoot them up things .
A: Uh-huh
B: And , and , uh , it , it was like pulling teeth to go get him to , to see it
B: but , uh , oh boy . He was , uh , uh , he , he gave the , the best response that I 've heard him give of this type of movie for RAIN MAN .
B: I mean he certainly did n't ,
B: he only saw it one time ,
B: and he did n't go back for more ,
B: but , uh , he , he said he enjoyed it
B: and , and ,
A: Well he at least saw it one time
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and , and he really ,
B: I don't know ,
B: he , he 's kind of a Dustin Hoffman fan anyway .
B: But he but before he saw the movie he was like disappointed that Dustin Hoffman would do this
B: I 'm like , oh , come on .
A: Just think of what a phenomenal actor Dustin Hoffman is .
B: Yeah .
A: He will do that , to research it and to be able to mimic a person , uh , uh , with the kinds of problems that he had .
B: And to make it believable .
A: Yes .
B: I mean I was , I was believing it ,
B: I don't know about any body else
B: but I was , it was great .
A: Well , I 'm sure everybody that saw it was believing it right along with them .
B: He did great .
A: Well it 's just , uh , been delightful talking with you .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: you take care up there
B: and , uh , let 's hear it for the summertime .
A: Absolutely ,
A: I 'm ready for it ,
A: but they 're predicting some more snow for our direction .
B: No ,
B: oh no .
B: Oh well , take care .
A: Take care now .
A: Bye , bye .
B: Bye , bye .
A: Where do you get most of your news ?
B: I watch the MACNEIL LEHRER news hour ,
B: and I subscribe to the paper on the weekends .
A: Where , where are you ?
B: I 'm in Dallas .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Are you in Dallas also ?
A: No ,
A: I 'm in San Antonio .
B: Oh , really ,
B: okay .
A: I get my news from a combination of sources .
A: I take the paper every day
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I read it on the way in to work on the , in a carpool .
B: Oh , really .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , and I watch the , uh , actually I watch the morning news before I leave for work .
A: And then , you know , usually over lunch , there 'll be a big topic of conversation on something from the news .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I normally find that uh , I 'm probably the most , um , news hungry of my friends ,
B: so I don't , we don't normally talk about the news at lunch .
B: I , I find that I have to only subscribe to the paper on the weekend , simply because I used to get it during the week
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , um , I would always end up arriving at work late , because I would always end up skimming the headlines , spending too much time , reading it in the morning .
A: Yeah .
B: So I have to cut myself down to the weekend , plus after work .
B: Um , the MACNEIL LEHRER news hour is on public television
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I enjoy that quite a bit .
A: Yeah .
A: Um , one of the women that I work with , her husband is Iranian .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So here lately with all the Middle Eastern news we 've had some very interesting conversations over lunch .
B: I will admit I work with , uh , someone who 's Iranian ,
B: and he definitely has a very different slant on the news .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He 's very , very skeptical of the news media ,
B: and I will admit I 'm reasonably skeptical also .
B: But he 's , I don't know , uh , he 's much , much more so .
B: It 's sort of interesting though , because he does bring a , a much , um , different perspective with all the Gulf goings on , um .
B: He was always speaking in terms of , you know , American imperialism reasserting itself .
B: Um , I suppose it 's a different attitude that we normally don't hear in the country .
A: Uh-huh
A: Well I , I , uh , I like the print news much better than the television news because television news tends to sensationalize .
B: Uh-huh .
B: True , um ,
B: the ,
A: I understand that the MacNeil Lehrer probably does n't .
B: They , um , tend to spend quite a bit of time on one story .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They will have maybe two or three main stories and just spend a very large amount of time .
B: Sort of like the , uh , what is that , A B C 's NIGHTLINE .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I guess they only normally stick with just the one , um , story .
B: But they , they can do a much better job since they don't have to chop it into little two minute stories .
A: They don't report on every murder and shooting that happened in , in every little town .
B: No ,
B: no .
B: It 's very much national interest news .
A: Yeah .
B: A lot of times they end up , um , with these panels of experts
B: and they go back and forth , where everyone 's giving some opinions
B: and sometimes that ,
B: I don't know the value of that , because I saw plenty of jokes and , and , um , oh , editorial cartoons about all the retired generals , making a living during the , the Gulf War .
A: I 've been getting a kick out of those lately .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Although , um
A: I 'm only twenty-five ,
A: so I 've never actually been through a period of war
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I don't know anyone in the military
A: and I don't have a lot of background knowledge in , uh , military strategy and , and weaponry , and , and all that kind of stuff .
A: And I thought the generals were very interesting .
A: Now when they started to speculate , I , I saw that for what is was , and thought all of these guys don't know what 's going on .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I thought they were interesting ,
A: and , and they shed some light on what was going on for me .
B: I will admit it 's interesting .
B: I 'm twenty-six .
B: So I don't have any more experience in that than you .
B: Um , it , it , it was very interesting that it seemed like some of the commentators had their axe to grind , you know ,
B: there were some that were screaming for air power ,
B: there were some that were saying the air power was n't going to do it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they seemed to mold the events to their view of the world , which I suppose just about everyone does ,
B: but these guys had a , a , uh , national soap box to stand on and , and express this view .
A: You know , one of the best television news shows that I saw during the war was a show on a Saturday morning on A B C ,
A: and it was for children
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it was hosted by Peter Jennings ,
A: and it was so interesting because they were relating the war to these children in their studio ,
A: and they also had children calling in live from all over the country and asking questions .
A: And they , they had all their correspondents in the different areas , in Saudi Arabia , and Israel , and , and all .
A: They had them all , uh , on ,
A: I don't know what you 'd call it other than on line .
A: They had them all on hold
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if a child asked a question that the person in Jerusalem could best answer , they would cut to that person ,
A: and that person would answer the question .
A: It was just very informative and interesting ,
A: and , uh , I was real impressed at how A B C handled , uh , translating , the war for children .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I did n't see anything like that , although I did , uh ,
B: I guess one thing that I found sort of interesting ,
B: this is getting a little off the topic ,
B: but there was a , a , a big push with the local T V stations to have little hot lines with counselors to , to help parents learn how to talk about their war with their children .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I thought that was a really unusual thing .
A: And our local H E B stores here ,
A: I don't know if it 's H E B statewide or whatever ,
A: but they have videos that , uh ,
A: I don't know if they still have them ,
A: but they were free rental , videos , that had something to do with the war .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , it was ,
B: with the children 's aspect ?
A: Right .
A: It was something for children , that they , they had several advertisements on television pushing parents going and , uh , getting the video and watching it with their children and discussing it and that kind of thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I suppose that is a valuable service .
B: Again not having , uh , lived through another war , I don't know if that 's a common thing that people thought of ,
B: or if that was a new concern with people .
A: Well back during the Viet Nam conflict that no one will , will have the guts enough to call a real war
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , the , that type of technology just was n't at people 's disposal .
B: That 's true .
B: That 's true .
A: So I don't think there 's ever been a war that 's been so thoroughly covered by the news .
B: And spot in the probably more importantly , one that lasted short enough that , that people 's interest did n't flag too badly .
A: Yeah .
A: I tell you what ,
A: the first three days , I was glued to the television .
B: I will admit the same thing .
B: And I , would come home and flip on MacNeil Lehrer
A: And I ,
B: and they would run these extended two , three hour versions of the program
A: Yeah .
B: and I , I was just , I was horrified and fascinated by what I was seeing .
A: I tell you what .
A: The uh , the war spot in
A: let 's see , was it a Wednesday or Thursday ?
A: Must have been Thursday , uh ,
A: and Friday night I was , I stayed up until two o'clock in the morning , sitting , right dead center in front of my television just watching practically with my mouth hanging open .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because I was watching C N N ,
A: and they would , they would switch back to one of their Israel bureaus ,
A: and the people would be standing there in gas masks ,
A: and you 'd be hearing the sirens ,
A: and it was just ,
A: I was amazed .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I , I did n't have that experience .
B: I , I don't have cable
A: Oh .
B: so I , I 'm pretty much limited to P B S , which I thought , I thought they did a very good job .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I 've got one question for you .
B: I you say you take the newspaper .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I , I found the newspaper situation in Dallas very interesting .
B: We 've got the one fairly , well , relatively weaker paper , the TIMES HERALD , and then the MORNING NEWS , which has a very strong subscription .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Does San Antonio
B: you said San Antonio , right ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Do you have just one paper ,
B: or do you have several ?
A: No .
A: There are two ,
A: and they 're pretty close .
A: Uh , the one that I picked is more similar in format to the newspaper ,
A: I grew up near Houston
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there are two major newspapers there that run pretty much neck and neck ,
A: and the one I picked here had the same format as the one that my parents took as I was growing up . I mean , the same type of typeface on the headline and that kind of stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's piddly stuff to pick a newspaper over ,
A: and I enjoy ,
A: the comics are better in this newspaper .
A: This newspaper has the far side and the comics that I enjoy
A: and the other one has some weird ones that I 've never heard of .
A: So ,
B: I , I actually take both newspapers on the weekends .
A: Do you ?
B: I figure I 'm only taking on the weekend ,
B: and I can afford that .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I find the news reporting in the MORNING NEWS to be better ,
B: but I sort of have a liberal political slant ,
B: and the MORNING NEWS just has an incredibly conservative editorial , um , outlook .
A: And my , My fiancee takes probably six Sunday papers .
B: I get the TIMES HERALD just to balance that out a little bit .
A: He takes both San Antonio papers , an Austin paper , both Houston papers ,
A: I guess he takes seven , the San Marcos paper and the New Braunsfel paper ,
A: but he 's a football coach at Southwest Texas State University ,
A: so he 's getting all the sports sections .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , so , you know , he has these stacks of Sunday newspapers that go unread ...
A: I guess I don't really have a problem with capital punishment .
A: I 'm not really sure what the exact , uh , specifications are for Texas .
A: I know that they , uh , have capital punishment for certain crimes ,
A: and that 's probably the way I feel about it is , is , uh , it kind of depends on the crime that 's committed .
A: My belief all my life , I guess , has been that , that if you take someone else 's life , then you automatically giving up , uh , yours in place of it
A: But I don't ,
A: seems to be a lot of controversy about that
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , uh , I tend to agree with you , uh , you know ,
B: probably pretty similar views on it ,
B: but that 's , that 's one of the things I don't , don't understand is , is so much of the controversy
B: because , uh , you know , I , I do also , myself , believe in capital punishment , uh ,
B: uh , you know , it , it really irks me to see so much effort put into preventing someone being put to death by the State when they so callously and usually so , you know , without even thinking or without any concern , uh , you know , end somebody else 's life , and in a lot of cases several people 's lives .
A: That 's true
A: I guess , well , there 's , there 's probably two or three different types of , of views as far as the controversy goes .
A: I can see where if a life was taken by accident or , uh , I don't know what you 'd call it , not premeditated or , I guess primarily by accident , uh , there may be cases where the death penalty is not called for ,
A: but I lean towards , if it 's premeditated or if it 's , uh , kind of a habitual or , or a habit that , uh , a tendency that people , uh , may get into , then I guess I don't really have a problem with it
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's kind of the way I feel .
B: If , if you 've got a guy who 's , who 's been to trial and has been in and out of jail , you know , basically a , a three time loser for the twelfth time , you know , and he goes out and kills somebody , he 's not going to be reformed ,
B: he 's not going to get any better , you know ,
B: it 's , it 's not going to , it 's just not going to get any better .
B: And , and the only thing , you know ,
B: a lot of people have the opinion that , you know , don't , don't have capital punishment ,
B: but give them life in jail
B: and , you know , I could go along with that , if , if I could be assured that it would be their natural life in jail and not parole after ten , or twelve years .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that 's what aggravates a lot of people , is somebody does get a life sentence in place of the death penalty ,
A: and they wind up back on the streets after five years or six years or like the kid on the news tonight out in Mesquite who was out in six months .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's just our criminal system is just so , I guess , overloaded ,
B: but the , you know , the , the problem is not so much with the prison system , you know ,
B: I mean , because the , the cops are out there doing their job enforcing the laws ,
B: and the prison system are just , you know ,
B: they 're trying to cope with them ,
B: but you know , the thing about capital punishment I , you know ,
B: a lot of people don't think it would be a deterrent , uh , to , to future crime ,
B: and the way it is now , it 's not .
A: No .
B: Because , you know , you ,
B: if like
B: the State of Texas , for example , may , uh , you know , may execute somebody twice a year .
B: You know , that 's , that 's no kind of deterrent because we , we 've got literally hundreds of people on death row , and , and many of them who have been there for literally for ten or fifteen years on death row ,
A: Right .
B: and that 's , that 's certainly no kind of deterrent ,
B: and I would tend to agree with anybody who says right now that it , it 's not a terrent , a deterrent , because it 's not .
A: No ,
A: it 's not .
A: You think of your chances of getting the death penalty after uh , committing a crime are really pretty slim right now .
A: And you can , probably spend , uh , a lot of time , uh , or maybe eventually , uh , just waiting it out ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and that 's where a lot of aggravation comes , I think , is , is , uh , these guys spend so much time in the appeal process or just in the waiting process ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: they may spend years ,
A: and , you know , the last I heard it was costing ten , twenty , thirty thousand dollars a year , uh , to keep these guys waiting .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it 's amazing .
B: There 's , uh , there 's a girl I work with , our secretary , as a matter of fact ,
B: her , her father was murdered , her father and three other guys up here in Sherman .
B: And the , uh , the guy , that they tried and convicted and sentenced him to death , you know , he 's been on death row for like eight years .
A: Yeah .
B: And , you know , this , this was her father , uh , you know , that , that got killed , you know , just cold-blooded murder , him and three other people ,
B: and , but still , for some reason , you know , this , this guy 's sentence has not been carried out , you know ,
B: he 's sitting on death row for eight years after having killed four people ,
B: and the State still ca n't bring itself to , to execute , this guy .
A: To , yeah , to carry it out .
A: It sort of takes the justice out of the justice system .
B: It does ,
B: it really does , you know .
B: She , and they have to go back , uh ,
B: occasionally , you know , she has to write letters to the parole board and , you know , lawyers ,
B: and just , just ever so often she mentions , well , she 's got to do something else , you know , write another letter , or do something .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's just ,
A: It should be over and done with .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: you know , she should be getting on with her life , you know , getting , getting that part behind her ,
B: but yet , it 's , it 's kind of tied to her the way it is now .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
A: And she winds up being a , a victim , day after day after day .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
B: A victim ,
B: not only of , indirectly of the crime , but also indirectly by that , indirect involvement .
A: Right .
B: It 's just , it 's , it 's ridiculous .
A: She , She 's an emotional victim
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it 's terrible , you know
B: and ,
A: And , you know , the , like you say , the cops are out doing the work day by day have got to have a lot of frustration when they see all their work , basically go out the window .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , that ,
B: oh , man , I , I could n't be a cop for that , for that very reason , you know , because they do .
B: The , the criminal gets right back out
B: and , you know , the cop 's just got to go back and , and do his thing all over again , because so many of the crimes are , are done by repeat offenders .
A: Yes ,
A: they are .
B: It 's ,
A: Well , that 's about five minutes ,
A: so unless you 've got something else , well ,
B: Yeah .
B: No
A: It 's a pleasure talking with you .
B: All right ,
B: Ron , we 'll see you later .
A: Okeydoke ,
A: good-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay .
A: Tell me about your home .
B: Well , it 's an older home .
B: It was made back in the early sixties .
B: It 's a pier beam house .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Got three bedrooms , one bath and that just makes me scream .
A: That 's pretty tough
A: What area do you live in ?
B: I live in Houston .
A: Oh , okay .
A: I see .
A: Is that pretty typical for your area ?
B: Well , for the neighborhood I 'm in ,
B: yeah ,
A: Yeah .
B: This is one of the more established neighborhoods ,
A: Huh-uh .
A: That sounds real interesting .
A: I live in a suburb of Dallas
A: and , uh , I live in the basic three bedroom , two bath home .
A: So , at least , I have two bathrooms .
A: That 's not so bad ,
A: but , uh , it 's pretty typical for the area , as well .
A: Uh , I 've always been interested in older homes , personally .
A: So , I think you can end up doing more with them , it seems like .
A: What about yard space ?
A: Do you have lot of , a big lot , or anything like that ?
B: The whole lot I 'm sitting on is roughly half an acre .
A: Oh , I see .
B: About half of that , about a quarter acre of that , I 've got a garden .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Oh , that 's nice .
A: Because I have just like a very small , you know , those basic tract houses , like that .
A: We have a very small yard
A: and , um , I do have garden ,
A: but it 's extremely small ,
A: but , uh , it seems like , though , for your area that , that is sort of different .
A: In a big city like that most houses , I would think , would be sort of like what we live in . Just a you know , basic tract house .
B: Well , in the , uh , newer neighborhoods and development communities , the houses are so close together ,
A: Yeah .
B: if your neighbor is having an argument you can here it blow for blow .
A: That 's exactly right .
A: That 's the way we are .
A: We have , uh , one thing we have that we really enjoy here , is we have a hot tub in the back .
A: So we have , we have quite a few parties ,
A: and uh , seems like everyone that lives around us , ends up , you know , hearing every conversation that goes on outside with everyone .
A: So , uh , that 's true
A: that is one thing that I don't enjoy about it , is the houses are too close together .
A: But , uh , you know , it 's fine for now ,
A: hopefully , eventually , we 'll move in a larger home .
A: The only thing that I don't like also is the rooms are so small .
A: You know , it 's very difficult to arrange furniture and things like that ,
A: so .
A: Are your rooms in your house bigger since it 's a sixties home ?
A: Because it seems like then , that they built the homes much larger
A: is that true ?
B: Yeah .
B: And they 've got better closet space .
A: Yeah .
B: new houses that I 've seen .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's really it .
A: That 's a plus .
A: At least we do have like three walk-in closets here .
A: So that 's , that 's maybe not so typical ,
A: but , uh ,
B: It helps a bunch .
A: Yeah .
A: It really does , except when you have to fill them up
A: and then you get those Visa bills in .
A: And
B: Yeah .
A: So anyway , um , anything else about the area , about , um ,
A: you know , can you compare yourself to any thing around there .
B: Most of the neighborhood I 'm in is pretty typical .
B: This whole neighborhood was built between sixty and sixty-five .
A: Yeah .
A: So it 's , it 's ,
B: Everybody has got a pretty good size yard ,
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , I got probably the biggest ,
B: if not the biggest yard , I 've got pretty close to it , in the entire neighborhood .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's nice .
A: That is nice .
A: But , you know , too , the only bad thing , too , is that then you have to keep up , you know ,
A: you have to , the yard to deal with
B: Well , I , I enjoy that though .
A: and ,
A: Do you .
A: You must have more time than , than I have .
A: I 'm sitting out here right now .
A: We had this terrible rain
A: and I 'm looking at the yard and seeing how tall the grass has gotten
A: and it seems like
A: now that 's , that 's ,
A: I almost wish I was in an apartment or something . You know ,
B: It 's rained
A: Yeah .
A: Well , um , I don't know , do we just terminate this or do you have to talk for a certain amount of time ?
A: Do you know ?
B: No ,
B: we can ,
B: after you go to somewhere between five and ten minutes , they 'll get a little master recording this .
A: Okay .
A: Okay .
A: Well , can you tell me anything else about the house
A: Are you working on it ?
A: I mean , do people around that area seem to do a lot of renovation ?
B: Yeah .
B: This entire neighborhood , everybody keeps the places up real nice .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's , that 's nice .
A: Yeah ,
A: the town that I came from is , uh , is a , uh , older town ,
A: it like ,
A: the typical , the typical homes there are like , you know , early nineteen hundreds late eighteen hundreds ,
B: Wow .
A: and I renovated a house there
A: and that was so much fun .
A: I mean , there , if you don't live in a house that 's at least seventy-five to hundred years old , you know , you 're just nobody , practically
A: And that was really , that was a good experience for me to learn a lot of discipline
A: and , uh , was considered typical for that area .
A: So , uh , it was quite a change for me to come to a house like that now that 's just , you know , a very square little box
A: and , you know , there 's not a whole lot you can do with it .
A: But , uh , anyway ,
B: Living in the city has some advantages .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's true .
B: If given the choice , I 'm getting out .
A: Oh , really .
A: Well , I have lived in a small town for , you know ,
A: this , this town was like less than ten thousand people
A: and it was about sixty miles south of Dallas .
A: And , you know , I did n't move out of there until I was , you know , twenty-seven
A: and that was just , you know ,
A: so I love the big city
A: You know , I had lived in a rural area for , for so long
A: so I 've enjoyed it ,
A: but , uh , it can , it can get kind of tough .
A: Its like a rat race sometimes .
B: That 's just something I 'll never adapt to .
B: I don't , I don't want to be a part of the rat race .
B: I want to be basically just kind of left alone .
A: Yeah
B: If I want to sit around and mess with my garden , I 'll mess with my garden ,
A: Yeah .
B: if I want to work in the flower beds ,
A: Yeah .
A: It sounds like you enjoy working outside as well .
A: I , I ,
B: Very much .
A: yeah .
A: I really do enjoy that .
A: But I have n't planted anything yet
A: or , you know , I usually have gotten flowers coming out the
A: but I , I have n't done that , yet .
A: I 've had finals this week .
A: So , uh , you know , I 'm just kind of trying to , trying to stick in with that ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: but , uh , since that 's over with now , maybe I can , I can get this yard in shape .
A: Do you do a lot of gardening ?
B: Uh , landscaping is more , than the gardening ,
A: Yeah .
B: the I 've got my beans , peas ,
A: Yeah .
B: I 've got some onions out , tomatoes ,
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm not real sure what they 're going to do this year .
A: I never have much luck with tomatoes .
A: I do plant a lot of beans , because it seems like , the , uh , bugs get on them so easily
A: and I have a real problem with anything like pesticides or anything like that ,
A: so , the only thing that I use is soap .
A: I water , you know , spray the plants , because they say , supposedly , that will keep the bugs off them .
A: But , uh , I don't have luck with that tomato plant ,
A: so I hate to spray them with anything .
A: Um , what do you do ?
A: Do you have any tips you could give me ?
B: Um , my favorite one is putting on the , um , tomato plant is to put , uh , dust ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: and that stuff has been around since the beginning of time ,
A: That 's true .
A: That 's true .
A: My dad is a farmer
A: so , I 've heard him talk about that forever .
A: I guess it works ,
A: but , um , you have to really wash your vegetables after that
A: so it wo n't make you sick .
A: Let 's see what else do you do to your house ?
B: Well , I 've done some rewiring on it .
A: Yeah .
B: Eventually , if we stay here , I 'm going to have to rewire the entire house .
A: Oh , really .
A: Do you plan on like adding any rooms or ,
A: you have enough space
A: you could probably do that .
A: Or is it ,
B: I 've talked about adding at least one more room and definitely adding another bath on .
A: Yeah
A: I would think so if you only have one bathroom for three bedrooms ,
A: that 's tough .
A: Do you not , like , have a half bath .
B: Not even a half bath .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's rough .
A: The house that I used to live in had one bath and a half .
A: And that was even just with two people .
A: That was a pain .
B: The only thing that saves it , with the schedule I work and the schedule my wife works , we 're getting ready to go to work at totally different times . So that . It 's not like we 're tripping over each other in the morning .
A: That 's good .
A: Really .
A: That could account for a lot of marital problems I think
A: You get to know each other very well if you have to share a bathroom
B: It does n't work if you 're trying to shave and she 's trying to put her eyeliner on
B: and , you 're both fighting over the mirror .
A: No .
A: That 's right .
A: It does not make for a happy situation .
A: That 's true .
A: Well , do you have any children ?
B: I 've got one .
A: One child .
A: And they enjoy where they 're living ?
B: We 'll ,
B: he 's nine months old .
A: Oh , so he does n't know , right .
A: I guess , he 's a big help out in your garden .
A: Right .
B: He likes to dig around a little bit .
B: His mother comes in and says , why did you let him play in the dirt ,
B: I guess he 's enjoying himself .
A: That 's right .
A: It 's healthy ,
A: why not .
A: Yeah .
B: He was eating the dirt ,
B: I would n't worry about it .
A: No .
A: It wo n't hurt them .
A: I was a big dirt eater , supposedly , when I was a child
A: and I turned out okay
A: so , don't worry about it .
A: Just let him enjoy himself
A: So you think that you want to move away from the big city , uh ?
B: Well , that 's what I 've always ,
B: I was raised up in a town that was about ten thousand people .
A: Yeah .
A: So you 're just the opposite from me .
A: You want to go back to that , uh ,
B: After we got married we moved , ended up moving to the Houston area .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: So are you from Texas ?
B: Yeah .
A: You are .
A: So it 's not , you know ,
A: that 's true
A: Houston , in itself , is a pretty tough place .
A: Okay ,
A: I 'm back on .
B: Okay .
A: Um , you say you watch evenings mostly ?
B: I watch evenings because I work all day .
B: I used to watch daytimes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , mainly like ALL MY CHILDREN , that kind of thing .
A: Oh , so ...
B: And then sometimes OPRAH and sometimes DONAHUE ,
B: but now it 's mainly evenings .
A: Do you have any that you like well enough that you tape them when you 're not going to be there ?
B: Yes .
A: Which ones ?
B: I tape THIRTY SOMETHING , and L A LAW .
A: Oh .
B: Those are the two I like the best .
A: Oh , two they 're going to change .
A: Well , one they 're taking , off .
B: I know .
B: It 's going to be history , I know .
A: I don't know what 's going to
A: yeah ,
A: we like L A LAW .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We don't watch THIRTY SOMETHING ,
A: but that 's kind of young for us .
A: My husband and I are grandparents .
B: Oh , well . Well ...
A: So we don't watch , uh , that type of show ,
A: but we like L A LAW .
A: We like , that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We 're just ,
A: I 'm sorry they 're breaking the team up , because we liked all the ones that were on there .
B: I know .
B: I 'm amazed .
A: I 'm not sure I like the new ones too much .
B: Huh-uh .
B: I 'm surprised that , I was surprised at the ending of , you know , with all the funny things happening and different things .
A: I just wonder if , if , uh , they just want to go on to other projects and not be stuck in this show , since it 's gone on for so long ,
A: it looks like , it looks like it might be one of these seven or eight year run things . Where you kind of can spend your whole career on one show .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I know .
A: Of course , I guess that 's not bad .
A: Alan Alda did it on MASH .
B: I know .
B: Is n't that funny ?
A: It has n't hurt him at all .
A: So do you , do you mostly like this type of like a story type of thing that lasts an hour ?
B: Oh , I don't usually like stuff that continues .
B: That 's why I 'm surprised I like those two shows , because usually I like , you know , stuff that just ends sort of , that you just , you don't have to , have watched , you know .
A: In one hour , like QUANTUM LEAP .
B: Yeah .
B: I mean , you don't have to ...
A: That 's one of our favorites
B: Yeah .
B: You don't have to have watched it last week in order to follow ,
B: so , you know , I usually don't like that .
A: Right ,
A: which they do at the beginning of the season , to grab your attention . You know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's always a bummer too .
B: I know .
A: Sometimes it 's better just to tape record both of them and then watch it all in one .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We , we do that sometimes .
A: I , I guess I 'm , I 'm not into real heavy stuff .
A: L A LAW is about the heaviest thing I watch .
A: I , I 'll , mostly I 'm into it for relaxation ,
B: Yeah .
A: so I like things like GOLDEN GIRLS or CHEERS
A: or , uh , Monday night is real good with me , you know , MAJOR DAD and , and , uh , NORTHERN EXPOSURE and , and , uh ,
A: oh , what 's that one with Burt Reynolds ?
A: That type of show is what we what , uh , we watch .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We generally just stay on one channel all , for all of Monday night , just to watch those .
A: Just some of the times they 're continued ,
A: but mostly they 're just little vignettes .
A: A new one we found we really like is that DINOSAURS .
A: Have you seen that ?
B: Huh-uh .
A: That is , it 's , it 's really funny .
A: They use like animated ,
A: it 's not like a cartoon ,
A: but it 's like dummies and things , that are used ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it 's really , um ,
A: and robots probably .
A: But there 's always a , a moral to each story .
B: And what night is it on ?
A: Well , we watched it ,
A: the times we 've seen it , it 's been like on or , excuse me , Friday night .
A: Uh , but it 's ,
A: we 've only seen it a couple of times .
A: But it , it 's real ,
A: the first one we saw , um , they were , it , it involved a tradition of when a person reaches seventy-five ,
A: and I ca n't remember what day they call it ,
A: but , but , uh , the son-in-laws get to throw the mother-in-laws when they 're seventy five over a cliff
B: Oh , great .
A: Anyway Anyway , it , it goes on , you know ,
A: and the son-in-law and mother-in-law are sniping at each other and all ,
A: and then when it comes time for him to throw her over , well , the , the teenaged son the night before tried to save her by hiding her .
B: Oh .
A: And she said no ,
A: you ca n't do , you know ,
A: he ran her out , was running to in a wheelchair to hide her ,
A: and she said , `` You ca n't do that . ''
B: Huh .
A: '' This is tradition .
A: This is what old people are supposed to be , thrown over the , the cliff . ''
A: And , uh , he said , `` I don't understand . ''
A: It 's , it 's real funny that they give the teenagers the , as the one that questions , uh , the , what 's going on .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , in the end of , uh , the son-in-law , when he did get the mother-in-law up to the cliff , uh , the the teenaged son throws himself in the way and says , `` No , you ca n't do it , '' and then , and then , uh , `` Oh , well , we 've got to do it . It 's tradition , ''
A: and the son was , you know , `` Why ? ''
A: And so , in , in the end he does n't throw her over ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , he does n't .
A: and , of course , the town thinks he 's just terrible , because that has been tradition for hundreds of years and he 's broken it .
A: And then we saw one where this , there was a teenage , when a teenage boy comes into his manhood ,
A: they call it the night of the howling , or something like that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they all go out and howl , you know
A: And , and the son refused to do it .
A: He , he did ,
A: he thought it was not ...
B: So he did n't go howl ?
A: No ,
A: he would n't go howl ,
A: so all the , all the people that worked with the father ostracized him
B: Oh , how funny .
A: It is .
A: It , it , it 's , it 's real interesting to watch the show ,
A: and , and the relationship between the family is , is really now , now the mother-in-law lives in the house with them .
B: Huh .
A: So it 's ,
A: our , our grandson , our oldest grandson is the one that , that got us to watching it .
A: But it really is , it moves real fast .
A: It 's a real short ,
A: and there 's always , like I say , a moral to it
A: and ,
B: It 's just a half hour ,
B: or is it hour ?
A: Well , half hour .
B: Oh .
A: That , that 's all there is to it .
A: And , and , uh , they ...
B: There 's not many half hour shows ,
B: it seems like that ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it , they , they 're trying to liken the , the father in there of the teenage son to like JACKIE GLEASON SHOW . Uh , the way he talks to his mother-in-law and so forth ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I guess maybe there are some parts of that ,
A: but I did n't really see that in there .
A: But what I 've read about it , they talk about that .
A: But anyway , we 've , we 've enjoyed that ,
A: and , and , uh , I guess mostly I , I like the news shows too , the news magazines , like SIXTY MINUTES or TWENTY , TWENTY or PRIME TIME LIVE or something like that , you know , all , all of those shows , if I can do it ,
B: Yeah ,
B: no ,
B: I watch those if I ,
A: but my husband likes to watch , um , old movies , especially war movies , or , or , uh , sports , which I 'm not ,
B: Oh , see , I like sports .
A: No ,
A: I don't .
A: Well , I , I do , I like ice skating
A: and I like , uh , gymnastics , and some track and field ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I , I ,
A: and I 'll watch snippets of baseball games
A: and I , I just don't have that much time to sit and watch the whole thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I don't ever , no matter what 's on , I don't ever just sit and watch T V .
A: I 'm usually either doing dishes ,
A: or I may be sewing ,
A: or , you know , I always have , or letter writing ,
B: I know .
A: or I may be working around in the room somehow ,
A: but I don't , I don't ever just sit and ,
A: I , that 's something that comes from your old age , you know .
B: No ,
B: I don't sit .
A: Idle hands are the devil 's workshop
B: I know .
B: Who has time ?
B: I don't have time to sit , I know .
A: No .
A: It 's , it 's , uh ,
B: That 's why I don't get to watch that much .
B: I mean , I , watch nine o'clock
A: Right .
B: I do okay , because the kids are all in bed ,
B: but before that , I really , there 's not much time .
A: Right .
B: Or like at six thirty I 'll watch WHEEL OF FORTUNE or something like that .
A: Right ,
A: well , our ,
A: yeah ,
A: if our if our grandchildren are with us , that 's , they have to watch that .
A: We don't watch it unless they 're here
B: Uh-huh .
B: No ,
B: I like that .
B: No ,
B: I 'll watch , game show kind of stuff
A: But they , uh ,
B: but , Yeah .
A: It 's , it 's , um , oh ,
A: and , you know , the , the kids will get you started on stuff like AMERICA 'S FUNNIEST HOME VIDEOS .
A: We 've wound up sending in one .
A: That 's something I did n't think that we 'd ever do
B: Did you send one ?
A: Yeah .
A: My oldest grandson pulling his tooth .
A: He 's , he 's , he would n't let us pull it ,
B: How funny .
A: and I mean , it , it got to the point he was eating a pear here ,
A: and he bit into it ,
A: and it was just hanging by a thread .
A: And I , and I 'd tell him , you know , it 's getting ready to fall out ,
A: and he walked around the house with his face down toward the floor and his mouth open , hoping it would because he would n't let anybody pull it .
A: And he he wound up pull ,
A: So do you have P C
B: I have a personal computer at home .
B: It 's an A T compatible .
B: I don't use it very much any more .
B: I used to use it quite a bit .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I also have a P C at work that I use as a terminal .
B: I do some P C stand alone work on it ,
B: and I can transfer data back and forth between the P C and the main frame .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What about you ?
B: Do you own a computer ?
A: Um , well I sort of own a computer .
A: We have two P C at home ,
A: but neither one do we really own . Um .
B: Are you leasing them ?
A: No ,
A: both of them are sort of work related ,
A: and ,
B: Loaners from work ?
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's the nicer way , right .
B: Do you work for T I ?
A: No ,
A: no .
A: Um , I , actually I 'm doing consulting right now because I just had a baby ,
A: and my husband 's working at Bell Labs ,
A: but he 's really from France ,
A: and these computers actually are from France .
B: What brand are they ?
A: One of them 's a Compaq
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's a three eighty-six
B: I 'm jealous .
A: and the other is actually a I B M P C compatible ,
A: it 's a three eighty-six ,
A: I guess it 's twenty-five ,
A: yeah ,
A: three eight six twenty-five C maybe
A: I don't know ,
A: no we don't have the
A: we decided not to get the which is actually another loaner one too that we picked up for a consulting job that my husband was doing
A: and ,
B: What kind of consulting do you do ?
A: Um , well , I actually do some work , working at M I T and at NIST , National Institute of Standards and Technology in Washington ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then I worked for Dragon Systems for a while .
B: What kind of work do you do when you 're consulting ?
A: Um , well , it depends ,
A: it 's very different in the different places ,
A: but ,
B: Is it programming related ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Program related , research related ,
A: and I work in the speech field ,
A: and I do a lot metacoustic phonetics and looking at the acoustic characteristics of speech ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I do that type of stuff typically for other people ,
A: and we , like here we use the P C to do that .
A: Mostly I use it for writing papers and things like that .
B: Word processing .
A: Well , more , uh ,
A: do you know Latek ? Word text processing ,
B: No I 'm not familiar with that .
A: so I don't , I don't use , I mean ,
A: you can call it word processing ,
A: but I don't usually use a word processor to do it
B: Uh-huh
A: and we don't have too much standard software .
A: Like I have n't bought , we have n't really bought any commercially available software at all .
A: So we don't use it for things like our accounts and addresses and things like that .
A: We use it more for just writing programs when we need to or , um , doing research , looking at the speech signal and then doing writing , and also as a just as a terminal ,
A: and we connect to other computers to read our net mail and things like that .
B: So , you 've got , you 've got a modem in it then .
A: Uh , neither one has a modem ,
A: but we have a modem .
B: At home you have a modem that you can connect to each of them ?
A: Neither one ,
A: Right .
B: Uh , and so it 's an external modem .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have
B: I got , when I got mine I had an internal modem in it
A: Uh-huh .
B: I used it , uh , quite a bit when I was , uh , uh , looking at , uh , information on a large bulletin board sponsored by a newspaper in a , in Fort Worth
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , went out of town for a while ,
B: and , and sort of got off the , uh , bulletin board and off of my micro completely
A: Uh-huh .
B: and after a while the modem started making noises on its own without , uh , even without using it on the computer ,
B: I could turn a computer on ,
B: it 'd start squawking .
B: So I finally opened up the box and took it out .
A: So that was it .
B: I think that 's the thirty second warning .
A: Oh , I did n't hear it .
A: Do you hear , the , the beep in the background .
B: Yes .
A: Oh , that 's a , an ambulance or something going on here , I think .
B: Okay .
B: Where , Where are you ,
A: I have n't ever noticed the thirty second warning actually .
B: and , uh ,
A: In Manhattan .
B: Are you at home now ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm at home .
B: So you 've got a lot of traffic noise real close .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So it 'd be interesting for the people that look at this signal I mean , because there 's a lot of background noise that , you know , people can hear .
A: So it 'll be interesting how much of it actually gets picked up .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: and often times that ,
A: I ca n't talk on ca n't do this much later than now , between sort of like six , five thirty and six thirty or something like that , because the traffic outside , they honk the horn so loud I ca n't even hear the phone call .
B: What time is it now where you are ?
A: Uh , about twenty after four .
B: So you 're an hour ahead of where I am .
B: I 'm in Central Central time zone .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah
A: we 're Eastern .
A: And , um , what did , did you ever try using like Prodigy or any of those systems ?
B: No ,
B: I have n't done that .
B: Uh , I know someone who has ,
B: and , and she 's , uh , very , uh , pleased with it .
B: She told me some of the things you can do ,
B: and it 's just a , a very handy tool to have .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: and you can do a
B: it makes things very convenient .
B: You can save a lot of money , too . Certainly cut down on long distance charges if you , if that 's what you have in mind .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 've never tried using that ,
A: I don't know too much about it .
A: What about ,
A: have you , did you use commercially available software
A: or ,
B: I have , I have used Lotus .
B: I have used , uh , Word Perfect
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , I ,
B: not heavy use .
B: I 've used , uh , D Base
B: and , uh , I 've used a substantial amount of shareware .
B: Um , I have n't done much Lotus work connected with my job .
B: I 've been through three classes
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I have a great deal of respect for it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I have n't done much word processing work with my job .
B: I do some
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I ,
B: and the D Base work I 've done was strictly class related .
A: I 've never used D Base , um ,
A: but I 've heard both good things and bad things about it .
B: Well , it 's probably the granddaddy of most , uh , data base management systems .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's got some pretty strong competitors .
B: Some of them have reviews that are better than D Base ,
B: so , I , I think by now , it 's a matter of , uh , personal taste .
A: Yeah ,
A: people told me that it was sort of cumbersome to use .
B: I can understand that very easily .
B: I 've used , I 've had a class on , um , R Base and also in Paradox
A: Uh-huh .
B: and both of those seem very easy to use compared to D Base .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you think you D Base is more flexible or allows you to do more .
A: Or do you think the others are pretty much compatible these days ?
B: Um , I would n't say compatible , but certainly comparable .
A: But , uh
A: yeah ,
A: I did n't mean compatible ,
A: I meant comparable .
A: My brain is going to mush .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And what do you work on at T I ?
B: I 'm a computer programmer on the I B M main frames .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I do , uh , mainly business data processing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I also handle production support for the systems in my area of responsibility .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , sometimes I get called late at night at home because there 's a production problem ,
B: and that gives me the opportunity to , uh , come in to work and fix it , if I ca n't think of some thing to tell the trouble shooter while we 're on the phone .
A: Right .
B: Um , I also , uh , handle most of the calls from our users and other programmers who need to find out something connected ,
B: Okay .
A: Um , well I guess first of all I , I could have asked that before .
A: Do you have children ?
B: No .
A: No .
A: Okay .
A: Because I , I did n't know if that would make a difference in how you felt .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , what do you think about the proposal that all young Americans should spend a year or two ,
B: I think it 's a good idea .
B: I think everybody should , should , uh , put in their time so to speak for the , for the good of the , the nation and for the good of themselves .
A: Yeah .
B: I think it 's , uh ,
B: would everyone grow up and mature and , and realize what this country 's all about .
A: I just , um ,
A: I guess that 's my , that 's something that my family has always believed strongly in ,
A: and , uh , I had opportunities in high school , to work in some programs , um
B: Did you ?
B: something Oh !
A: and , and I agree with what you said that it 's , uh , it benefits the person doing it so much I don't think they realize
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I , uh , I , I think it gives you a better perspective , on life
A: and , uh , it gives you a little bit , uh , more a glimpse of the , the real world
A: and and it would certainly help the country , too , uh .
B: Yeah .
B: Really
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's probably like , uh , quite a few things that , that the kids , uh , maybe not so much nowadays but used to go through , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: they , just , they were , they did things for people , you know , for their communities , for their , their , uh , families , for their friends , where now , I 'm not sure they really do .
A: Yes .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I think sometimes through groups and organizations , um ,
A: my first , when I first thought of it , I thought it , uh , when they asked the question I thought , well that sounds wonderful .
A: And then , I wondered if people were unwilling
A: but , but I think even if you went in with a negative attitude I don't think it would stay negative very long .
A: Um , but I do know through some organized groups like Scouts and church um , they , do still have opportunities .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's probably true You know
A: But , I , I think that 's a small , uh , number could ,
B: but even , even through those groups , do you think that they participate as much as maybe they used to ?
A: No ,
A: um , not since , um , not as much as I remember growing up .
A: And that was something , uh , I think in the fifties and sixties , um , seemed more common in the last two decades .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: I think that 's probably true .
A: But ,
B: I think it 's probably more true , still in the , in the smaller communities then in the larger cities .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Where , uh , where abouts do you live ?
A: What part of the country ?
B: Well , I live in Richardson right now . Which is just ,
A: Oh , okay .
A: We 're in Plano
A: so we 're not far apart .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: okay .
A: One of the calls I 'd gotten before was , uh , down to Austin
A: and , and I know , a friend of mine talked to someone in the midwest
A: so I know there is the possibility that it could be out of the area .
B: Yeah .
B: Gosh ,
B: I had n't even thought about it being out of the area
B: but you 're right .
B: Yeah .
B: I grew up in a real small town in Florida .
A: Oh .
B: I mean a real small town
B: And , uh , I think it was just
B: of course it was back in the , in the fifties
B: and I think it was real prevalent back then .
B: I I think people thought more of others than they do now . You know , as far as doing things for them and , and then gaining benefits from it .
A: Yeah .
A: Well ,
A: and maybe , uh , maybe this would be a way to get that feeling back . Um , if we 've lost some of that
A: and it , it seems in the last decade or two , um , that 's true ,
A: maybe that 's a way ,
A: if , if young people had to do it um , maybe that would start the trend back because that 's one of the things I always thought was a wonderful part of our country . Um , is helping others
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I do to .
B: I do to .
B: I 'm not sure that , that today 's kids would go for it though .
B: I think you would have to start younger .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I don't know how young you 'd have to go
B: but I think by the time they 're , oh , early teenagers anyway , I think it 's too late now . At least around here .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think , uh , I think it does help , um , even preschoolers , you know
A: they 're , um , things even just starting around the home . You know
B: Right .
A: little ones can do a little bit to help the family .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and just watching the parents do things too , um , it can start a pattern .
A: There 's always something , no matter how young ,
A: and then that helps develop that attitude .
A: Um , I guess I would really like to see this happen with families more .
A: You know , I think this is certainly a possible way , um , to handle it
A: but I wish ,
A: that 's something that I think that has been lost in families
A: and I think that 's a good place to start again .
B: Yeah .
B: I think it has to start in the families first because if you don't do it for , for your own immediate family , you 're sure not going to do it for anybody else .
A: Yeah .
A: And I do think , um , the schools ,
A: if you 're trying to do something , even with food drives
A: and , uh , sometimes what Richardson and Plano both ,
A: I mean when you live in areas like that where there 's so much they don't realize what a small percentage of the world that is .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , that 's , uh ,
A: gosh I 'm sure , not even one percent of the world is as fortunate as these areas
A: and , uh it 's ,
B: That 's probably true .
B: That 's probably true .
A: I know our church youth group , uh , starts with projects young
A: but they have a high school group that works in the Appalachia area every year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 've done this for fourteen years now .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: Um , and it is , it 's , uh ,
A: and they 've also see that there 's , there 's a different way of life and those families are really close .
A: Some of the things , that we talked about that were common in the fifties are still there
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it really ,
A: every youth that 's ever gone really has felt that their life has been changed
A: and it 's changed their perspective .
A: And , and that 's just the two weeks during , during the summer .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , if two weeks , uh , could have that kind of effect I would think , uh ,
B: Well , that 's , that 's great .
B: I 'm glad that there are still some areas that , that get the youth involved in that sort of thing .
A: Well that 's ,
B: Like I said , I think it does ,
B: even a small amount of exposure can make a vast difference in their attitudes
A: Yes .
B: Well
A: Well , I guess , um ,
A: did you have anything else ?
B: No ,
B: no
B: I guess that 's about all .
A: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: Well , I enjoyed talking with you .
B: Well , good talking with you .
A: And I hope you have a good evening .
B: You too .
A: Thanks .
B: Okay .
A: Bye ,
A: bye .
B: Bye
B: Okay .
B: Do you , have you ever had to put your children in , child care , Mary Dell ?
A: Oh yes .
A: I 'm an old experienced hand .
A: I started back when it was n't , stylish to do that at all .
A: My daughter that 's seventeen now I worked even when she was a baby .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: And I had private care for both my daughters until they were two
A: and then I was really lucky to have put them in a , Methodist day school at Preston Hollow Methodist , right off of Walnut Hill and Preston .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it was a wonderful environment .
A: I , I just wish all kids , if they have to be put in day school , could have that kind of place
B: Uh-huh .
B: I see .
A: So , it worked well .
B: Oh .
A: How about you ?
B: Well , I have , uh , a nine year old and a six year old
B: and neither one of them has ever been in in , uh , day care for the reason of , of me working
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , they both went through preschool .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , we 've just been real lucky I think , anyway . To not ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: It 's not hard to find anything that 's part-time .
A: So many of the churches have really strong preschool and children 's day out
B: Right ,
B: like half day programs .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , it was a nightmare back when Cheryl was little
A: and this is one of the few churches that did it .
A: There were a couple downtown Dallas
A: but they were so , seemed , cold and impersonal ,
A: I just could n't hack it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And what I liked about Preston Hollow is that the people that were there when Cheryl was two , which was fifteen years ago , many of them are still there today .
A: So there was real continuity .
B: Oh .
A: She went back as a teenager
A: and these people that had changed her diapers when she was three were still there .
B: Oh , my gosh .
A: So , it , it was really neat .
A: But it was because they had a director that had always done it as a labor of love
A: and she just kept good people and real cheerful place , lots of arts and crafts ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh my goodness
A: and I 'm really glad my kids had it because Plano schools do so little of that . That if they had n't had it before they hit first grade they were never going to have any art or music or any of the interpretive stuff .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that is , uh , a big drawback I think in that , in the , uh , public schools out here . You know , to ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you 're lucky to have an art teacher
B: and if you do you get them once a week or something , you know .
A: Or pay for it after school .
A: Our Emily 's in the third grade over at Huffman
A: and they started a pilot program where we can pay private tuition so that they can take French and music and art
A: and you know , I willingly did it
B: Oh is that right ?
B: I had no idea .
A: but I thought , this makes me angry .
A: This is something that ought to be in the schools rather than some of the other stuff they do .
B: Oh my goodness .
B: And with our budget cuts , I 'm sure that 's not going to not going to change anytime soon .
A: Yeah .
A: Well that 's the only way they 're . Yeah , well , that 's the only way they 're going to be able to do it .
A: And parents who really want their kids to have any humanities are going to have to do that .
B: Oh my goodness .
A: So , in some ways I think the , the day schools do serve those purposes .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
B: Well even the preschools , you know they get so much of that in preschool
B: and then when they hit kindergarten , you know , it 's like wham Culture shock .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's just ,
A: Put the colors away
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Get the computers out
A: Which is too bad .
B: and , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: hard .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's so difficult for them .
B: Um , did you have your children , did you say in home , in , in , private care ,
B: was that in your home or in someone else 's home ?
A: Until they were two .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: both times they were at our house .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So you were able to have somebody come there .
A: And that was hard too .
A: I , I lucked out with really good people both times
A: but I know so many people that are never able to find that
A: and I 'd practically give my paycheck away to do it ,
A: so
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Did you have a nanny
B: or did you have someone that lived in with you ?
A: Yeah .
A: Well no ,
A: she did n't live with us .
A: Uh , the first one was an , elderly lady who was putting a , a daughter through nursing school just purely on baby-sitting money .
B: Oh .
B: Oh my goodness .
A: And she kept Cheryl during the day and then did more baby-sitting at night .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And she was neat because she was like the grandmother that my kids never had because both our parents are dead .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh .
A: So that , that was a plus from that respect as well .
B: Oh gosh .
A: And then with Emily it was a neighborhood friend that kept her .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So ,
B: I have , uh ,
A: I just can not fathom putting a little bitty baby in a commercial care center .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I was just listening to a program this morning ,
B: oh well , I guess it was on the HOME SHOW ,
B: but they were talking about , uh , a new , uh ,
B: oh I ca n't even think of the name of it .
B: I was halfway listening while I was painting
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , it 's some kind of advisory board they 've put together for parents and children
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 've now moved it to Washington , D C
B: and the , the doctor that was on there , the pediatrician said , you know , I ca n't imagine leaving a three week old and taking them to a nursery day-care and leaving them there .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh that would be hard .
B: You know , so , um ,
A: Well , they give a lot more leave .
A: I work at N C N B now ,
A: and our benefits for maternal and , and parental care and even for elderly people are , are really expanding .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We have more options now then we did when I , my kids were born ,
A: with being able to take off full-time longer of , you can phase your schedule in so that it 's not full-time for up to six months .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh boy , that 's great .
A: It 's really neat .
A: I 've , I 've had a couple of assistants that came back just three days a week
A: or they 've , you know , whatever schedule they want from a pay standpoint .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We try to work it with their hours .
A: And that helps because you don't have to just wean yourself cold turkey and say okay , I never get to see my baby for eight hours a day again .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: And the bank has a lot of programs now for child care referrals .
A: I 've ,
A: of course it 's too late for me so I 've , I 've not tried them to see how effective they are
B: Yeah
A: but I think we 're finally beginning to make progress but just not very fast
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: God , it 's amazing
A: And for our age group it 's too late , too little , too late .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: But I , I do think it 's an area that needs to be looked at and improved because more of us are going to have to work .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Two income families I think are here to stay .
B: Well and I would think , you know , since big business is supposedly why the government makes the decisions they do you know , the , the people that work in big business have families
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: they have children .
A: Yeah .
B: So , it 's only to their advantage that they get these programs going and working
A: Oh sure .
B: and , uh ,
A: You retain employees and keep them longer .
A: That 's , that was the rationale they gave when they were giving us information about our Employee Assistance Programs that they want us to be happy and want us to be able to cope with trying to split ourselves in fifteen million pieces
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: So , I , I hope it helps .
A: It seems to help the new mothers not have to come back full-time .
B: Oh that 's good .
A: because that 's hard .
B: That 's good to know .
B: I have a couple of friends that , have , have found the , uh , you know , a a private home to take their children to when they 're young until they hit the preschool age .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they
B: usually , you know , you 'll find a , a woman that 's keeping like six children or four to six children in the home
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my future , future sister-in-law 's mother does that too , full-time .
A: Well in Plano though the problem is , you find ,
A: and this is what I found with Emily .
A: I , from the time she started first grade , I wanted her out in Plano area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I kept finding neighbors and friends
A: and they 'd move .
B: Oh .
A: She ended up being in a different home every year .
B: Too transit .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I finally decided I did n't like that because it was traumatic to her to get so attached to a family and then have them move .
B: And her surroundings .
A: So this year I , I tried Kinder-Care
A: and , then she 's old enough to
A: Okay .
A: Well , let 's see ,
A: well , we keep our paper , paper bags lined up in the garage for glass and , glass and , uh , plastics
A: and , uh , we make the dump over to the Wal-Mart bins there as soon as they 're full .
A: I guess we collect milk cartons and whatever other plastics are acceptable .
B: Are you in the part of town where , uh , they have gotten into the other containers yet for recycling ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I did n't think that anybody had those at all yet .
B: Well , maybe they don't .
B: I , I know that was supposed to be in May
B: and I could n't tell whether some parts of town had started it or if it was just everybody was , was waiting for the delivery of whatever those containers were .
A: Right .
A: Well , no ,
A: I have n't seen any ,
A: so I , I thought that it all , had all been delayed several times .
A: So I have no idea what they look like
A: and , I 'm kind of anxious to see them .
B: Yeah , That 's going to be interesting because it 's , uh , we 've gotten so convenient and conventional in trash disposal which is uh ,
B: I look at our big green containers ,
B: and I say , well , they work fine
B: and I keep mine outside the garage so that I don't have any odors
B: but it 's clearly a place where , uh , uh ,
A: Oh , right .
B: it will be interesting to see how well that works
B: and I am , I 'm glad the community is doing it .
B: Uh , it 's one of those things that kind of has to be forced on people .
B: Uh , I don't know if , where you grew up in your , what you saw back , uh , years ago ,
B: but for me the thing that strikes me is I , uh , growing up in rural South Dakota where , hey the farmers brought their eggs to town and the local hatchery would candle them and package them is that , uh , in the fifties , uh , you could say we had the recycling going on then that we should have now . Which was all the milk bottles were glass
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: and you got a nickel or dime , which in that time was a lot of money , when you returned them .
B: Pop bottles all had a deposit on them .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , of course .
A: That , they did .
A: You know actually , we had milk delivered to our house in glass bottles
B: Oh .
A: and we had a milk shoot at the side of the house .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You could just leave the milkman a note on what you needed
B: Yeah .
A: and so you just put the empty ones back out there
A: and he took them away and put , you know , put another gallon of glass , glass bottle in there .
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , yeah ,
B: So , uh , you know , I look back at , at , uh , my childhood
B: and I 'd say , you know , they were doing things then that we should be doing now
B: and so it does n't bother me at all that we 're , we 're , uh , kind of starting to put the pressure on people to get away from all this , uh , throwaway society that got developed in the sixties and seventies .
A: Right ,
A: right ,
A: it would be nice , it would be nice to see it take a good turn here .
A: It seems like it started to take a turn and then it went away
A: so I hope that this time it , it stays .
A: Just , To see stacks and stacks of newspapers just to the trash is just amazing .
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , you know , we , when we go dump , actually when we go dump our things , oh , we collect newspapers , too , and then take them ,
A: seems like there 's a pretty well , there 's a pretty continual flow of people coming and dumping glass and dumping plastics
B: Uh-huh .
A: so that 's kind of encouraging .
A: I did n't know , you know , I did n't know if we started to do that .
A: I did n't know what to expect .
B: Yeah ,
B: well I 'll have to say I 'm , I 'm , the only one I 'm good at at this point is the newspaper . Uh , taking that to the Boy Scouts and my aluminum cans uh , getting rid of those ,
A: Right .
B: but on the plastic , I have , uh , I don't have any habits there yet
B: and I 'm , guess I 'm waiting for the city to , to push me in that direction
B: but , But , it just seems like on the larger scale that , you know , the , we always talk about in our society is that economic strife things
A: Well , I guess they will shortly .
A: I , uh ,
B: and I think if , uh , if we just start to put , you know , the nickel deposit on things , like , uh , was the case years ago that , uh , it would have more immediate effect , uh , than ,
B: because I remember searching ditches for beer bottles because they were worth money
A: Oh , right .
B: and it seems like beer drinkers are among the worst for throwing things out the window
B: and so outside my little town , we would , uh , go out and look for long neck beer bottle because they were worth something .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Do you know , I saw in Tom Thumb yesterday , I saw the return to the , uh , the small Coke bottles .
B: Yeah .
A: And I don't know if there 's a deposit on those or not .
B: I ,
B: well that 's interesting because ,
B: they 're back to glass , you 're saying ?
A: They were glass , they were the glass , uh ,
A: well , let 's see ,
A: they 'd be , I don't know , maybe ten ounce or six ounce or ten ounce . Sort of a small size , sort of a small size and , and we , anyway we just , we did n't stop and look them , look at them a long time
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: but , and they were packed in the old sort of six pack stick them down , you know , uh sort of , sort of a basket type thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: The carton . The paper carton .
A: Right ,
A: right ,
A: so , I had n't seen that in a long time .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I mean the ,
B: you really look and say a lot of the things we need to do , we were doing
B: and we had all the mechanisms in place with the fold up paper cartons , the wood uh , racks which now , basically , you could turn them into the plastic ones that would hold , uh , twenty-four bottles .
B: And , and , uh , uh , I 'm not really say going back to good old days ,
B: but certainly we were doing things the way we think we should do them now .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: well ,
B: Well , it will be interesting to see how , over the next year , this all works out because , like on the , uh , grass , I 'm , I know your husband , uh , does n't really like the paper sacks .
A: No ,
A: he does n't like the paper sacks
A: and , uh , but he , but , you know , he likes to pick the grass up , too .
A: He does n't , Does n't ,
B: Yeah .
B: I 'm the , I 'm the same way because otherwise , uh ,
B: oh , I 'm , I generally listen to Neal Sperry on Saturdays and Neal , uh , Neal 's a person who says , I like to pick it up
B: but I don't believe in throwing it into the , uh , the landfill ,
B: so I have my compost pile ,
B: but most of us don't have the , uh , sufficient , lot size to , uh , to do that .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: Uh , so I 'm glad the city 's willing to take that on .
A: That 's nice .
A: I guess they dump it the same place ,
A: I wonder where they dump that .
B: Well , there 's someplace , you know ,
B: if it 's ,
B: because really , when I look at what my grass does in , in actually about twenty-four hours , uh , knowing what the farmers do in rural areas , they just take their hay and just build a big mound of it and it naturally , uh , composts or stores
B: and , uh , so all you have to do is just place it somewhere and churn it
B: and it will naturally decompose uh ,
B: so you just have to kind of keep in separated
B: and then , uh , who knows how they process it from there and what they turn it into ,
B: but it 's certainly usable material .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: well they must , they must keep it separate if they have this date in .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They have this day now , that it 's , you know , separate from the other trash pick up .
B: Right
B: But , I , the thing I don't understand about that is , like when ,
B: it 's one thing to send grass there ,
B: but I 've trimmed trees and other things which , uh , end up being something that , clearly wo n't decompose nearly as rapidly ,
A: No .
A: Okay , well , um ,
B: What kind of music do you like ?
A: I , um , I was thinking about it for a long time ,
A: and I like basically almost every form of music and type of music .
A: Um , I don't have a whole lot of dislikes .
A: I , um , like jazz , um , especially the blues ,
A: and , uh , I like , uh , a lot of the , uh , of course the classics , um , everything back from Bach and , and Beethoven and Chopin and , um , just in general everything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I enjoy , uh , a lot of the , the modern forms , um , uh ,
B: Do you like , like rock and those kind of things punk even .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: Uh , well , that gets ,
A: some of the punk , um , when I was in high school , that was , uh , one of the big things , was punk music ,
A: and , uh , a lot of it is , has a lot to say , or some of it has a lot to say , the music does , the lyrics do ,
A: but the , the actual ,
B: I don't think they have a whole lot to say , even
A: Uh , well , it , it 's , it 's , it really expresses some of the opinions of , of the people who enjoy the music
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess .
A: um , but as far as a musical art form , I just don't see a whole lot of art to it
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um .
B: Do you like rap ?
A: Um , some of it , um ,
A: it depends .
A: I like , uh , the rap , the two types of rap I like , or I enjoy to listen to , and one is the , the rap that is just funny , um ,
A: and they usually do a lot of satire
B: Yeah
A: um .
B: that kind I kind of like .
A: Right .
B: Some of it is kind of pointless ,
A: Right ,
A: the monotonous the monotonous ,
B: yeah .
A: no
A: that 's not ,
A: I don't enjoy that at all when they 're just talking about , well , I 'm better than you , and blah , blah , blah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I like the funny , satire ,
A: and then some of it is , some of it actually gets into some serious discussions of problems in our , in urban society .
B: Yeah .
A: It really does .
A: It talks about , um , race relations and police relations
A: and , um , that , that
B: I guess I don't really care to listen to rap that much except for once in a while some of the funny more satire kind some times .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I 'm , with you though ,
B: I like classical
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , I don't like to listen to it all the time , but , um , some of the time , anyway .
B: I like easy listening , just kind of , you know ,
B: I guess I don't care much for rock and roll any more .
B: I used to like it all right ,
B: but I don't really care to listen to it any more for some reason .
B: Um , let 's see .
B: Country western , uh , I 'm not quite as big on that .
B: Some of it 's okay , uh
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's about my opinion of that
B: yeah
A: It 's , it 's okay , um ,
B: Some of it kind of falls in the rap category I guess ,
B: so
A: Um . The thing about country western that I don't enjoy is is , does n't seem to be any imagination behind it
B: Yeah .
A: the , one country and western song sounds like every other , country and western
B: a lot of them , sound , uh , really similar ,
B: yeah .
A: and so the , the musicians don't get to really get into their music .
A: They just play a certain number of chords
B: Yeah .
A: the drummer plays a certain beat ,
A: and you have a country and western song
B: Um .
A: and ,
B: Well , that 's kind of the way I feel about rock and roll sometimes , too , I guess .
B: They don't really ,
B: has kind of the same sound over and over ,
B: and the other thing I don't like about it is they have a tendency to play the instrumental so loud that you ca n't understand what the lyrics are
A: Um . Right .
B: you ca n't understand what they 're saying on some of those songs which probably is just as well on some of them , too .
A: Yeah .
A: And I ca n't say that I like a lot of the modern , the very , very modern , uh , rock and roll ,
B: Yeah .
A: but I , I definitely , I really enjoy the fifties , the sixties and a lot , some of the seventies rock and roll
B: Yeah
B: earlier things .
A: and , uh , I really enjoy , especially the sixties ...
A: Hello ?
B: Hi .
A: Hi ,
A: my name is Leslie .
B: Hi ,
B: I 'm Jennifer .
A: And where are you from ?
B: Pennsylvania .
A: Oh , nice ,
A: I 'm from Dallas , Texas .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: so ,
B: Oh , that 's neat .
A: Well , did you understand what this was for , you know , what it was for , what we ,
B: Uh , television shows ?
A: Yeah
B: Sure ,
B: that sounds good .
A: Okay
A: I , I don't watch too many ,
A: but we can try it .
B: Okay .
A: Are you ready to start ?
B: Sure am .
A: Okay ,
A: just a minute
B: Okay ,
B: I guess we 're recording now .
A: Yeah ,
A: okay .
B: What are your favorite television shows ?
A: Well , I don't really watch too many T V shows other than , uh , occasionally I 'll , I 'll turn on DONAHUE because it comes on in the morning when I seem to be getting ready around here .
B: Oh , really ?
A: And , uh , so if , if there 's no one else around , you know , it 's just me and I have a chance to listen to something , I 'll turn that on , but , uh , just for the , for the conversation factor , I think ,
A: but , and then I think I enjoy when I catch it , I don't even know what night it 's on , but DESIGNING WOMEN sometimes ,
B: Oh , I love that show .
A: Yeah ,
A: do you ?
B: Yes ,
B: that is great .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's fun .
A: And then there 's a new one that started out that I 've caught a couple of times called GOOD AND EVIL , I think .
B: Oh , I heard they just canceled that .
A: Oh , really ?
B: I read in today 's paper they just canceled that show .
A: It is a real different one .
A: It 's , uh , it 's , it 's different .
A: I guess I watch it more out of the uniqueness of it and the time that it comes on more than the fact that I have to see it .
A: But ,
B: Have you seen the show , it 's , it 's new this year , called HOME FRONT ?
A: No ,
A: I have n't watched that .
B: Oh , it 's , it 's really good .
B: It 's , uh , I think it 's on like Tuesday nights from ten to eleven
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's set in post World War Two times
B: and it 's about how the servicemen come home and readjust to civilian life here and the changes everyone 's going through .
B: It 's really interesting .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: It 's kind of like a a nighttime soap opera type thing .
A: Sounds neat .
B: It is , it 's a good , it 's really well written .
A: Yeah .
A: Is that on , what what station ?
B: Uh , I don't even know , to tell you the truth
A: Oh , okay .
A: What other shows do you like ?
B: Uh , I prefer OPRAH WINFREY to DONAHUE
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Well , she comes on later
A: and I usually have kids around so I don't end , end up watching that one is the only problem I have with it , I guess .
B: Oh .
B: I did watch soap operas ,
B: but I work full-time now and ca n't catch those anymore . Except when I 'm home sick ,
A: Yeah
B: and now when I watch them , I think , why did I ever watch those ?
A: That 's right
B: They 're stupid
A: Yeah .
B: So when I did watch them I was addicted to them every day .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But not anymore .
A: That can happen .
A: So do you know of any other shows in the even , or something that you enjoy ?
B: Oh , uh , tonight I 'm looking forward to seeing GOLDEN GIRLS .
A: Oh , that 's always fun .
B: Yes ,
B: I like that show .
A: Yeah .
B: And if I can stay up late enough , I like to catch SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE every now and then .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: And right now we 're watching a Penn State football game because that 's where we live .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: So
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's exciting ,
B: we 're winning ,
B: so that 's really exciting .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I think ,
A: I also , course , like to catch the news during the evening hours
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , it 's a little tough because that 's when I 'm usually making dinner and the kids are wanting to talk all at the same time .
A: So , usually I don't get a whole lot of news watching in .
B: Yes ,
B: we watch C N N in morning while we 're getting ready for the day and eating breakfast .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We 'll catch our news that way .
B: Watch the weather channel so that we know what the weather 's going to be like .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: So what have you seen interesting on OPRAH WINFREY lately ?
B: Lately , I have n't been catching it because of my work schedule .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I ca n't remember the last time I saw it .
B: It 's been a while .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I don't know if we 've talked our full three minutes or not
B: I don't know ,
B: sometimes they come on and , and say .
A: Oh , that 's right .
B: Well , today on C N N they were talking about something like this about , uh , learning to recognize voices and words and stuff and the research that 's going on which is kind of what we 're doing , helping them get a data base for words .
A: Um , yeah .
B: It was really interesting .
A: It is interesting .
A: So ,
B: Do you work for Texas Instruments ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: just , uh , doing this as a fund-raiser for our church .
B: Oh , that 's nice .
A: Yeah ,
A: so it kind of makes it easy , you know , to do a little something for it .
B: Sure ,
B: because we , uh , we 've talked to a lot of people from Texas , it seems ,
B: and we thought , well , maybe they work from , for Dallas ,
A: All right .
A: I think that gets us off to discussing the topic for tonight .
B: Which is movies ,
B: correct ?
A: That is correct .
B: Okay .
A: Are you a movie buff ?
B: Um , yeah .
B: I don't like going to see them in the theaters
B: but outside of that , rent a lot ,
B: watch them on T V mostly .
A: Well , I have a V C R
A: and I see most all of mine there .
A: What have you seen recently that you enjoyed ?
B: Uh , I don't know , um ,
B: actually earlier tonight we were watching TO LIVE AND DIE IN L A .
B: Have you seen that movie ?
A: No ,
A: I have n't .
B: It 's a kind of one of those psycho ones .
A: Now , I , I live alone .
A: Consequently , I don't like these psycho things .
B: Oh , it 's not too bad .
B: One of those cop thrillers
B: but ,
A: Oh , okay .
A: Have you seen the
A: if ,
A: do you have a V C R ?
B: Yes ,
B: we do .
A: Have you seen the movie CLASS ACTION with Gene Hackman ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: I have n't yet .
A: I saw it this weekend
A: and it is , uh , to me an outstanding movie .
A: I thoroughly enjoyed it .
A: He is , uh , an attorney and his daughter is an attorney
A: and she has a suit against his company .
A: You know , it 's one of those things .
B: Yeah ,
B: that ,
A: But there 's a lot of
A: well , it 's just it 's something that anyone can watch and enjoy .
B: He 's a good actor though .
A: Beg your pardon ?
B: Um , Gene Hackman 's a good actor . I think .
A: Yes ,
A: he is .
B: Do you see HOOSIERS ?
A: Yes .
A: I 've seen HOOSIERS .
A: Saw it just again the other night , for ,
B: Yeah ,
B: actually I , we saw her just the other night too .
A: Oh , did you ?
B: Yeah .
B: It 's one of our favorite movies .
B: I , I live with , um , a roommate and my girlfriend the three of us .
B: We 've seen that movie probably six times in the last six months .
A: Have you seen the movie , um , CROSSING DELANCY ?
B: Yeah .
A: Now , that 's one I have watched , oh , six or eight times .
A: I always feel so good when I get through with that movie .
B: Yeah ,
B: I like those movies that you watch time and time again .
A: I do too .
A: DIRTY DANCING and CROSSING DELANCY are two of my favorite .
A: So , well what business are you in ?
B: I 'm , I 'm an electrical engineer .
A: Oh .
A: In New Hampshire .
A: All right .
B: I work in Massachusetts actually .
A: Oh , all right .
A: Okay .
A: So is everything going all right up there ?
B: Um , it 's only about , um , half an hour .
B: I live on the border .
A: Oh , well that 's that bad then .
A: Half an hour , we do that just going to downtown Dallas .
B: That 's right .
A: So ,
B: See we live up in tax free New Hampshire and drive down to Massachusetts to work .
A: That makes a lot of sense
A: But , um , we ,
A: are you a native of that part of the country ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I grew up in New Hampshire .
B: It seems , southern town ,
B: it 's called
B: It 's , I don't know , fifteen minutes from the border and five minutes from the main border . * main = Maine ?
B: We live right in the corner .
A: Oh .
B: That one little spot in New Hampshire , we have ten miles of coastline ,
B: I live on one of that little ten mile spot .
A: Uh , sounds wonderful .
A: Did you have damage this year with hurricanes ?
B: Not up , um , where I live
B: but further down the coast in Massachusetts they got hit pretty bad .
A: I happened to be in Nassau
A: and we got the backlash of that thing .
A: And they had record high waves , thirty year high waves come in there ,
A: and it was quite an experience
A: so .
A: Well , what movies are you looking forward to seeing now ?
B: Um , well , I 'm , I 'm only twenty-seven years old
B: so THE DOORS movie , that 's out on video . I want to watch that .
A: Okay .
A: Have you seen GREEN CARD ?
B: That would be pretty good .
B: No ,
B: I have n't seen that one .
A: That 's a real warm movie .
A: It , it really just turned out nicely .
A: So I would recommend that if you have a chance .
B: I 'm in for it .
B: We rent a lot of movies
B: so we , we often sit around and say , what movies should we rent ?
B: And we don't know .
A: Well if you , if you can get GREEN CARD , go for it .
B: All right ,
B: we 'll try that one .
A: I have been working at , uh , as an accountant at the medical school here in Dallas
A: and I have watched , uh , GROSS ANATOMY .
A: Have you seen that one ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I did .
A: Okay .
A: And I don't know
A: I can associate with some of the people in that movie because of the young students I see over at the medical school .
A: But I hope you have a very Merry Christmas .
B: You too .
A: I 'm looking forward to it .
B: I think we 're going to have a white Christmas up here just like the song says .
A: Well ,
A: Uh , well , uh , to begin ,
A: I guess , uh , space is , uh , real important , I think ,
A: so it 's real vital to the future of not only our kids but every generation until the end of time , I guess .
A: So .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I agree
A: Uh .
B: it 's definitely new frontier stuff .
A: So , uh ,
A: but , uh , I 'm not too up-to-date on the space , on the space frontier ,
A: but , uh , I guess they 're going , going pretty far into it now .
A: Um , Star Wars is not too far I don't think .
A: But , uh ,
B: I , I , I worked on some of it at T I once upon a time .
A: Oh , have you .
B: Yeah .
A: So what do you know about it .
B: Well , actually I 'm , I , I 'm quite versed lately .
B: I get on a computer network all the time ,
B: and people are talking about , about the current space program all the time .
B: They 're talking about new rockets that they 're designing now that , you know , are just like science fiction , you know ,
B: it 's like they , take off , you know ,
B: and then they land , with the , with the , you know ,
B: the afterburners are going , you know , not like space shuttle landing , you know , gliding down , but straight down to the landing pad .
A: Really .
A: Oh , my gosh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's called V C X or something like that .
B: Also called Delta Clipper , which is a decent name for something like that .
A: Wow .
A: Well , I don't know .
A: You think you 'd , you think you 'd , uh , go up in space if you had a chance ?
B: Oh , yeah
A: Do you ,
B: I think I would .
B: I think that 'd be neat .
A: I think I would just sitting here talking about it ,
A: but if the time came , it 'd be real nervous .
A: I 'd be scared ,
A: scared me worse than Six Flags roller coaster .
A: That 'd be pretty hairy .
B: Well , you know , I had a car , uh , uh , a tire come off of a car ,
B: so you know , I , like I know what it 's like to
A: Yeah ,
A: imagine .
B: Depending on what was left of my technology to get me home
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: So , well , I guess they 're talking about people going to the moon and stuff , now , wherever . And opening up those stations , whatever , filling them .
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're talking about doing that again , too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't know if we 'll ever see that up there .
B: Well at least we 're going to have a space station supposedly in the next few years .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: and they 're going to put ,
A: That 's all beyond my imagination really .
B: Yeah .
A: But , science fiction books ,
A: I mean , you look at the Jetsons , you know , cartoon show , and it 's not too far fetched what , what they all had in those cartoons ,
A: so you never know .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Any of that stuff from the Jetsons , from that cartoon , that you would never imagine would come , become possible , and now you , we have a lot of those ,
A: so ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: So you never know what , what may occur ,
A: but as far as me seeing it , you know , I don't know
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know ,
A: but I think it 's real vital important for the future , you know generations to come ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , uh ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's something definitely that , uh , you know ,
B: it 's , it 's , uh , got the extra little oomph of interest .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh .
A: I 'm sure it 'll draw a lot more interest too , once it becomes , you know , like it 's more possible ,
A: but when they start showing the drawings and all that , I 'm sure , you know , when they ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I wish , uh ,
B: like , uh , Boeing or McDonald Douglas or something like that was supposed to buy , uh , a space shuttle sooner or later and just make it , you know , purely commercial
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 'd go up , you know , and do things
B: and ,
A: So did they scratch those , uh , that Star Wars deal , you know , they one we was all worried about the `` they '' in this sentence should probably be a Russia and all that ?
B: Oh .
B: No ,
B: it 's still probably going ,
B: but I don't know whether , it , it , research will go on .
A: Yeah ,
A: but the economy the way it is all over , they probably cut back on on that , because it 's not ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Well , they 're , they 're going to be cutting back so much on just , you know , the number of troops we 've got in Europe and the number of troops we have here .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know ,
A: and then ,
B: But , uh , Russia 's still going to have missiles ,
B: they 're still going to be subs and things .
A: Yeah ,
A: and we don't know who 's handling them now
B: Yeah .
A: so that 's a whole different story now .
B: Latest I heard it was just going to be Russia that , Russia itself that was going to have them .
A: Oh , really .
B: At least that was , you know , that 's what everybody says .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: we want only Russia to have them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And now they 're saying , Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: you 're a republic ,
B: you don't want those ,
B: you don't want those .
A: Some crazy hit man over there so , with those little republics or whatever
A: they splitting it all up now ,
A: and one of them crazy crazy guys get a hold of it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you never know .
A: But that , the guy that 's taken over for Gorbachev , he 's supposed to be , he 's supposed to be on our side , is n't he .
A: Pretty much .
B: One hopes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I think we went through him though to get to Gorbachev on a lot of subjects
A: so ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: But that way , you ca n't never tell that .
B: Yeah .
A: Kiss some butt ,
A: but , but , uh ,
A: Well , Michael , what do you think about , uh , funding for AIDS research ?
A: Do you ,
B: Well , uh , uh , that 's something I 've thought a lot about .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I , I work in a hospital .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 've worked in the hospital for fifteen years
B: and I 've taken care of a few AIDS patients .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , when they asked us did , did we want to , uh , keep it the same or , uh , spend more , spend less , I think uh , I think right now what they 're spending is adequate . Uh , my , for my personal opinion . Uh , because I think it 's something that 's going to take them a while to come up with a , uh , vaccine for .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't think it 's going to be that easy to come up with
A: Yeah .
B: or I think they already would have by now , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , so I don't know if , if spending a lot more money would really make any difference right now .
B: I think they 're doing the , is as much research as they can possibly do , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , what about you ?
A: Well , I guess I 'm not too aware of how much they 're spending right now You know .
B: I 'm not either .
B: I 'm definitely not aware of how much .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , that 's something I 've never really kept up with at all .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: Uh , I don't , I 'm not sure , uh ,
A: I mean , I ,
A: go ahead .
B: I know , uh , I 've always thought more about the disease rather than the research ,
B: you know what I mean ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , that sort of thing .
B: Uh , if , if we were talking about the money , uh , I 'd just have to say what they 're spending is probably enough , simply because I don't know that much about it . You know
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: I mean , I , I can see that research is needed
A: and , you know ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Definitely .
B: I think so ,
B: I think so .
A: I mean it 's becoming a major problem .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh . I guess the area that I think more about is I would like to see them focus on , uh , preventing it , uh in more , You know .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that 's true .
B: That 's true because , uh , it 's a , such an easily preventable disease .
A: Right ,
A: and I , I feel like just saying , uh , safe sex is not the answer .
B: Uh ,
A: It 's it 's , uh abstinence in certain cases
B: No .
B: It 's definitely not .
A: and
B: That 's true ,
B: that 's true .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh ,
A: And , knowing , you know ,
B: Myself , uh , uh , I 'm just recently , or about to , get a divorce
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , course , I 'm not all ready to just run out there and start dating everybody I can or anything .
A: Yeah .
B: But , it 's sort of scary to find yourself single again , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , because you never know what 's going to happen
B: You don't know who you 're going to come across , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: Course , it 's , it 's not that I 'm wanting to , I 'm not going to want to go and have sex with everybody I see .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But it 's something you got to think about these days .
A: Yeah .
B: A single person . You know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I mean , it certainly changed my attitude about that in a hurry .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh ,
A: I think for a lot of people it has .
B: Certainly .
A: So ,
B: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: But , uh , uh , I know that , uh , in some of these larger cities they 're passing out free syringes and all of that sort of thing to prevent , you know , so that , uh , the drug addicts wo n't be getting dirty needles and everything .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Drug addicts .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I don't know ,
B: I don't think that 's a bad idea .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I know it , uh , sort of does n't address the problem of drug addiction
A: Yeah .
B: It just sort of keeps that going .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , I don't know ,
B: at least drug addiction can be treated whereas AIDS , so far , can not be . You know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , I don't know ,
B: that , I think that 's ,
B: I 'm not too much against the , the passing out of the free syringes myself .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know ,
B: what do you think about that ? It really is .
A: Well , yeah ,
A: boy that 's a hard issue
A: It really is .
B: It really is .
B: They gave us a hard topic
A: Yeah
A: I mean , I , I definitely think that it 's the drug problem that needs to be addressed ,
A: but as you say , uh , people , I mean , in the meantime ,
A: well someone who 's not ready to give up drugs , uh , You know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's true .
B: That 's true .
A: If they 're perpetrating the AIDS problem , passing that on to each other , then you know ,
B: Yeah .
B: You know , I guess if you consider the two problems , drug addiction and AIDS AIDS would have to come first , I guess , as far as something to , to do about it .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , so I don't know .
B: Uh , course , there 's so many things in the world where , if you solve one problem , you may be creating another you know .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , so I guess you just have to take the two problems and see which is worse . Which is the most important to solve at the time
A: Yeah .
B: and ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , but I 've never looked into how much money they 're spending .
B: I have , I have no idea .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I know a lot of our tax money goes to that .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , I really have never looked into it .
B: I have no idea .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have n't either .
A: I 've heard , you know , uh different voices speaking up and saying we 're not spending enough
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: and , Mostly that 's what I 've heard ,
B: Right ,
B: sure .
A: so I don't know ,
B: Yeah .
A: And , yet , I know it 's , uh , it sounds like big money to me
B: Yeah
A: But it probably takes a lot .
B: I think it is .
B: I think it is .
B: Yeah ,
B: it does every ,
A: So ,
B: It seems to take more than , uh , for any little thing they do ,
B: it seems to take a lot more money that you would think it would . You know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh ,
A: Did you have any fear working in the hospital with that ,
B: That 's one thing I 've never really feared .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , uh , I ,
B: a lot of the , my family , you know , they fear me working like that and , under some , some of those conditions ,
B: but , uh uh , I don't fear it at all .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I work in , in the operating room a lot
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , and , of course , when
A: Hello ?
B: Hello .
A: How you doing ?
B: Fine .
A: I 'm Lee with , uh , uh ,
A: I 'm over here in Plano , Texas .
B: Okay .
B: Let me ask you something , can I run a minute and shut my radio off ?
A: Oh , sure .
B: Okay .
A: Oh .
B: Okay .
A: Where are you calling from
A: or where are you at ?
B: Arlington .
B: Arlington , Texas .
A: Arlington .
B: Yes .
A: Well , there 's a lot of stuff going on in Arlington these days .
B: Yes ,
B: not all good stuff .
A: Are you involved in any of that ?
B: No .
A: No .
B: No ,
B: I 'm not , not personally .
A: Well , uh , what benefits do ,
A: now , do you work ?
B: I 'm going to school right now .
A: Oh , you are ?
B: I can tell you about my last job or whatever you want to talk about that or my husband 's or what I think .
A: Okay .
A: Yeah .
B: I 've got a lot of ,
A: Because I , I work for myself
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so , uh , there 's a lot that I , that I guess I do miss , uh , a lot of benefits from working for a big corporation .
A: I miss , uh insurance and uh , the steady paychecks that come .
B: Yes .
B: Right .
B: Yes .
A: But , uh ,
B: Yes ,
B: I 've been in my own business , Mary Kay , in fact ,
B: I 'm selling in out now to go to school full time
B: and I enjoyed the freedom of having that , you know ,
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: go to work when I wanted to or not
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , you know , the benefits were n't there .
A: Yeah .
B: So ,
A: I , uh , I own part of a roofing company .
B: Oh , do you ?
A: In the , in the Dallas , Fort Worth area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , you know , unfortunately we , we were part of a , of a bigger , bigger company
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they , uh , you know , we , we had all the benefits there
A: and , and I do miss that . You know ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh , on the other hand , I , I , uh , I enjoy having the , the time that I have with my family and being able to , you know , work when I want
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and ,
B: I think today the thing that I , uh , would appreciate the most ,
B: uh , because my husband gets , his medical through his company ,
B: but we have to pay for mine
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we 're the only one , I 'm the only one that 's being insured
B: and and we pay the same amount that someone over there that has four children has , I mean ,
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: so it 's kind of ,
A: Yeah .
B: And I would ,
B: I really ,
B: and the way medical expenses are I think that 's probably one of the biggest benefits to you need to have .
A: It 's ,
A: Yeah .
A: It , it ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'll tell you what ,
A: that is the single most uh , benefit that I , that I enjoyed , and I do miss
B: Right .
A: because I looked into picking up some , uh , medical insurance for my , just for my family , you know , just ,
A: and it is unbelievable how much you have to pay for it .
B: It 's out of sight .
B: Right ,
B: it 's out of sight .
A: And , uh , yeah ,
B: Even at a group rate , I could n't believe how much is our ,
A: Oh , yeah
A: even at a group rate .
A: Uh , it 's , it 's unbelievable
A: and , uh , the amount that you have to pay for , you know , for kids
A: and , and if you want to add dental to it , I mean , that 's that eats even more .
B: Right ,
B: it goes up .
B: Right .
A: So , yeah ,
A: I guess what , the other benefits that , uh , that I , uh , that I miss , I guess is , uh , you know , some of the bonuses and stuff that that goes on with just being involved with a big company , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: and course , these days , you ca n't count on that because
B: Right .
A: uh , you know , I feel bad for the people that are involved in that , uh , G M deal there in in Arlington
B: Right .
A: and I 'm sure it will be , you know , quite a few people are affected by that
A: so ,
B: Right ,
B: it 's going to hurt the city ,
B: although , uh , I will personally tell you , I used to work at a bank ,
B: and I would see the G M people come in when they were , they would shut down to retool .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They were paid that whole time
B: and I don't know , if you 're aware of this
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yes ,
B: they come in there ,
B: just , they go off fishing and stuff and come in and , every Friday , and go to the safety deposit box ,
B: and I 'm sitting there making a hundred dollars a week , you know
B: and , And they had all these
A: Is that right ?
B: I , I really believe they have done this to themselves , in a way , because of the unions being so stocked .
A: The union ,
A: yeah .
B: And right now , anybody 's that 's laid off from G M will have a full year 's paycheck .
B: I just read this in the paper the other day .
A: Is that right ?
B: Plus probably an additional six months through the , the worker 's stuff that they have at , at , uh , through the company
B: so I 'm you know , I 'm sorry it 's happening because it 's going to hurt ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I don't feel as sorry for them ,
A: Well
B: If my husband were laid off tomorrow , we 'd get one more check
A: really the ,
B: and that would be it .
A: Yeah ,
A: really the ones it 's going to hurt is , is actually the , the businesses around in that area .
B: Yes .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: that 's already hurting .
A: You know , that 's the ones that that that 's going to hurt because they depend on that , uh ,
B: But I think there 's a case , where benefits have gotten ,
B: they voted them in
B: and they got so good , I mean , like two dollars for a prescription no deductible on the medical , all these things , you know
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: and it made the prices of cars go up
B: and and , you know , the ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , we , I believe in unions ,
B: but they went too far .
A: Well , I 'll tell you , I I 've had my fill of unions
B: I mean , I ca n't make eighteen dollars an hour .
A: I ,
B: I mean , I know someone out here that makes eighteen dollars an hour .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Okay .
A: Uh , do you want to go ahead
A: or ,
B: Oh , sure .
B: Uh , well I , uh , went to school at Madison for two years
B: and they are really big on women 's rights . And , and equal treatment .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so I , I 've seen a lot of like rallies and things like that .
B: But , uh , I 'm not that liberated .
B: I mean my mom is kind of old-fashioned , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I , you know , you pick up some traits from her and stuff .
B: But , uh , I think it 's , I think it 's interesting and better for women to see that there 's more , more of them doing men 's fields .
B: I like to see that .
B: And I don't like to see women , you know , like waiting on men hand and foot
A: Right .
B: but , you know , I , I believe in like sharing and doing things for each other .
A: I do too .
A: I like the idea .
A: I see a lot more , uh ,
A: my children , I have five children
A: and they 're all married .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I love seeing the men help the women so much .
B: Right .
A: And they both cooperate together on ,
A: I think it 's great .
B: Oh , me too
B: I hope that happens to me someday .
B: I mean , I , I don't mind doing stuff .
B: Uh , I have a boyfriend
B: and I got to make him dinner and stuff
B: but , you know , I , he 'll help me do the dishes .
B: I don't want to , you know expect to help to clean up then after
A: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: Yeah .
B: So
A: I 've always taught my men that .
A: They better clean up with their women and help them .
A: If they did that , you know .
B: Right .
A: And they 're , they 're good about it .
A: But it is neat to see them all work together .
A: And a big thing that I see . All that , most of the , most of the women getting married now , uh , go back , have gone back to , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: they , they stay at work or go back to work . Or whatever .
B: Right .
A: And they 're well educated .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I believe we 'll see a lot more C E O in companies .
A: They 're having a fit about how little there are .
B: Oh .
A: And I think we 'll see a lot more . don't you ? Of upper management ? Then we do now , even .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: I think it 'll escalate .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , and I think black women now
A: in fact I work at a high school .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And my boss is a black woman and has only been there a couple of months and already promoted
A: and she 's very sharp .
A: And I think that
A: and the ethnic thing will be , you know , is a good thing now .
B: Oh , me too .
A: They 're moving them up
A: and they 're sharp
A: and they ,
A: so you 're going to see a lot , a lot more of that in leadership I believe .
B: Yeah .
B: I like to see that .
B: I think it 's , uh , really neat to see and all that educated minority , uh , person who really knows what they 're talking about .
A: Uh-huh . Right .
B: And it 's just too bad that some people , you know , still look down on them just because of their color . You know .
A: Right .
A: That 's
B: Especially black women .
A: Yes .
B: So .
A: Yeah .
A: But they know what they 're doing .
B: Right .
A: But I 'm not big on subserving as far as to the men at all .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: But I never have gone along with that , you know . Even far back .
A: But I was brought up pretty good in a home that ,
A: years ago my mother was that way .
A: The same .
A: I ,
A: my
A: you know ,
A: some people say oh the boys should n't have to do those jobs . The inside jobs .
A: But we never were taught ,
A: they had to do as much as we did .
A: So that was good .
B: Right ,
B: same here .
B: Yeah .
A: So that 's , I think that 's good . To keep the equal as far as , as , uh , not , uh , necessarily by sex type thing . You know .
B: Right .
B: Same here .
A: You should be able to accomplish as much .
A: And I think the , uh , attitude is a lot better towards the parents raising the younger ones now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You see a lot more of the mothers and all saying to the young girls , you know you can do it .
B: Yeah .
A: If he can do it , you can do it type thing .
B: Yeah .
B: Exactly .
B: I , I see more men , uh , like participating in like the family things with children . Like , you know , helping to take care of them more . And and , uh , uh , doing the jobs equally , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: What about politics on it ?
B: Oh .
A: Do you think the political scene ?
B: I 'm not that big on politics .
B: I 'm not that educated on it .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm ,
A: I 'm real I 'm kind of disgusted this year because I don't see many women into the political scene
A: and I really think we should have more political leaders in the women than we do up for , and even for President and Vice President this year ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: I agree with that .
A: there 's nobody again .
A: I think they 're all scared out after after , uh ,
A: oh , what was the lady 's name that ran a couple of ,
A: I forget her name now .
B: Oh , I don't know
A: But you know who I mean ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I know who you 're talking about .
A: Yeah .
A: She took such a rough go of it .
A: And they their tax deal and ,
B: Yeah .
B: At least she was strong to like try it and you know .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: So that 's good .
A: But I wish they would get some more on that .
A: I really was disappointed this year when I see any of the candidates talking that they 're talking about .
A: Uh , they , I did n't see any of the women in there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that disappoints me .
B: Oh .
A: And right now I don't think we have too many . Uh , in the forefront .
A: Schroeder 's about the biggest one in Washington .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Congress woman .
A: And , uh , other uh ,
A: we really ,
A: Okay .
A: I think the first thing they said ,
A: I have written this down
A: so it would ,
A: is it do you think it 's possible to have honesty in government or an honest government ?
B: Okay .
B: You 're asking what my opinion about , whether it 's possible to have honesty in government .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , I suspect that it is possible .
B: Uh , I think it probably is more likely if you have a small government unit where everybody knows everybody .
A: Right .
A: That 's a good point .
B: But , uh , other than that I think maybe it just depends on how you define honesty .
A: That 's an you know , that 's interesting .
A: I had read something one time
A: and it was just applying to governments in general ,
A: it was written many years ago .
A: It said that it 's impossible to have a completely honest system of government because people who choose government for their positions are power seekers .
A: And I thought that was interesting .
A: It was n't just talking about our government .
A: It was just government in general . From times past , you know on
B: Uh-huh .
A: and ,
B: So they 're saying that government officials would tend to be power seekers .
A: Right .
A: And that would be a next question to ask .
A: or are they in there for their own gains ,
A: and personally I feel it 's probably , there 's probably some of each .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: But I think maybe a lot of them , um ,
B: say the more honest ones who are still looking out for themselves , it may be more matter of not what can I steal while in an office but how many friends can I make while , I 'm in office .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , you know , how good a name can I make for myself and so forth .
B: So I guess it would be like anything else .
A: Yeah .
B: The president of General Motors probably has the same ,
A: Oh , yeah .
A: And they talked , uh ,
A: the other , let 's see .
A: Third question was how serving for their own gains do you think goes on ,
A: then they ,
A: that 's hard to
A: I 'm sure there 's a lot . But I agree with you , there 's a lot in business .
A: I think that 's just , I think that 's very normal , that we should not I think ,
B: I think I think a little more honesty in the campaigns would be , more to the point .
A: I think we put too much on politicians .
A: We expect them to only be there to serve us , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: If you knew what you were getting when you voted , uh ,
A: That 's a problem , is n't it ?
B: Yeah .
A: It 's interesting
A: because I 'm taking a Texas government class right now ,
A: and one of the things
A: it 's so easy to blame them to
A: a lot of times I think it 's our own fault .
A: They lie to us because we don't want to hear the truth .
B: Yeah ,
B: they say you , get the government you deserve .
A: And it ,
A: If they tell us the truth , we don't elect them and , Especially with all this stuff coming up here lately about people 's past ,
B: Uh-huh
A: and I don't know why anybody would want to get under that scrutiny anymore .
B: It 's hard to imagine .
A: Because it 's , I think it 's gotten just well ,
A: we 're not talking about issues we 're talking about somebody 's personal life
A: and , and we 're getting away from what we ought to be looking at
B: Yeah ,
B: and it almost seems like in order to avoid , uh , some of the scandal , you would have to have the kind of wife that you would only find , on , say in the Bobsy twins or , something like that
A: Right .
A: You know , I also think it would be funny if we could know everything about the people that were in there and throw them out .
A: I don't think there would be too many left
B: So you 're taking a government course ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: At what ?
B: The university ?
A: Uh , at , uh , it 's T C J C .
A: Tarrant County Junior College .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
A: And it 's really , it 's really enjoyable .
A: I like it .
A: And then they also , you know , ask can we eliminate , do you think we could make laws to eliminate all corruption ,
A: and I don't think we can make laws to eliminate anything anyplace totally .
B: You can make laws against corruption
A: Yeah ,
A: but that , does n't mean ,
B: But that does n't eliminate it , does it ? Milwaukee , did it ?
A: I don't think making laws will stop it .
A: I mean I don't know how many laws you would have to have .
A: I mean ,
A: No ,
A: sure did n't , did it ?
A: So no ,
A: I think you can legislate
A: but I think there 's no way that you eliminate it all by legislating ,
A: and we would end up with so many more laws that , you know ,
A: I mean I just think that 's human nature that you 're going to have corruption in government , in business , personal life , I mean , you know .
B: Actually , I think other countries may have it worse , uh ,
B: the Japanese government is always having a , some kind of a scandal .
A: Right .
B: Usually involving the Prime Minister or people very close to him .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I still believe I get very fed up with government sometimes
A: but when I think about where I 'd want to go , you know , this is still the best
A: or I can ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've been around to a few other countries
B: and I , uh , I , I have not found one yet that I would rather live in .
B: I think , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: at its worst I think we 've got the best .
A: Okay , um , Chuck , do you have any pets there at your home ?
B: Yeah , I do .
A: And what kind do you have ?
B: I 've got a male Siamese about a year old here .
B: I live alone in an apartment , and , uh , except for the cat .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh
B: How about you ?
A: Well , we have a cat , um ,
A: he 's probably , oh , a good two years old , big , old , fat and sassy tabby .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh . Uh , how 's the disposition of your Siamese cat ?
B: Well , it 's , uh , you know they 're just , uh , aggressive by nature
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , he 's been neutered and declawed ,
B: so he 's an indoor cat ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , that kind of calms him down for the most part .
B: How about yours ?
A: Well , yeah ,
A: he 's , uh , he has been really aggressive , uh , especially towards my little girl , for some reason .
B: Huh .
A: He 's , uh , been so mean to her
B: And , and you say you 've had him how long ?
A: We 've had him for about two years
B: Two years .
A: and he was so mean to her , um , right after we first got him .
A: So we had him neutered , and , and declawed ,
A: and now he bites her .
A: He ca n't scratch her any more ,
B: Huh .
A: he bites her .
B: Does he bite her enough to draw blood ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: he has a couple of times ,
A: so .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But he 's a very possessive cat .
A: He , he loves my son ,
A: it 's his cat ,
A: and he 's the only one that allows him to touch him or pet him or love him
B: Yeah .
A: and he 's so funny ,
A: he just follows my son around just like a dog .
B: Huh .
A: He wo n't even let my son shower .
B: Yeah .
A: He meows and wants to get in the bathroom
A: and , while he showers , it 's so hilarious .
A: So he 's quite a animal
B: Yeah ,
B: boy ,
B: I guess .
B: Well as long as he does n't get too aggressive . I guess with the daughter he 's all right .
A: Yeah .
B: You would n't want him to carry her off or something .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , we , we did , uh , actually take him to the pound a couple of times , you know because we just could n't have him being so aggressive towards the girl ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sure .
A: but , uh , he seems to have mellowed out a little bit ,
A: and we do keep our daughter away from him .
A: So .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Were it not for my son , the cat would not be in this house
B: Is that the only pet that you have ?
A: It is ,
A: uh-huh .
A: We , we tried a dog about four years ago , and we ended up with , uh , oh , malamute and some other kind of mix .
A: Anyway it was , it ended up being just a huge , huge dog that ate us out of house and home .
A: So , we gave him up and tried .
B: Well , do you live , you , you in a house , or a place where you , uh ,
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: we 're in a house ,
A: but we 're in a subdivision where we really ca n't allow the dog ,
B: I see .
A: we could n't allow him to run free ,
A: so , he was just chained up all the time ,
A: and it was , it was unfortunate .
B: Sure .
A: So have you tried any other pets ?
B: No ,
B: no .
B: I , I live alone in an apartment ,
B: and , uh , it 's , it 's not that big that , uh
A: Oh
B: although I 've heard rabbits are pretty good
A: Oh .
B: you know , I saw something on C N N or on cable here a while ago that showed some people that had rabbits in apartments and in houses ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , my word .
B: and they apparently , uh ,
B: especially when they 're young when they bring them in
A: Oh , my word .
B: uh ,
A: And do they , they just paper train it or something ?
B: I guess .
B: I guess ,
B: yeah ,
B: and I would imagine that they don't have many more than one to start with , either .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , rabbits are darling .
A: That would be fun if you could get them trained .
A: Otherwise they 're pretty smelly
B: Yep ,
B: that 's right .
A: Oh .
B: Did you see the , the C N N , the , the dog show , uh ,
A: Huh-uh ,
A: we don't have C , we don't have cable .
B: I see .
B: Well they have , uh , uh , a they call it the Westminster Dog Show , uh ,
B: I think it 's in New York City at the , at the Gardens
B: there once a year live
A: Oh .
B: and they had that on last week ,
B: and that 's really kind of something to watch , uh ,
A: Oh .
B: it 's on , I think , two or three nights for maybe an hour or two
A: Is that right ?
B: and some of the weirdest animals you ever want to see in there .
A: Oh
B: Some of them are really beautiful , too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So .
A: Well , I 'd be , interesting to watch .
B: So you live in Utah do you ?
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Elton .
B: Goodness .
A: We live out here by , it 's by Ogden .
A: It 's north of Salt Lake City , Utah
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we really love it out here .
A: It 's , uh , kind of country .
A: We 're , we 're only about ten minutes from Ogden .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , we 're kind of country but not too .
B: Well do you all work for T I , or for ,
A: No ,
A: huh-uh .
A: Do you ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Oh , well , see , I 'm getting so many calls to Texas .
B: This is the very first one I 've , I 've talked to .
A: Oh , well , great .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've been doing it for about two weeks
A: and , uh , no my , No my ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: So how do you get most of your current event information ?
B: Well , , see I 'm going to school right now ,
B: and , uh , while I 'm working , I don't get a , I don't get a chance to read the paper a lot ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I don't watch T V as much really either , because , uh , my free time is kind of ,
B: and I do , like to do other stuff with it .
A: Right .
B: While I 'm at work sometimes , I , on the computer network um , I read the news sometimes ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that 's kind of helpful .
A: I would imagine going to college , though , your professors and different things ,
A: you keep up on what 's going on .
B: That 's true ,
B: I mean , my roommates and stuff , you know people around me talk about it .
A: Yeah .
B: And the people I work with are pretty , you know , up , up-to-date on that kind of stuff ,
B: so .
A: Right .
A: Well , I 'm a housewife ,
A: I have three kids ,
A: and so um , I get most of my information probably through just the news at six o'clock and then , um , talking with people and just hearing what 's going on . .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Do you watch , do you watch the network , like major network news ,
B: or do you watch like the MACNEIL LEHRER HOUR ?
A: Just the regular channel just channel eight .
B: Oh , really .
A: That 's our channel here
A: that 's the , um , eyewitness news .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So .
B: Oh , see channel , where I am channel eight 's , um , like public T V ,
B: so it 's kind of different .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: I think , I think the , uh ,
B: I think a lot of the commentators on , like the major networks , like right , it 's kind of appropriate right now because of the election stuff going on ,
B: but , um , it seems that , um , they kind of get to throw their opinions into how they , you know , report on the news .
A: Right .
A: And I think even in the elections , they choose who they 're going to follow and who they 're not ,
A: and basically you know , if a candidate can get them to follow , then the news will , you know , kind of publicize his name .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly .
A: I don't think that the way I get the news is the right way to get it .
A: I think you get a very lopsided picture of what 's going on .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: because they can , they can only report on , I mean ,
B: they give each candidate perhaps , you know , ten second blurbs in which to , you know , to say , you , you just ca n't get a full picture of , you know their message unless you have time to sit down and and probably read something on it .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: And the news , too , it just does n't , um , cover that many stories ,
A: I mean , it just covers your basic , you know , violent crimes and , you know , and , and your catastrophes with weather and stuff ,
B: Yeah .
A: but other than that , you really don't know what 's going on .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , I will read our current letters that come out on elections
A: and , I guess I do read that ,
A: and I do study who 's running in our area ,
A: and I do study what 's going on in the economy .
A: It , you know ,
A: and , I guess I do read other magazines , um , too , to get my information .
B: What kind of , see ,
B: I subscribe to like SCIENCE NEWS ,
B: and that 's , that 's real good because it gives like a brief summary of , or like the updates , like of what 's going on in science without getting into a lot of detail that would , you know , bog me down that I would n't know about
A: Right .
B: but other than that I don't really read ,
B: I don't , I don't really subscribe to anything else .
A: I used to read every month a READER 'S DIGEST
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , um , now I guess I just have friends that clip articles
A: or if I , you know , am interested in something , of course , during the when we were in war , I read up on that just a little in the newspaper to find out what was going on .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: But a lot of the times , I , you know , I wish I had the time to read all the stories in the newspaper ,
A: but I just ca n't seem to find the time .
B: Yeah .
A: If they put it out in a video , or on not a video but a cassette tape or something , where you could just listen to it I would do that while I was doing other things .
B: Yeah .
A: But ,
B: Well , I remember back during the , uh , during the war , everyone here at work always had the radio or the T V on , because that , they were going constantly with that stuff .
A: Right .
B: But , uh .
A: Well , I , um , they even did a story on our news here in Texas on what people wanted to see more of ,
A: and people said that they wanted to see more on outside of Texas news .
A: You know , we just don't want to hear every night all the killings that went on here in Dallas
B: Yeah .
A: that we want to hear what 's going on with the economy , what 's being done to help it , what 's going on in other countries , what 's , you know , just more information .
B: If they reported every , if they reported every violent crime in Atlanta it would take , it would probably take the whole news hour
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh .
A: Well , I guess we 'll get pretty good news coverage in a couple of years when you host the , uh , summer olympics
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: that 's ,
B: they start , already they 're having like , um ,
B: in the newspaper they have a section , I think , every now and then , on the Olympics , you know ,
B: and they 've got like a countdown ,
B: it 's like sixteen hundred days or something .
A: I know , we 're trying to get tickets to it right now .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
B: That 's going to be crazy that time of year here .
B: But , uh .
A: Yeah .
B: I ca n't believe , I mean ,
B: they 're , they 're stretching out the Olympic news for that much coverage over ,
B: I guess people want to hear about it .
B: Also big in the news right now is the Braves , because they 're , uh , they 're in , you know , spring training or whatever
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: and they did so well last year .
A: Yeah ,
A: they spent a lot of time , that 's another thing , they spend a long time on sports ,
A: and I think that , um , that 's fine , I would like to see more time spent on other things .
B: Yeah .
A: But .
B: It seems like ,
B: I don't know ,
B: they way they do the newscasts , I wish they , they kind of separated it , you know ,
B: if you wanted to watch one thing you could turn to some channel for it
B: but I don't have cable .
A: Dave .
A: What kind of pets do you have ?
B: Oh , we have one rotten cat .
A: One rotten cat
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's my son 's cat .
A: I heard a laugh in the background .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's the boys .
B: They know I don't like it .
A: don't you like cats ?
B: Well , I like cats .
B: This , this cat is a , uh , more like a dog .
A: Oh yeah .
B: Yeah
B: he 's , uh , a one owner .
B: He likes one boy in the family and that 's about it
A: That 's odd .
A: How does he treat the other people ?
B: Just , uh , stays away or runs usually .
A: Wow .
B: But he follows , he 'll follow my oldest son around .
B: You know when he is in the house , he will come up and he 'll jump on his lap ,
B: but if anybody reaches over to pet him or whatever , he 'll just kind of look at them like what are doing .
A: Did he raise him or something ?
B: He 's , he , we bought the cat for him
B: and so he 's , uh , been the one that you know spent the most time with him .
B: But I , I 've never owned a cat like that .
B: I 've had cats growing up all the time
B: and you know they are usually either that way with everybody or friendly to everybody
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh , that 's interesting .
B: So , it 's a weird cat
A: Huh . We have a , a mutt .
B: A mutt .
A: Well , we , we named it Hooper because that 's where we got it from .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , some lady , she , uh ,
A: a lot of people , uh , uh , drop off abandoned , abandoned pets at her house
B: Oh .
A: and she use to work for a veterinarian
A: so she would uh , neuter them give them all their shots
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we saw an ad saying it was free ,
A: so we went down there and picked it up
A: and it 's been an excellent dog ,
A: but it 's my first dog I 've had
A: and we got it because my wife stays here at home alone while I go to work
B: Uh-huh .
A: so that 's mostly why we got it . To keep her company while I am away at work .
B: So that , is that , is that kind of your child right now ?
A: Uh yeah .
A: Right now it , it is .
B: You feel like .
A: It 's kind of good training .
A: I mean we have been trying for kids ,
A: but right now we have n't had any ,
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: but it 's pretty good training , I think really , keeps her on her toes
B: Have , have you had dogs before ?
A: Uh , my brother has .
A: Uh , we did n't do a lot with them .
A: Uh , I never felt like it was mine or anything ,
A: you could n't do anything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , I mean , that did , did more responsibility . When its yours and not your brother 's
B: Yeah .
A: But ,
B: Well , I just , uh , we 've , you know
B: when I was growing up I had , we always had a dog
B: and we had mostly mutts ,
B: well not mutts , but mixes you know like one or two mix
A: Uh-huh .
B: and those dogs always seem to be the best dogs .
A: That 's what we found .
A: Ours is , uh , like a cockapoo .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think it 's half cocker spaniel and half poodle .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , it 's a really good dog .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know ,
A: they seem to be , I mean , listen better or something .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Is your cat a purebred ?
B: No .
B: No ,
B: it 's just uh an accident
B: From a uh , from my , my son 's friend down the street .
B: They 're their cat was an outside cat and just end up with some kittens
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so ,
A: Would you ever want a dog in the family ?
B: Uh , we , I would .
B: We , uh , we had a dog that was a , uh , mix between an Alaska Malamute and a Labrador
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I should say a pup
B: and he was just too big for our kids when we got him
A: Oh yeah .
B: and we , when we moved into our house that was the first thing we wanted to get was , uh , you know , was a pet
B: and it was a dog that we gotten
B: and he was , he was just too big .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , the kids could n't handle him
B: and I was still going to school
B: and my wife was working
B: and I was working
B: and so we just did n't have time to really train him
B: so he was kind of you know , he was too big for the kids to handle ,
B: so he was just tied up to a post
A: Oh , yeah .
B: so we gave him to , uh ,
B: I don't know if you 've ,
B: there is a place out here , uh , called Shorties Lane out here in Harrisville
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they have , uh ,
B: I guess it 's kind of an animal shelter
B: but he just takes a few the animals in
B: and some he destroys
B: and some he keeps .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So we took him up there
B: and he ended up keeping him .
B: Uh , cause he has had him for six or seven years .
B: We , we 've , saw him just about a year ago
B: and , uh , I thought boy that sure looks like that pup we gave away
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so we asked him about it one day
B: and he said yeah ,
B: he 's been the best dog I 've ever had in my life
A: Wow .
B: just goes everywhere with him .
B: I , he would have been a great , great dog .
A: He just needed a lot of time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Hey Steve .
B: Uh , They just , uh , they just started a recycling program here , I think .
B: Actually , this is my first experience with recycling program
B: but , uh , instead of just like tossing everything away which I always felt bad about , uh , I am starting to split split stuff up .
B: The only disadvantage is that they don't pick it up at the curb .
B: They make me drive it like a mile down the road and spit it out down there .
B: What are they doing up there ?
A: Well , here in Saskatoon , uh , much the same thing .
A: There is no curb pick up of , uh , any of the recycled products .
A: Uh , we 're in a community of about one hundred and eighty thousand people .
A: Uh , there are areas where we could , uh ,
A: actually we have a couple of the , uh , handicapped societies , types of places where the uh , one they do as just a recycling operation and then others they collect the paper and ship it to other retailers
A: so , uh , we are able to , uh , have drop off bins for news papers and cardboard and that kind of thing
A: and then there are , there 's a uh , deposit program on plastic and glass containers . Well , primarily soft drink bottles
A: and so we are able uh to take it to one of the uh , rehabilitation centers
A: and then they recycle the containers .
A: They refund the deposit which is anywhere from five to fifteen cents a container
A: and then ,
B: The , the deposits only on like drink stuff .
A: Right .
B: Okay .
A: On the , on primarily on soft drink , pops and that kind of thing
B: Okay .
A: and , uh , so , they induce recycling of plastic and glass , soft drink containers .
A: Uh , we do have one of the scrape metal dealers that will accept tin and aluminum cans as well
B: Oh , okay .
A: and actually the recycler , there is a deposit on aluminum pop cans and beer cans and so the recycler , uh , with the handicapped group will also accept those .
A: So , uh , it 's fairly , fairly extensive ,
A: but then again it 's uh , it 's the initiative of the individual person because there is no coordinated pick up by the city .
B: So , did they ,
B: you 're giving , are you giving these products to the handicapped group
B: and the handicapped group is getting the uh , the money
B: or or are you , or are they some home distributing the funds back to you .
A: Well , actually there 's , there 's the opportunity for both .
B: Oh . Okay .
A: Generally the , uh , the handicapped group takes care of the things that
A: actually , the government has placed the deposit which is the inducement to recycle the bottle so that you get your money back
A: and then the recycler run by the handicapped society pays back the cost of that deposit
A: and then I , and then they in turn will get some money from the bottlers and from the the people that do the canning of the pop and the beer as as well
B: That 's very cool .
B: You know there 's a , I heard about a similar program in New York City where , uh , a thing called like Homeless Incorporated or something like that ,
B: but what they do is employ , uh , homeless , I think mostly men , but homeless people to uh , go out and collect all the recyclable cans
B: and and I think it 's mostly cans .
B: There may be bottles as well , but like beer cans , soda cans and what not
B: and they , uh , bring them up to a one one centralized location and , uh , are able to collect the money from the various beer and , and soda manufacturers and , uh , and get more money to these people that desperately need it .
A: Oh yeah .
A: Uh , I guess partly because of our climate .
A: Here in Saskatoon at least , the majority of central , uh ,
A: well , I want to say Central Canada ,
A: but Central Canada tends to referred more to Ontario and Quebec
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh , we don't have much of a situation where we might call them homeless people .
A: We certainly have a fair number of people that are on welfare and unemployment insurance and that kind of thing .
A: Uh , there 's psychological pressure against employing people to do that kind of thing although , uh , scouts and hockey teams and ball teams , those kinds , uh , regularly do bottle drives where they go around in various neighborhoods and collect the bottles at individual homes .
B: Do they do it with news papers as well ?
A: They have done it some , uh ,
A: but we have actually quite an extensive network of collecting news papers .
A: They are actually at , virtually all of the shopping centers . Like the shopping malls .
A: There are several containers where the group called Cosmopolitan Industries collects
A: or people can drop their used news papers and other papers in the bins
A: and then the bins are collected .
B: Huh .
A: Uh , some of the ,
A: Jimmy , so how do you get most of your news ?
B: Well , I kind of , uh , I watch the , uh , national news every day , for one .
B: I also read one or two papers a day
B: and I 'm a , I 'm pretty much a news junkie
B: and I tune in to C N N a lot .
A: Oh , wow .
A: So , when you say the morning news , or evening news or national news is when ?
B: Uh , every evening at six thirty , I believe ,
B: I watch the national news .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Well , I would probably be a junkie or watch C N N a lot ,
A: but I don't , uh , I don't , uh , subscribe to cable because of the poor service and also , uh , because ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: well , I , uh , I give to the United Way
A: and so I figured that amount of money I just donate to that .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: as opposed to paying for cable .
A: Yeah ,
A: I take away a , uh , addiction
A: Oh , something .
B: Yeah .
A: Well I ,
B: Uh , overall I , I ,
B: the quality of the news you get off of most , uh , sources I would say is pretty low .
B: It 's ,
B: usually you get pretty incomplete coverage
B: and that 's one of the reasons where I , why I try and get as many sources as possible ,
B: because if you hear the same story from three different sources , then you get a much clearer picture of , of what is going on . You would hope ,
B: but still , you know , hard to say that what you 've heard is what really is .
A: Oh .
A: What , what , uh , newspapers do you read ?
B: Well , I read , uh , the local newspaper
B: and I also try and read one of the , uh , major dailies like the CHICAGO TRIBUNE , or the NEW YORK TIMES or something like that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: For a while there I , I , I , uh , subscribed to NEW YORK TIMES , actually a couple of newspapers because , uh , you know , my fiance ,
A: well , she was unemployed for a while
A: so she , you know , really needed to look at the , the help wanted ads
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so often they , they the newspapers are trying to compete with a lot of other sources of uh , news .
B: Right .
A: And , I don't know ,
A: NEW YORK TIMES is okay ,
A: but , uh , and when you read a lot of this stuff , the , the quality of the writing has definitely gone down in the last ten years or so ,
A: but uh , I mean , they , they say it 's like the sixth grade reading level ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I swear it 's at least second or third grade , sometimes .
B: Right .
B: Pretty low .
A: But , I don't know ,
A: uh , I think if you listen to like N P R or something like ,
B: Right ,
B: I , I really like N P R a lot .
A: That 's pretty good .
A: Uh , and I like listening to that on , on , uh ,
A: when I get a chance , when I 'm in the car a long enough time to , to listen to it , because I ,
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: I miss N P R a lot also .
B: I really like them because they give , uh ,
B: instead of being , as your newspaper or your T V news where you get a five minute blurb or a ten paragraph blurb , they go really in depth on topics which I think is good .
A: Uh ,
B: And they also ,
B: their editorial stand point seems to be a lot better than , say , your major network news and that kind of thing .
A: Well , McNeil and Lehrer ,
A: I guess he 's leaving ,
A: one of them is leaving .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , they 're , they 're pretty good , too .
A: Uh , I guess a year ago you 're probably watching C N N a lot , right ?
B: Right
B: yeah .
A: Had that invasion or whatever it is .
B: Sure was .
A: Uh , but I , I don't know ,
A: I guess a lot of it 's still a lot of hype .
A: Look at the , the Smith trial .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , that was a joke .
B: Yeah ,
B: that was ,
B: but then you also have things where you , uh , where they broadcast the Clarence Thomas hearings basically the whole length of them which I thought was really good .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: the N P R doing that ,
A: yeah ,
A: I know ,
A: I had , uh , some visitor
A: and he was just just , I don't know , fixated on that , you know , just listened to it constantly .
B: Uh-uh .
A: Uh , and I guess that 's good when it 's live , if you , if you 'll really want that ,
A: but that 's not really providing you news .
B: Right .
A: It 's , it 's more like a media event rather than reporting .
B: Well , but the but the news , news that you would get from any other source is being generated from that event , which is something that 's good also about C Span which I , I tune into every once in a while .
A: Oh , really ?
A: That 's kind of boring to me , I think .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it is , really kind of boring ,
B: but , you know , that 's ,
B: if , if you don't watch it there , then you 're going to hear somebody else 's canned , uh , report , somebody else 's view about it
B: and that 's what you 're supposed , you 're supposed to ,
B: if you watch the news , you 're going , your opinion is going to be formed about , on what somebody else thought about it as opposed to actually watching it yourself and forming your own pinion , opinion , which I have n't , would be much more in favor of forming my own opinion as opposed to following someone else 's .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess that 's true .
A: But , one of the ways that I get information is , uh , every day when I log in on the computer I subscribe to this , this thing ,
A: it 's free inside the company ,
A: it 's called INTELLECT
A: and , and they basically , uh , type out abstracts which are really literally ,
A: I 've , I 've actually read the actual articles ,
A: they 're pretty
A: Let 's see ,
A: mine 's pretty easy actually .
A: Uh , I just got done reading a , a magazine or a couple magazine articles about the , uh , new Saturns .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and , although I ca n't afford it right now , I would just like love to have one .
B: Oh , really ,
B: you like , uh ,
B: so you 're an American
A: Well ,
B: you want to buy American .
A: No ,
A: regardless of that fact .
A: It 's the best car in the class for the cheapest amount of money .
A: I 'm interested in having it for , uh , doing a little autocross racing , uh , closed circuit racing
B: Um .
A: and , uh , it seems to just blow the competition away .
B: It terms of handling , uh , acceleration ,
A: Handling , power , everything .
A: Yeah ,
A: it just got like the top rating .
A: It was compared up against , uh ,
A: let 's see ,
A: there was like the Mazda M X three , uh , Nissan 's , whatever , their two , N X two thousand , the Civic S I
A: and it just , you know , it , it dominated over all of them .
A: Everybody , all the , uh , raters loved it .
A: I like the , I like the styling
A: and , I seen a few of them actually race
A: and they seem to be really good cars for it .
B: What about Mustang G T
A: Mustang G T
A: Uh , ca n't afford it .
B: Those ,
B: so you 're talking about ones in a lower , lower end , price range .
A: Right ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 'm a graduate student
A: and , let 's face it ,
A: I don't make any money
A: so ,
B: Right .
B: Well , you can wait till you graduate
B: and you 'll have plenty of money ,
B: you can buy whatever you want .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 'll see then .
A: Yeah ,
A: right now I 'm stuck ,
A: I , I 've got a , a Pontiac Sunbird Turbo that ,
A: it 's fast , but unreliable
A: and trying to get it prepared for racing .
A: But it 's , it would be nice , just like scrap it and go for the Saturn .
B: Right ,
B: would you use that for city driving and racing ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I 'd do it , I 'd use it for both .
A: The nice thing about autocrossing is you can , you can do both .
B: Autocrossing is ,
B: what kind of track is that ?
A: Uh , just like a , uh , set up a lot of times
A: and it 's like really large , uh , parking lots . And pylons and things .
B: Okay .
B: And you put up , set up the track , pylons .
B: Okay .
A: Tight turns , hard acceleration .
A: I 've seen a lot of Mustangs , uh , compete
A: and it 's interesting .
A: They get dominated by the Corvettes that are also in their class .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I would guess so .
A: Uh , what are you thinking about buying ?
B: Uh , I think I 'd like to get , uh , B M W or if I go the German route , which I 'm kind of leaning towards right now , but , uh , or maybe a , I mean , a , a Acura Legend . Uh
A: The Legend .
A: Uh .
B: a Lexus , uh , S C three hundred maybe . Something on that order .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , because your B M W your German cars have good reputations , I think .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I was , I was actually in , uh ,
A: a lot of the B M W are produced in , uh , uh , Stutgardt and , uh , and Munich
B: Yes .
A: and I was , I was there this , uh , summer
A: and , uh , I was really impressed by the , uh , the , uh , factory , uh , tours and such for B M W .
B: The ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they , their , they have the whole philosophy ,
B: I mean , they , they kind of even brainwash themselves into thinking they 're better , which is kind of hard to take
A: Yeah .
B: I mean as you 're walking through that little tour in , uh , Munich , it 's kind of they 're trying to brainwash you , too
A: Uh ,
A: Oh , of course ,
A: of course they are .
A: They want you to buy their car .
A: Yeah ,
A: there ,
A: it was , it was interesting .
A: I was at , I , I also went to , uh , the Porsche
A: and , uh , it was , it was amazing how they were completely opposed .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: the , uh , the B M W is really , oh , like , oh , we have all these like high tech things
A: and everything is put together with exacting tolerances
A: and , and then you go to Porsche
A: and it 's like , well , uh , these cars are completely handmade
B: Um .
A: and no two of them are alike
A: And
B: Yeah
B: that 's ,
A: so it 's like completely opposed .
A: I don't know ,
A: which do I like better ,
A: I think I like the Porsche 's philosophy a little bit better , although it 's not really practical .
B: No ,
B: it 's not realistic .
A: Unless , it 's , it 's a toy .
B: Yeah ,
B: if you can afford that kind of a toy , then , I guess , uh
A: Let 's face it .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: but it , it , B M W good for that .
A: What kind of driving just like commuting you 'd want to do it , use it for ?
B: Yeah ,
B: just work ,
B: short trips .
B: No no heavy mileage .
B: I 'm putting on less than fifteen thousand miles a year .
A: Wow , yeah .
B: So it 's pretty minimal .
A: That 's cool .
B: Lasts a long time .
B: That 's mainly what I 'm looking for .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good .
A: I also , I was impressed by , uh , by the Mercedes , too .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I really , I really like the Mercedes .
B: But , But if , if you have a problem with a Mercedes , you take it into a shop , they 're going to , they 're going to hit you up for just all kinds of things
A: The factory was nice
A: and ,
A: And is it different for the , for the B M W ?
B: Uh , I think , well , something on the order of a three series , it 's probably different .
B: Once you get up in the five series and higher , then , all your repair costs go up significantly
A: Probably .
A: Right ,
A: I can imagine that .
B: So I 'm kind ,
B: yeah ,
B: I 'm not sure if I really want ,
A: All right ?
B: Yes .
A: Okay .
A: How many kids do you have ?
B: I think I think we 're going to talk about parents spending time with their children .
B: We , have three children who are eleven , nine , and eight .
A: Right .
B: So this is the big issue with us . Although I don't recall marking it on my little things to talk about
B: but perhaps they are little for words to be said like day care and quality time
B: and ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: Anyway .
B: You don't have children ?
A: No .
B: But you 're married ?
A: Yeah ,
A: we , we 've been married for two and a half years .
A: We 've been trying for about two years but no luck yet .
B: Oh .
A: Hopefully ,
B: You know , I know we 're not supposed to do this long distance
B: but actually I 'm getting a call .
B: I wonder if I could possibly take it on call waiting .
B: Could I ask you to hold one minute ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'll be right back .
B: Excuse me , just a moment .
B: They 're going to get mad
A: whispers to someone in the She had another call .
A: She has just three kids , eleven , nine , and eight .
B: Hello ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm so sorry .
A: All right .
B: That was my daughter 's Brownie leader telling me that there is a meeting tomorrow Brownie meeting .
A: Okay .
A: That keeps you
A: do you have a lot of activities with your kids ?
B: Well , I don't want to , I don't want this to be a unilateral conversation
B: but , yes ,
B: we do .
B: Both my husband and I work
B: and our children are sixth , fourth , and third grade .
B: And the school years are wonderful ,
B: they 're just wonderful .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The kids , they are real people
B: and they are interesting
B: and , they , they have all their own activities
B: and , um , I think as parents we really enjoy them in , in our personal situation
B: our children have not yet decided to rebel
A: Uh-huh .
A: So they 're pretty good kids , huh ?
B: I 'm sure that 's coming though .
B: But , they are wonderful kids .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , we had growing up
A: I guess I can talk about us .
A: We had nine kids in our family .
A: We had eight boys and one girl .
A: But , my Dad , uh ,
B: You had eight boys and one girl ?
A: Yeah .
A: And the time that my , we spent with our Dad was , he owned his own business
A: so we worked with him most of the time .
A: So that 's how we spent most of the time with him .
B: Are you Mormons ?
A: Yeah .
B: That 's what the Utah and the large family .
A: That was a dead giveaway , huh ?
B: Well , we 're Catholics .
B: I came from a family of five .
B: I had four brothers ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: the only girl .
A: Oh .
B: And everyone always asked if the girl got spoiled .
A: Which that ,
B: I never felt spoiled .
B: In fact I always thought my toys were destroyed
A: I was going to say , my sister was n't spoiled very much .
B: No .
B: Usually busy fighting for survival .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's .
A: But ,
B: Well , I do think with working parents it is , I mean , there are some real issues here . Um , that I think , um ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know .
B: It 's an interesting problem .
B: I happen to , um ,
B: I 'm a pediatrician .
A: Oh .
B: My husband is a physician ,
B: so , uh , I , I I talk to parents about this a lot .
B: But children ,
B: I , I think working mothers or mothers who choose to work outside the home , um , need very early to come to grips with any guilt , that they feel and decide what 's best for them and their family .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I feel when my children were very young , I had jobs that helped me be flexible with my schedule and spend time with them and all that sort of thing .
B: And I long ago decided I 'm a better mother because I work outside the home .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I really believe that .
B: And it has , um , helped us to afford some things for our children that we could n't otherwise that I think are wonderful particularly at this age ,
B: and I think our kids are real secure . And have a real sense of priorities and that they can do anything and be anything both male and female a lot
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I know it sounds like a rationalization
B: but it 's , I really think it 's true for our family ,
B: and I think it has worked very well .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's like you said , you know , to each his own .
A: And we 're planning on having my wife stay home .
A: And but ,
B: There 's no question ,
B: I think that 's really the best .
B: If , if a woman is happy doing that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I hate to put it quite that way .
A: Yeah .
B: I was twenty-nine when I had my first child
B: and , uh , I would not have been real fulfilled .
B: I really would not have been totally staying home with a young child .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's a wonderful , it 's wonderful to be a mother
B: but , uh , I like I like the way I did it .
A: Right .
B: I sort of worked half time .
B: I had very flexible hours .
B: I nursed all three of our children until they were at least a year
B: and I , you can do that despite working very easily which is one of the things I preach all the time to , to mothers .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , and I think we choose very , very carefully the , um , alternative situations that we had them in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Some baby-sitting groups ,
B: again , I know it sounds like a rationalization ,
B: but I really do think sometimes they very early on are around lots of other children
B: and they , they learn to share .
B: They learn not necessarily to be the center of attention but that at the same time we have to be sure they are secure .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think that helps .
A: Well , that 's good .
A: Sounds like you 're , have a handle on it .
B: Well , so , so . So , your wife , does she work right now ?
A: Um , no ,
A: not right now .
B: She 's out ,
A: Right .
A: Well , we just moved down here .
A: We used to live up in Seattle for a couple of years .
B: You 're still trying to dry out ?
A: It 's that 's no problem here .
A: Yeah ,
A: we really liked it up there
A: but then
A: I don't believe that we 're ,
B: So what do you think about , uh , recycling programs in Atlanta , Julie ?
A: The recycling program here is just terrible .
A: I mean it 's hard to find places to go .
A: I mean , Kroger does a couple things .
A: They , I don't think they , do they do newspapers ?
B: I don't know ,
B: there 's , there 's big bins out there ,
B: I don't know if they ever get
B: I , I really don't know what the details are .
B: There should be someplace where you could call and find out .
B: As a matter of fact , I 'm pretty sure there 's a place you can call and find out the closest , you know , thing to you ,
B: but , I think there should be some kind of curbside service .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's the only way I could really ,
A: The one in Florida is so cool because they pick up everything .
A: They pick up newspapers and , uh , you know , milk jugs and aluminum and tin cans , you know , like soup comes in and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They pick up everything .
B: During the summers , like the , around where I live the , uh , homeless people
B: I mean , they all have like shopping carts and stuff
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 're go around and collect cans and aluminum and stuff ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so we used to just save them up
B: and then they 'd come around
B: and we 'd give them to them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , when ,
B: during the winter time I think they , they move south or something
A: Yeah
B: so , I don't do that anymore .
B: And the , the recycling at Georgia Tech , like that , uh , outside the , uh , student center they never empty those things .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I know it ,
A: I know it .
B: They just overflow .
A: It piles up .
B: So what 's a guy to do ?
A: I just don't know .
B: I asked myself .
A: I just don't know
A: and now they have , like bins and stuff that are a little more convenient because , mean , until seven o'clock , you got to pay to park at the student center ,
A: you ca n't really unload all your stuff .
B: Really ?
B: Huh , oh , yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: had n't thought about that .
B: That is very inconvenient .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Inconvenient , even
A: I know it ,
A: I know it .
B: But , uh ,
B: so , you do recycle , don't you ?
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm kind of , I 'm kind of bad about it .
A: The ,
B: If I , if see a , if I see a pile of cans or bottles or something I 'll throw it in there
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I don't really , I don't ever take anything .
A: Well , I mean , it 's real ,
A: you ought to , because the , the , the farmer 's market recycles absolutely everything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And since we go there all the time , I mean
B: But wait
A: probably at all .
B: I 've never seen you before
B: Who are you ?
A: Oh , by the way , may name 's Julie .
B: Yeah ,
B: my name 's Bill .
B: Well ,
A: Hi .
B: Hi .
A: I 'm from Atlanta .
B: Me , too .
A: Neat .
B: Crazy .
B: Uh , well , is there anything else you 'd like to share me about your recycling philosophy , Julie ?
A: I just think that everybody ought to do it .
B: Do they do
B: like , what about , like , uh ,
B: what kind of plastic stuff can you recycle , do you know ?
A: The only thing I know that you can recycle is milk jugs .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah .
B: What about like those grocery bags ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: they have , uh ,
A: uh , what I , what I used to , uh ,
A: now that I don't go to the grocery store much , it 's kind of moot ,
A: but I used to just save up the ones that I got one time and then go and hand them to them the next time and use them over and over .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , also most places , like Big Star does
A: and I 'm not sure if Kroger does or not
A: but ,
B: They 'll ask you whether you want bags or paper or plastic .
A: Yeah ,
A: and they , they have like little , little boxes that you can put your old bags in .
B: uh .
A: Can bring them in .
B: Those petroleum products are going to kill us .
A: I know it ,
A: I know it .
B: The hostile planet , I think , Julie .
A: It really is a small , hostile planet
B: The petroleum pretty much , I mean , those petroleum products I think are the big , uh , you know the great Satan of the recycling .
A: Did you know that ,
A: No ,
A: really not .
A: Did you know that , like , something like fifty percent of the world 's landfills is like paper ? Filled with paper .
B: Um .
B: Paper just seems so innocuous .
A: Huh ?
B: Paper does n't seem threatening at all , you know .
A: Well , it is , it is , though .
B: It comes from trees .
B: How can it be bad ?
A: It is , because they ,
B: They treat it with chemicals or something ?
B: Why ca n't trees break down ?
B: I don't get it .
A: Well , they do treat paper with chemicals
A: like yellow paper , you know takes something like twenty times as long to decompose .
B: Yep .
B: Oh
A: You know , you can bury a piece of yellow paper ,
A: it will still be there in a couple of weeks .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah
B: Huh .
A: it will be whole .
A: You 'll be able to read off of it .
B: I 'm going to switch from those yellow legal pads , then .
A: Yeah , um .
B: I 'm glad you told me that , because I use those at work , where I work
B: and , uh , But I can just forget that from now on .
B: I 'm going I 'm going to switch to the white ones .
A: Well , white paper 's bad too .
A: They , they treat it , too .
B: Well , what about , uh , papyrus , you know , made out of you know , bamboo stuff , from the from the banks of the Nile .
A: I 'm sure that 's fine .
A: I 'm sure .
A: Maybe we ought to just start carving in stone again .
B: You think so ?
A: Maybe .
B: Tablets ?
A: Yeah .
B: I think we should just abandon the , you know , the written word altogether , you know .
A: You think ?
A: I don't know ,
A: well , I mean , I think we 've kind of , you know ,
B: What do you think ?
A: I mean , everybody , everybody everybody has a computer .
B: Kind of radical , I know
B: but ,
A: We would no longer need paper at all .
B: That 's true .
B: Everyone had a two way wrist watch T V on their wrist , like , uh , Dick Tracy .
A: I would love that .
A: So how do you , uh ,
A: so , so , it sounds like you 've got a television going on there ,
A: so I can assume that you probably watch the T V news .
A: Is that ,
B: I almost never watch T V news .
A: Really ?
A: Wow .
A: I ,
B: I get most of my news driving back and forth to work listening to the radio .
A: Uh , what , what station do you listen to ?
B: Uh , it 's a local radio station .
B: It 's called , uh , K L I F , cliff .
A: Cliff , I see ,
A: so , uh , it 's not affiliated with anything , is it .
A: Not it 's not a network station .
B: No .
B: No .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah ,
A: because I , I listen to , uh , public radio a lot
A: and they have , they have K C R W , which I , I , I saw a thing recently , they may be trying to start their own , uh , cable TV outlet , I guess .
A: They 're getting a little , getting a little feisty now
B: Well , this has , this station has a lot of just ongoing news
A: Uh ,
B: and occasionally in the morning , I 'll pick up something like , uh , C N N or that ,
B: but I hate watching the , like , ten o'clock news
B: or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: so you have a paper or something or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we have a well , we have , uh , DALLAS MORNING NEWS which is the big paper in Dallas .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We read , I read it pretty much from cover to cover .
A: Yeah .
A: How do you like it ?
A: It 's been , it 's been a while since I read the Dallas news .
A: I , uh , fact , last time I read the Dallas , Dallas news I was in Arkansas .
A: I , uh ,
B: The TIMES HERALD went out of business here
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: and so we really only have one Dallas newspaper and one , Fort Worth newspaper .
A: Well , that must be pretty bad .
A: So , how did that happen , anyway ?
B: Uh , financial trouble .
A: No ,
A: not how ,
A: I mean , when did it , when did they ,
B: Oh , when did it happen ?
A: Yeah .
B: I guess they closed down about three months ago .
A: Oh , really .
A: Um .
B: So , how do you keep up ?
A: Oh , me , I , uh , good grief , I read the TIMES , LOS ANGELES TIMES .
A: There 's , quite a task if you 've ever run into one .
A: They 're , uh
B: Yes , they 're very voluminous .
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're thick .
A: Uh , if there 's something you want to know , it 's , it 's in the TIMES and then , and in detail . * repair bracketing wrong
A: Uh , they , uh , we , we used to have two papers here in town
A: and then the HERALD EXAMINER collapsed about two years ago because of , oh , I don't know , just nobody was buying it really .
B: So there really is only one major L A now ?
A: Yeah ,
A: pretty much .
A: Uh , there used to be , fact , I think there still is , the , uh , the DAILY NEWS which runs out of the San Fernando Valley
A: and , uh , they 're not bad as far as a , uh , you know , as far as a local paper goes .
A: In fact , it was kind of weird , because I met the , uh , I met the , I met the editor , uh , while I was on , uh , while I was doing jury service in Santa Monica one time
A: It was like we just sat around and talk about newspapers and stuff .
A: He was a really cool guy . Uh , you know , went to Columbia University and all this stuff .
A: And , uh it 's , it 's a pretty good paper ,
A: but , uh , you know , it 's not , it 's not the TIMES .
B: Yeah .
A: Although I , you know , I 'm sorry to see some of their , uh ,
A: there 's , there 's a daily news , uh , news rack right around the corner from where I live , which means that they 're , they 're expanding , I guess .
A: But , uh , and occasionally I , I pick up like TIME magazine or something I think , uh , if they 've got an interesting lead story ,
A: but you know , it 's ,
A: I , I don't have time .
B: I used to read TIME magazine a lot ,
B: but I don't read it much anymore .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's kind of a problem for them .
A: There 's a lot of people who fall into that , category .
B: And then we have a local rag here in town that I pick up periodically and read just to see what 's going on in our little community . Because we don't get an awful lot of coverage in the DALLAS MORNING NEWS .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I see .
A: Yeah ,
A: the big dailies don't like to , don't like to step much out of their , uh , out of their home turf ,
A: I have to admit , the TIMES is kind of provincial , too .
A: It 's basically anything that 's south of downtown , they don't bother to cover .
B: Now , they have started here running a three day , or three times a week Plano section .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's just sort of a , you know , four or five pages that covers what 's going on in Plano .
B: But it 's still not an awful lot of news .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
A: I , uh , it was , it was a big discovery when , when the TIMES , when the TIMES found out there was a place called Orange County
A: I mean , the way they , I mean , the way they 've been handling it before , they practically , they practically acted like their reporters needed to shots to go south of the L A county border
B: Oh , I would imagine in , uh , you know , in , in Dallas they have plenty happening in Dallas to cover , that it gets hard covering all of the suburbs
B: and , of course , they tend to cover the county ,
B: and we 're not in Dallas county ,
B: so they tend to ignore places outside of the county .
A: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I , I , I find that attitude kind of arrogant , though .
A: It 's like you 're taking our money ,
A: but you 're not bothering to cover the things that are interesting to us .
B: Yeah .
B: Okay .
B: Well , uh , I 'll let you start , I guess
A: Well , uh , yeah ,
A: I , I 'm employed by a company that does do , uh , random drug testing
A: and I 've got some very definite , uh , opinions about it . Uh , you know , which have n't changed all that much from my first reactions from , from when they , when they announced it . But , uh , developed a little more , I guess , but have n't changed that much .
A: What about you ?
A: Are you , uh , involved at all ?
B: Uh , no .
B: I mean , I 'm not ,
B: my employer does not do that . Uh , although , uh , I had an ex-employer that ,
B: uh , the previous job I used to have , uh , they ,
B: after , I guess a few years after I had started with them they made it a condition of employment that you pass a drug test .
A: Yes .
B: Uh , I , I don't know .
B: My feeling is that certain jobs that when there 's immediate threat to life and limb , uh , if should somebody be under the influence of drugs , I , I 'd be willing to support that .
B: For example , uh , uh , well , uh , uh , train engineers .
A: Yeah .
B: Because it , you know , uh , like , there was an incident several years ago where an Amtrak engineer you know
A: Right .
B: he crashed and killed some people because he was , uh , smoking some marijuana
B: and I guess air traffic controllers . I would n't want them to be on drugs . And airplane pilots .
B: But where it 's not necessary , uh , in that regard , where it 's not an immediate threat to life and limb or property uh , I , I 'd , I would seriously question it .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , so .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: It , uh , that 's , that 's mine .
A: It , it , you know ,
A: I , I go back ,
A: it , to me , no matter how much the , our company claims it 's not a constitutional issue . That , because this is , uh , between a company and an employee it is not , it is not a government ,
A: it 's not ,
A: the Constitution does n't apply .
A: But I it , it seems to me that it still should .
A: I , I , our company 's doing it because they 're a , uh , government contractor
A: Uh , and so it 's , it 's required for certain , some form , some form of drug program is required to get the government contracts
B: So it 's the government that 's mandating it to a certain extent ?
A: Okay .
A: and our company has taken that and gone all the way .
A: Say ,
A: okay , uh ,
A: first off we don't , we don't have enough courage to , uh , pick out the people that , that have some sort of indication of possible drug usage , uh , because that would offend them , uh , if they , if they were n't .
A: So we 'll just accuse everybody of using drugs and , make it all even .
A: Uh , and and , uh
B: Yeah .
B: Well ,
A: then , uh ,
A: but and they ,
A: so it 's , a , a complete random testing
A: well it 's random in the sense that you don't know when .
A: It is not random in the sense that they have said that within three years everyone in the company will be tested .
B: Huh .
A: Uh , and , uh , you know , I , I sit at a terminal and , and write software all day .
A: It , it , uh , certainly has no life threatening , uh , capabilities uh , you know , in , in my job .
B: Right .
B: And ,
A: And , and , uh , yes
A: I , I agree that there are , there are , uh , jobs that are definitely life threatening
A: and , and , and there needs to be a line drawn somewhere at , reasonable and proper .
A: you know ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: I agree .
B: I mean it 's , well there 's also the issue of , uh ,
B: out here , I remember hearing a year or so ago , that , uh , a lot of ,
B: there was a high error rate in the analysis of drug results .
B: or , I should n't say high
A: Well ,
B: I mean several percent
A: Yeah .
A: I , that , that I , that I will give credit to , to our , our company for in that , that , I think there 's , there 's a couple of levels of tests in terms of , of , uh , of drugs .
A: And essentially the first thing is is on the order of paper in the urine and , uh , or some , you know ,
A: it 's not quite that simple ,
A: but it 's fairly simple .
B: Kind of a coarse kind of test .
A: Coarse kind of test .
A: And then there 's a , a much more , uh , uh , refined test , uh , uh , spectrography or whatever it 's called . The chemotography uh , to determine exactly what the , what the things are .
B: Is that done ,
B: Right .
A: And , uh ,
B: Now let me ask you this .
B: Uh , at the time you hired on with this company , uh , was that prior to any ,
A: No ,
A: I , I 've been with this company for , uh , for sixteen years now .
B: Okay ,
B: so that this is obviously not a condition of employment that you subject yourself to this
A: And , uh ,
A: No .
A: And it , and it , and it has , it has , you know ,
A: they did that three or four years before they did it with everybody .
A: And I , uh , at that time I could justify it in terms of someone new coming in , you don't , you don't know .
A: But , on the other hand , uh , someone new coming in that knows they 're going to have a test ,
B: Hello .
A: Hello ,
B: Hi .
A: Hello
A: this is Lois .
B: Hi ,
B: hi ,
B: this is Lisa .
A: And , uh , I called you know , from that , the , the T I Data Base Calling Instructions .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I got a call yesterday too .
B: This is a different subject though .
A: Yeah ,
A: this is about changes in the women in the ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , there 's really a lot , is n't there .
B: Yeah
A: I think there really is .
B: It 's kind of an easy thing to talk about .
A: Oh , I guess the work force would be the main , would n't it .
B: Yeah , uh ,
B: I think you have to push one
B: and then we can start recording it .
A: Okay
A: All right .
B: Okay .
A: Are you ready now ?
B: Yes .
A: Okay ,
A: like I said I guess it would be the work force , you know , as far as changes in the generations .
B: Yes ,
B: I know because , I know when my mother was a , you know , going into the work force there was n't very many opportunities for her , I guess ,
B: she 's in her late forties .
B: You were expected to stay home and take care of the kids
B: and I 've never faced that at all .
A: Uh , no ,
A: I think now , you go to work when they 're six weeks old , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you stay there .
A: And I feel like the next generation , you 'll probably just work right along with your husband , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: I think it 's definitely gotten better .
A: Oh , I do to , much .
A: And it 's just going to get better .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It really is .
B: Because women are in every field now ,
B: I mean I ca n't think of a field that they 're not involved in .
A: Oh , I ca n't either , not a one .
B: And I know at least in the medical field , it seems like they 've come out with a lot further advances as far as female medications and things since women have gotten into the doctor field .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't think that men really took the time to work on that sort of thing .
A: Yeah ,
A: even in Washington , you know , there seems to be a lot more women involved .
B: Yeah .
B: Hopefully , the next generation , it wo n't even be an issue ,
B: I mean people will just look at you as a person and not as a man or a woman ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: I think that would be the best goal .
A: Oh , I do too ,
A: just your qualifications
A: and that would be it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: exactly ,
B: not what color you are , how old you are , what your male or female .
B: That would be wonderful ,
B: I guess it 's kind of an ideal world though , huh
A: Yeah ,
A: I kind of think , maybe in time , that , you know , you 'll go by social security numbers , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: and that way they ca n't say well they picked a male over a female , female over a male , you know ,
B: Exactly ,
B: or the way you look ,
B: or the way you , you know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: your age or anything .
B: I think that would be a wonderful way to do it .
A: I do to
A: just go by your social security number and then look at you qualifications that , you know , that you have .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: and then ,
A: And then if you get it , you know then ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: also , with , uh , women in the work force they 've gotten a lot more options as far as , you know , what 's it called , job sharing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like if you and another lady were to share the same full time job , or ,
A: Oh , yeah .
A: As a matter of fact , that 's what I 'm doing .
B: Is it .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: it sure is .
B: That would be great .
A: It sure is .
B: Or , a lot of women I know now and my , uh , one of my supervisors , when she went on L O A to have her baby , we hooked up , uh , uh , a terminal at her house
B: and she , you know , we could send her messages ,
B: and , and she kept in touch like that , and basically , just worked out of her house .
A: Oh .
B: I would just take her the actual paperwork once , uh , every week or two ,
B: and that worked out great too .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
A: that is .
B: And that 's a real attractive option , if you have the , the technology for it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: All it was , was , you know ,
B: I mean , she just used a phone modem
B: and she was like she was sitting in the office ,
B: so I think that 's real nice too , to come up with different options .
B: Do you like the job sharing ?
A: Oh , I do ,
B: Do you ?
A: I really do ,
A: I think it 's great .
B: Do you work like half days , or half weeks or ,
A: Uh , well like , one week she 'll work three days and I 'll work two
A: and she 'll work two ,
B: Oh , oh that 's great ,
A: and we just share off like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Do you get the full benefits ?
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah
A: we get the full benefits .
B: Oh , that 's wonderful .
A: But we 've just really got a wonderful system that we 're working under .
B: Yeah ,
B: especially with children , and so many things going on , that would be great .
A: Yeah .
A: It really is ,
A: and that way we 're not really missing any thing out , you know , of children ,
B: Either way ,
A: uh-huh .
B: yeah ,
B: you have your career and your home life ,
B: and that would be a nice way , especially if you have young children .
A: Oh , it is ,
A: it is ,
A: well both of ours is school age ,
A: but we don't want to miss any of those P T A and , you know , all of that .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: oh , no ,
B: I think ,
B: yeah .
B: My son 's just in day-care
B: but even that they have extracurricular activities
B: and the older they get the more that you 're involved in that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I think it 's great ,
A: I really ,
B: Yeah ,
A: and I look for more of that in the next generation .
B: I do too , especially as women get up in management and , and can be in on those decision making ,
B: you know , when that subject comes up they can say yes ,
B: that would be wonderful .
A: Yes ,
A: oh , I do too .
B: Plus , I bet it cuts , cuts down on your absenteeism because you 've got two days off that you can do everything ,
B: so you don't have to , you know , unless you 're just really sick , or the child 's sick .
A: Most of the time now , you know , it 's just the weekend ,
A: or just forget it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: oh yeah ,
B: I have to plan way in advance , because ,
B: or , what I 've done is found like doctors ' and dentists ' office with extended hours .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's been real helpful too ,
B: like my doctor stays open til nine in the evening .
B: So that 's real helpful ,
B: so you don't , you know , have to do it during office hours , run out on your lunch hour .
B: I don't know how many times I 've done that to do something , post office or the bank or any kind of errand ,
A: To do ,
A: yeah .
B: so .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well I think we 've really come a long way in that because ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: I guess I take it for granted , kind of , because , I just ,
B: it 's always been that way .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: but I can remember back growing up , my mother ,
A: I mean it was
A: she always worked ,
A: but it was n't that easy for her to just take off .
B: Oh no ,
B: I can remember my mother getting in trouble if , you know , one of was sick ,
B: and I know she probably did n't make hardly anything , you know , compared to the work that she did .
A: Oh yeah .
B: I think there is still some discrimination there where as , you know , men and women work in the same job ,
B: I think men get paid more ,
A: Oh , I do too .
B: but I think that 's improving .
B: It 's such a slow process
B: it 's frustrating ,
B: but , you can see that it 's wrong
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
B: and you just want to make it right ,
B: but at least the wheels are moving forward .
A: They really are .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it 's getting better , not worse .
B: Well , I should probably get back to my job
A: I know ,
A: I know the feeling .
B: Call again .
A: Okay ,
A: I sure will .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Hello .
B: Hello .
A: Hey , how you doing ?
B: Not bad ,
B: not bad .
B: What 's your name ?
A: Fernando .
B: Fernando .
B: My name is Nick .
A: Wait .
A: Let me turn off my stereo here
B: Sure
A: Because I 've been , like , waiting , like , for about ten minutes to get connected to somebody .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Phew like a whistling
B: Man , I 'm ,
A: Yeah .
A: What time is it over
A: are you , are you in Dallas ?
B: No ,
B: no .
B: I 'm in Detroit .
B: Or not Detroit . I 'm in , uh , California .
A: Are you ?
B: Yeah .
B: I .
A: Because every time I got through , I went to Dallas , Texas .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm in North Carolina .
B: Oh .
B: Well , you 're on the , uh ,
B: let 's see ,
A: On the other coast
B: Yeah ,
B: twenty-one like he is talking to someone other than
B: Yeah .
B: Shoot man , it 's , what , midnight almost ?
A: What ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: It 's , uh ,
A: I 'm watching SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE here .
B: Yeah ,
B: okay .
B: All right .
B: Well I guess we 're supposed to talk ,
B: what about
B: credit card ?
A: wait .
A: what did , how , how did you get to know about the T I thing ?
B: Oh , one of my instructors , uh , said that they were doing something like this
B: and .
A: what are you working on
B: A , a Masters in , uh , information systems .
A: Really .
A: I 'm doing my Masters in , in computer science and computer engineering .
B: Yeah ?
B: Where at ?
A: At North Carolina State University .
B: Hey .
B: How do you like it out there
A: Uh , I don't . Because , uh , I come from a lot , a bigger city than this one
A: and I , I 'm in Raleigh
B: Yeah .
A: and ,
B: Oh .
B: Raleigh Durham .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: That area .
A: And it 's really small .
A: All , all you have is like towns built around universities .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Like Chapel Hill ?
B: Yeah .
B: So it , it 's basically a bunch of small towns anyway .
B: Kind of quaint little towns
B: but they don't have a whole lot there .
A: Yeah .
A: Where you at ?
B: Uh , well , I 'm in Monterey , California right now
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , okay .
A: So , so I mean , it 's like this , this town probably has like two hundred and fifty thousand people
A: and that 's about it .
B: Two hundred fifty ?
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
B: It , it 's , it 's a lot bigger than Monterey is .
B: But we 're just , uh , just south of , uh , San Jose and San Francisco .
A: Oh , okay .
B: And it 's only a couple of hours away or a hour away to a , you know , to a large city .
A: So , so where do you go ?
A: Do you go to Berkeley ?
B: No ,
B: no .
B: I go to the , it 's the naval postgraduate school out here .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Because , uh , I was looking at , at the , doctorate degree in computer science center at Berkeley
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they 're asking like for a , uh , G P A of like three point seven or something like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And like they 're looking like for , uh , G R E like ninety-nine percentile and this and that .
B: Yeah .
A: And it 's like ,
B: Well , that 's what they look for .
B: Whether or not they get it is hard to say like a chair is drug across the * spelling : `` dragged '' , not `` drug '' in this case
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
A: That 's why , that 's why I did n't apply .
A: I mean , it was like for me , it was like practically impossible to get between like ninety and , ninety-nine percentile on the , on the verbal part .
B: Yeah
B: Yeah .
B: It 's pretty tough .
B: It 's pretty tough
B: I ,
B: uh , let 's face it , you know .
B: And , you know , I , you know , did the , you know ,
B: as far as ,
B: I found it a lot of times with , regards to education , you know , the school only takes you so far , you know .
B: It 's what you do . You know .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh , I don't lose any sleep , sleep over stuff like that .
A: So , are , are you going to go for your Doctorate ?
B: Probably not .
B: See I 'm in the Navy .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , you know , most of the Navy funds that I probably wo n't do it until I ,
B: if I do do it , it will be after I get out of the Navy .
A: When do you get out ?
B: Oh , probably be another twelve years .
A: Oh , okay
B: Oh , you know I like what I 'm doing right now .
A: But , uh , but what if they pay for it ?
B: Excuse me ?
A: What if they pay for ?
B: If they pay for a P H D ?
A: Yeah .
B: Nah ,
B: they wo n't pay for it .
B: They 've , I think they have maybe two people a year go get , get their P H D .
A: Because I know , I know a couple of people here that work for , uh , the Army . Uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: They civilians or , uh , military ?
A: I think , I think they 're military .
A: But , I mean , the guy is still in .
B: Uh-huh
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , uh , he works over in Maryland
B: Uh-huh
A: And so he 's doing his Masters here .
A: They gave him like a scholarship like for a year .
B: Yeah .
A: And he 's doing it in like , in a year and a summer .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so he 's getting that
A: and , uh they said like they got a lot of benefits and that .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's why you want to join .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , this guy ,
A: I mean you can earn a lot more money
A: so you say ,
A: I go why you still there if you can earn a lot more money , once you 've get your , your , your Masters .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They go , well they got a lot of benefits that would go with it
A: so .
B: Well , a lot of times it 's , you know , a lot of times it 's not the money that keeps that keeps people in .
A: Yeah .
B: They , they like what they 're doing .
B: They , you know , they feel good about what they 're doing .
B: That type of thing .
B: It 's more
A: But I mean , I mean , you ,
A: the ,
A: once you get your Masters , you can be earning between , anywhere between like thirty-seven , forty-five thousand a year .
B: Uh-huh
A: And and that 's not what they 're paying .
B: Oh , easily ,
B: I 'm sure .
B: No .
B: Well , it depends on what rank you are , of course
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know
B: I mean , like I say , if you 're , if you 're , you know , if you 're at an upper level in the rank category , you know , you 're probably pulling down close to seventy grand a year .
A: Yeah .
A: But that 's , uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: Those are few and far between though .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's like , it 's like , uh , in I B M .
A: In I B M , you can get certain points
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , everyone 's a manager .
A: But nobody can get one more point to become , you know , like whatever you need to earn so much money .
B: Yeah .
B: Since I imagine it 's fairly competitive .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's like ,
A: no
A: I , I mean , I B M is like ,
A: there 's a joke about I B M which says , you know , it 's like , uh ,
A: all , all the major companies get into a , a boating race , right ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so , I B M says well we have , we have to have a team , right .
B: Uh-huh
A: And then they come in last
A: and they have this whole team , you know , analyze why they came in last right . Because the person asked for it .
B: Yeah .
A: Saying ,
A: he goes , uh , the problem was that there were five people saying row , row , row and one person rowing , right .
A: So he goes , have you come up with a uh , have you come up with a solution ?
A: They go , yeah ,
A: change the rower
A: You know , it 's like everyone 's a , manager
A: but , you know , it 's like only use like one person does the work
B: Yeah .
A: so .
B: Too many chiefs and not enough Indians .
A: Yeah .
A: So .
B: Yeah .
B: I don't know ,
B: that can be , that , that can really slow you down .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , that 's the way it works .
A: I mean , that 's , that 's why they 're having problems .
A: I mean , everyone 's a manager
A: and ,
B: I did n't realize that .
A: Yeah .
A: I mean , it 's like , it 's like the people that actually do the work there are , uh , very few .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then the other people just plan it , you know .
A: It 's like , it 's like have you , have have you ever seen the commercial like for Federal Express where the , with , uh , the think tank ? You know ,
B: push paper around .
B: Uh-huh .
A: like all these people are just standing , sitting around , just going , you know , like what shall we do ?
A: Has anybody thought of anything ?
A: No .
A: And then this guy from Federal , Federal Express comes along .
A: They go what 's that ? This track which it 's going around the world
A: and they can tell you where your package is anywhere , any time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so it 's like the same thing with I B M. You know ,
A: so they have this think tank .
A: And they got to come up with ideas .
A: But , see , uh , the , the thing is , that I B M is so stabilized that everybody will buy their stuff .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: They 've got a , they 've got basically a , uh , you know , a lock on a lot of the market .
A: Yeah .
B: And a lot of times you figure , you know , with the support that they provide , you know ,
B: people generally go with that because they figure that the , you know , you probably wo n't get fired for getting I B M material .
B: Whereas if you try something different , they 'll they 'll say yeah ,
A: And it fails
A: and you 're dead .
B: why did n't you buy , why did n't you try something more mainline .
A: Yeah .
A: Well I B M does n't fire anybody .
A: Because uh , what they do is they , they put you in a different job . Which you actually are like sitting around not doing anything .
B: No .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So you quit .
B: Uh .
A: I mean that 's their policy .
A: They never fire anybody unless you 're caught doing something illegally .
B: Illegal or something like that ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: like if you 're stealing something or doing anything like that
B: Uh-huh .
A: But they wo n't let you off .
A: What they 'll do is like
A: suppose , you know , like you 're a manager .
A: So they 'll put you into keeping up the paper , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's like how much paper is going in ?
A: And then you say that 's not my job ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so you quit .
B: So , in other words , that 's the way they force people out
A: Right .
B: That 's why they can say , you know , there 's no layoff policy .
A: Right .
B: But it they don't really say that , you know ,
B: you 're , you 're always going to have great career conditions .
A: Right .
B: hey , that 's kind of sad .
A: No ,
A: but I mean , it 's like , it 's like they , they have just like different policy .
A: I don't know .
A: My dad works for them
A: but it 's like I B M like never in their commercials , they never put down any other company , you know .
A: It 's like they wo n't say ,
B: No .
B: Well , they 're the standard right now .
B: Or as far as that goes , you know , people think of computers , they think of I B M a lot of times .
B: And the main ,
A: Yeah .
A: Because see what happens is they have a good backup policy .
A: And anybody can fix it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so that 's what you 're going to go for .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , you know , that 's , that 's a , that 's a big thing .
A: And , and , you know , it 's like , for example , like Leading Edge .
A: Have you ever heard of Leading Edge ?
B: Yeah .
B: They are out of Korea right .
A: What ?
B: Leading Edge .
B: don't they
A: They , they made like , uh , small personal computers .
B: Yeah .
B: Small P C
B: they 're out of Korea right ?
A: I don't know .
A: I don't know .
A: But what they do is , what they did , I don't know , is buy all the parts that I B M would throw away . And build an I B M P C with all the parts that I B M would throw away .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , yeah
A: Yeah .
A: for example , you test a chip .
A: It ca n't last seven years
A: but it can last five .
A: I B M says let 's throw it away .
A: Leading Edge will say we 'll buy it from you .
B: Okay .
A: And so that 's ,
A: I mean , they 're still around I think .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've seen , well I 've seen them around anyway . You know .
A: So , that 's what they do .
A: They buy all , all the things that I B M throws away
A: and they , and that 's why they 're so compatible . Because I mean
B: Uh-huh .
A: and by the time you have computer for five years , you 're going to throw it away anyway . You know .
B: Most people do .
B: Or they have to anyway .
A: Well , I mean , there 's like , well
A: in a way you realize ,
A: I mean , one one of my teachers got this computer which , you know ,
A: it 's like , uh , voice , uh , synthesizing stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And he got that .
A: He said , you know , it 's like , uh ,
A: I was testing it * LISTEN to this sequence that begins here and ends with A.215 utt 11 . I ca n't tell how much Speaker A is quoting , and how much he'she is directly addressing Speaker B .
A: and it was wonderful .
A: And then when you tried to erase and correct , you know , all the errors in your voice , it takes up all your memory .
B: Wow .
A: And I want more , you know .
A: And it 's like Jesus Christ , you know ,
A: it 's like why do you want more .
A: Because it 's like one second of recording .
A: I mean you put into Wave
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you want to correct the errors into Wave ,
A: it takes so much ,
A: I mean , it 's like ,
A: of course it does .
A: I mean , by the times it transforms into Wave by mark off model
A: and you put it in there ,
A: and you want to correct those .
A: And then , you know , you 're trying to make the , the Wave smooth
A: so you can approximately ,
A: of course it 's going to take a lot .
A: Imagine , imagine what it is for us to make mark off models , you know .
B: It 's amazing .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's like , Jesus Christ .
B: Well , when you get , you know , when you get right down to it , the , uh , the more they can do for you , the more , uh , like I say , the more , the more memory they 're going to require .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Both , both in terms in Ram as well as , uh , you know , standard memory or disk disk base ,
A: Yeah .
B: so .
A: Well , like they say , like nobody can get enough , you know .
A: It 's like once you have something ,
A: and it 's like
B: Oh , yeah .
B: You find out more ,
A: I was watching this program on T V yesterday .
A: In nineteen seventy-six NASA came up with Three D graphics .
B: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they were showing this like Three D Three D graphics view of like ,
B: Like the deal ?
A: What ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: no .
B: Like a hologram ?
A: This is like , this is like video game stuff .
B: With just graphics on , on a ,
A: Okay ?
B: Okay
A: But the only thing was , that it was just lines ,
A: okay .
A: Like if you
A: I guess , um , I 'm going to school while I 'm working at T I ,
A: so there 's not a whole a lot of time that I 've got , uh , for hobbies it seems like lately .
A: But one of the things that I do when I 've got some spare time is I do some woodworking .
A: And that , oh , I guess , ranges anywhere from , uh , carpentry work to , um , um , some types of furniture and , um , oh , I don't know what you would call them , knickknacks , I guess , stuff you hang on the wall to put a mirror on
A: and I made some , um , candle sconces that you hang on the ...
B: Yeah ,
B: I have quite a few of those that my uncle made .
A: There 's something about working with wood that , that I enjoy , that ,
A: I don't know if it 's the saw dust or the mess you make or the smell of the wood
A: but ,
B: As you know , I think it 's more like the mess you make , is n't it ?
B: You don't have to worry about cleaning it up .
A: Yeah ,
A: because it 's , it 's out there .
A: You know I don't have to worry about getting stuff on the carpet except when I track in saw dust ,
A: and the wife gets kind of aggravated about that ,
A: but then , I get the opportunity to vacuum ,
A: so I guess I get some of both .
A: What are some of your things you like to do ?
B: Well , when I have time I do like to sew ,
B: um , I had been doing a lot of crocheting .
B: I make a lot of afghans or used to make a lot of them .
A: Yeah .
B: My mother was real heavy into crafts ,
B: and I would help her with whatever she happened to be doing ,
B: and then , she would go to these , uh , arts and crafts shows and sell her needlework .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: So , a lot of times I 'd help her with that .
B: I have n't had much opportunity to work on any other craft stuff lately
B: we 've been trying to start up a business and then trying to get my garden going .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a good time for gardening .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: it 's been beautiful this last week
B: but ,
A: I could do with a little less wind ,
A: but I think the , the temperature has been pretty good so far for working outside .
B: Yeah .
A: Do you find you do most of your , your , uh , crocheting or your knit work around Christmas time ?
B: I usually start in the fall .
A: Yeah .
B: And my husband says I do it , you know , make afghans so I can keep my lap warm .
A: Well , that 's kind of what my wife says .
A: She enjoys doing it during the cold weather because she 's always got something to cover her , her legs and feet with while she is working on it .
B: Yeah .
A: I know it seems like , she ,
A: I think she made three this year one for , uh , my father-in-law and then a couple of brothers and sisters .
A: So , those things they take some time to make .
B: Yeah ,
B: I found one that 's real easy ,
B: it 's , it 's , um , um , um ,
B: shoot , I ca n't even remember the name of it now ,
B: but you make it in strips .
B: And it 's real easy to do ,
B: and it 's just that it does n't keep your feet quite as warm because you do it in strips like that
B: but it 's ,
A: Well , that 's kind of like quilting .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I think
B: Mile a Minute .
B: That 's the name of it .
A: Mile a Minute .
B: Mile a Minute .
A: Well , I 'm not sure what she does
A: I , I ,
A: first thing that comes to mind is some kind of chain stitch because she starts and goes all the way across , you know , back and forth until she winds up with this big piece of , of afghan .
A: I guess that is your standard knitting , is n't it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Usually single crochet would , is , is always starts it off .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know ,
B: If we have a problem with our connection and get disconnected some time or other , don't worry about it .
B: We have a , a very small phone company down here .
A: Oh , okay .
B: And my husband says that 's called rinky-dink
A: Instead of call waiting or call anything else .
B: No ,
B: no .
B: We ca n't have that down here .
B: We get disconnected all the time .
A: Well , I guess that 's , that 's one way to end a conversation .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , it gets a little aggravating .
B: I 've got kids all over the United States
B: and , and , you know , sometimes they get disconnected when I 'm talking to them .
A: Yeah .
A: What ,
A: have you started your garden yet ?
B: Yes .
B: We planted , um , potatoes and onions and bell peppers .
A: Um , boy .
B: Uh , what else did I get in there ,
B: and jalapeno peppers .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: always got to have those .
B: Yeah .
A: I think I had four , uh , jalapeno plants last year .
A: I think one of them died ,
A: but I , I 've got , I 've put them , I chop them up and put them in jars and usually give them away because I , there is no way that I can eat all of those
A: nobody else in the family likes them ,
A: but always got to the keep those planted .
B: Yeah ,
B: oh , my husband does n't like them either ,
B: but I can always give them away .
A: Well , that 's kind of the way I am , um .
B: Besides they 're fun to grow .
A: I planted , uh , zucchini last year .
A: Uh , I planted four hills of them .
A: I think I had three or four seeds in each one of them ,
A: and those things just flat took over .
A: Um , it was n't until late , I guess in the summer ,
A: maybe it was because it was too dry ,
A: they finally started making zucchini ,
A: and I 'm not sure when a good time to plant those is , if they should be planted early or later .
A: It seems like all I got was ,
B: Supposedly after the soil warms up .
A: I would think so , um ,
A: seems like these all , they all went to , uh , to leaf ,
A: and it was n't until late in the summer they started making fruit .
A: So , I don't know if I ,
A: Mom would say you planted them in the wrong sign of the moon . You know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I don't , I had n't looked at a farmers almanac to find out when a good time for zucchini is .
B: I , I doubt if zucchini is in there .
A: It may not be ,
A: it may not be .
B: Probably the same time the , the other squash is though .
A: You think they 're later in the year ?
B: Yeah .
A: Uh .
B: About the same time that you plant okra because it 's supposed to be warm .
A: Well , that 's true .
A: Most of the okra that is growing around higher is , is , uh , later okra .
B: Yeah .
A: Well that 's about , um ,
B: We decided this year ,
A: Go ahead .
B: I 'm sorry ,
B: go ahead .
A: Well , I was just going to say , it 's a little over six or seven minutes .
A: So whenever you feel comfortable about concluding , well , I 'm ,
A: that would be fine .
B: Oh , just any time .
A: Well , all right .
A: I guess we 'll call this one quits
A: an , and thanks for participating .
B: All right .
B: Well , I 've enjoyed talking to you .
A: All right ,
A: have a good time .
B: Okay .
B: Bye .
A: Bye .
A: You said you have four cats ?
B: Yes ,
B: I have four cats .
A: How old are they ?
B: Well they range from , let 's see about a year and a half to nine years old .
A: Oh gosh .
B: Yes .
A: I have n't had my oldest one quite nine years ,
A: I 've had him probably five years .
B: Oh okay ,
B: you get so attached to them .
A: Oh yes ,
A: I love my cats .
A: I lost one , one time , uh ,
B: Oh .
A: the first one I got .
A: He jumped off the balcony actually , of a second story apartment .
B: Oh no .
A: And he 'd never been outside , like , you know , by himself outside .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it started raining
A: and I was hysterical .
A: I was , I was ,
A: I mean , you would have thought a child had died .
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I called everyone I knew ,
A: I had every friend I knew in the apartment searching for this cat .
B: Yes ,
B: I understand .
A: And they laughed at me ,
A: they thought that was so hysterical .
B: Oh no ,
B: I understand ,
B: we , uh , we 've gone through the same things with ours ,
B: we 've had , you know , they 've been ill ,
B: I mean I take off work , to take care of my cats , you know ,
A: Oh yeah .
B: my boss thinks I 'm absolutely crazy .
B: And then we had a baby
B: and it 's like , all right who comes first the cat or the baby .
A: The cat was here first
A: so I know ,
A: it 's hard .
B: And , and then when we go to sleep at night , you know , it 's like my husband and I have to try to get any space on the bed because we have all four of them up there with us .
A: Oh , how funny .
B: It 's like all right , whose corners is this one .
A: That 's sweet ,
A: I have the two ,
A: the other two cats I have are outdoor cats .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: And they did n't used to be actually ,
A: but they got kind of wild and were n't doing very well inside ,
A: so I put them outside once I got a house
A: and they 're doing great out there ,
A: they love it .
A: But the other one , the first one I got he does n't want anything to do with outside unless you 're there .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Other than that he gets scared to death .
A: If you shut that door he goes into hiding .
B: Oh no .
A: I think it 's from the time he jumped off the balcony
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: that 's it
A: And Lord knows what happened to him .
A: He 's probably been through all kinds of nightmares .
B: Right ,
B: traumatized for life here .
A: Probably .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: we 've ,
B: all four of ours are house cats .
A: Are they .
B: We started out with two , with two outdoor cats
B: but our neighbor decided he did n't like cats and shot one of them .
A: Oh no .
B: Oh well he lived through it ,
B: oh , I could n't believe it .
B: We went through like twenty-two hundred dollars worth of vet bills .
A: Oh my gosh .
B: The , the cat almost died ,
B: and but he turned out to be such a wonderful cat ,
B: oh he loves life now .
A: Oh , I imagine .
B: And he 's like oh , thank you so much .
A: I wonder how many of his lives he missed , when that happened .
B: I know ,
B: we wondered about that .
B: But , uh , oh that was a traumatic experience for us too .
A: Oh , I can imagine ,
A: what did he shoot him with .
B: Uh , well , uh , from what we can tell it was a pellet gun
B: and then he started chasing him with a bull whip .
A: Oh my gosh .
A: People are crazy .
B: Oh yes ,
B: absolutely nuts .
B: But , uh , luckily enough , you know , we found the cat in time and , uh , rushed him to the vet
B: and it took us about six weeks of in and out of the vet and surgery
B: and ,
A: Oh Lord .
B: I mean he started off as a stray
B: and then we did all this for him
A: Oh man .
B: But oh , he 's been a wonderful cat .
A: I imagine .
A: They usually are after something like that happens to them .
A: It seems to mellow them or something .
B: Oh yes .
B: But , uh , we would n't we would n't have them ,
B: I mean , I don't see us without pets , without cats .
A: No .
B: There 's just , uh , there 's this , they just fill this void .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: I I keep talking about getting rid of my outdoor cats because I feel like I don't , I ca n't take care of them as well because they 're outside ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it worries me that one day one of them wo n't come back ,
B: Yes .
A: and I feel like they need a big home , a nice place where someone can have the time to play with them and things .
A: But I ca n't give them up .
B: Oh no .
A: I just , I go hysterical when they don't come home .
B: Right
B: and you worry about , oh , who 's taking care of them .
A: Oh , oh yeah ,
A: and every time you see one hit on the side of the road you say is that my cat .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you go crazy thinking it might be yours .
B: Right ,
B: well I did n't realize my husband was such a sucker for animals until I brought one home one night .
B: We , I had one that had , we had , we had to put to sleep he got so sick .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , well I fell in love with this , uh , it 's a Chinchilla Persian , and , uh , brought him home ,
A: Ugh !
B: and oh , my husband just died .
A: Really .
B: It was like we ca n't take it back
B: you 've got , we 've got to keep it now .
A: It 's here now ,
A: we have to keep it .
A: Yeah ,
A: my , my first one that I got ,
A: I had just moved away from home and got my own apartment .
A: It took me about two weeks to realize , that was real lonely .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: yes .
A: So I found this one
A: and , uh , actually it was on a sign at Taco Bell drive-thru that said free kittens .
B: Oh uh-huh .
A: And I thought well that 's interesting ,
A: I 'll call them .
B: Right .
A: And he was the only one left
A: and his mother had been killed coming back across the road to make sure she 'd gotten all her kittens .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: And he was the last one she carried across , you know ,
A: the whole big sad story .
B: Oh .
A: So of course , I had to take him .
A: I felt so sorry for him after that .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: And he is , uh , you can tell he was weaned too young because he 'll nurse on your ears and your fingers .
B: Oh no .
A: Yeah ,
A: he ,
A: I asked the vet why he did that
A: and he said he was probably weaned too young , which he was , because his mom was killed ,
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: But he is the lovingest cat .
A: Everybody , people who don't even like cats , like him .
B: Oh .
A: He never meows ,
A: he , he does n't have any front claws ,
A: I had him declawed ,
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: but he does n't bite anybody
A: he 's just , he 's just kind of there , real friendly and docile .
B: Oh that 's good .
B: Oh we just , uh , just love them .
B: They , uh , you know , get to feeling so lovey and dovey
B: and they 'll come up and just start kneading in our chest
B: and it 's like oh , your claws need trimming .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: we do , we call that doing biscuits ,
B: Oh yes ,
B: yes .
A: it looks like their kneading bread * spelling `` their '' should be `` they 're ''
B: Oh it just drives us nuts .
A: Oh , I just love cats .
A: I like dogs ,
A: they 're okay ,
A: I had , I had a dog when I lived at home
B: Um , yeah .
A: but they 're a lot more trouble than cats actually .
B: They really are .
B: The cats are so independent
B: and they have so much more personality than a dog .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: they do .
B: And , but oh , they 're so much fun to watch them play .
A: Oh they are .
A: I love it ,
A: it 's so funny to get more than one cat together , because it brings out their personalities .
B: Yes .
A: And they just act so funny .
B: Oh , we 've got ,
B: well the two that were outside , they 're like brothers ,
B: I mean I 've never seen two cats so close .
A: Really .
B: And , uh , they , uh , will get to playing chase through the house ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it is hysterical , I mean
B: and then the other two cats will follow in pursuit .
B: It 's like this train .
A: A train of cats running around .
B: I mean it sounds like a train .
B: We have wooden floors
B: and so it just sort of echoes through the house
A: Oh how funny ,
A: I can imagine .
A: Yeah ,
A: I would n't give anything for my cats .
A: I love them to death .
B: Oh no ,
B: they 're just , they 're , they 're just , uh , they 're wonderful , uh .
A: What are your cats ' names .
B: Uh , we have , uh , Bonzo , Bear , Poindexter , and Felix .
A: Oh , how sweet .
B: And what do you have .
A: I have Xanadu and Precious , and Rascal .
B: Oh .
A: Precious and Rascal are brother and sister
A: and they don't look a thing a like .
A: Nothing .
A: Precious is a medium hair yellow cat ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: and Rascal is a black and white short hair .
B: Nothing .
A: They don't look a thing a like ,
B: Not a thing , goodness gracious .
A: and they came from the same litter and everything .
B: We have , uh , uh , tortoise which is a black and , and orange .
A: Oh .
B: And she 's so ugly .
A: So ugly she 's cute ,
A: right .
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh .
B: I mean you ca n't help but love her .
B: She 's , she 's the oldest one and , but , uh , very possessive .
A: Really .
B: I mean it 's like nobody messes with her mamma .
A: Oh .
B: And , uh , I mean , it comes bedtime
B: and she 's right there .
A: Is she the oldest one ?
B: Yeah ,
B: she 's the oldest .
B: And she ,
B: well in fact I got her when I moved out of the house also .
A: Really .
B: And so yeah ,
B: it 's , uh ,
B: would n't have ,
B: I mean , oh , if something happens to her .
A: Oh I know
A: it 's like the end of the world .
B: It will be .
A: I know that 's how I am about Xanadu .
B: Oh , goodness .
B: You get so attached to them .
A: Oh definitely .
B: My mother has dogs
B: and I 'm like , no .
A: Yeah .
B: This is nothing like cats .
A: You can walk a dog
A: and that 's okay for weekend
A: but cats are good all the time .
B: Right ,
B: I 'm so glad my husband is a cat person because if he was a dog person , no , it would n't have worked .
A: It would n't have ,
A: no
A: that would be a problem
B: Oh that 's one of the requirements I asked him .
B: I said , now you do like cats , right .
B: We don't
A: Have you seen those , uh ,
A: do you ever read COSMO .
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh .
A: There was cartoon in COSMO about a year or two ago
A: and it had this man sitting on a couch with his date
A: and there were cats hanging all over him . Hanging on his clothes , you know ,
A: they had ripped him up
A: and the couch was ripped up and down at the bottom
A: he said , of course I love cats .
A: And they were just all over him and sitting on his head , the whole nine yards .
A: It was so funny .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: oh , the whole time I was pregnant they kept saying , are you getting rid of your cats ,
B: are you getting rid of your cats .
B: You ca n't be pregnant and have cats .
B: I 'm like , uh , no , no , no .
A: Watch me .
B: Right ,
B: the child will learn to like cats . and deal with them ,
A: Definitely .
B: I 'm sorry ,
B: we are not getting rid of the cats .
A: Oh I would n't either .
A: There 'd be no way .
B: The whole family was so disappointed
A: Oh really ,
A: oh well .
B: Right .
A: That 's life ,
A: that 's how life goes .
B: Right , uh ,
B: but yes ,
B: we just , just love them to death .
A: I know ,
A: I love mine too .
A: Well , it 's been nice talking to you .
B: Well it was nice talking to you too ,
B: I enjoyed it .
A: Me to .
A: Bye ,
A: bye .
B: Bye ,
B: bye .
B: So well , you 're , you , you take this subject much more personally than I do , I suppose .
A: I suppose I do because I 've seen a lot of those changes , the changes that women have had in the last well , you know , not even the last generation , the last fifteen years twenty years , going from ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: well , take it back , thirty years
A: I 'm going back too far , from my parents ' generation when mom stayed home , period
B: Yeah .
A: and there was no such thing as a job or any hope of a job , well , unless ,
A: if you were educated you got , you know , you might teach for a year or two before you got married .
B: Yeah .
A: And if you really pushed it , you taught until you had kids or something you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: if you had , if you were a teacher . Then , you know , that was it , until the kids were little .
B: Yeah ,
B: you , you were n't supposed to want a job .
A: Yes .
A: There was not , there 's not supposed to be any reason to use this education or this brain that you might have for anything other than your house and your children and how clean can the bathroom floors be on any given day .
B: Yeah .
A: And then , and then of course today it 's supposed to be all the other way .
A: You 're supposed to only want the job ,
A: and , and , uh , your kids should be totally happy in day care , because everybody else goes to day care
B: Yeah .
A: and , and we have these wonderful people who are who are totally prepared to to teach your child everything they need to know in day care
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: but but , uh , a really good day care is probably going to cost more than you 're going to make at the job .
A: and we 'll see how the generations go .
A: Yeah ,
A: I ,
A: at least for a lot of women depending on , on what she did .
B: Yeah .
A: I 've , I was an engineer with , uh , mechanical engineer with T I ,
A: and , uh , I did it for six years
A: and for one ,
A: well I had one while I was pregnant ,
A: and then one while my oldest was a year old ,
A: and , and it just drove me crazy .
B: Did you ,
A: I could not do either well
A: I could n't put in enough overtime that was or that , you know , things that would come up at work , that would require me to stay late or to come in early or to do something on Saturdays as is , you know , as is needed , because my husband for a long time was out of the country also with , uh , with work , for like three months
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , yeah ,
A: and ,
B: So it was you and the kid
B: and your work schedule is .
A: Yeah .
B: Well that 's the thing , see , you know ,
B: maybe if you get along
B: for example if you 'd been a technician instead of an engineer .
B: You know , the technicians work the eight to five job and know when they 're going to be there .
A: Yeah ,
A: might have been better .
A: Yeah .
B: But if you 're going to be more professional oriented , then you 've got to have this , to be able to perform well on the job
B: you 've got to have the flexibility that does n't really go with the family .
A: Yeah ,
A: and so it was ,
A: in my case , I just , uh , decided that , as long as my kids were little , I would be better off at home with them , instead of driving myself crazy trying to do everything at once .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So you figure one of these days you 're going to go back to being an engineer ?
B: Is that what you 're saying ?
A: Well , actually I 've found out that I 'm not going to go back to being an engineer .
B: What will you ,
A: I 'm , I 'm , I 'm a photographer now .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: you 've found something else .
A: I have , I have branched out .
A: I was a photographer before ,
A: but when I went to college it was , I felt like I could n't support myself if I decided to be a photographer that it would just have to be a hobby ,
B: Yeah .
A: and I 'm very mechanical ,
A: and mechanical engineering interested me ,
A: so I did that .
A: And then I , you know , I did that for six years .
A: And then I stayed home with my son , and did nothing . And found out that I was , that , you know , it was great ,
B: Yeah .
A: but I was bored part of the time , too .
A: And I wanted something else to do ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean , you figure there 's got to be more to life than sitting here playing with this child .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's great while they 're really little ,
A: but as they get older and they 're more independent , and there 's things to do , then it 's good for them to go to different ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , it , he goes to a , a mother 's day out program now once a week .
A: Both of my kids do ,
A: and so they 're getting , they get the socialization with other kids , and , you know , and not really school , but , but a different authority than mom , once in a while , you know , kind of learning how to deal with society .
B: And , and they need that , you know , to be able to relate to other people besides the same person every day .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think they do , too .
A: And I need it for the break .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , that 's the other thing , you know ,
B: they talk about women leaving the home and going out to work ,
B: well , still taking care of the children is a very important job .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and someone 's got to do it , and be able to do it right ,
B: and and if it 's not mom then , then dad or somebody 's got to move in there and do the job , because the kids really need it .
A: And enjoy it ,
A: that 's , that 's the whole thing .
A: Yeah .
A: I think that 's the thing that we 're going to see ,
A: well , I think the biggest thing we 're going to see coming up in the next ten year , even in the , even now they 're starting to do it ,
A: but I think it 's going to be more in the next ten to fifteen years , is that there 's going to be a lot of women ,
A: and they 're going to have to work it out to working part time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because if , if I had been allowed to work , you know , maybe thirty hours a week instead of fifty hours a week , I might still be working basically full time or part time , if there was , if there had been some way to work it out ,
B: Yeah .
A: because , I liked my job really well .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I was just pulled in so many different directions
A: I was , it was just driving me crazy .
A: And now , with the photography , that 's , you know , it 's working ,
A: that 's what I 'm doing , is working part time because I can put my kids in a day care situation for a few hours in the , uh , week and use those hours to do .
B: Yeah .
A: The thing that I 'm doing is taking school pictures in day cares and in Mother 's Day Out programs , and also soccer teams , and , you know , different stuff like that .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So my kids can be in day care for a few hours a week ,
A: or my husband , if it 's , you know , uh , when he 's at home , can take care of them .
B: Yeah ,
B: so jobs have to , I guess , become more flexible .
A: I think they 're really going to have to , and not , and not just for mothers , for fathers as well .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's going to have to be both .
B: Well , so , so that 's another thing that has to adapt is , you know , the , the father 's attitudes about , you know , who , whose job is this .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , it , it 's his job too .
B: And I ,
B: to me the only important issue is the children ,
B: because as far as housework goes , you know , men can do housework just as easily as women ,
B: and thanks to a lot of new inventions , housework does n't take as much time as it used to .
B: So , uh ,
A: It 's just convincing your husband that that 's important , or that it 's important enough for him to do it .
B: Yeah
B: yeah ,
B: just ,
B: yeah ,
B: con ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well .
A: Because if he saw mom doing only that you know , all the time he was growing up then it 's hard to think of it in that , other , uh , that I should do it or just to think about doing it rather than having someone tell him to do it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: And you , you , you ,
B: Yeah ,
B: you talk ,
B: yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: I know that was a big thing in our house for a long time was that if I wanted my husband to do something to help , and even though we were both working the same number of hours , and , and doing things , I had to come in there specifically and say this needs to be done ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: this is what you do it now .
B: And a man might say out loud , well , you know , I understand this
B: and I agree ,
B: but still he was raised with a mom taking care of him
A: Yes ,
A: and ,
B: and that 's a very hard attitude to change .
A: Yeah ,
A: and without , and , and it 's just they don't look at things .
A: Most of the men don't walk into the kitchen and see that the dishes are there and that yes , you probably ought to unload the dishwasher and load the new ones in and run it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They just , you know , just scoot it on another spot on the sink and put the next plate down , and in a while get around to it .
A: And I think most women walk in and , and , and with , Oh , got to clean all this up . Got to get this out and this in and this , you know , taken care of , instead of having someone say now , this needs to be this is the time this needs to be done ,
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but ,
B: And a lot of that is , is how it was drilled into you when you were a kid . Which brings us back to the idea , you know , someone 's got to be there taking care of the kids to drill in these you know , drill in the right ideas to , so that they know that , uh , you know , male and female are both responsible for doing this
A: That 's right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh .
A: And I think that 's , that 's going to show up a lot more now , in the , in the next generation of , of boys and girls .
A: It 's not , they 're not going to , the boys in this next generation are not going to have to be told as much this needs to be done , because mom was there saying that dad is there , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: you both got to , they were both working at whatever things were , needed to be done .
B: Um .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 're going to say to the kids you need do this , because it needs to be done not because it 's a woman 's job or a man 's job , but because it 's dirty and it needs to be clean .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: But I think in between we got a group of kids , a generation of kids who did n't learn to take responsibility because mom left to go get a job and dad did n't move in to fill the gap .
B: And so , basically no one was taking the responsibility
A: And it 's going to , It 's going to ,
B: and I think that 's happened in a lot of cases .
A: yeah ,
A: some kids are really having it .
A: If they 'd been in day care the entire time and it was n't ,
A: yeah ,
A: the ones that are now getting to be teenagers and in some cases , young college .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Un , you know some time day care is really good ,
A: Yeah .
B: but sometimes , it 's just , it 's baby-sitting .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's someone , you know , keeping an eye on the kids
B: but the kids are basically doing what they want and not really having any relationship with the adults to say , you know , here 's what 's right
A: Yeah .
B: and here 's what wrong ,
B: and here 's what we expect of you .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that was one of the main reasons that I quit , was because I wanted my kids to have my values ,
A: and I felt like when they were young , that was the time to instill it . That it could be , it could be added to and strengthened as they grew older , but when they were little , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: this is the way I feel about this ,
A: and this is the way , because I , it 's that , you know ,
A: when you , when you , if you , if you teach them when they 're little the way you want them to be , and the things that are important to you , then you just , you add onto it as they get older .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But if no one does anything when they 're little , then it 's twice as hard as , I think , as they get older .
B: Yes .
B: I 'm saying this as I 'm trying to keep my nine month old from trashing something .
A: Yes ,
A: I understand ,
A: I wait until I put mine in bed before I make my calls .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , she 's usually in bed by this time ,
B: but she 's staying up late tonight .
B: But ,
B: yeah ,
B: I want to have a relationship with her .
B: You know , my dad was a very traditional dad ,
B: and when I was a child I did n't really know my dad very well ,
B: and I miss that .
B: And I want ,
A: That 's the thing ,
A: if woman 's role , like we said , if women 's roles change drastically , men 's roles will , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: but men have to be convinced of that .
A: And a lot of it 's for the better .
A: Some of the , some of the women 's roles , I think , are almost for the worse , because we 're losing out on some things , going back to work ,
A: but I think if we can , if we can expand the men 's roles at the same time , like your taking care of your child , and your dad typo : your for you 're probably did n't very often
B: No .
A: I know mine almost never did ...
A: Uh-huh .
B: Okay
B: movies .
B: I have n't seen too many lately .
B: I have kids
B: and we went and saw THE RESCUERS DOWN UNDER , Under , over the , the break .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Do , do you have kids you take to movies
B: or ,
A: No ,
A: no kids .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's a Walt Disney movie
B: and it did n't get as , you know , as good a reviews as like the LITTLE MERMAID , their last one , and got all kinds of Academy Awards and things last year .
B: But this one was , I thought was excellent .
B: The ,
A: Was that the animated version ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's animated .
B: And I ca n't believe how good they 're getting with their animation now .
B: It 's just , just the special effects , you know .
B: And in this movie , this , there 's this boy
B: and he rescues this , uh , bald eagle
B: and , uh , and it 's a huge eagle , you know , wing span of twenty feet or something like that .
B: And the boy actually rides on his back
B: and he rides through the clouds , you know ,
B: and you see him coming out of the clouds , his head coming out and then the bird coming out ,
B: and it , you know , they 're flying all over with it .
B: And I mean , I know they , there must have used , been computers or something for animation this day ,
B: but it was just so real , realistic and lifelike and good animation .
B: It was a good show .
A: Even better than ROGER RABBIT insofar as animation ?
B: Well , ROGER was a composite one .
A: Yeah .
B: There 's one , there 's a movie I 've seen , ROGER RABBIT .
B: That 's not a recent movie ,
B: but , uh , I enjoyed that show .
A: Yeah ,
A: that was made in a few , I don't know , several years back , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Latest , latest one I 've saw which was a mistake to go see was LIONHEART ,
A: had Claude Van Damme .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He was , he 's of course , uh , I guess he 's trained in this , uh , martial arts of some sort ,
A: but the plot was bland ,
A: the acting was bland .
A: It was just mostly centered upon his abilities to
B: Chop them up , huh ?
A: yeah ,
A: chop them up ,
A: exactly .
A: And ,
B: This is supposed to be the , the guy that 's , uh , replaces Bruce Lee or whatever or , or the next Chuck Norris type of guy .
A: Yeah .
A: Or he 's singular I guess , you know .
A: You know how they can make any of , any single one of them in a movie to be a super superstar of any sort , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Superstar .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but Chuck Norris , of course , could be just about equal , if not more
B: Uh-huh .
A: or , and all of them , I guess , could be in that fashion , or category .
B: Hum .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: It was about , uh , a , French Foreign Legion fellow who deserts to go help his brother 's wife who got , who became a widow because he was selling drugs
B: .
A: and he got killed .
B: Really uplifting , huh
A: So he deserts and goes to New York
A: and he starts out by fighting to make money ,
A: and then he moves on to L A to where that , where she is to just help him out .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It was really , I mean the Hollywood really must think there 's some real dummies out there or something .
A: I don't know
B: Yeah ,
B: I have n't heard , I had n't heard much about that movie .
B: I ,
B: other than it was a chop them up movie .
B: But , uh , well , I guess that 's one I wo n't go see
A: Well , it was worth the buck I guess .
B: Oh , you went to the dollar movie ?
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: they show up at the dollar movie right after they get , come out .
B: You know they 're usually not , not that great or did n't do that great anyway .
A: A lot of ,
B: Let me see .
B: Let me see
B: another movie I watched .
B: Uh , I want to see , uh , that new one , uh , that won all those Academy Awards this year , DANCES WITH WOLVES .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I have n't seen that .
B: Have you seen that one yet ?
A: Yeah .
B: What , what , what ,
A: I , I absorbed all of that movie in one sitting .
A: Uh , I guess what made it so good was the cinematography ,
B: The , the wide open , the spaces ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and the music
A: and , uh , well , it had an excellent story line .
A: Everything about it was good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I thought an excellent one , too , was MISERY with Kathy Bates and James Caan .
A: I 'm not a James Caan fan ,
A: but that was a well directed and acted movie .
B: Is that right ?
A: I 'd recommend it .
A: It 's a little on the violent side
B: Uh-huh .
A: but then what movie is n't anymore .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: Yeah ,
B: our movies today , it used to be X
B: and , you know , and P G used to be R
B: and , seems like the rating system , you know , is kind of switching that way a little bit
A: Well , I have no objections to it .
A: It 's just , uh ,
A: and it 's a matter of your taste , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: It 's just that ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's just that the rating system seems , you know , instead of having X now , they have what , N C seventeen ?
A: Yeah .
B: They just changed it because X had a connotation with it , you know ,
B: so ,
A: And even on those type they don't show what you expect .
B: Right .
B: A lot of those are really violent type movies .
A: Right .
B: Really gory .
A: Yeah ,
A: that seems to be the norm of most movies ,
A: but what the hey .
B: Yeah .
A: This is America .
B: Let me see .
B: One movie I saw , I guess it was a while back , RED OCTOBER .
A: Yeah .
B: Have you seen that one ?
A: Yes ,
A: I have .
A: That was pretty good .
B: Yeah ,
B: I read the book before
B: so I knew the story line going in ,
B: but they changed some things in the movie .
B: It was n't the same .
B: I thought the book was better than the movie ,
B: but I thought the movie was really good as well .
A: I always wait for the movie .
A: I don't have time to read the book .
B: Yeah .
B: I don't ,
B: I read about one or two thick novels like that a year . You know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: that 's about all the time I can , I can spare .
B: But that was a good show I thought , you know .
B: I read about how they did , uh , an article on how they did all the special effects with the submarine .
B: You know , that was n't a real submarine you saw in the water .
B: It was , it was all done in studio with smoke and mirrors and all the Hollywood magic .
A: Yeah .
B: All those underwater scenes .
B: I thought , you know ,
B: it looked to me like it was a real submarine , that was in the water , you know .
A: They ,
A: That 's the magic of Hollywood , special effects .
B: Yeah .
A: I hear this movie F X part two coming out is , uh , pretty good .
B: Is that right ?
A: Did you ever see the original one ?
B: I did n't .
A: It was , uh ,
A: you ought to rent the , uh , F X part one .
A: It does n't say part one ,
A: but it , it 's F slash X .
B: Huh . What 's that about ?
A: A , uh , special effects man who somehow gets involved in this , um ,
A: oh , I 'm not sure .
A: I ca n't remember .
A: It 's been a while since I 've seen it .
A: But he , he gets involved in some sort of bad dealings with somebody
A: and he has to go underground ,
A: and he uses all of his special effects knowledge in doing what needs to be done .
B: Hm .
A: And , uh ,
B: To , to fool people
B: and ,
A: Right ,
A: and using makeup and using the all the props and whatever to get to where he needs to go .
B: All the tricks .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That sounds like an interesting concept .
A: But you need to rent the first one first .
B: To understand what 's going on in the second ?
A: Uh , if , if that is that the second one follows the first .
A: I don't know if they have the , uh , original actors on that first one to that one .
B: Uh-huh .
B: They 're supposed to be coming out with all these Desert Storm movies , this summer , too
A: Oh .
A: I expected those .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , Hollywood , I mean they were doing their dealings with that before they even got over there , I think .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , they had some ,
B: in some of those , you know , they , I guess they retitled some movies that were going to be about Lebanese and , and , you know , and , and Americans
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they decide , oh , make it Iraqis and Americans , you know ,
B: and they just change the title and , uh , and reshot a few parts , you know , where they , yeah , you know , where they could .
B: I guess they figured we would n't , ca n't tell the difference between an ,
A: Actual names , will not be used .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: Eventually I 'm sure they will come out with the , the , the proper names .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: It was such a ,
B: it ,
B: I guess they , they 'll probably come out with a lot of movies , you know .
B: It was , it was such a rout though , you know .
B: I don't know , you know ,
B: they probably do the story of someone who was shot down early in the war or something and how he survived or , or about , or about those two newsmen or whatever that got captured .
A: Latest story ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Kevin Costner I understand is supposed to be play Schwartzkopf , supposedly .
B: Is that right ?
A: I don't know .
A: That 's just one of the many rumors that floats around .
B: Yeah .
A: Or what you read .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I think we 've probably ,
A: Pretty much used up the tape , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's been about five minutes .
B: It 's been nice talking with you .
A: Same .
A: And , uh , we 'll Talk to you on the next go around .
B: Keep on watching those movies , huh ?
B: Okay .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Adios .
A: Are you going to tell me what you 've been doing lately in the
B: Sure , uh ,
A: okay .
B: I 'll offer anything that I can on the subject .
B: Uh , my husband and I just bought a , just moved here recently
B: and , uh , we bought , uh , this house about , uh , I don't know , year and a half ago .
B: What we have here now is just a basic three bedroom , two bath , brick house which is , uh , completely different from what I had had before .
B: When I was working and before I married , uh , I lived in a little town south of here that is just full of old homes and , uh , historic old houses and things like that
B: so I , uh , tried to ,
B: I was in the process of renovating a house and , uh , that was about seventy-five years old .
A: Oh , my .
B: So , uh , it had to have everything done from top to bottom to having it leveled , jacked up , uh , new plumbing , new wiring , wallpaper , paint ,
B: everything you can think of , that house had to have
A: You , You are experienced I would say .
B: Well , I , I really did enjoy it , uh , you know ,
B: it was amazing what I found out I could do on my own if I just put my mind to it .
A: Well , I agree .
B: Yeah .
A: I have done something , uh , like that , too , only not nearly as extensive .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it must be interesting now trying to do something to a basic ranch , style home . Uh , after having a one that was historical looking .
B: It is .
B: It is .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's , that 's true .
B: When , uh , I met my husband , he was living in an apartment at the time
B: and , and , uh , the town that I was living in only about eighty miles from here .
B: So , uh , you know , I , we ,
B: really it was just
B: the market was so good ,
B: we had n't really planned on buying
B: and , as you probably heard from the , in the Dallas and Texas area period the housing market is just unreal .
B: I mean you can get things for such a song .
A: Yes .
B: So , that 's , that 's really why we ended up in a house like this .
B: This is not what we , you know , what we want to stay in forever , because I have to have my , I 've found that after doing this other house , I have to have my hands into stuff
B: and , you know , I 'm always just wanting to paint and , and wallpaper and redo and redo ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , you know , I , I 'm ready to get ahold of another one that I can have a little more input into
B: so ,
A: Well , maybe you can , uh , make that one charming and , and make a little bit money , uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: That 's , that 's the key , you know ,
B: the thing is , uh , when we moved in they had just , uh , painted , we 're , you know , wallpapered , new carpet and everything
B: so I feel sort of , uh , you know , like it 's sort of defeating my purpose to go rip everything out now and do it over just because I 'm in the mood to do it .
B: So , uh , we 'll see , we 'll see how much longer we 're here .
A: Yes .
A: Well , we just moved to Charlotte , from Enid , Oklahoma .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , Oklahoma of all places .
A: So I know , of what you 're talking about , as far as the market was concerned
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: and I 'll tell you , uh , we , we had kind of a charming house .
A: It was a cedar shake house , and very weathered .
B: Oh , yes .
A: And , uh , it was about fifty years old , but not not really , uh , traditional looking , particularly .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , so I tried to make it , after I sold my business
A: I , in , in ,
A: I spent almost three years redoing .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And I considered it a full time job
B: Oh , it is ,
B: yeah .
A: and when we did , uh ,
A: we kind of had planned this , uh , trek to the east , because we 're both originally from this part of the country .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: I see ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And so , I think some of the things that I did paid off .
A: For instance , one thing that I did that might even be a good suggestion for you uh , was something I did on the outside .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I love old estate , estate sales .
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
A: I happened to go to just a little estate sale that , just a little white frame house , where the couple , uh , was very old , and had gone into nursing homes
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and uh , all the men started going down to the barn .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh , oh
A: And so I ,
A: well shoot I 'm going ,
B: That 's where I need to go
A: Yes ,
A: I 'm going to the barn , too .
B: Exactly .
A: They , uh , auctioned some tools and , things like that ,
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but then they went over and started , uh , auctioning this big stack of bricks .
B: Oh .
A: And , so , well , I thought , gee , I 've been wanting to , do some brick , uh , walkways for a time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Work ,
B: right ,
B: right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Anyway , it ended up after some pretty , uh , heavy bidding , that I got all those bricks for forty dollars .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , my word .
A: And , so my husband and I loaded bricks in his , pickup truck for days .
B: Oh , no .
B: Oh , my word .
A: But , what we ended up with was about four thousand .
B: For forty dollars ?
A: For forty dollars .
B: Oh , my .
A: And so what we did ,
A: we had built a deck on the back of that house ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but it needed
A: and , it was quite large out to , into the yard
B: Something .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , on either side of it to the ends of the house it just needed to be all tied together .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we , made brick patios , and walkways .
B: Right .
B: Oh , how fun .
B: Oh , how nice .
A: And so for ,
A: and he , he did the digging , which was about six inches ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I figured the sand and all , had that delivered and , leveled it and , and , placed most all the bricks .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it turned out beautifully .
B: Oh , I bet .
B: And what satisfaction to know that you did it in such an inexpensive way
A: Yes .
A: Well , it nearly killed me
B: Yeah ,
B: but , but you did stagger back and say , oh , does n't this look nice .
A: I hated to leave it .
B: Well , let me ask you ,
B: when you laid those bricks ,
B: I know my parents bought a house about ten years ago ,
B: they 're fixing to sell it again , but , and move again .
B: They 're kind of ,
B: my mom 's like I am .
B: She 's a renovator , a lover of old things
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , you know , they have to be doing something constantly .
B: And the patio that came with that house , uh , was not laid on a , like ,
B: I don't know if you can put some sort of a plastic sheeting or something on , on top of the sand and then lay the bricks .
A: No
A: we ,
B: But they have , they have a problem with these little like sand bugs or something that drill in between all these bricks .
A: Well , I ,
B: And , of course you know you have the , uh , the weeds that come up in between the bricks or , and things like that .
A: Well , no ,
A: I , I did n't have that trouble because , uh , we laid the ,
A: I did get some material and studied every bit of material that I could study ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but we laid those bricks about as close as you can get them ,
B: Yeah .
B: I see .
A: because when you start
A: and we put them on a base of four inches of sand
B: Okay ,
B: yeah .
A: and then we , uh , we swept sand in between ,
A: but but it was an error to , to leave like an eighth of an inch or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You just put them together as close as you can .
B: As tight as you can .
B: That 's probably , because they had , you know
B: every spring my mom says we 're going to have a a barbecue and tell everybody , guess what ,
B: we 're going to , we 're going to redo the patio , you know ,
B: we 're going to pull up all the bricks ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , they just , they just have n't brought themselves to do it .
A: Yeah ,
A: well ,
B: So ,
A: and I also used a rubber hammer , a lot , to , uh , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: if it was n't quite level or something , I 'd just get that , rubber hammer and , uh , and , and you know ,
B: Right .
A: I think that they could ,
A: if they have problems with , uh , sand bugs of some kind I think all they need to do is probably put some insecticide down in there on a , oh , a fairly regular basis , for a while anyway .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: Right ,
B: well the thing that 's funny is they 've done , uh , they 've done things like that , you know ,
B: I 'll catch her out there spraying around ,
B: and then it 's like , in two days time they 'll come home from work
B: and those little things are back .
B: It 's just , they 're the most resilient little characters
B: and so , I don't know what they 're finally going to do .
B: She may just ,
B: hopefully they 'll sell the house , and go somewhere else
A: Well , I think , I think she needs to take them to the extension agent and ask him what they are
B: And then she wo n't have to worry about it .
A: and ,
B: What are these things ?
A: yeah ,
A: is it diazinon
A: or what is it that will , uh ,
B: Right .
A: Dursban or something like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: what it , what it is that 'll , that 'll , take care of them .
A: Dursban ,
A: I think in this area or most all areas they use , you know , for ticks and fleas .
B: Yeah .
A: And you know , they 're , awful hard to do anything with .
B: Right .
B: Oh , that 's true .
B: That 's true .
B: But my , my dad farms
B: and , you know , she 's always telling him , is n't there something that , that you can bring home with you that kills everything that you spray , you know , out in the , out in the field , that you can get rid of , these bugs ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh ,
A: I bet Dursban would do it .
B: It might , it might do it ,
B: yeah .
B: She 's got so many she 's got just a gorgeous yard , so many , uh , flowers and her , her four cats , you know ,
B: so she 's sort of , uh , real funny about what she sprays .
A: Yeah .
A: I think , uh , you probably just need to make sure that it dries , very , very uh , well , before she lets her cats out , or something , like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , gosh , Deb , we could talk all day could n't we
B: I know ,
B: I , I was just , you know , it just seems
B: like I , as I said when I heard the , what the subject was , I thought oh , gosh I have n't thought about , uh , what I went through at that other house in so long .
B: I 've been so busy .
B: But , uh , I don't know
B: of everything that I did , I guess I enjoyed probably wallpapering the most
B: and I thought that would be the hardest thing to do .
A: Yes .
B: But , uh , gosh , you know , I ended up wallpapering every bedroom in that house , uh , up the stairway , even .
A: Wow .
B: You know , I just had a ball with it ,
A: Oh .
B: it was so much fun .
A: Oh , good .
B: Yeah .
B: And I 've sworn up and down ,
B: my mom 's , uh , my mom 's great grandparents had this huge Victorian house in Paris , Texas ,
B: and the one thing that she ended up with is , was the old door , that was , that was on the front door of that house
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: and she has that up in her attic
B: and I have sworn that it ,
B: I 'm going to find a house to put that door on before she does
B: So , as far as looking toward the future , you know , that 's my plan .
B: I 'm going to have to move fast , I think , though , because , uh , you know , as a ,
A: All right , do you do exercise ?
B: I do ,
B: yes ,
B: I , uh , uh , I guess it actually changes ,
B: I do a number of different things simply walking with my wife
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: and sometimes my daughter will come along on her little bicycle .
B: Uh , and then moving up , I run in the mornings ,
A: Uh-huh
B: not every morning , it probably averages about two days a week
A: Right .
B: and then with my wife I actually go to the gym and lift weights , which is n't , I understand , quite exercising ,
B: but it 's along the lines ,
A: Right .
B: How about yourself .
A: Well , um , that 's a hard question to answer because I do physical things , but I don't always set out for them to be exercise .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I walk with my parents , occasionally ,
A: nothing 's real regular about this because I have a weird schedule and they have a normal schedule ,
A: and , um , I play racquetball ,
A: but I have n't since I 've been out of school .
A: I don't have anywhere to do that ,
A: but that 's going to start soon again
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , I play softball once a week , which is kind of more recreation than exercise .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because I really don't like to exercise ,
A: I think that 's the basic point of it , is I 'm not , I , I don't enjoy it if I know that it 's exercise ,
B: Right .
A: but if it 's like a social activity or a recreational activity , I don't mind
B: Right .
A: so I have to disguise it ,
A: it 's like feeding little babies food and telling them it 's something else so that they 'll eat it .
B: That 's right .
A: That 's kind of the same thing for me .
A: I have to not know that it 's exercise so I can do it .
B: Right .
B: So you look at it more as a task .
A: Well , yeah ,
A: if it 's exercise , it 's a task .
B: Right .
A: I don't want to do anything I have to do .
B: I see .
A: I mean , I 'll voluntarily clean the bathroom ,
A: but I wo n't do it if I have to do it .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: So , I 'm thirty-two years old which is probably different than yourself
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: I 'm twenty-two .
B: and so , it 's interesting that as you get older you begin to understand that you need to exercise .
A: Right .
B: My job at Texas Instruments , I have to sit in front of a computer all day and make phone calls , so , that , I don't get any exercise doing that
A: Right .
B: and plus there 's a build up of stress
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I need to go out and take those walks after dinner ,
B: and I need to go out in the morning and run
B: or I 'll just get nuts
A: Right .
B: so that 's kind of a motivator ,
B: so even though I can look at it as a task , the , you know , I kind of get the , I get some kind of global benefit from the whole thing by saying , Well , I 'm lowering my chance of heart attack , and thus , that type stuff .
A: Right .
A: Eating right and no cholesterol and all that .
B: Sure ,
B: that all ,
B: I , I do all that .
A: Yeah ,
A: we ,
A: I 'm sure , I will do ,
A: I 'm doing that more and more than I used to
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm getting better about this knowing that I need exercise and doing it , but it 's still at the task stage .
B: Right .
A: Is it a pleasure for you ,
A: or are you ,
B: Well , it 's a ,
B: something as simple as a walk with my wife is very enjoyable .
A: Right .
B: I do that at the end of the day ,
B: and it takes , you know ,
B: that , that during that time the stress from the day goes away .
B: I get to share whatever I did with my wife , and , and vice versa .
A: Right .
B: Going to the gym is , is actually something different than , than , like ,
B: oh , and the running ,
B: and I enjoy that too .
A: Uh-huh
B: Year ,
B: I 've been running since high school on track teams and the like ,
A: Oh .
B: so , running , I , I 'm at that point which you probably get to after about six months of dedicated running where you don't feel your muscles any more
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
B: and you don't think about the pain of it .
B: You , you , you take the time to relax some how
B: and you think about other things .
B: During those first few months you have to think about running and why your elbow hurts and why you ca n't breathe and this and that ,
A: Uh-huh
B: and that 's no fun .
B: And it 's so hard to get past that for a lot of people .
A: Right ,
A: that 's ,
A: I never got past that stage .
B: Yeah ,
B: the the , uh , weight lifting on the other hand is actually , you know ,
B: I think I look better .
A: Right .
B: I have just a , I don't , I 'm not a huge person ,
B: I 'm just a regular looking guy ,
B: but just going to lift weights on occasion with my wife ,
B: and my wife thinks the same thing about both me and herself that get that little bit of definition in your muscles is , is attractive
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: so that pays also .
A: That 's good .
B: Yeah ,
B: so , so I guess that aspect of that takes away the work the , with my wife , which is nice ,
A: Yeah .
B: I love her , you know ,
B: I enjoy being with her
A: Uh-huh .
B: I guess that 's one thing ,
B: but also , uh , that , that long term benefit of a little bit of tone in your muscles .
A: Right ,
A: that 's it ,
A: I do the occasional push up and sit up .
A: I have n't really brought myself to go to the the gym , because that 's very stressful to me ,
B: Yeah .
A: because I feel , I felt real competitive there ,
A: and I need to find some place I could go and not feel like there 's all these people who are just huge and hulking that are ...
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I don't , I don't let that bother me ,
B: but , yeah ,
B: that 's something that comes with time , too . You know ,
A: Right .
B: I 'll tell you , the sit ups and push ups are excellent you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's your own ,
B: you , you 're , you 're struggling against your own body weight
A: Right .
B: you can have variety by putting your feet higher or lower , by putting your arms further apart or closer together , by doing them real quick or real slow
A: Right .
B: and you can actually get a good
B: you can , I know in the push up , at least , you can get chest muscles and the back of your arms quite built up just doing push ups .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's a good idea ,
A: but I do have my ride ,
A: we have a stationary bicycle and a stair step machine here at the house .
B: Oh , is that right .
A: I 'll do those once in a while just you know , like at eleven thirty when Love Connection 's on and I ca n't sleep ,
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: I 'll get up and stair step for half an hour
B: That 's funny .
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's , I guess , pretty , pretty healthy ,
A: but I don't have a regular plan , that 's
B: Yeah .
A: I need to get started on that .
B: Well , you know , maybe not .
B: I 'd say , I 'd say at twenty-two you don't necessarily need a plan as long as you 're getting , getting the exercise otherwise .
A: Right .
B: When your life becomes sedentary is when you have to make yourself a plan ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and what 's real funny about plans is that there 's a struggle between , uh , when you , when you add something to your life , when you add a plan to your life ,
B: something else has to go away
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that 's the hard decision , is , okay , if I 'm going to run in the mornings , what am I , what do I trade it off for .
B: Well , the answer 's sleep , right .
A: Sleep
B: If I 'm going to walk at night , what do I trade it off for .
B: Well , Star Trek
A: Uh-huh .
B: or , you know , it , it , it 's always trade offs ,
B: and you actually have to , as you get older you have to really think what can go , and what , to , to , to replace this thing .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's , I mean , not just exercise , but anything .
B: It 's very hard .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , I don't , I don't think you should worry about not having a program yet .
A: That 'll come some day when I ,
B: Yep .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess if you care , or if your wife , your future wife , uh , gives you a reason to care which helps
A: Right .
A: Well , I hope so .
B: Well , I think we covered it .
A: Yeah ,
A: sounds good .
B: Nice talking with you , Craig .
A: Yeah ,
A: you too .
A: Have a nice day .
B: You too .
B: Good day .
A: Bye .
B: Bye .
A: Okay ,
A: what do you think is the biggest problem ?
B: The biggest problem , well , like in this part of town seems to be the attitude and the atmosphere in the schools that , uh , you know , you can throw money at it ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it 's ,
B: I don't know ,
B: to me it seems like the schools are reflecting society in a bigger way you know , because , I mean , the general values that we 're teaching kind of conflict with what we expect out of people in school , I mean ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Is it the , do you think it 's the values that they 're teaching in school or the values they get from home .
B: Uh , well , the values , more or less at home and the T V , just a general ,
B: I mean , learning is not a revered endeavor , really ,
B: I mean , it 's a lot more ,
B: it 's socially , well I wo n't say socially unacceptable ,
B: but whereas like in , uh , a person that , uh ,
B: they put a lot more emphasis on athletics
B: and things like that are a lot more glorified generally in society ,
B: and I think that carries over to school a lot .
A: Right .
B: So .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I , I , I think that the biggest problem is , uh , with the , uh , with the home environment being part of it .
A: You know , if ,
A: I think too many parents expect , uh , the school to teach , uh , the moral aspects of , of things to the to the kids and , you know , while we 're not going to worry about , uh , teaching you manners or teaching you respect for anyone or anything like that , you know , and then expect them to pick it up at school ,
A: you 're not going to do that , you know ,
A: you 're going to carry , carry with , carry to school , uh , out into the world , you know , what you learned at home ,
A: and , uh uh , I think that that part of that showing up now , you know , with , with things because kids I think have probably less respect than for , for people than in , in other things , than we may have seen in the past , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: and part of it 's the , the family , I think ,
A: and part of it 's , uh , the living conditions of certain people are subjected too ,
A: drugs is a big problem now ,
A: and I think that 's , that 's , that 's another root problem .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: you know , I wonder if that 's a root problem or not ,
B: because I think about that a lot ,
B: and it 's just like , everybody likes to blame everything on drugs now ,
B: but I wonder , you know ,
B: do you get the ,
B: oh , that 's kind of side tracked ,
B: but , uh , I just remember seeing on the news the other night , they had the thing about how Catholic schools are doing so much better
A: Uh-huh .
B: I thought , well , you know , of course they 're doing better , and not so much when I was growing up ,
B: Catholic schools are generally considered a little bit easier than the public schools ,
B: but , uh , they still had a , a better success rate , simply because they started with a lot better raw material .
B: I mean everybody that went to a Catholic school had , uh , at least the parents did , at least , had education as a priority like you said and kind of had a whole conducive atmosphere to it .
A: Right ,
A: Right .
B: And I wonder if , not so much that , uh ,
A: Well , I think it 's , like you say , it 's , it 's the socioeconomic mix
A: there , you know , the , they 're ,
A: you look at the schools like that where you 've got a lot of kids who are basically , uh , that might be more well well off , you know , going to a private Catholic school or whatever , uh ,
A: and , and they 're not all that way ,
A: but , you know , some that are um , that , they 're , they 're not quite the same as the kids that are going to the inner city , uh , you know , public schools .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: this is interesting because in my mind I don't have the stereotype of a Catholic school being a suburban kind of environment ,
B: but , uh , this , this was actually inner city
A: Yeah .
B: people were sending ,
B: I mean , just because their kids had the ability and the , and the drive to do , try and get an education , they did n't send him to a public school , you know ,
B: like you said , you have the drug problem and just the general atmosphere where you 're pressured not to learn in instance ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , you know , in a lot of cases like that , where , you know , if kids are going to a public parochial school like that , it 's , it 's because the parents are more interested in them receiving an education . It shows , I think it shows that the parents have some , uh , desire for , for the kid to do , do well , you know ,
A: and that may be passed on down to the kid as well ,
A: and , uh , maybe they pick up on that .
B: Yeah .
A: And then from the other aspect , um , maybe the , uh , school itself has , has , has more emphasis on , uh , trying to do a good job because the classes may be smaller , uh ,
A: they may be able to , to give the resources that 's needed to , uh , to do a good job .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean ,
B: and what do you , what would you do to fix the school systems ?
A: Uh , that 's a tough question how to fix the school system .
B: Yeah ,
A: Uh , with , uh ,
A: I would try to , I guess , to see about getting parents more involved , with , try to , to come up with more ways to do that . Uh , uh , uh , stress the importance of education to both both the parents and the students , and , uh , more , more classes that I think that are ,
A: and I think this is happening some around the country in terms of , um , morals , trying to teach the kinds of things that , that are n't getting taught at home , and , uh , and , and respect for other people .
A: Uh , I think that 's a big part of it .
A: You know , people , you know ,
A: if you don't care about property and people , you know , you 're not going to care about , uh , about learning , I think . You know ,
B: Yeah .
A: you 're not going to really care about yourself .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's what I was going to say .
B: It 's the chicken and the egg thing .
B: I wonder , a lot of times , you know , people , I mean , a lot of times people literally tear apart their own schools vandalism wise ,
A: Right .
B: and you get ,
B: I mean , it 's been a while since I been in high school .
B: They 're even in grade school when they do that .
B: But I ca n't remember exactly what goes through their head when they 're doing that .
B: But you got to think in a way it 's kind of a outward showing of that they don't think they have a chance of doing anything , and take it out on the school .
A: Well , you know , and I ,
A: that 's not an but that 's not an easy task , you know ,
A: that 's why I say , it 's , it 's a tough question what would you do ,
A: because , you know , even trying to instill those values is kind of hard when , uh , when , when you 're growing up in , you know , in a home which may be , uh , just the pits ,
A: and uh , you don't have any , any kind of a good environment to live in , you know ,
A: it 's kind of hard to say , well , you need to take care of other people 's stuff as well , when you 're , when you barely have anything yourself .
A: So .
B: Yeah .
A: I could see where that would be a problem ,
A: and I think that 's , I think it 's ...
B: Okay .
A: Okay .
A: Well , I , uh , I guess because I work quite a bit with lawyers , I 'm not a lawyer , uh , that I find a lot of things are so specialized that I 'm not sure ,
A: and I , I look at it more from the civil side of things that juries have any sense of , of the value of , and worth , so that they have real problems when it comes to , uh , uh ,
A: they can find guilt or innocence
B: Right .
A: uh , but then when you quantify things and that might also hold criminal trials for how many years is appropriate , uh , that they might leave it to somebody else who , uh , has expertise in that .
B: Right ,
B: I agree , too .
B: I don't think the jury should be the ones that , that put the sentencings down .
B: I think the judges should ,
B: or even a panel of , of lawyers if , if it got to that point . Might be better at than just regular civil people . Not knowing , you know , exactly what things are , from , from murder on up to like tax stuff , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Because I find that , uh ,
A: I 've been on a few juries
A: and , uh , as a say , I , I tend to be around , uh , civil cases because I 've been an expert witness some ,
A: and , uh , many matters are so complicated that it 's so hard to , uh , come up with the fair value , uh , or the fair sentence
A: and one thing that you get if you have some expertise is , uh , you know the range of , of possible values or terms or , you know , how heinous was the crime .
B: Right .
A: Uh , that , uh ,
A: when I only do something one , two or three times I 'm hardly an expert on it ,
A: and most juries over a period of five or ten years you might sit on three .
B: Yeah
B: and ,
A: And so how do you relate as to whether this particular armed robbery was a , you know , worth five years or twenty-five .
B: Right ,
B: that 's ,
B: yeah .
B: And , and most people that do sit on juries ,
B: some people just sit on them once in their lifetime , you know , if they 're that lucky sometimes Or , you know , what , whatever the case may be . And , and may not have any idea of what , what the standard punishment would be for it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And it , they may have some different idea ,
B: I mean , it might be more important for them to put a sentencing down that was , uh , longer , you know , that did n't fit , the punishment did n't fit the crime . Or not long enough or , you know , whatever the case may be .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I think the judges do have that , that better knowledge of it .
B: The only thing I worry about sometimes is if , if you get somebody in there that , that has a name , that is the defendant and , you know , sometimes , might have more pull , which that does happen .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , we ca n't say it does n't , because it does happen .
B: I mean not everybody is , you know , has , has the right morals sometimes .
B: People can be paid off or politically or whatever the case may be
A: Uh-huh .
B: and sometimes that 's not real fair either , though
B: so ,
A: Well , one of the others things that gets me on , on the juries is that often in the newspaper , I , I tend to hear two things that , well , that go on .
A: One is , you often see in the headlines the big numbers .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and many of those get overturned or get reduced in terms of sentences , or get changed by a judge or an Appeals Court
B: Right .
A: and that never makes the , the press
A: and so , when , uh , you or I as an individual gets on a jury we tend to have certain mental images of what 's what because we see the headlines , uh ,
A: and we don't have , again , a lot of knowledge ,
A: so we don't know what is really going on , what is , uh , really the range of sentences or awards that are , uh , are actually , uh , in the end applied .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Well , well , also what I don't think is fair , either , is when you have like a , say a rapist , come in ,
B: and , and his attorney gets his sentences , sentencing reduced because he 's gone to a lesser charge , like , I don't know what , assault or something or ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , which that does n't make any sense to me either .
B: this is the second time the person has said 'which that ' I know it 's hard to prove rape and whatnot
B: and , and , and the person that was raped or whatever does n't ,
B: I mean it 's embarrassing and all this other stuff
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they , they 're put on like , they were the ones that caused it or whatever ,
B: but , to me , when you do the crime , then you should pay for whatever you did ,
B: and , and you should n't be able to go on the lesser charge .
B: I don't , I don't think that 's right because all 's that 's going to do is say , Oh , well , you know , that was a breeze ,
B: I can go out and do it again and , you know have the same thing happen .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's , that 's not right .
A: Well , that 's where , uh , the role of juries is , is restricted
A: and , I 'm not sure I 'd want to change that aspect of it ,
A: one is , it 's restricted in the sense that , juries only decide the charges that are actually , uh , brought , you know
B: Right .
A: if it 's first degree rape , second degree rape or whatever , they only get to decide on that ,
A: well , okay this person has been charged with first degree rape , uh ,
A: and you can decide guilt or innocence on that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , such like , maybe in murder they get to choose whether it 's , uh , premeditated or one or two of the lesser degrees .
A: The other thing that juries are restricted on and , and at least to me this has been one of the frustrating things in my , even in my own experiences , that you usually don't get to hear all the information .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's what information is presented
A: and , uh , I don't know that juries have a right to know more because in a sense we call those safeguards ,
A: but often juries hear only a fraction of the , of the story when they have to decide guilt or innocence .
B: And to me , how can you , how can you make a decision if you don't have all of the evidence in front of , whether it be , whether it pertains to the case or not ,
B: somebody thinks it , it had , because they 've got it there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So the lawyers , the two lawyers are the ones that have all the information .
A: Yeah ,
A: and the truth that 's brought out is , uh , as I say , when I 've heard about , you know ,
B: don't they ?
A: the oath is to tell the truth ,
A: the whole truth and nothing but the truth , is that they want , uh ,
A: they don't want , uh , the whole truth .
A: I mean you can say ,
B: They only put part of it .
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: The ,
A: because stories look very different when you hear different parts of the , of the truth .
B: Right .
B: Well , that 's just like that old witness game ,
B: well , it 's a game kids play , too ,
B: but , uh , somebody did it , just for your train of thought where they , they showed something
B: and they asked ,
B: they , there were , uh , like four people ,
B: Hello .
A: Hello .
A: My name is Nola .
A: I 'm in Plano , Texas .
B: Hi Nola ,
B: I 'm Steve .
B: I 'm in Dallas , Texas .
A: Not too far away .
B: No ,
B: that 's unusual .
B: Seems like usually ,
A: I 've had some from Plano , too .
B: Oh yeah .
B: I think all mine have been East Coast people so far
A: Uh-huh .
A: Okay
B: So ,
A: um , let 's see .
B: social changes ,
A: Social changes .
B: what 's that mean ?
A: That sounds like not as recent social changes , too , like back to the sixties or fifties , I guess
B: Yeah .
A: Think we can handle that ?
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I definitely ,
B: I mean there 's plenty of things to talk about there .
B: That 's a ,
A: Okay , uh ,
A: shall I go ahead and push one ?
B: Yeah ,
B: sure .
A: Okay
A: You want to go ahead and start ?
B: Uh , I was hoping that you would
B: but , oh ,
A: Oh
B: In social changes is that ,
B: uh , it seems to me that , uh ,
A: That involves a lot of different areas , I think .
B: Does that , Yeah .
B: Like a lot ,
B: it seems like the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer , is even more , true today . You know ?
A: Yeah ,
A: there is a a big difference in the , uh , economic , um , status of , uh , people although I think that has been true , uh , always .
A: Um , perhaps there 's less of the middle range then there was .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's like people are starting to give up hope
B: and they start out very poor .
B: Let 's see ,
B: that 's a bad tangent to get on .
B: What else has changed between the sixties and the eighties and the nineties ?
A: Uh ,
B: No .
A: I think , uh , in my situation ,
A: I have three children
A: and we 're , uh , home schooling .
A: So , education , you know , things that relate to education , um , are things that I think about a lot .
A: Um , I think that , and I think that involves social changes a lot .
A: Uh , for instance I think the schools are having more and more problems because of , uh , things that are happening socially in the world around them and in , in , because of their parents
A: and things that are being taught in the home are not taught in the home , rather . More not than are . And children being put in day-care centers from very early ,
A: and , and I think that a lot of these things that have been happening , such as the day-care centers and things , are having a big effect on the social changes .
A: Because of the way children are being raised , they 're not learning the values they need to learn .
B: Yeah .
A: And they 're not , um , they don't have the self-esteem that they need to have
A: and they don't have the , um , a solid family life that they need to have to confidently and deal with the things in the world .
A: And , uh , I think we 're seeing a lot of rebellion and things because of that and the things like the gang , gang things that are happening
A: and , and , um
B: Yeah .
B: It seems , so that ,
B: yeah ,
B: that is a pretty big change .
B: It seems , even not just single parent families but with no guidance
B: but it seems like , some of these even ladies that , that 'll work and have , a baby and then , you know , after two or three months , go back to work . You know ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh it 's ,
B: well that , that , I mean that 's very , young for a baby .
A: That 's really sad .
A: I think that a lot of people ,
A: and they think they have to
A: but ,
B: Yeah .
A: I , I think that if they really tried , they would n't have to .
A: And , I , I think that if they did n't that , and it became more of the standard not to that , uh , I don't know maybe companies would start paying men more so that their wives could stay home . You know ? And have a more solid , uh , foundation for the kids .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I mean they 're going to ,
B: like you said , I mean , there 's , they might be saving money ,
B: I mean even if they had to pay more now , I mean in the long run it 's going to cost society more to force two people to work . Even though it 's higher productivity is short-term .
A: That 's right .
A: It 's already , It already costs society much more because of it .
A: You know it ,
A: trying to do all these programs like Headstart and things like those . You would n't have to do that if mothers would stay home with their children and do things with them , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , there 's ,
A: and I think , uh , a lot of it is selfishness .
A: People have become very selfish .
A: They don't want to stay home with the kids or something like that .
B: yeah
A: There are a lot of two parent , um , situations where the woman goes back to work because that 's what she wants to do , you know .
B: Oh rather than she needs the money just she wants the stimulating environment
A: Rather than that , she has to have the money particularly .
A: Or , maybe there 's a small need for money
A: so she does it partly because of the money but partly for herself , too You know ,
B: Huh . It ,
B: Yeah .
B: It 's interesting how , uh ,
B: home study . Is that what you said ?
A: Home school .
B: Home school .
A: Yeah .
B: Is that , uh , is , is it like , uh , a preschool level then or through grade school or ,
A: No .
A: I , I have , uh , one going into fourth grade and one starting kindergarten and then a preschooler . And one on the way
B: Oh I
B: Oh , well you sound busy
B: So you 're teaching them , completely
A: Yes .
A: Yes .
B: Huh .
A: And I think , uh , it 's becoming , uh , more popular then it has been for a while , I think .
A: Home schooling 's always been around
A: but , uh , I can see more and more families going to it because of the problems in the schools .
A: Um , and a lot of it is discipline problems .
B: Yeah .
A: A lot of it is ,
A: and you can tell which kids have been in day-care centers .
A: It , it 's really obvious to look at them and watch the way they act and things . That , um , they 've been raised in a day-care center .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's pretty sad because , I mean , I don't know , something 's got to change with the schools .
B: That 's what it all boils down to in the end , usually anyway .
A: Well , I think it 's going to , change in the homes before anything changes anywhere else .
B: When they 're young ,
B: Yeah
A: The home is the base ,
A: it 's the basic unit .
A: And that 's the , where it all starts
A: and if we don't start making changes in the homes
A: and maybe part of that is educating parents better .
B: Yeah .
A: And educating , uh , you know
B: Changing people 's expectations .
A: I know they do do some , they do have some classes in , um , high schools and things for kids to , uh , give them an idea of what family life is like and the , uh , you know , and , uh , that kind of thing
A: but , uh ,
A: The AIDS issue is , is a bit of a problem .
A: I guess the first thing that comes to my mind not having any immediate friends with that problem , is , is the financial end .
A: And how can a country stand to , uh , spend as much or much more than they already are on such a problem , uh ,
A: but , then that kind of thinking is also tempered with the , the knowledge , or at least the , the rumor , I 'm not really sure if it 's true or not , that , uh , we 're not spending as much per , let 's say , afflicted person on cancer .
A: Uh , there 's some , uh ,
A: take breast cancer , for instance .
A: It seems to be doing much more damage and affecting much more many more people than AIDS .
A: And yet , uh , more people die of it ,
A: and yet the funding has already , uh , exceeded ,
A: AIDS has more money than , uh , breast cancer
B: Than ,
B: well , that 's interesting , is n't it ,
B: yeah .
A: So , uh ,
A: I mean , if it 's true .
A: I , I 've , I 've always heard these things .
A: I 've never bothered to dig it out and make sure ,
A: but , uh , I 've heard it on more than one documentary that , uh , they were complaining that whoever 's sitting up there making these decisions or whatever institutions raise the money and , uh ,
A: it 's just one big P R campaign that ,
A: yeah ,
A: we think that 's the world 's worst thing
A: so let 's give money to AIDS .
A: And yet we 've had breast cancer problems for years .
B: Right .
A: And , it 's just
A: one of those , uh , course , one of the shows I saw was taking it from the angle that , since it does n't effect men , it 's not going to get funded .
A: And , uh , having thought about that for a while ,
B: What did you think about that idea ?
A: Well , I , I kind of , I thought , well , that , that might be possible since there are a lot of men in control of that kind of thing .
A: But then I got , I got to thinking , the , the number one killer of men seems to be the prostate
A: and there 's only one test that just recently got developed , uh , a blood antigen , uh , antibody test for the antigen in the blood
A: and that 's fairly recent .
A: And yet men have been dying from prostate cancer for years .
B: They 've not really given it attention either ,
B: yeah .
A: So it 's not really cured ,
A: yeah ,
A: it 's not , uh , not that heavily funded either
A: and then that seems to be one of the , the major , uh , problems that men have in the realm of cancer ,
A: so , I don't know .
A: I , I guess there 's just some strange public opinion as to who they want to give to . Uh , be it through different organizations , March of Dimes type , uh , telethons or , or bicycle rides or whatever , how they fund whatever , uh , illness they wish .
B: Right .
A: It 's kind of hard to , to get an even keel on that .
A: I mean , it 's really hard to say ,
A: well , there 's , you know , a hundred thousand per year affected by this one
A: so let 's give it this amount ,
A: and then this other one 's only a tenth of that ,
A: so give it a tenth of that and , and just keep doling it out that way
A: or ,
B: Well , I 'm , I 'm glad I 'm not the one that 's , that 's in charge of , of making those decisions .
B: They , uh , you wish that there could just be money for all these problems because they 're all so serious , you know .
B: I mean it 's not so serious , I guess , until it affects your family
B: and then all of a sudden it 's the most important thing .
A: Right .
B: So I , I would hate to have that responsibility just personally
B: but , but then , again , we really , we really do have it as a society to decide which things we need to address
B: I , uh , I guess I , it , it frightens me to think of so many people with , with AIDS and with cancer
B: and many of those things , uh , if they 're not able to , to be insured then the country 's going to pay for it one way or the other . Whether it 's through prevention or , or treatment or , you know , just , uh , just helping the people when they are not able to take care of themselves .
A: Right .
B: It seems like one way or the other we 're going to end up paying for it .
A: That 's true .
B: But
A: You know the , the other thought that I had , uh ,
A: I 've had several minutes to think about this after I , uh ,
A: while I was finding people , I , uh , I could think about the topic longer that the person that receives it ,
A: so it 's kind of a , a typo : that for than unfair advantage , as it were ,
A: but , the other thing that I thought of on this is , I wonder if there is n't enough money , uh , in our economy or in our system .
A: Uh , it seems like there 's so much that goes to things that don't really do a whole lot of good .
A: I mean , yeah ,
A: they 're kind of nice .
A: But , we have such an affluent society , society that I wonder if , if we took a little from here and there and the other if we might wind up with a , a cure for just about everything .
B: Just change our
A: Of course , then we would n't have any room to put people ,
A: but that 's
B: Right ,
B: just change our priorities a little bit .
A: Yeah .
A: You know , you hear these ridiculous figures for pizza
A: or you hear these , these phenomenal amounts of dollars spent for this , that or the other
A: and then you have all the arts that , that are nice and aesthetic ,
A: but are they that enhancing for the , for the masses , you know .
B: Right .
A: They certainly do well for those who go to the symphony orchestra and all that ,
A: but , uh , had all that donation and time and labor and effort gone toward something else ,
A: All right , this is easy for me since I ,
B: And me too , because I eat out a lot .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I travel ,
A: I do about forty percent of my time is on the road .
B: So you eat all your meals out .
A: I eat a lot of meals out ,
A: well I 'm also married
A: and my wife is an A one cook ,
A: but she enjoys eating out ,
A: so I have to share it with her .
A: And , uh , actually it 's very easy for me , because I , I have a make it a practice when I am out ,
A: I eat differently than what I could eat at home or around here .
B: Sure .
A: So , I look for just about anything ,
A: and it 's , it 's , uh , it 's a lot of fun .
A: I don't have to worry , really worry too much about price considerations because I , you know ,
B: I was going to ask you , could you go to , you know , nice places ,
B: and ,
A: Oh , sure ,
A: yeah ,
A: and it 's , it 's really great .
A: I , I , I like different types of food .
B: So where are your , what are the places , you know , memorable places you 've eaten ?
A: Uh , oh you okay you name it .
A: Let 's see ,
A: you 've got one down in , uh , down near , uh , Addison ,
A: uh , there 's two restaurants that I particularly like that I , every time I get into Texas or I get into Atlanta , Georgia , I make sure I go ,
A: and that 's Houston 's .
B: Oh , Houston 's ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Yep ,
A: okay .
B: It 's a great place .
A: It 's , it 's great .
A: There 's a , a restaurant in , um , right outside of Reading , Pennsylvania , it 's called Alfredo 's that does not look like a restaurant that you would really want to recommend to a lot of people .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it is fantastic .
A: Uh , there 's a restaurant , and I don't recall the name of it , uh , in , uh , Panama City .
A: Of course , not too many people want to rush back to Panama City , uh , Panama , the country , uh , Panama .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: because I was thinking ,
B: well , I , I grew up in Panama City .
A: No
A: this is the country this is the country Panama , all right ?
B: I get it .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , but I have gotten to quite a few .
A: And I go to Canada and get quite a few restaurants up there .
A: I , you know , and I know the locations ,
A: and I know the places ,
A: but I , lot of times I don't remember the names .
A: I 'd have to go back through some expense reports .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But particularly , down in your area , I 'm looking for some , some more restaurants .
A: So , I , you know , I don't know what 's , what 's down there , the ones out in Addison .
B: Do you like Mexican ?
B: Do you like Mexican food .
A: Not particularly
B: Oh .
A: that 's one of the few ,
A: why , which one were you going to recommend ?
B: Well , I mean , there 's so many places here , you know ,
B: there 's just , it 's just lots of good Mexican restaurants here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But in the Addison , well about everything that you could want in Dallas is in the Addison area , anyway .
A: Right .
B: I mean , now there 's a new Italian place Sfuzi
A: Okay ,
A: I have a ,
B: that has a great , I 've not been there , but it has a great reputation as one of the best restaurants in Dallas ,
B: and now there 's one in Addison .
A: Okay ,
A: let ,
A: I 'm , I 'm writing it down
B: It 's F , S it 's S F U Z I .
A: Okay .
B: And it 's on , it 's in Addison ,
B: and it 's a great place .
B: Also a great place that they have like Cajun food is Copelands .
A: I 've been there .
B: Now I really like Copelands .
A: Okay ,
A: I 've been there .
A: Um , one down there is the , uh , I think it 's an old schoolhouse .
B: Oh , the , yeah , the , I know ,
B: no ,
B: I don't like that place .
A: Well , I like the food ,
A: but I don't care for the clowning around .
B: See , uh , uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I , I , when I went , I thought the food was not good .
A: Oh , really ?
A: Oh I 've had ,
B: Magic Time Machine is the place you 're thinking of ,
A: That 's it ,
A: that 's it .
A: I 've had excellent food there .
B: See , I , when I went , I thought ,
B: the people drove me crazy first of all
A: True .
A: True .
B: but then I just thought the food was over priced for what it was .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: all right ,
A: well , that 's great .
A: Uh , no ,
A: Italian is fine .
A: I make it a habit of always going out to Pasta Oggi 's which is right down there in
B: Do you like , like Southwestern ?
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Well , now there 's a good place in Addison too called Blue Mesa Grill that 's on Belt Line that 's close to Houston 's , as a matter of fact .
A: All right .
A: Really ?
B: And , um , it 's great ,
B: I mean , their , they have , I think ,
B: sometimes I 've been when I thought , Well , it was n't as good ,
B: but I went there recently ,
B: and I thought , Well , this really is good .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So that 's , that 's a very good place to eat , The Blue Mesa Grill .
A: Good .
B: And , um ,
A: Well , this is great .
A: This is going to give me some more places to go .
B: A whole new , dining experience .
A: Okay ,
A: fine .
A: I guess our time 's about up ,
A: so .
B: Well , they have n't beeped us , have they ?
A: Uh , well , they don't always .
B: Oh , I thought sometimes they say , you know this is three minutes or whatever .
A: Yeah ,
A: I they 've been doing that when , uh , the circuits are busy
B: Oh , okay .
A: and other than that , they , you know , leave you go about five minutes ,
A: and then , that , that 's about it .
A: I guess that 's what they need for their machines to get everything down pat ,
A: so .
B: Okay ,
A: It was a pleasure talking to you .
B: Well , thanks for calling for helping us out .
A: Okay .
A: You bet ,
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: So do you have any recycling programs there ?
B: Um , I don't really think we have anything in the works as of yet .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , we 're a pretty small town
B: and , uh , the closest thing we have are bins like out in front of Wal-Mart that show , you know , plastics , paper liter bottles , et cetera , et cetera .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: We 've progressed a little bit farther than that .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , actually they have , uh ,
A: parts of town ,
A: it may have even spread all over the whole town ,
A: and , um , they will have these green bins
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's just as standard as a , a regular trash can that they come by and pick up and dump .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , just along with a trash can you have this , this green plastic bin ,
A: and you put your bottles in it and paper and , uh , you know , all those things that
A: aluminum .
A: You know , anything that can be recycled you just put in that bin .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , I guess you can
A: and a lot of the restaurants they just have , uh , places where you can throw away , especially beer places , where you can throw away green bottles , and then the brown bottles .
B: Yeah .
B: Huh .
A: And , uh , oh , I don't know ,
A: I guess they 're , you know , clear bottles .
B: Yeah .
A: So , um , you know a lot of people do have those separated .
A: And , of course , they have the , um , dumpsters , uh , the , the igloos .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , and they have those strategically placed around the city .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , they 're , they 're actually going to extend it , I think , one of these days maybe to apartment complexes
A: and , uh ,
B: Oh , that would be good .
A: Yeah ,
A: things of that nature .
A: So , I guess when you live in a bigger city it , it really becomes , uh , necessary .
B: Yeah ,
B: see , it 's not anywhere near that .
B: Uh , we , you know ,
B: as far as our little pitch in to it we do recycle our aluminum cans .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: But that 's as far as we go
B: because I take them to a girl at work ,
B: and she goes and cashes them in because , you know ,
B: I just I can do that for her
A: Uh-huh .
B: and and I don't want the hassle because we have to go to another town to do it .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah ,
A: Huh .
B: see we don't have anything here in Belton .
B: It 's , it 's a pretty small little town .
A: Yeah ,
A: I remember my grandparents and I used to always get out there on the road and pick up beer cans .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh ,
B: So , you know , that 's about all the , that we 're doing here .
B: Uh , they 're , uh , getting a little bit more on ,
B: they need to a lot a more community awareness of just what is it mean to recycle , and what can you recycle and what you ca n't . Because , you know , not a lot of people do really know what , you know , what it 's for .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're doing a real good job of , uh , separating it here .
A: And , of course , there you know you have a specific place to put your paper .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , they try to get you to go ahead and separate it ,
A: but they actually have the door to door pickup .
A: Um , and it 's , uh , I think it started out to be , um , just kind of a test , a pilot project .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it went over so well that they just extended it .
A: And it 's almost , uh ,
A: I don't know if it 's done by a private company or not .
A: It may be .
A: But , uh , they just go around to each , uh , door and pick it up .
B: Wow , that 's excellent .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's good .
A: Let 's see .
A: Oh , and every year , of course , the phone books um , they tell everybody across the city to , uh , put all their phone books in , uh , the , uh , recycle bins .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh .
A: Because , you know , phone books are pretty ,
A: well , for a bigger city they 're pretty thick .
B: Yeah ,
B: they are .
A: And sometimes you might have two or three .
B: Exactly .
A: So , uh , that 's , that 's a big savings right there in itself .
B: Yeah ,
B: see ours just goes in the regular trash .
A: Yeah ,
B: It just , you know , there 's not a whole lot .
A: huh .
B: And there are , you know , some places that will set up you know for old newspapers and stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But usually it 's , it , it has n't caught on yet .
B: I 'm hoping it will soon .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , the thing about newspapers and paper ,
A: recycled paper is actually very expensive .
B: Yeah .
A: So , when you see something that 's on recycled paper , they 've actually gone to a lot of expense to do that .
A: It 's , uh ,
A: they 're not coming out ahead at all .
A: It 's , uh , it 's really a cost .
B: Huh . I was n't totally aware of that .
A: Yeah .
B: So .
A: I mean it , it sounds good to the public
A: but there 's really a big cost incurred when you do recycle something .
A: Now , aluminum I don't know .
A: They may be coming out ahead .
A: But I know , for a fact that the paper , uh , on that end they 're not , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's just good to recycle
A: but it 's , uh , not to their advantage .
B: Yeah .
A: And it costs less .
B: Huh . Well ,
A: I ca n't think of anything else .
B: I ca n't either . Because we 're , we 're at a very , you know , beginning stages ,
A: Okay .
B: so .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We look forward to it to get better .
A: Well , I hope you all , um , uh , come along a little farther in the future .
B: Yeah ,
B: me too .
A: It was nice talking to you .
B: You too .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
A: Supposed to talk about boats .
A: Have you got a boat
B: No ,
B: I don't ,
B: do you ?
A: No ,
A: I don't .
A: I , I 've had one for quite a few years ,
A: but I , I 've not had one the last couple of years .
B: Oh , really ?
A: But , it 's something I 've always enjoyed .
A: Do you , do you like boating ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I love them
A: Yeah ,
A: but , uh , my children all have been grown for a few years
A: and we were using it less and less and less ,
A: so we decided to sell it .
A: And ,
B: Well , I heard , that 's the second happiest day of your life
A: What 's that ?
B: The day you sell your boat .
A: Oh , no ,
A: now I loved having a boat .
A: I loved having it .
A: No ,
B: No ,
B: I just heard that .
B: That 's just a joke , I guess .
A: Oh , okay
B: First best day is the day you get and the day you get rid of it
B: but , I 'd like to have one .
A: Oh , yeah
B: I just don't know if I 'd have the time to use it .
A: Yeah ,
A: guy just you know ,
A: he needs his weekends free , or to be able to use it or a day during the week or something ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , but , no
A: I guess for the cost of them you don't really ,
A: it 's hard to get ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I felt like I got my money 's worth out of mine
A: I had bought it used and kept it , uh , I don't know , ten years and got within , uh , three hundred dollars of what , when I sold it , of what I 'd paid for it and had it all those years , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So they hold their , you take care of them they hold their value real well .
B: Really ?
A: So , you know , you could n't complain about that .
B: Did you go fishing ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: it was a uh , big boat , big ski boat type thing .
B: Oh , okay .
A: I had a hundred , hundred sixty horse , uh , Murcruiser in it .
B: Oh , wow .
A: Inboard outboard .
A: Oh , I did fish out of it occasionally ,
A: but I 'm not too much of a fisherman .
B: Really ?
A: And , uh , but I but I did enjoy owning a boat ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I like to fish .
A: would recommend it to anybody .
A: And , uh , uh , but , uh , and now sailing , I 've never been sailing .
A: Have you been sailing ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: I 've sailed some .
B: I just like , uh , fourteen foot Sunfish .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Nothing big .
A: I 've never tried .
A: I 've always thought , I bet that would be more fun .
A: But I 'd want to be with a skilled sailor
B: Yeah ,
B: really .
A: But it ,
B: Well , they offer classes out at , uh , Ray Hubbard .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I , I 've always thought I 'd like to .
A: I 've never wanted to bad enough to make any effort to do it , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: And , at this stage of the game , I 'm not that interested in it anymore .
B: Oh , okay .
A: We go out with friends on the ,
A: we go to the lake just about every weekend down at Mount Vernon
A: and parents ' next door neighbors have a big barge
B: Okay .
A: and we go out and take them out on their barge .
A: They 're getting kind of old
A: and they like us to take them out on their barge quite often ,
A: so we we get out on the water occasionally , you know .
B: Oh , that 's nice .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , uh , anyway , it 's it 's , it 's fun .
A: I , I do enjoy the lake ,
A: but , uh , once the children were grown ,
A: and we 'd go down there
A: and I 'd get the boat out on the , you know , Saturday ,
A: and we 'd go for a ride and enjoy it so much .
A: It 's such a pretty lake down there .
A: We 'd enjoy it so much
A: and , I 'd say , well , I 'm going to leave the boat out , because , uh , we 'll probably do this again tomorrow
A: It got to where the , tomorrow the boat was still sitting there
A: and we never did go out again
A: and I 'd have to go load it up the next day .
A: And ,
B: Where is that ?
A: Uh , Mount Vernon .
B: Yeah .
A: Cypress Springs ,
A: Cypress Creek Springs .
B: Okay ,
B: that 's south of here ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's down at Mount Vernon .
B: Okay .
A: It 's probably the prettiest lake in the state of Texas .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's just a hundred miles from here .
B: Huh . What do you take , I Thirty-five ?
A: No ,
A: you go down I , uh , uh , you , uh , you go down , uh , yeah , thirty , thirty .
B: Thirty .
A: It 's east of here .
B: Oh , okay .
A: East of here .
A: Hundred miles due east of here .
B: All right .
A: And , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it just we just moved down here a couple years ago ,
B: so ,
A: Did you ?
A: Where did you all move from ?
B: Colorado Springs .
A: Oh , did you ?
B: Yeah .
A: How are you liking it ?
B: Oh , we love it up there
A: Well , good .
B: That 's where I grew up
A: Yeah .
B: So ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , we 're , we like it down here pretty good .
A: Oh , I think you 'll like it better ,
A: but , of course it 's hard when you don't have any family around .
B: Yeah ,
B: we got two kids that are under two
A: Yeah .
B: and it 's kind of tough when my folks call and they want to see them
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes ,
A: it 's hard on the your folks , too ,
A: I know .
A: They 're all , yours
A: and your wife 's folks still live in Colorado ?
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: Uh , there are supposed to be , uh , some people moving down here from Colorado Springs for T I .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: supposed to be .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right . Uh ,
A: Do you work at T I ?
B: I don't ,
B: no .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , a friend of mine 's dad is , was a program manager up there
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he just moved down here to
B: what do you ,
B: I guess it 's ,
B: he 's working in McKinney .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't either .
A: My wife does
B: Okay .
A: But , it 's a good company .
A: But , anyway , we 're supposed to be talking about boats ,
A: so back to boats .
A: So , tell me the last time you went for a boat ride .
B: Well , actually , I went , uh , canoeing down the Brazos this weekend .
A: Oh , my gosh , now that had to be , that 's boating .
A: That had to have been fun .
B: It was fun ,
B: it was fun .
A: Well , what are your hobbies ?
B: Well , actually my hobbies now are T shirt making .
B: I 'm making T shirts and sweat shirts .
B: In fact that 's what I was doing when you called .
A: Well , that sounds interesting .
A: What kinds of , uh , sweat shirts and T shirts do you make ?
B: Um , right now I 'm making Christmas ones with poinsettias and bears and all that kind of thing .
A: Okay .
A: Is that silk screening , or ,
B: Um , no ,
B: I 'm , have material that I cut out ,
B: and then you , um ,
B: there 's this stuff called Wonder Under that you that you iron it on
B: and then you iron that on the T shirt , and you paint around it .
A: Oh , I see .
B: So , it 's real fun .
B: I started doing it as a , um , just something fun to do ,
B: and now I 'm selling them and pretty ,
A: Well , how 's it going ?
B: Pretty good .
B: I just started last week ,
B: and I sold seven .
B: I did n't , was n't expecting that ,
B: so ,
A: Well , that sounds great .
B: I guess in my spare time I 'll be making T shirts
B: So .
A: Well , somebody has to do it ,
B: That 's right , you know .
A: Give you a little Christmas money , any way .
B: That 's correct .
B: Well , what are your hobbies ?
A: Well , I , I kind of have hobby fads , I guess .
B: Uh-huh .
A: When I was growing up I was , was into coin collecting ,
A: and that dropped off about the time I hit puberty , I guess ,
A: and then , my hobbies in high school went just to the sports .
A: Now my latest one is classic cars .
A: I 've I had a sixty-six Mustang I was rebuilding .
B: Um .
A: Almost had it done ,
A: and I went on , went ahead and sold it .
B: Oh , my gosh .
A: But it was fun .
A: I really enjoyed it .
B: Well , how 'd you learn to do that to fix them up ?
A: Oh , you just ,
B: You just get a book that tells you how to do it or what ?
A: No ,
A: you just kind of ,
A: all I did is , uh , I bought the car
A: and then , uh , you know , you can ,
A: I , uh , was just in a supermarket
A: and I seen a , a magazine for , you know ,
A: basically it , it was called MUSTANG MAGAZINE
A: and and so I bought it
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they had , uh , some names , some companies that sold mustang parts ,
A: and I just started ordering some parts
A: and , and , you know , basically , you know , I , what I did was , I redid the whole interior .
A: I did n't do too much to the engine , because the engine was pretty good , but the , the whole interior and then part of the exterior ,
A: just kind of do it .
B: Where 'd you get the car ?
A: Well , we lived , we lived in South Dakota ,
A: and I bought it up there before I moved down here .
B: Wow .
A: So it was , it was kind of rusted out there ,
A: there is n't too much rust on any vehicles down here .
B: Well , that 's true ,
B: that 's true .
B: Well that sounds neat .
A: Well , gee I guess there really is n't too much to talk about on hobbies .
B: Let 's see .
A: That , that about covers mine
A: and T shirt making about covers yours .
B: Well , let 's see ,
B: I 've done other hobbies .
B: I 'm a hobby person .
B: I 've always done a lot of craft stuff .
B: I always have done needlepoint and cross stitch and all that ,
B: and , I collect dolls ,
B: I have a huge collection of dolls which is still in New Mexico with my parents
A: In New Mexico ?
B: Uh-huh ,
B: from New Mexico .
A: Okay .
B: So . Let 's see ,
B: what else ?
B: I started collecting music boxes .
B: I guess that 's a hobby .
A: Yeah
A: that is .
B: So .
A: That 's interesting .
A: How many music boxes do you have ?
B: Probably uh , about twenty .
A: Do they all play different songs
B: Uh-huh .
A: or do some of them play the same song ?
B: They , they all play different songs .
A: Well , that 's neat .
A: What 's the most expensive one you bought ?
B: The most expensive .
B: I don't know .
B: I 've gotten all of them for gifts .
B: I don't
A: Oh , really .
B: bought a few of them .
B: I usually get them for Christmas gifts or , and like when people go , you know , to , on trips or something .
A: Well , that 's interesting .
A: It used to be tea spoons , was the thing .
B: That 's true
B: I never collected those , never collected those .
A: Well , that 's interesting , music boxes .
B: I have dolls from all over too .
B: That I started when I was a little girl ,
B: and I have a lot of dolls .
A: .
B: People would always bring them when they go to the countries ,
B: and , um , and I did that when I went to Europe one summer .
B: I bought a doll everywhere we went
B: so .
A: Well how was Europe ?
B: economy .
B: It was great ,
B: it was quick .
B: I was in , I was in high school ,
B: and I was in a tour ,
B: and we went all ,
B: it 's kind of a , it 's kind of to establish better rapport with the different countries ,
B: and , um , it was called People to People ,
B: and we 'd stay in people 's homes ,
B: and then we got to also tour big cities ,
B: and I really enjoyed it .
A: Was that in high school
B: Uh-huh
A: or was that a college thing ?
B: in was in high school .
B: So I 'd like to go back , because we had , you know ,
B: everything was rushed
A: I bet .
B: everything was like an hour or two hours at the Louvre , you know , things like that where you need the whole day ,
B: but but it really ,
A: Right .
A: That 's where a camcorder would come in handy .
B: Exactly ,
B: that 's true .
A: Well that sounds real neat .
A: So you , you have n't been back to Europe since then , huh ?
B: No ,
B: I always thought I would ,
B: but who knows now .
B: I got married and , maybe some day .
B: Maybe it 's one of those retirement things
A: There you go .
A: Well , does you husband , uh ,
A: what does he think of your , uh , T shirts and ,
B: Well , he likes it all right .
B: He 's been pretty good , because there 's T shirt stuff all over the house .
A: Does he help out much
A: or ,
A: What kind of car would you like to buy next ?
B: Well , I guess Cadillac .
B: I guess that 's kind of everybody 's dream
A: Well , why would that be ?
B: Oh , I guess it 's a General Motors product ,
B: and I like General Motors because they 're made in the United States ,
B: and , uh , we 've had General Motors for years and have always had real good luck with them .
A: Okay ,
A: well that 's good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: If you had , uh , no financial requirements , if you could buy any car in the entire world , no matter what it cost , what would you buy ?
B: Oh , um , I think I 'd still go with the Cadillac .
A: Do you ?
B: I don't , I don't care about a big fancy , fancy
A: Which type of Cadillac , uh , is your favorite ?
B: Oh , I don't know .
B: I guess the Seville , probably or .
A: The Seville .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's a sharp looking car .
B: Yeah .
A: That really is .
A: It , it always has been though . You know ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they have been .
A: it does n't have the Coup de Ville or the Sedan de Ville squareness .
A: It never really has .
A: It 's always had it 's own unique look .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I 've always liked that .
A: I liked the , the
A: one year they had , a couple years they had where the trunk head would look like belt buckles across the back of it .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Right .
A: I thought , now that looks sharp
B: Yeah .
A: that looks real sharp .
B: Well , I think the ones now with all of the , uh , fancy gold lettering and all , you know , I think they 're very pretty .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And course the top , now the what is it , a vinyl top , I think those are pretty .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh , the ,
A: I , I 've never really , uh , I 've never ridden in one recently , um ,
A: but they 're supposed to be just real smooth .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Just a nice comfortable ride .
B: Yeah ,
B: they are ,
B: and , uh , they , they 're just always ,
B: they , they look like they 're sturdy you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they look like they 're very sturdy ,
B: and you don't have to worry that much about , um , getting , you know , hurt like you would in a small one .
A: Right .
A: Now they 've got a unique uh , feature in them now .
A: If , uh , if you have a front end accident at such a rate of speed , the the engine will actually drop out of the car so that it does n't come through the , so it does n't go , it does n't go through the , you know , into the inside .
A: It 'll go underneath the car instead .
B: Oh , I did n't know that .
A: So that 's , that 's a big safety factor they 've got in them now .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I suppose they all have the balloons .
A: The air bags ,
A: yeah .
B: The air bags ,
B: yeah .
B: Well .
A: So ,
A: well that 's great ,
A: that 's great ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: So you say you 've always have preferred General Motors products .
B: Yeah ,
B: I do .
B: Um , I , I go for things , you know , built in the United States rather than foreign countries .
A: Right .
B: Help our economy
B: and ,
A: What kind of , uh , General Motors cars have you had in the past ?
B: Mostly Oldsmobiles .
A: Oldsmobiles .
A: Those are real nice riding cars too .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: That 's what we have now ,
B: but of course if I have a choice I 'd still have the Cadillac
B: but , uh , I 've been very satisfied with the , with the Oldsmobiles .
B: We 've driven them for about probably twenty years .
A: Has that been the Cutlass or the Sierra ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: the Ninety-Eight .
A: The Ninety-Eight ,
A: okay .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
B: So .
A: Well , I don't think ,
A: uh , let 's see ,
A: the Ninety-Eight ,
A: now that 's got that big V eight engine in it , does n't it , does n't it ?
B: Well I don't know .
B: The one we have has a six .
A: Has a little V Six ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay .
B: But it 's a very good car .
B: It 's a had , not had one minute 's problem with it ,
A: It ,
B: and I 've had , now I have twenty-three thousand miles on it .
A: Oh , that 's great
B: Yeah .
A: that 's great .
A: That 's always nice to get , uh , reliability in a product . Especially when you 're spending , you know , anywhere from fifteen to twenty-five thousand dollars for , for a single item . You know ,
B: Right .
A: you just don't want any hassles with it .
B: No .
A: You just , you expect it to do its , its job ,
A: and I think a lot of , a lot of car manufacturers don't really keep that into don't take that into consideration you know .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: They just expect you to buy their product ,
A: but that 's always been something that 's been a key factor in me , is how reliable is this car going to be you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Price is , is an issue ,
A: but it 's not the most important issue .
B: No ,
B: it really is n't , because now you can get like five year financing on them
B: and so , um ,
A: Right .
B: but I , I , I would go with the General Motors any time .
A: Well , I 've always been a Ford man , myself .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yes .
B: Oh .
A: But that 's all right .
B: Yeah ,
B: well sure .
A: You know , it 's American made too which is good .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , but I , I 've ,
A: ever since I guess I , I was growing up , my dad 's always had Fords ,
A: and , uh , well , I grew up in South Dakota .
A: So everybody has a truck
B: Uh-huh .
A: and my Ford trucks have just ,
A: I 've , I 've just never had problems with them .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I honestly think I would die before my truck would , keel over on me .
B: Yeah .
A: So .
B: Well , I ,
B: yeah ,
B: those are good products also .
B: Um , let 's see ,
B: My T V down .
B: Okay .
B: I 'm sorry .
A: Uh , invasions of privacy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , what most annoys me are all sorts of phone calls trying to sell me things .
B: Uh-huh .
A: All , sorts of hours calling and telling me that I want investment advise and I want this service and that service or the other thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yes .
B: I hate those canned messages they put on my recorder .
A: Um , my sense is that something may just have been done about it by congressmen
A: just what went into the
A: something about the random dialers that just dial phone numbers .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess in some cases they just consider pickup your , your phone and , and , and not let you use your phone for a while whether you hang up on them or not .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , but I thought I saw something about it having some kind of provision that people could specify that their phones were not for commercial using
A: and , uh , and , uh , people , businesses would be prohibited , uh , from calling for for , for business selling you things .
B: I have through , the phone company , uh ,
A: I 'm sure that 's true .
B: no nine hundred numbers can be dialed from my phone or received .
A: Uh , some of did too .
A: I think , I think government can do that now ,
A: is that right ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , especially with , with possibly children around .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , that could , could be useful protection .
B: Right .
B: Yes ,
B: and I don't have children around
B: but I just don't like those nine hundred numbers .
B: So , I 've excluded those .
A: So , uh , I used to deal with ,
B: But is n't , it does not stop you from the , uh , dialing services .
A: What are dialing services ?
B: Where they , uh , intend to sell you things .
A: Oh , oh , where people just , just call you .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And leave again that canned message on the ,
A: And you know , and then what , those problems has been eliminated
A: those problems used to be when I used a credit card they 'd want to have my phone number .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I did not like giving it out .
A: I gave out my work number
B: Right .
A: but I think I 'm not sure if it 's by law just ,
A: otherwise I think the practice has basically been eliminated asking for a phone number .
B: Well , that 's the thing I hated too about , uh , Radio Shack .
A: How did Radio Shack work ?
B: If you go in and buy anything they want your phone number .
B: And I don't think they 're going to call me and ask me how it 's functioning ,
B: and , and I don't give that out .
B: I have an unlisted number
B: so I don't ,
A: Yes ,
A: that 's , that 's , that 's one solution
A: but you , you , you nonetheless often get , get people calling you ?
B: Sure .
A: Despite the fact that your number is unlisted ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you actually have your number
A: or are they just calling a number that happens to be yours ?
B: Well , anything that you buy um , you you may get put on the , a , uh , preferred list that is purchased .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and companies can purchase this list
B: and what that is is people who buy from the mail .
A: Yeah ,
A: and they have a whole list of addresses and list of phone numbers .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'll be thinking in mind the address is ,
A: um , is there anything you can do about that like give out a phony phone number ?
B: Uh , no .
B: Not really .
B: Um , no .
B: Uh , some of that unfortunately is legal .
B: So they ca n't stop people from , uh , advertising
B: and that , and that 's what it falls under .
B: It falls under the guise of advertising .
B: So , I don't care for it ,
B: but is it a legal , uh , solution for some companies .
B: So that , that 's the way things are .
A: Huh . Yeah .
A: I don't know .
A: I think it 's gotten much worse the last , few years .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Maybe that 's just because I 've gotten on more lists .
B: Well , they , you know ,
B: that 's , that 's the telephone is not the only invasion of privacy .
B: You 've got the holy rollers
B: and you 've got , uh , all kinds of people knocking on your door and , who want to , uh , either direct you to the right path or , or want to , uh , sell you , uh , paper routes , uh , whatever ,
B: so , um , you know , it 's not just the telephone .
A: Yeah .
A: Sell you magazines .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I guess whatever is ,
A: I just don't give ,
A: For N I S T , the National Institute of Standards and Technology .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: so it 's right up your alley , then .
A: I suppose so .
A: Let me push the button .
B: All right .
A: Okay , uh ,
A: I guess I 'm supposed to be all for switching to the metric system ,
A: but , uh , I sense that it 's not going to happen anytime soon .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't think it 's going to happen either ,
B: but I wish it were
B: because I 'm a , I got my bachelor 's in mechanical engineering .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm at grad school now in acoustics
B: and all we do is metric stuff .
A: You 're now in what ?
B: Acoustics .
A: Acoustics , uh .
B: Yeah ,
B: so everything 's metric
B: and then you go to read some order book or something
B: and it 's all confusing
B: so I don't understand as much ,
B: so I think we should get one adopted permanently .
A: Well , I guess that is the policy ,
A: but it 's been the policy for a long time
A: and nothing ever happens .
A: Uh , I suppose things , some things well happen slowly simply by having it taught in the schools more to the extent that that 's happening , having a new generation come up that 's more used to it .
B: Yeah ,
B: a lot of industry out there is doing metric stuff because they have to .
A: They have to for international trade .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I guess it 's , it 's easier to switch back and forth than it used to be , uh , because of , of , uh , of computers coming into everything .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't think switching back and forth is that big a deal .
B: I think people need to understand more like what a meter is , instead of how many feet in a meter or something . Just get used to using all the terms .
B: Because someone says a kilogram ,
B: no one knows what that is .
A: Everyone wants a , wants a conversion of that before kind of recognizing it as a , as , as , as , as a concept to hold in mind .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , I , I , I don't see that , it , it , it can change it very quickly .
A: I mean we 're not the kind of society that , that , uh , that something can be posed upon , uh , by government will .
B: Yeah ,
B: no one seems to be adopting it .
B: Metric system , no one 's very , uh , no one wants it at all seems like .
A: Uh , the , the , the public is just very conservative that way in refusing to change measurement systems , uh , money , dollar , coins , anything like that .
B: Yeah
A: And , and , and it it obviously makes no sense that we 're practically alone in the world in , in using the old system .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , it 's pretty tough when you get everything confused , though .
B: I think two systems is worse than one , though
B: Because , I know , we do a lot of problems and things
B: and they 're half english and half metric
B: and you , you make more mistakes doing all the conversions than you would doing the problems .
B: just get one .
B: I prefer metric ,
B: but even if it 's english , they should just have one .
A: Well , I mean , I think people like you are relatively rare who are coming up against this problem every day .
B: Yeah
B: yeah ,
B: I think so .
B: Your , your average guy jogging down the highway wants to know how many miles it is to his destination .
A: Uh , I mean , there are things you could do .
A: Uh , we have signs up on the N I S T campus here , speed limit twenty-five miles per hour , forty kilometers per hour .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , but that has n't been adopted very widely .
B: Yeah ,
B: they have some of those in Ohio .
B: There 's this one sign 's kind of funny .
B: It says , uh , metric signs next hundred miles .
A: But , I mean , and no one will , will go a step further to remove the english signs .
B: Yeah ,
B: that would force everybody to use it . Or to quit selling tape measures in inches .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: or , you have highway signs saying speed limit , uh , eighty , eighty-five , whatever would be the appropriate number .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess a hundred is sixty-two .
A: Hundred car is going sixty-two ,
A: yeah ,
A: so it would be more like , uh , like ninety I guess ,
A: car is going fifty-five .
A: Uh , you suddenly have a have a even worse problem with speeding than we do now .
B: Yeah ,
B: you have a bunch of people trying to do ninety
A: Do , do , do you know , where you are ,
A: do the schools emphasize the metric system ?
B: Yeah ,
B: in the engineering they all do pretty much .
A: No ,
A: I , I , I meant , I meant down , like , in the elementary schools .
B: Oh , in the elementary schools .
B: I don't know .
B: I would n't think so .
B: I remember a ways back we did like conversions ,
A: I mean , I think ,
B: but we never actually went out and measured anything or did anything on one system .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , I think my children learned the metric system ,
A: but it does n't get , get emphasized over the other .
B: Yeah ,
B: they learn how many centimeters are in an inch
B: and that 's about it .
A: Okay ,
A: we 're supposed to talk about vacations .
B: Right ,
B: so , uh , well , uh , what kind of vacations do you like ?
A: Well , uh , I have n't been to many places ,
A: but I have a opportunity to go to , uh , Paris , France , uh , with , uh , with my friend in April .
A: She is , her , uh , her family , you know , lives there ,
A: and she 's only been there once .
A: Her grandmother lives there
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I 'm hoping to I 'm praying I get to go . Uh ,
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it will be probably the most exciting place I 'll ever get to go .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Have you ever been to , uh , like New Mexico ?
B: Uh , no , actually .
A: Oh .
B: Why , have you ?
A: I was curious .
A: I was just wondering what it was like .
B: Oh , okay
B: No , uh ,
B: I have been to Europe once and to Haiti and , uh ,
A: Tahiti ?
B: Yeah .
A: Tahiti ,
A: oh .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: Haiti .
A: Oh , Haiti .
B: Right .
A: Where is that ?
B: It 's , uh , well , it 's in the Caribbean
B: and it 's the western half of an island ,
B: with the eastern half that 's the Dominican Republic .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I was down there with a program from the college that I went to where we would just spend like three months in a foreign country , most of them third world countries . And study the language and then do a little service project .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Um .
B: So , yeah ,
B: that turned out to be a really good experience for me .
A: So , what did you do when you were in Europe ?
B: Uh , well , see , I went there when I was in high school , actually
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I mostly went to Germany and visited some friends of my family and , uh , hung out with them , worked a bit on one of their farms and also went to a youth camp .
A: What did you do on the farm ?
B: Uh , uh , uh , well , not that much
B: Just , uh ,
A: Are you just kind of sight , just kind of , uh ,
B: Right ,
B: I mean , I was n't a great asset to them or anything
B: But I , you know , drove a tractor , helped them weed beets and that sort of thing .
A: Um .
B: And , uh , yep ,
B: and I went to a youth camp that included working at an old people 's home
B: and that was pretty interesting .
B: And while I was there I visited my aunt and uncle who were , uh , staying for their vacation in France in Nantes , which is on the west coast , like right across from England .
A: Um .
B: Uh , so , uh , where in France are you ,
A: Paris .
B: Right ,
B: Paris .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , um , how long do you plan to be going for ?
A: Uh , two weeks .
A: Last time she stayed two months ,
A: but we 're only going to stay two weeks .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So ,
B: Great .
B: And , uh ,
A: We 're going to take a cooking class there ,
A: so that might be fun .
B: A what ?
A: Cooking class , you know ,
A: French cooking .
B: Oh , great .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , what else are you planning to do , if anything ?
A: Museums , you know ,
A: go to museums and ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah , um ,
A: Do you go to museums in Europe ?
B: Uh , actually , no ,
B: I don't think I went to any of them .
B: Uh , the closest thing I did was go to some like , uh , restored castles and stuff .
A: Um .
B: That , there is some on that west coast of France
B: and I went to a vineyard or two in Germany .
A: Um , that 's neat .
B: Yeah ,
B: that was nice .
B: Uh , um , but , so , uh ,
A: Hey ,
A: what about ,
A: have you ever been to Hawaii ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: I have n't .
A: No ?
B: Have you ?
A: No .
B: Okay
B: Well , uh , well ,
A: I 'm wanting to go there .
B: Where have you gone first ?
A: Oh , where have I gone that 's anywhere .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean ,
A: Uh ,
B: All right ,
B: well .
A: Um , short term , I don't think anything 's going to be done about it or probably should be done about it .
B: Right .
B: Uh , are you saying you don't think anything should be done in the short term ?
A: Uh , the short term , the recession is getting , getting top attention .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think that you 're absolutely right there .
B: The other thing is , is that we 've got these , um , these , all these bank defaults going on , and , and savings and loan defaults , and , and , uh , uh ,
A: And that effectively adds to whether it 's officially on the books or not .
B: Right .
B: Exactly . Um ,
A: And that 's got to be paid .
B: Exactly ,
B: and , and , uh , so this creates a pretty serious problem that 's going to continue to be with us for a while to come .
B: Um , I 'm not really , uh , sure that I even understand why the administration is proposing , for instance , tax reductions , because it seems to me that if , if , if they 're talking about reducing , uh , the tax that needs to be paid , or the tax that 's currently being paid , then that ca n't , it seems to me it ca n't possibly , you know , help with the , the deficit picture .
A: It can only hurt the deficit picture .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly .
A: Um , and the , the severity of the deficit picture already limits the options available or limits the degree of tax cutting you can do without , uh , bringing on , on serious problems for the longer term .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly .
A: So that , that , that 's the current predicament .
B: Yeah ,
B: it seems like it 's , it 's a kind of a Catch Twenty-two .
B: I mean , it 's , it 's the , um ,
B: my understanding is what they 're what , what supposedly they 're trying to do by reducing taxes is to kind of jump start the economy , the idea being that if people have to pay less money in taxes , they 'll have more money to spend , uh ,
B: and if they have more money to spend , then that will be a spur to productivity , particularly commercial productivity , uh , which in turn will generate revenue .
B: But it , it seems like , like , uh , it 's sort of a , uh , a an unending spiral ,
B: and it , it , it , uh ,
B: I 'm , I 'm not sure that there 's any real genuine truth to the , uh , the idea that , that , uh , that decreasing taxes , particularly the kinds that are being recommended bye-bye the Bush administration and things like capital gains taxes and so forth is going to , uh , result in substantial amounts of money , you know , for consumers to spend .
B: And , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm not sure how I feel about paying on the quest , the long term quests that tax cuts are worth at this point .
A: It 's probably a judgment of how bad the recession is .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , uh , it would seem to me that there are other things that the administration could do .
A: Well , well , first of all you look to the Fed to fight the recession as indeed it has , with interest rates .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think that 's been a positive development .
B: I think what that 's done is it 's , it 's , it 's help keep inflation from , um , uh ,
A: Well , at the moment we 're doing very well on inflation .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly .
A: That 's the sort of upside to the deficit .
B: It 's a sort of a piece of luck .
A: That 's the upside to the recession .
B: Yeah , um .
B: I don't know ,
B: what kind of things do you think can be done in , in , uh , in the long term ?
A: Well , can be done or will be done are two different things .
A: Um , at various places to look for , for cutting the budget , first of all I consider more defense cuts than are already planned depending on the world situation .
B: Sure .
A: But there are various other areas such as , as farm subsidies that ought to be slashed .
A: Uh , a lot of entitlement programs , like education aid , I think , uh , they should put a , in
A: the Reagan administration took all such entitlements to the poor but left them for the middle class , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: in the longer term , uh , we , we , we 'd do well , I think to make , to make , uh , reductions there .
A: Also somewhat is to collect owed to the government from various loan programs that people have borrowed .
B: Right .
B: I think that , I think that , that I agree with you certainly in the second situation ,
B: and I think certain entitlements I , I 'm inclined to agree with you , too .
B: Education happens to be one place where I think that we would foolish to um , uh ,
A: A lot of education aid has gone to so-called trade schools which are sort of not colleges
B: Uh-huh .
A: but schools that teach you trades , you know , beautician well , and often exists only because of the federal programs that they can take people and tell them they can get loans for their full tuition , uh , and the school gets paid off immediately , uh
B: Oh , I see , I see what you 're saying .
B: And then they and then the people default on the loans .
A: and then they don't provide very much education .
A: Yes .
B: Well , I would have to agree with you if there are circumstances like that , uh , around , uh ,
B: and I , I , I ca n't confess to having any substantial knowledge of that sort of thing ,
B: but , but taking what you 're saying at face value , then I would have to agree with completely .
A: Yeah .
B: Okay
B: what kind of foods would you have ?
A: Okay .
A: Um , well , I like to cook , um
B: Oh , I do too
A: but I don't like getting too awfully fancy about it , just because , um , uh , it 's too much pressure . You know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: if I have people over for dinner , I like it to be nice and relaxed .
B: Yeah ,
B: you ca n't enjoy it .
B: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: And so I don't like to arrive , or , or when they arrive , for me to be completely worn out .
B: That 's , that 's what ,
B: I like doing things like making lasagna just because I can have it ready and baking in the oven ,
A: Yeah .
B: it 's ,
A: Exactly .
B: everybody just says how wonderful it is ,
B: and it 's it 's like , uh , yes ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's one of those things I got famous for in college .
B: People would come and say could would you come over and make lasagna for me
A: Uh-huh
B: It 's like , well , I ca n't really give you a recipe , uh
A: Uh-huh ,
A: you 'd just do it .
B: I can I can just do it
A: .
B: I like doing that kind of stuff .
A: Yeah .
B: And it 's , it 's fun ,
B: in fact that 's what we had for a Christmas party last week .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We just had a bunch of people over
B: and we had , we did lasagna and garlic bread and , uh , yummy .
A: Um . Boy I like that .
B: Uh , I do too , in fact
A: Yeah ,
A: well I 'm planning a ,
A: and naturally this is appropriate because I 'm planning dinner for people tomorrow night and then the next night .
B: Oh .
B: Oh , good .
A: So Tuesday night there 'll be eight people here altogether .
B: Uh , actually one thing we have done quite a bit through the holidays , just because it 's a , real easy , is just baked potato dinners .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And have , you know , like three or four couples come over ,
B: and I 'll do the potatoes and you know , like butter and cheese and stuff and have everybody else just bring a couple of toppings , whatever they like
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it turns out great , because I mean , you 've got like hot sauce and taco meat and barbecue and , you know , bacon and all that good stuff .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's fun .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But it 's , it 's inexpensive
A: Yeah .
B: plus it 's real easy on the hostess , because you can just have the potatoes ready , and just have a salad with it ,
B: and you got a great dinner .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's a good idea .
B: It 's , it 's real easy ,
B: I like doing that part .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm in favor of very little clean up , um , very little planning because we 've got three or four couples that we get together with to play games ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: and it 's ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: we invariably end up at my house since I 've got two kids .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that , it 's , it 's fine , because then I can just say , Okay fine ,
B: you bring this ,
B: you bring this ,
B: you bring this ,
B: we 're done .
A: Yeah .
B: And it 's pretty cool .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good .
A: Well , one of my favorites if I don't want to have other people bring stuff , I just want to treat them is to make chicken and rice .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: It 's very easy to .
B: Oh .
A: You don't like it ?
B: Oh , I love it
A: Oh , you do ,
A: okay ,
A: yeah .
A: I have a really easy recipe for that , where you just brown the chicken
A: and then you put rice in the bottom of the pan ,
A: you pour bouillon or chicken broth over it
B: Um .
A: and , and you put the chicken in , then pour the , uh , broth over
A: and you can put mushrooms in if you want ,
A: and then you just .
B: Over the uncooked rice ?
A: Yeah ,
A: over uncooked rice
B: Oh .
A: and you can either microwave it
A: or do it in the oven ,
A: and it just .
B: Oh , how neat .
A: It fluffs up ,
A: and it 's really moist .
B: Huh .
B: Now I 've done it with , where you put , you cook the well , I guess you probably could do it same way , but cook the rice and then take a can of like cream of mushroom soup or cream of chicken soup , and put a little bit of white wine in it .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: wow ,
A: yeah .
B: And every once in a while , I 'll put in , I 'll slice white grapes
B: and I 'll put in there ,
B: and , that 's just because I 'm not a real big wine person
B: but I like it ,
B: it adds something to the chicken .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And then just bake it ,
B: and it makes a wonderful sauce over the rice .
A: Well , I 'll keep that one in mind .
B: Yeah
A: Yeah .
B: It 's , that was one of the first things I made for my husband , because I was like , um ,
B: yeah
A: Yeah .
B: I could actually find something I could cook real easy that would be kind of sort of elegant kind of
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: you can get away with it even having a semi nice dinner ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: or , you know semi .
B: But then , I had n't thought about doing it with uncooked rice .
A: Yeah .
B: So , just , like in a thirteen by nine pan .
A: Yeah .
A: You put in , um
B: Um .
A: let 's see , what was it , three quarters of cup of rice
A: or ,
B: Um .
A: It depends on ,
A: you can really vary it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But you have to put the water in proportionally .
A: I ca n't remember .
A: I think it was three quarters cup rice to two cups water , two cups , um , broth .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I , I use that for for rice
B: and for when I cook pasta or something , I 'll put a little bit of bouillon in there just to give it a little extra flavor .
A: Yeah ,
A: flavor .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Um . Now that would be good .
A: Uh-huh .
B: How long do you have to bake it ?
A: Um , let 's see .
A: I think it was an hour .
A: I 've done it in the microwave so often lately because , it 's , it 's really easy .
B: I do , I do microwave too , a lot
A: Yeah .
A: But , I think it 's about an hour .
B: How long would it be how long would it be in the microwave ?
A: Or maybe it 's only half hour .
A: Um , you just ,
A: until the rice looks fluffy , and and not overdone . You know , before it gets overdone .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Okay .
B: Do you just brown the chicken to get it colored
A: Yeah .
B: or do you go ahead and let it cook through ?
A: Um , I 'd let it cook just a little bit just so that the cooking goes a little faster .
B: Um .
B: Ooh , this is a beneficial call .
B: I like this
A: Yeah ,
A: I liked your idea too , there .
B: Yeah ,
B: but that one 's an easy one .
B: It 's like , just put in ,
B: a friend of mine makes it where she goes ahead and seasons up the , with the soup and the wine
A: Uh-huh .
B: put in garlic and onion powder or chopped onions if you want to do that , you know . What ever , however much effort you feel like putting into it .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But it , it makes a great ,
B: I mean , I 've got a two year old and a four year old
B: and they love it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , because my daughter calls it her gravy
B: and I mean , she thinks it 's wonderful ,
B: my , good , you 're a picky eater , if I can get you to ,
A: Uh , did you watch the Bulls this morning ?
B: You know what ,
B: I watched a little bit of , uh , of the Bulls game
B: and I , uh , had to leave .
B: Uh , in fact I , I think the Bulls were ahead when I , uh , when I left .
B: Who won the game ?
A: They won in a squeaker .
A: They won by they won by two points .
B: Is that right ?
A: Uh , they were behind as they headed into each quarter
A: and then they came back in the second half
A: and at the end , I think they were , uh , looked , they looked like they were closing it out
A: and then Detroit kept coming back
A: and uh , Isaiah missed a three point attempt , at the end
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I think the Bulls won by two .
A: I think they do , as a matter of fact .
B: Yeah .
A: One of the , uh , commentators said that they expected that the Bulls would , uh , if they continued at their current pace , uh , set an N B A record for seventy wins in a season .
B: Wow .
A: Yeah ,
A: they looked real good
A: and ,
B: They , they do ,
B: and they , you know ,
B: I think by , uh , by relieving some of the pressure off of , uh , of , uh , uh ,
B: Michael Jordan really helped them out .
B: You know , he does n't have , they don't have to rely on him to score you know , thirty or forty points at every at every game
A: Right .
B: so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , they , they 're , they 're balancing their attack
B: Oh , I know ,
B: I 'm ,
B: yeah ,
B: I saw the I saw the Warriors , uh , just a little bit of the highlights of the Warriors , uh , Dallas game .
A: I saw the , the second half of the game last night
A: and they were impressive .
B: They look good .
A: Billy Owens looks like he was ,
A: that was a good move for the Warriors to trade for him .
B: Yeah ,
B: now , I don't , uh , I have n't kept up with what was going on with , uh , with the ,
A: Well , they traded away , uh , Mitch Richmond ,
A: or is it Tim Hardaway .
A: One of the two , uh , who , along with , uh , Chris Mullen was , you know ,
A: though three were three of the best in the N B A ,
A: and and , they made a heck of a threesome
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they traded either Richmond or Hardaway to Sacramento for Billy Owens
A: and , uh ,
B: Good move .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , yeah ,
A: he 's really worked out well .
A: They 've got the Warriors have got a team , uh ,
A: and , uh , I think that will be real interesting to see what they can do .
A: They 're ahead ,
A: and the Lakers are down , I guess in fourth , uh , position in the west
A: and I don't know ,
B: Yeah .
A: in the east , I don't know , uh ,
A: is it Boston in , uh , first place ?
B: Uh , I think Boston 's in first .
B: Uh , I , you know , I have n't kept up with any of the other , uh , teams .
B: I 'm so depressed with the Dallas Mavericks , you know .
A: Boy ,
A: they 've had a hard time .
A: They said they 've lost a lot of squeakers .
B: Oh , man !
B: That ,
B: well , yeah ,
B: but , I mean , just this whole year has been just disastrous for them
B: and , uh , you know , they 're going , I , I think they 're going for an all time record of how many you know , losses in a row they can , they they can , uh , pull out .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's unbelievable .
A: How do people in Texas deal with Dallas , Houston and San Antonio .
A: Do you , for example , like San Antonio in Dallas ?
B: Uh ,
B: Well , actually , actually , the , the , the Dallas area here , uh , pulls for Dallas .
B: Uh , San Antonio pulls for San Antonio ,
B: and Houston pulls for , for the Rockets .
A: So there is n't much crossover , huh ,
B: There really ,
B: I mean , not a whole lot . You know ,
B: I mean , you find them , they 're , find them be , to be pretty loyal , uh , in , with the local teams .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , you know , it 's kind of , I guess it 's kind of like , uh , there in the Bay area , you know , you don't find a whole lot of , uh , of Sacramento fans .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's true ,
A: because San Antonio is n't that close to you , are they ?
B: Really is n't ,
B: uh-uh .
A: No .
B: It 's , you know , it 's , it 's about the same , uh , same distance from here to to San Antonio as it is from there to Sacramento .
A: Is it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: so it 's not something you 'd drive ,
B: So it 's , yeah , it 's not really a local , you know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I was thinking maybe David Robinson made a bit of a difference with kids and that sort of thing .
B: Uh , he does a lot of local stuff there in San Antonio
B: and they , I mean , they have got a great club . You know .
A: They 've done a good job .
A: I mean , of course , drafting a franchise like him certainly ,
B: Yeah
B: Yeah
B: that always makes a big difference .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , that 's
B: So ,
A: I think the way it , uh , I think that 's the way it works now in basketball .
A: You , you know Magic was a franchise for the Lakers and , you know , uh , Bird for the , for the , uh , Celtics
B: Yeah .
A: and ,
B: And , you know , uh , you know , I used to think that , that one , one player really does n't make a club ,
B: but it really does , you know .
A: Well , it ,
B: You get somebody like Magic
B: and you can see the decline in that team .
A: Well , yeah .
B: Once he left , you know , it 's , it 's just not the same , uh , it 's not the same team .
B: There 's not the leadership there that they used to rely on him for .
A: Well , I think you 're right
A: and I think Isaiah Thomas would fit in Detroit
A: and I think those things do make a difference
A: and there are marquee players .
A: And I think I think Jordan and the , and the Bulls have to be , uh , considered the likely favorites .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I don't know who would meet them in the west .
A: Uh , I don't know how good Portland will turn out to be by the end of the year .
A: They were so
B: Who won that Portland game ?
A: You know , I was n't , I , I I watched only a few minutes of it
A: and I was n't paying attention .
A: Uh , and so I don't know , uh ,
B: Uh ,
A: But Phoenix , you know , Phoenix and Portland have both been very good clubs
A: and ,
B: Well I guess we 're , uh , forced to finally , to do a lot about air pollution .
B: I hear that the major automobile manufacturers are looking at nonpolluting cars
B: and low polluting fuels are being experimented with Ethanol and other types of fuels .
A: Yeah ,
A: one of the things they asked me to ask you was where you thought the major source was coming from ? Or sources .
B: I , you know , I assume , that the major sources are cars and factories .
A: That 's what , I would think .
B: But I , I don't know for sure .
B: I just know that , um , acid rain apparently is a big problem in Canada from , would
B: comes over the border from us .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think the automobile definitely is an area and any , any industry that burns , you know ,
A: and then I don't know about chemical pollution .
A: I 'm not real into that as far as how it affects the air .
A: I know we have a lot of chemical , the indoor type pollution .
A: They have offices that are too well insulated .
A: They found people are getting sick ,
B: Yeah .
A: but I don't know if that affects outside .
A: You know , I , I think , seems to think , seems to me that 's what they were asking about was outside
A: and the thing I can , the only thing I can think of would be cars and factories .
B: Yeah ,
B: the smokestacks or the exhaust pipes .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , I guess there 's been a lot of pressure to , um , do away with the C F C 's in these spray bottles which , has been a real problem .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that is , well that 's destroying the ozone , is n't it ?
B: Again I , that 's what I hear
B: and , and there 's this big debate apparently about whether the ozone , there 's a hole in the ozone or not
B: but at last I heard it was , uh , discovered that the hole was bigger than they thought , initially .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's
A: It 's kind of scary .
B: Well , it is scary
B: and I think it will , uh , continue to force us to clean up our act , literally and figuratively .
A: Yeah .
B: We 've got to learn to manage without destroying the environment .
A: I think something too that you probably see in older states , all we , we do it down here once in a while we will have a cold spell is where people will use their fireplaces .
B: I , I , I 'm wondering whether it 's going to get to the point where you ca n't , do that .
A: I think it will .
B: In Los Angeles they 're apparently going to ,
B: they 've passed laws that , for habit , do you think this could possibly be prohibit ? nothing elseseems to make any sense ? ? for example , people using , uh , barbecues * listen for habit prohibit gasoline lawn mowers , um ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's really bad in places like Los Angeles ,
B: and , it 's gotten bad in Denver
A: Right .
B: and , and , uh , it 's not too bad around here although you see it , you know , more and more in the sky .
B: And people in this country are really wedded to their , uh , cars ,
A: Right .
B: and our economy seems to ,
B: and this I think is one of the big problems ,
A: Yeah .
A: In this area too since , you know , in Texas we 're so spread out ,
B: Yeah .
A: we have to drive so far ,
A: but I know in Colorado I have witnessed that where it just , uh , it just stacks up at the when the Rockies starts ,
A: but we 're even getting it here .
A: We can drive into , when we 've been on vacation or something drive into Fort Worth or Dallas
A: and you can tell it in the mornings too .
A: My husband likes to go out and jog
A: and there 's just a brown fog here
A: and we don't even have any mountains that are , holding it in .
B: Yeah .
A: But they also said that more dense the population and the more we crowd together , the worse it gets .
B: Well that makes a lot of sense .
B: I mean I , I had n't thought about it that way
B: but it , it ,
A: You don't have to have mountains that are stopping it .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , they make , uh , making more and more high-rise buildings
A: and , uh , so yeah ,
A: we can comment
A: and we did n't see this a few years ago .
B: No ,
B: and I think ,
A: It was pretty clear here .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I think that , that more and more it 's becoming apparent to people that the earth , which includes all the people on it and everything that 's going on it , is a , is an organism of sorts , and that there is a , a whole set of organic relationships that if we start to destroy one part of it , it 's going to tell us about it ,
A: Right .
B: and , uh , we 're going to feel it ,
B: and I think it 's going to be real interesting and particularly in light of what is obviously going to be a big structural change in the economy , uh , in this country , uh , whether people are willing to get out of their cars ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: and in this country , uh , the , the solution that , that people seem to think work are politically unacceptable .
B: For example , taxing people heavily for using their cars .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I have a little sports car that I enjoy using
B: and I know just like anybody else how much fun it is to drive
B: but I think , uh , we 're going to have to make some fundamental changes
B: and , and I 'm , I 'm not sure how long it 's going to take or what it 's going to take because they keep saying that the economy is going to depend on how many cars and , houses we sell .
A: Yeah .
A: And it 's a shame too when you do see somebody driving a big car , just one person in that .
A: It 's a lot of waste
A: but ,
A: Okay , Eric .
A: Uh , are you married
A: and do you have a family ?
B: Uh , yes I am to , uh , both questions .
A: Okay
A: and do you and your wife have a budget plan for your finances .
B: Uh , yeah
B: we do .
B: We , uh , uh ,
B: basically there 's the , you know , the expenses that are fixed during the month you know the ones that come every , every month
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we , uh , enter those into , uh , into a spread sheet
B: and , uh , whatever is left , uh , after that we , you know , we sit down and agree on kind of what , what sort of range we are going to generally going to shoot for .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I see . Uh
B: So what do you do ?
A: Well , that 's basically what we do .
A: Uh , about every , every three months or so , we re-evaluate our budget
A: and we sit down and just write from the largest bills down to the smallest
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then we divvy them up between our four pay checks .
A: I work part time at night
B: Wow
A: and he works , and my husband works full times days
A: and so we have four checks ,
A: but that works out nice because we get paid every week
A: and so that does help ,
B: Yeah .
A: that helps a lot .
A: And then , uh , we don't have a lot extra for extra spending ,
A: so it 's pretty well ear marked .
B: Yeah .
B: All allocated out .
A: Yeah
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Every penny is ear marked
A: but , uh it , we have found that works the best
A: and and so if we can just divide them up , all the major bills up .
A: In fact , we found it easier to divide the major bills up , you know , cut the house payment in half and cut the loan payment in half ,
A: but and divide those up between all ,
A: uh-huh .
B: All the checks ,
B: yeah .
A: And so we are not taking a huge sum out , out of one
A: and then the next pay check we 're real short
A: or ,
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: we found that , uh , it 's definitely helped , uh , get a handle on kind of the unnecessary expenses .
A: That 's true .
B: We were , before we started doing that kind of a thing , we were , uh , spending , uh , money for things that , you know ,
B: we kind of tended to eat out a bit more than we should have ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it was easy to , uh , let things get out of hand .
B: We thought it uh , thought it to be really helpful .
B: We have gotten some of our loans paid off really because of this and stuff like that
A: Yeah .
B: so ,
A: Well , it helps you to focus where your money goes
B: Yeah
A: and and I am sure you felt the the same frustration before you got on a budget ,
A: but you 're wondering my , when you put down all the money that you do bring in
A: and then you 're saying , my word where did all that money go .
B: That 's a lot of money ,
B: but
A: Where does it go ?
B: Yeah .
A: Uh
B: But ,
A: and also we have found that if we write down ,
A: and we did this .
A: We are not real consistent with this ,
A: but we did it for about a month
A: and we wrote down everything that we bought when , you know , every pay check
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so we could see where every penny went
A: and it was really interesting to see just what you do spend
A: and like I say we have n't been real consistent with it .
A: It 's ,
A: we should cause it does help .
B: Yeah ,
B: the other , the other thing that that we 've found that helps is , you know , we tend to fudge on the budget a little bit
A: Uh-huh
B: it 's just to , uh , uh , get up the money in advance and put it in , uh , uh , so long as it was n't you know , unreasonably high , but for things like food expenses or whatever . Just put it in uh in an envelope or whatever if the entertainment amount was gone for the month say , oh , it 's gone
A: Uh-huh .
A: just stick to that ,
A: uh-huh .
A: That is ,
A: Yeah .
A: That that sounds like a really good idea .
B: So .
A: And it really helpful .
A: Uh , have you developed a savings plan or I R A s or anything like that yet ?
B: We , we have n't .
B: We our our initial goal was just to retire debt , uh , completely retire debt for car payments and credit card uh , credit card debt and all of that .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We are just at a point where , where we could start thinking about it
B: so
A: Oh that 's good .
A: That 's a good feeling
B: Yeah .
B: Well I
A: My husband just graduated from the university , uh , a year ago
B: Uh-huh .
A: so finally finally we are getting to that point too .
B: A student .
A: So , are you still going to school
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I am actually in the , in the
A: Kay .
B: Okay .
A: I guess we 're talking about exercise , huh ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Well first of all I , I have to ask you how , how old you are ?
A: Oh , I am twenty-seven .
B: Twenty-seven ,
B: okay .
B: Well , I am quite a bit older than you are
B: But , no .
B: I think exercise is extremely important
B: and I I do exercise on a regular basis .
A: You do ?
A: What type of exercise do you do ?
B: Well , I do , uh , jazzercise which is an aerobic , uh , program that ,
A: Oh you do .
B: are you familiar with it ?
A: Yes .
B: It 's , uh , you know , a national company
B: and we have a jazzercise center here in Plano that has classes like all day long
B: so you can ,
A: Are they different from aerobics
A: or is it the same thing ?
B: No
B: it 's really , it 's an aerobic routine .
B: you warm up
B: and then you have thirty minutes of aerobic activity starting , you know , slowly and then working up to , uh , you know , a high heart rate
B: and then you gradually go down again .
A: And you do that every day
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: I only do it probably two or three times a week .
A: Oh , okay .
B: The minimum they want you to do is three times a week .
A: And this is a club
A: or , uh , do you belong to a group ?
B: Well , it 's really a
B: I mean it 's called a center
B: and you buy as many classes as you want to at a time
B: and then you just go in whenever you can .
B: So , like I usually choose to go at nine thirty in the morning or a nine fifteen class or a ten thirty class in the mornings .
A: Do you go with friends
A: or do you go alone ?
B: No ,
B: I go by myself
B: and that 's one of the frustrating things cause I can find very few people to go with me
A: Yeah .
B: and most of my friends that are my age don't exercise
B: or they might play tennis
A: Uh-huh .
B: and since I am not a tennis player , uh , you know , I don't get that ,
B: but I am , you know , I am between , I am in my late forties
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , there are n't many people , you know , that want to do that .
A: Oh
B: Most of the people that are in the classes are young mothers . You know , with with children between the ages ,
A: Oh yeah
A: young mothers or ,
B: Young mothers .
B: You know , young women , with small children are the ones that I find .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , what do you do ?
A: Uh , I really don't have a routine .
A: I like playing basketball .
A: We just bought a new home with a basketball hoop
A: and that 's what I do every day .
B: Oh , great .
B: Yeah .
B: Do you play every day ?
A: Yeah ,
A: pretty much .
A: When my wife lets me .
B: Well , now who do you play with ?
B: Do you have friends that play with you
B: or just ,
A: No ,
A: I just shoot around by myself .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , that 's about it .
A: I use to play soccer a lot in high school ,
A: but when I graduated I have n't done much .
A: I don't have a problem .
A: I know I have to do more aerobics ,
A: but I don't have a problem with weight .
A: I could eat all day and not gain an ounce
B: Well see , that 's , that 's really good
B: and I think that keeps a lot , some people from exercising .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , I don't have a problem with weight either ,
B: but I think I don't have a problem because I exercise . You know
A: You do exercise .
B: I mean , people are always saying to me , how do you stay thin
B: and it 's because I exercise
A: You do it
B: but I also watch what I eat . You know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but you 'll come ,
B: being twenty-seven , you don't really have to worry about your heart rate and that yet
A: Yeah
A: and I
B: but as you get older you will .
A: well everyone 's told me my waist line is going to expand one of these days ,
A: but I don't know
B: Well , it might not
B: Mine ,
B: because everybody 's been telling me that too
B: and so far it has n't happened , you know ,
B: and I , I just feel like , you know , you have to constantly weigh yourself and just keep an eye on it and cut back if it starts to get you know , too high .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess I enjoy sports a lot
A: so that 's why I 've kept active in that way .
B: Yeah .
B: But you don't play any other sports but basketball ?
A: Uh , basketball ,
A: volleyball , uh ,
A: too bad it 's not really heavy as far as recreation or hobby ,
A: I do that .
B: But , do you ski ?
B: Being in Utah , I was wondering if you ski .
A: Uh , I use to ,
A: but it got too expensive ,
A: so .
B: Oh did it really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Cause I know that skiing in Utah is , is suppose to be great .
A: Yeah ,
A: a lot of people do that
B: Yeah .
A: and but , well I just I never find the time .
A: I had rather do other things .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I have never skied before ,
B: but I have friends that go to Utah all the time
B: and they think it 's really
A: Oh they come up here .
B: and they ski .
B: I guess there 's a place where you can ski ,
B: well is it Tahoe ? Where you ski from ,
B: no
B: that 's Nevada to California I guess .
A: That 's in Nevada .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I am thinking about where you can ski over the state line .
A: Oh , yeah
A: but ,
B: But there 's a there is a place in Utah called a funny name .
A: There 's Snow Bird or Alta .
B: But it 's like , Oh , Heavenly .
B: Is that it ?
A: Heavenly ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it 's called Heavenly .
A: Huh . I 've never heard of that one .
B: You 've never heard of that ?
A: Huh-uh .
B: Well , maybe it is n't in Utah .
B: But they said they 've skied Heavenly
B: and it sounded like , you know , that they skied really well , and when they are actually talking about a place .
B: It 's kind of funny .
A: Do they exercise much or , I mean for skiing ?
A: I know when I went , you can get sore easily
A: but ,
B: Oh yeah .
B: You can get really sore .
B: I know you ,
B: I mean I 've talked to people ,
B: but most of these people ski enough so that they don't get sore .
A: Oh yeah .
A: is one or two timer a year if I do go on them
A: and I am really sore after .
B: And then , is it your quadriceps that are the worst ?
A: Yeah .
B: In your legs and ,
A: My legs really , really ache .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , that 's ,
A: I am using muscles that I have never used before .
B: Well ,
B: and it 's strange that you can do , like I did aerobics , you know , all the time
B: and then I went horseback riding
B: and still I was so sore
B: and I could n't get over ,
A: Actually , to tell you the truth , I think , uh , jury selection is a , uh , prime , uh , discussion topic in terms of possible improvements on , uh , uh , finding of , uh , guilt .
B: Uh , I certainly ca n't argue with that .
B: Definitely does need some improvements . Uh ,
B: and the lawyers can throw people out for no reason whatsoever just because they want to .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think there 's a limit on that .
A: The , uh , the , uh peremptory challenges are limited to , I don't know how many ,
B: I think it 's , Four or five ,
A: but you can ,
B: I ca n't remember which .
B: I was on a jury trial last year
B: only I got kicked out as , uh , the last selection that the , uh , defense got .
A: Um . Yeah ,
A: it seems to me I 'm always challenged peremptorily also when I go to these things .
A: I think I have a severe demeanor or something .
B: Um .
A: Uh ,
B: That , uh ,
A: But , typically , you know , uh , typically , uh , everyone gets involved in , uh , the jury process
A: and I suppose an elitist might say , well , you really want someone who is well educated to be able to , to winnow the facts from the , from the prejudice .
B: Right ,
B: but it still has to be a group of your peers .
A: Right .
B: See .
A: So ,
B: So , if it 's your peers and you 're not educated then ,
A: So if you 're a nincompoop on trial , you 'd , you 'd have to have nincompoops to , uh ,
B: You want you want a nincompoop jury because they 'll sympathize with you a bit as well as hopefully being honest people and do their best to comply with the facts as they were presented to them .
A: Um .
B: So , that 's why the defense is there picking through them , whereas at the same time , the , uh , the prosecutor sitting there picking through them because he wants somebody who will give him , uh , a guilty verdict if the facts warrant .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , I think the jury selection process is pretty neat ,
B: but I don't think that the jury ought to be the ones picking the punishment afterwards .
A: Um .
B: I think that should be left up to people who have some knowledge in the subject and more knowledge than a jury would have .
B: you 're talking about , the person 's already been found guilty , right
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and many times I 've seen on trials they have on T V , the jury will make a recommendation as to leniency or as to the death penalty or whatever ,
B: but I think that it should be up to the judge and the , uh , lawyers to make the decision as to what the actual penalty will be .
A: Um .
B: Maybe just the judge because they 're the people who know what the system is and what it 's all about and believe in the system .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and I think that would provide a more fair sentencing procedure . As opposed to an emotional sentencing procedure . Also , may be a more consistent sentencing procedure .
A: Well , I suppose you may be right on that .
A: Matter of fact , I 've heard that , I 've heard that some of the information , uh , is prevented from reaching the jury , like , uh , mitigating circumstances or , or preceding , uh , criminal record or things of this nature that ,
B: Well , preceding criminal record , according to the judicial process has nothing to do with the current crime .
B: But when it comes to , uh , sentencing for punishment , of course , if the person 's never done anything bad before , according to the judicial system , then they 're going to lean towards a slightly more lenient side ,
B: and the jury 's supposed to be notified of criminal records when it comes to sentencing by jury .
A: Oh , is it ?
A: Oh , I did n't realize that .
A: Okay .
B: At least in California , they 're supposed to be .
B: Not during the trial ,
B: during the trial as to whether they 're guilty or not has nothing to do with their background .
A: Right .
B: But when it comes to what kind of sentence you 're going to lay down , I think that , uh , that they should .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't , I don't know that they always have because I never sat all the way through a jury trial .
B: They get too boring .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So , you , what you 're saying is this , if there is the second offense , then you execute them .
B: Well , if it 's a second offense , the punishment should certainly be more severe than a first offense , because obviously , the rehabilitation process did not work the first time .
A: Um .
B: So you got to give them either more time in the system or a different process that will hopefully work better .
B: When it comes down to things like alternative sentencing , I 'm all for that for , uh , small crimes , infractions and misdemeanors or parking tickets or traffic tickets that have gone to warrant ,
B: you give them the option of working off their time doing civil service sort of things .
A: What about , uh , white collar crimes like , uh , theft of trade secrets .
B: I think those ought to be punished a whole lot worse than they are .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Like what ?
B: Well , uh , say , embezzlement , right .
B: You get a guy down the street who comes up , uh , carrying a
A: Uh , with regard to , uh , to jury trials . I , you know , I , I really feel as though , uh , jury trials are , are , uh , whatever system has been , been used historically , in particular jurisdiction , you know , is really the , the only kinds of things that you can use . Because the , the jurisprudence is , you know , based on , on , uh , you know , on accumulated body of law .
A: And if , if you have a situation where you change that body of law , then all of sudden they , they start , they could start going back and digging up all these cases that , uh , that would be handled differently were they judged by today 's standards .
A: So I , I really don't think it , they can really do much of anything to change it .
A: What do you think ?
B: Uh , I , I don't think so .
B: Possibly in the jury selection would be the only ,
B: just for example , what we 're seeing in California I guess .
B: It makes you wonder , uh , had the jury been a different group of people what would have happened with that outcome .
A: Well wo n't ,
A: well maybe they used a little bit too much force with stuff like that
A: but then then , you know , the defense lawyer addressed each and every one of those blows apparently
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , the other two guys sat in the car
B: That 's , that 's bad .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they did n't get beat up . You know .
B: No .
B: It ,
A: Rodney got beat up because he , he , you know , he you know , he involved himself in some sub , self-destructive behavior .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , uh , just like the burning and looting is self-destruct .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Everybody says well this is the nineties
B: Oh , yes .
A: and they 're going to rebuild
A: and it 'll be even better .
A: Hey , what do you think ,
A: you know , some , some black guy with capital is going to come in and invest in that area ?
B: That 's right .
A: With everybody with that mind set . They , they 're they 're going to , that whole area is going to be turned into residential ghetto , you know ,
B: They 're only going to suffer .
A: and you might even be able to , to use it for , for a bombing test site , you know .
B: they 're only going to suffer .
B: They , they 've defeated themselves with , with their looting and violence .
B: Uh , I understand why they were upset by the verdict just because even those of us that are n't black or , uh , don't live there or whatever , we all saw the same thing on the , on the tape
B: and , uh ,
A: Well everybody is saying this is going to be a new era
A: and we 're going to reexamine this thing .
A: Hey , the the average person is going to take a look at that and say , suspicions confirmed .
A: They 're a bunch of animals , you know .
A: How can you really deal with an environment where you 're going to lose everything .
A: Forty deaths .
A: I mean there are forty people that are dead as a result of that .
B: I know .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's really ridiculous .
A: And I 'm just trying to determine , you know , how you address , how you weigh , you know , Rodney getting , getting the hell beat out of him against , you know , forty deaths .
B: Against forty other people being ,
A: Yeah .
A: And there 's no other ,
A: I 'm not exactly sure , uh , what the circumstances surrounding the deaths .
A: And I 'm very upset that the news media has not identified those deaths and , and pursued it , you know , because I 'm interested in the circumstances surrounding this thing .
B: Those deaths .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Is it a looter that got shot by a store owner ?
A: I , you know ,
A: no tears .
B: Or just a an innocent bystander or somebody got actually beat to death or what .
A: Yeah .
A: And and so I , but I , I suspect a number of them .
B: Um .
A: You know , you , you see film of people being pulled out of a car and shot , you know , in , in the street .
B: Or , or beaten .
A: And , and my reaction is I would have run over fifty people before , rather than stop .
A: And , uh , and there , there would have been just nothing but carnage after , after , after if I 'd been at the wheel .
B: Um very
A: No one would have stopped me .
B: Right .
B: That 's , that 's exactly how I feel too .
B: I would n't have , uh , they would n't have stopped my car for any , anything had I seen them coming .
B: But I was just wondering since you 're , you 're in , you 're back east , uh , and a little closer to the , the bigger cities than we are in Idaho here .
A: Right .
A: I 'm inside the beltway .
B: Oh .
A: You know how capital gang , they always say well inside the beltway , they think thus
A: and so and I say well wait a minute ,
A: I 'm inside the beltway
A: and I don't think like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm a government employee .
B: Oh .
B: In what , uh , section of the government do you work ?
A: I 'm with the F B I .
B: Oh
B: Oh , that 's interesting
A: Yes .
A: and so , uh , uh , and , and the reason I 'm doing this whole thing is because Rick , whose another government employee wanted a segments of my speech , that that were done a year ago
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he wanted another collection a year later .
B: Oh .
A: And so this is my seventh call .
A: A year ago I did eleven calls .
B: Oh , I see
A: And so that 's , that 's why , uh , uh , that 's why I 'm religiously getting on the phone because I have a unique , you know , I have a unique situation here in that if I don't participate ,
A: Uh , around here we have a program where , uh , we , we put out the , the , we separate the bottles and the cans and the plastic stuff from the newspapers .
A: And we keep the newspapers in a , in a ,
A: they 're collected twice a month and the trash and , and this bottled stuff that is put in a , in a little blue bin that 's picked up and sorted out into a truck .
A: So they actually have about three passes at this collection . One for the regular trash , one for the , uh , uh , you know , the bottles and cans and one for the newspapers .
B: Sounds ,
B: But I gather you do not separate , uh , the bottles and cans .
A: No ,
A: they , they do that on the truck .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They separate them as they , as they , you know , dump them .
A: And , you know , one guy comes around with his truck and , and dumps it all in there .
A: And I think they 're , they 're running out of , uh , you know , .
A: The sanitary landfill , I think , uh , is , you know , running out .
A: Of course , uh , you being from New Mexico , you 've probably been to Washington . Especially if you 're , your present location .
B: Yes .
A: You must have come to Washington at least once .
B: Yes ,
B: I know .
B: Not only have I come to Washington but , uh , I find it very amusing that , uh , the thing that was just instituted here is very similar .
B: That is we also have blue bins .
B: We also separate newspapers from all of the other stuff which goes into the bin and gets separated in the truck and , uh , landfill space is , in deed , the driving factor here .
B: And , in fact , uh , despite all of our open space out here , landfill space is still , uh , very hard to come by .
A: My , you 've got a lot a , a lot of nothing out there . You know ,
A: they got ,
A: I mean there , there 's got to be a crevice between two mountains that nobody gives a doggone about that you could , you could use for landfill .
B: Ah ,
B: but if somebody can make a regulation about it , they will .
A: Well what other , what , uh , what unique things you think , uh , that you can do about it in , in what , in Los Alamos ?
B: Well , uh ,
B: Yes ,
B: other than nuking it .
B: Um , in fact , Los Alamos , uh , has , uh , done a fair amount of research , uh , in recycling things in general .
B: Um , it , it involves , for instance , uh , creating biological organisms which can remove heavy elements like selenium , and barium and , uh , other things from , uh , waste material in general . And , uh , and purify the waste of specific , uh , uh , nasty elements .
A: Well , is n't that a , that 's a , that 's pretty , uh , upscale , uh , trash , uh , uh , situation .
A: I don't think anybody around here would understand all the , all those exotic techniques , you know , getting rid of the heavy metals .
B: And the thing that just was in the local news bulletin was , somebody has , uh , made some special , uh , polymers that have the ability to , uh , make certain actinide elements adhere to them .
B: Uh , uh , they 've , uh , looked at , uh , plutonium and uranium and , uh , some other similar things to try to remove those from radio active waste
A: Huh .
B: and , again , this is driven by all of the documentation and , uh , E S and H , uh , uh , considerations that , uh , people are , uh , worrying about , I think , much more than they should .
B: Actually I 've been involved in recycling for long before it became fashionable .
B: Back when I was in graduate school , I did all of the recycling of the , uh , paper from the computer center
B: and , uh , in fact I think I was the first person in our department to have my thesis published on recyclable recycled paper .
A: Huh .
A: Well that 's certainly , uh , you know , uh , getting into the swim of things .
A: I , I think it should be , it should go to the , to the heart of the matter though and say , okay guy ,
A: you , everybody gets , you know , five pounds of garbage that they can throw away , you know .
A: Uh , but more than that every week , uh , you 've got to pay by the pound .
A: I , I think I think people would be , would get very , very , you know , they 'd be very careful about how they bought stuff .
B: I think that 's a wonderful idea .
B: The only alternative I would see is , uh , and this would actually be a little more workable since weighing everybody 's garbage would be a real pain . Uh , if you did it by volume rather than by weight it would , uh , speak more directly to the space needs and the landfill
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it would also cause people to compact their garbage more .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and , uh , and limiting the volume is probably a little bit closer to the real problem than limiting the weight .
A: Well , of course , that , uh , you know , those big trucks can , can , probably are far more efficient in packing than any kind of little household compactor .
A: Well my exercise program consists of , uh , you know ,
A: it 's , it 's a opportunity to stay alive really . Instead of , you know , wasting my , my , the , you know , the , trying to exist on the latency of my youth , the good health of my youth .
B: Huh .
A: I 'm ,
A: and what I like to do is I like to stretch out
A: and I like to run , uh ,
A: I 'm , I like to run , get my heartbeat up .
A: I like to run about , oh , about two , two and a half miles .
A: And then I like to work out on , uh , on the , uh , the Bailey Life Cycle machines up here at the , at the Holiday Spa .
A: And , and I , I think that , you know ,
A: I 've had a regiment now for about , you know , ten , fifteen years of , of doing that
A: and , uh , and I , I kind of think it 's , uh , it 's a lot of work
A: but I think it 's , uh , it 's a lot of work
A: but I think it 's , uh , it 's the , uh , the amount of effort that 's required to , uh , to stay healthy , you know .
A: I have a sedentary job
A: and , uh , unless you do something like that , you 're going to get sick .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm , I need to get ,
B: I 'm , I 'm pretty bad about that .
B: I 'm lazy .
B: I should , I know
B: I want , I always say that I need to get start running
B: and I 'm going to try and do that this summer .
B: Because I never have time .
B: I , I always put it off .
B: By the time I get back from classes it 's late at night
B: and I don't feel like going back over to the gym and running on the track or whatever .
B: Because I 'm , I 'm getting a gut here .
B: I got to get back into shape .
A: Well , I , uh , two years ago I started having trouble with my knee .
A: And , uh , you know , I 've got , you know ,
A: I figured well , it 'll go away .
A: Well I you know , I 'm , I 've had to reduce my program , reduce my program
A: and I 've gained fifteen pounds .
B: Huh .
A: And so , uh , you know , it 's , you know ,
A: I need to get back into swimming , you know , instead of running .
A: If I ca n't swim or I ca n't run , I should be able to swim .
A: Well I 'm such a terrible swimmer
A: and I , I , I really feel I can , I can dedicate about an hour , an hour and fifteen minutes to this effort .
A: But if it gets longer than that I , I , it , I start not doing anything .
B: Yeah .
A: And so , so I got a real problem in that regard .
A: Uh , it ,
A: do ,
A: you obviously are , are not an exercise buff or else you 'd be out there doing it .
B: Yeah .
B: I mean , I do it , I guess ,
B: I 'm going to do it , uh , because I want to get in shape .
B: I 'm not , it 's not something I really enjoy all that much that , I 'll , I 'll probably ,
B: I mean once I get into it and I , if I , if I get into better shape then it 'll be , it wo n't be as much of a , a chore to me .
A: Well , it 's , it 's always a chore .
A: I mean I started doing this when I was about thirty-five
B: Yeah .
B: Huh .
A: and now I 'm fifty-five .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , you know , I , I know that in , I just know that I 'm going to get blown away with some , some piece of nonsense .
A: you know , some health related thing is going to blow me away .
A: That 's the same way ,
A: I got too much weight on right now .
A: I need to lose fifty pounds , you know .
B: Right .
A: I need to lose at least twenty , you know .
A: But , uh , you know , it 's , it 's just , uh , I 'm busy .
A: I 'm doing a lot of traveling
A: and , uh , it , it creates a problem , uh , you know , when you 're on the road .
A: What sort of , uh , uh , what other programs other than say running ?
A: Have you , have you ever done anything at all ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I have .
B: Uh , sit-ups
B: or , also last summer I was doing Nautilus
B: or last year I 'm , uh , belong to a club right here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That was a little bit too much money .
B: But , uh , doing a mix of Nautilus and free weights . I like that .
A: club , what club are you with ?
B: I 'm sorry ?
A: What club were you with ?
B: It 's called , oh , what was it called City Sports , downtown Washington .
A: Oh . Okay .
A: So you 're , you 're down , you 're downtown .
B: Yeah .
B: I 'm at , I 'm at , I go to George Washington University .
A: Okay .
A: Yeah .
A: You 're down there on , you know , twentieth and eighteenth and F G .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's , uh , Plaza .
A: Oh .
A: Well , I 'd , uh ,
A: well there 's a , there 's a Holiday Spa down there on , on K street , I think . Something like that .
A: But , uh , I , I go to the Holiday Spa here in Alexandria
A: and that 's pretty good .
A: But , you know , evening time it gets pretty busy .
A: But generally , you know , I can , I can get in and get a program , you know .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , you know , I , I need to , I need to rededicate myself to , uh , to doing this
A: and , uh , I got a problem , uh , you know , ever since my knee went bad , of getting back solidly into it .
A: I mean , I 've been doing this for fifteen , twenty years .
B: Yeah .
A: And , you know , and I 'm , I know I 'm going to get , I know it 's going to bite me in the ass
A: and so I , I really don't want to , want to , uh , you know , back off on it .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's something ,
B: I think , uh , I 'm young ,
B: I should get started getting into shape .
B: I don't want to ,
B: I want ,
B: I mean at one point it 's going to be too late to do it . .
A: Well , no .
A: When you 're young , you , you can abuse your , your , all your systems
A: and you can recover .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , when you get to be my age and you start abusing your systems , you get blown away . And just wind up having to kiss your ass good-bye , you know .
B: Huh
A: And , uh , and so the object ,
A: Okay .
B: The topic is to discuss the , uh , sources where I receive news .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , for me that 's mostly newspaper and radio ,
B: I almost never watch television , as a matter of course
B: so , I don't get news from television ,
B: except during the war , I watched a lot of C N N because it was so good .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , why was C N N the only ,
A: of course I think , Saddam Hussein only allowed C N N to broadcast it ,
A: is that not true ?
B: Um .
A: It was unusual not to have the different sources , you know , of news coverage .
B: Yeah .
B: Um , I don't know .
B: I guess , uh , I don't even know why I watched C N N .
B: I guess , I just wanted more news .
B: It 's one of the few times I wanted more news than .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I know even if you watched A B C , N B C or the other ,
A: I mean , what 's the other one , uh , C B S .
B: C B S .
A: They all were , were tapped into C N N .
B: Were they ?
A: Uh-uh .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's the only thing they broadcast
A: and like you I listened to radio on my job at work .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And all this week they have been having this , uh , a discussion about that is why , uh , why C N N was
A: well , I listen to a Christian radio station .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they were saying that C N N is definitely a world , uh , news service
A: and , uh , they ,
A: it was ,
A: you ca n't really be sure of the quality of what you 've got , you know .
B: Huh .
A: Uh , we had some , uh , some people from our church went to Israel , uh , just for a , uh , tour sort of thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I was watching on TV
A: they , they broadcast this terrible riot
A: supposedly that was going on in Jerusalem ,
B: Right .
A: and so it really made me question as to what , how do we know , you know , uh , if the news we 're getting is any good .
A: So
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess , the news just focuses on major events that probably , don't affect ninety-nine percent of the people who are right there when the news is being made .
A: Yeah .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: But , uh , I , I 'm from California
B: and I can remember being in , uh , in these earthquakes
B: and , I mean they were , they were very minor kinds of things from my point of view , and it seemed , you know , from anyone else 's point of view ,
A: Yeah .
B: but they get all blown up in the news . Um ,
A: Uh-huh
A: Well I , I find it depressing to watch our ,
A: specially TV , you know ,
A: it 's just , uh ,
A: local news concentrates , on murders and things like that .
A: I 'm from Dallas
A: and , uh , we have a lot of bad stuff , uh ,
A: it just really gets me depressed , even to watch it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: So then , you wake up one morning
A: and you are in war with somebody
A: you don't even , even know about it .
B: Right .
A: So .
B: Well , what newspapers , uh , do you read in Dallas ?
A: Uh , we have the DALLAS TIMES HERALD and the DALLAS MORNING NEWS ,
A: but I don't , I don't read newspapers
B: don't you ?
A: Huh-uh .
B: How come ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: I find it hard to , uh , follow from one page to another .
A: It 's just something I have never developed , uh , an interest in .
B: Huh .
A: And I live in kind of a bad area where if I have the paper delivered it 's stolen before I can get out and get it
B: Gosh that 's , that sounds pretty bad to me .
B: I mean who would steal a newspaper ?
A: You would be surprised .
B: Huh ?
A: They just come by and pick them up even if it 's just for the TV , you know uh , selections of the day .
B: I see .
A: I don't know .
A: It just would n't be there whenever I tried it .
B: Yeah .
A: So , you 're right ,
A: who would steal a newspaper ?
A: in glass sound in But , they do .
B: Yeah .
A: What part of California are you from ?
B: Uh , from Los Angeles ,
B: but I live in Raleigh , North Carolina , right now ,
B: that 's where I am speaking to you from .
A: Oh , okay .
B: But , I grew up in L A .
B: I work out here .
A: Huh , you work for T I ?
B: No ,
B: I don't .
B: I work for North Carolina State University .
A: Huh .
B: But , uh , I know some people at T I ,
B: and I have a couple of students who have graduated and gone to work for them .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I 'm in the computer business .
A: Well , I ,
A: boy , current events is not a good subject for me .
B: Well .
A: I don't keep up with it that often .
B: Let 's see , I 've , I 've , I 've never done this before ,
B: I mean I 've never .
A: This is your first call ?
B: This is my first call . Because I just got my password .
A: Oh , really .
A: Yeah .
B: So I don't know ,
B: are we suppose to ,
B: it seems to me it says you are suppose to talk for three minutes ,
B: but I think we 've been talking for three minutes
B: and nobody has interrupted .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I , I got into a conversation last night with a lady
A: and they interrupt at ten , minutes .
B: I see .
A: So if we 've done our three minutes . Let 's just let the conversation end and say bye .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , all right .
B: Nice talking to you .
A: Nice talking to you too .
B: All right ,
B: bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: You want to start ?
B: Well , I guess I would first identify myself as middle aged
B: and therefore , having seen the last generation , I guess it puts me in , you know , gives me a perspective on that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , I , am quite positive on the things that I have seen happen recently relative to women in , both in society and in the work place ,
B: uh , there 's no doubt about the fact that when I was first graduated from college the impression was that a woman 's career would consist of a childbearing years and perhaps a return to the office , but not necessarily .
B: Uh , now I think the change that I 've seen as much as anything is one where couples , uh , are more carefully planning their intention on how to both share homemaking duties and also how women will , uh , have their children and then deliberately sort of plan how they go back to the work place .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I guess that 's a significant change that I 've both participated in and noticed .
A: I agree , uh ,
A: the equality of , uh , the roles now between the sexes , I guess has been dramatically demonstrated with this war , especially compared with , uh , the Vietnam war
A: and you see women going off to wars as well as men .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I have wondered why they allowed , or let , you know , both the father and mother go , uh ,
A: and the children are left without either parent .
A: Now to me that 's kind of a drawback .
A: But , uh , I guess it 's a price you pay .
A: And I also wonder about the children that are being brought up in the , uh , uh , day care centers .
B: Wonder about them in what way ?
A: Well , uh , from what I understand there 's been studies that , uh , these children are , uh , more rebellious .
A: Uh , they term it as more , uh , creative . But , uh , that they , uh , are much more contentious .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I , I don't , I , I guess we 'll have to see another generation to see what differences a child being brought up , you know , in a , uh , kind of a , uh , community , rather than a home .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I have not , to be honest , had much experience , with children in that situation .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I guess one knows one 's own storly
B: and I know , uh , in my children 's case it was one where , uh , pretty much up until the older of two was in , uh , let 's see , I guess basically starting junior high
B: and the younger was in fifth grade when my wife reentered the work force .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh
A: So they ,
B: so I guess my experience is , is just with what we did
B: and , and so they did n't really go through the child care route .
A: Yeah .
B: They were able to be home together .
B: Uh , and we never actually experienced that .
B: What , in terms of changes relative to women in the work place and the potential changes over the , the next generation or so , I guess I anticipate , uh , an increasing equality , uh , greater presence of women in management roles
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: uh , I don't know whether there will be an increased amount of , of surrogacy that we see .
B: I just don't know .
A: What do you mean ?
B: Uh , deliberate childbirth by surrogate mother .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Sort of rent-a-mom ,
B: to be , you know , not to be crass about it , but , uh , uh , whether one might conceive , no pun intended , of the possibility that there might be a kind of a deliberate , uh , uh a professional mother , person . For instance , that ,
A: Yeah .
A: That 's strange .
A: A nanny , sort of ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I could , you know , I could envision a society where that would happen and make an interesting , uh , uh , story or whatever .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I don't think I have a philosophical problem with that .
B: In fact , I think it sort of raises nurturing and being a mother to what it ought to be which is a respected profession .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
B: Uh , I , I don't have a , other than , than a reading and , and male perspective on , on the on the biological urges involved relative to being a mother or not .
B: Uh , I know that , that my sense is that I have very much an interest and had one in being a parent .
B: I , I don't know that I , uh , felt myself necessarily encumbered with the necessity to have heirs .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I don't have boys ,
B: that does n't , did n't bother me ,
B: never has .
B: Vision more women deliberately raising children either in surrogacy or , or as a professional nanny , nanny as you put it , uh .
A: Yeah .
B: Maybe we 'll see a growth in that where someone makes a career out of , say , taking care of five or six children as opposed to day care .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: It would be a sort of day care ,
B: but it would be more of a family setting .
A: Right .
B: Uh , I know that there are young people , characterized , I guess as being half my age , so that by definition that means , they 're young . Uh , that , in my work place , who are both of them earning rather decent professional salaries who probably would consider paying a woman , uh , eight or nine or ten thousand dollars a year to take care of their child ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: To come in and live with them ?
B: I could easily envision that .
B: Pardon ?
A: To come in and live with them ?
B: Or to put their child into a into a home setting , where they would , you know , like they , they would get , leave at eight in the morning and , and drop a two year old off in a home where you knew there were going to be four other kids
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and you were paying for really high quality care .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: Uh , I have acquaintances of mine where I know that they are paying figures on , on the order of what I quoted to someone , because that 's what the experience they want
B: and I would imagine if there are more of people like that with an opportunity that , that 's a possibility of a change that we could see in the next few years .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And then you might have more control over , uh , the , the morals that they would be taught rather than in like a classroom or a day care center .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I know the day care centers are not cheap either .
A: You know they 're ,
B: I have n't ever really looked at them .
B: Are you aware at all , of , of what they would , what they cost ?
A: Uh , well , no ,
A: I just know , I know several single mothers who absolutely ca n't afford it .
A: They have to go with the , a single , uh , I mean a baby-sitter more , more or less .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I think it 's like , about sixty dollars a week for two children if I 'm not mistaken .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you have to pay that whether you 're on vacation , you know , and taking care of the children or if the children are at home , at home , sick .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , that is , you know , just a , a rate that you have to pay
A: and , uh ,
B: What , what do you envision for the next twenty years as far as women in American society ?
A: Uh , I think , I really don't have a vision
B: That 's okay , too .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I , I think that they will be more in the work place because , uh , the door 's open .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , it 's just human nature to walk through an open door .
A: So , and I would be glad to see that .
A: I hope I don't see a lot more single moms ,
A: but , it seems in my experience I 'm running across single women all the time .
B: .
B: I 'm , I 'm noticing that , too ,
B: and , and I notice the , the , a terming emerging called solo parents , that I 'm very aware of the number of solo mothers that , that I encounter in the work place ,
A: Yeah .
B: and that , that is a little troublesome . Uh , because the pressures on them are , are , rather , rather formidable .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: It 's awful .
A: Yeah
B: Uh , and maybe that 's a change we 'll see .
B: Maybe , uh , the possibility of , of women , uh , who deliberately say , no ,
B: we 'll let the man will take care of the children perhaps , in the event of a separation or whatever .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: So ,
A: Well , I think we 've done it
B: Well , I think we 're about done .
B: Okay .
A: Thank you very much .
B: Uh , good-bye .
A: It 's been interesting .
B: You take care .
A: Okay .
B: Bye .
A: Bye .
A: Okay .
B: So are you a freshwater or ,
A: Mostly freshwater ,
A: I
B: Freshwater ,
A: yeah ,
A: I , I used to fish , uh , when I was real young , down in Galveston with my parents ,
A: and I never really got into that too much , because you have to get in the boat really to do anything ,
A: and I did n't know anybody who had a boat now ,
A: so I don't fish too much in saltwater .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Most of my fishing has been in the saltwater . Uh , mostly deep sea fishing for grouper and bottom fish
A: Oh , really ,
A: Oh , neat ,
B: and , uh , I have caught one or two small sharks
A: Oh , really .
B: and , uh , yes .
A: What 'd you do with them ?
B: Put them back
A: You did n't get a big kick out of killing them like some people do ?
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: I love shark steak ,
B: but , uh , the ones I caught were never large enough to really do anything .
A: Do they have a limit on sharks ,
A: I mean , is that like a , a sport fish ,
A: can you actually catch those
A: and there 's no limit .
B: Is there a limit ?
B: I have no idea .
B: I know , I ,
B: my home is in , uh , Pensacola , Florida
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , it 's , they do a lot of shark fishing in that , you know , in the gulf
A: Right .
B: and , um , there 's a certain period of time during the year they have all along the gulf coast from , I guess from Galveston to Mayport they have , uh , shark tournaments ,
B: and , you know , there 's part ,
B: either as part of or separate from the , uh , bill fishing tournaments they usually have so , I have not done , uh , much freshwater fishing oh , for , you know , lake , lake fishing for bass and so forth but , uh , maybe some what they call brim and those sorts of things , but nothing ,
A: Right .
A: Oh , really .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think I 've been trout fishing once .
B: I 've never fly fished .
B: Have you fly fished ?
A: Uh , no
A: I have n't .
A: I don't know that I could do that .
A: That looks awful tiring
B: I 've tried it once ,
A: Did you .
B: yes ,
B: uh , a friend of mine
A: Did n't like it ?
B: no .
B: I could never get the hang of it .
A: It looks complicated to me .
A: It 's a rhythm or something
B: Uh-huh .
B: I usually ended snagging my , uh , fishing partners or the trees along the bank
A: Catching tree bass ,
A: right
B: Yes
B: Almost got an owl once .
A: Did you
A: That would have been something .
B: But , uh .
A: So do you , do you fish mainly for trophies
A: or do you , do you eat what you fish .
B: Oh , no ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: no .
B: I used , uh , when I was , uh , working in Florida , I used to do a lot of surf fishing mostly for relaxation
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: you know , there are people who fish ,
B: and then there are people who catch .
A: Right .
B: Well , I 'm a fisher
A: You just like to sit down and watch it , right .
B: That 's right ,
B: I 've never caught that much ,
B: but , uh ,
A: Really .
B: Oh , and occasionally we 'd go out on a , you know , full day trip , you know , three or four other people and do either , again , bottom fishing or or for grouper
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: or , I used to catch you know , I 've caught a few worthwhile snappers , red snappers and gray snappers and so forth .
A: That 's nice .
B: What about you , you a ,
A: Well , most of my fishing is done at , um , area lakes around here , freshwater lakes
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , most of it ,
A: I have n't been really in a long time .
A: Last time I went I actually was in Galveston trying to saltwater fish
A: and it just was n't working with my freshwater tackle .
A: That was real fun .
A: Um , but , um , I went fishing at , I don't know if you 've ever heard of , uh , Lake Worth .
A: It 's a fairly new lake in Texas .
B: Oh , yes .
A: And , uh , we went fishing there last memorial day , * Memorial Day
A: and I caught my first bass that was actually big enough to keep .
A: I was so excited .
A: And , uh , that 's really about it .
A: Mostly just the lakes around here ,
A: and I fish to take home and cook
A: I don't , I don't get too much joy out of just sitting and watching .
A: I get a little bit of relaxation from it ,
A: but mainly I , um , I want to say I brought something home .
A: I want to say I did this ,
A: I was out there for a reason
B: The last time I went , uh , bass fishing ,
B: I was with my daughter , a friend of hers , and , well , a friend of mine and his daughter .
B: We , I was the only one who did not catch , a single fish
A: Really .
B: my daughter caught fish ,
B: his daughter caught fish ,
B: he caught fish .
A: Everybody but you .
B: I did not even , I did not even ,
B: I have been , I was out on a party boat a few years ago ,
B: and we , we were grouper fishing ,
B: or , you know , actually we were , uh , snapper fishing .
B: Everyone on the boat was catching snapper , snappers except guess who .
A: It had to be you .
B: I I ,
A: Could n't catch one to save your life . Huh .
B: That 's right ,
B: I would go from one side of the boat to the other ,
B: and , uh , the , uh , the party boat captain could not understand , you know ,
B: he even , even he started baiting my hook and holding , holding the , uh , the fishing rod .
A: How funny ,
A: just hoping maybe , he could pull
B: Right ,
B: and it was , it was really , really , really bad .
B: Uh , I , as I said , I am a fisher ,
B: I 'm not a catcher .
A: Right .
B: But , uh , I enjoy it though .
B: I don't really get out as much as I , uh , as I would like too .
A: Yeah .
B: And they do , of course , you know ,
B: here in ,
B: we 're only just a few , not a few minutes , we 're , you know , forty five minutes to an hour away from the eastern shore here in Maryland
A: Right .
B: and they do a lot of fishing there .
B: Of course what I used to like to do though is go snorkeling for scallops in some of the bays , or uh , or for oysters .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: That would be fun .
B: And , uh , that I was able to do , when I could go in and go down and actually pick them off the bottom .
A: Right
A: Hand picked
B: That right
A: The weirdest fishing experience I ever had . People to this day are still trying to figure out if I really caught what I think I caught .
A: We were in , uh , Rockport , which is close to Corpus
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we had been fishing in a canal ,
A: they had all these canals up through this one little retirement area ,
A: and , uh , we 'd been fishing in the canals
A: and all we were catching were catfish ,
A: and we were pretty bored with that .
A: So , we thought well , maybe there are some crab in here ,
A: we 'll try to catch some crab .
A: So I got my chicken and all my little net and everything ,
A: and something ,
A: I had a rock to weight it down ,
A: something grabs and just runs with it .
A: And of course there 's no hook ,
A: so it ca n't be a fish .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm sure it 's not a fish ,
A: right .
A: And crab , they don't bite like that ,
A: they don't just run with your food .
A: So , I netted it ,
A: and it was the ugliest fish I 've ever seen in my life .
A: It had real teeth , like human teeth ,
A: and it looked archaic .
A: I , I had no idea what it was .
A: I called my father long distance just to describe the thing ,
A: and it had the rock in its mouth , not the chicken ,
A: but the rock itself is what it had grabbed .
B: Um .
A: They say it 's a dog fish , from everything I 've described ,
A: it was brown with these little white dots
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it made a loud , almost a croaking noise like a croaker does
B: Uh-huh .
A: it , it was the strangest thing .
A: Oh , I 'll never get over that .
A: To this day I don't want to get in the water , anywhere around salt water because I 'm sure one of those fish are there .
B: Well , we used to ,
B: I guess the weirdest thing I 've ever caught is , uh , in some of the inlets and the rivers around Delaware .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They have a fish that 's called an oyster cracker .
B: I don't know if you 've ever heard of it
A: I 've never heard of that one .
B: and it has a huge strong mouth ,
B: and they actually , uh , use their teeth to open oysters .
A: That 's where it gets its name , obviously , huh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: and this is the ugliest , fish I have ever seen ,
B: and I mean , and they come in all you know ,
B: I 've , I 've caught them from , you know , three or four inches long up to , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I guess the largest one I ever caught was probably eight or ten inches long ,
B: but just huge , ugly things just terrible .
A: Huh .
A: Can you eat them ?
B: No ,
B: no .
A: Ooh .
A: I , I don't think I 'd want to even if you could if they 're that ugly ,
A: but .
B: They just , they just look as though you do not want to do anything with them .
A: That 's like this dog fish ,
A: it was , it scared me to death .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It was it really , it did n't look like , it looked like it was something out of the dark ages that just never died .
B: Well , the first time I went surf fishing was in ,
B: and I threw my line out
B: and the first thing I caught was a sand shark , which was probably a foot , and a half or , uh , two feet long ,
B: and scared me to death .
A: Oh .
B: I had never seen anything ,
B: and then I was fished for another half hour or forty-five minutes , caught a few white fish and so forth ,
B: and then I felt something relatively heavy ,
B: and I thought , oh , really , here , I 'm really going to get one .
B: And I ,
A: Okay , um ,
A: let 's see .
A: How do you feel about credit cards ?
B: Personally , I do not care for them . Uh , although I find them a necessity in business and so forth ,
B: I , I try to refrain from their use as much as possible . Um , for a number of reasons , one of which is the , you know , extreme interest rate on most of them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The one I use , uh , of course , for mostly , only for business purposes is , uh , you know , American Express .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , I 'm not I 'm not terribly in favor of them .
B: Not for my own personal , uh , point of view .
A: Right .
B: Plus it , uh , has , you know , from an economic point of view it has increased our debt tremendously to the tune of somewhere on the order of five to ten billion , I believe
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Wow .
B: uh , at least that 's one number for this range of numbers I have , I have heard .
A: Right .
B: Do you use them frequently
B: or ,
A: Well , we , uh , me and my wife , when , when we have like extra money that we know we 're going to have , and we can put it in our budget , yeah , we 'll , we 'll use it .
A: But like last year , I think we paid ,
A: I think it was like twenty something cents interest , on our Visa .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I think this , this year we , uh , I think we used it for Christmas ,
A: and we got caught just a few days on our grace period .
A: And , uh , so we 'll pay a little interest this year , but maybe two dollars .
A: But we don't like to do that at all .
B: Yes .
A: And , you know , we , I think we feel about the same way you do real strongly .
A: We , uh , we have several credit cards , though .
A: We have a gas card , our Visa , and then , of course , the American Express ,
A: and I think we have a couple of department stores .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , we use it the same way ,
A: and , uh ,
B: I find the one I use mostly , uh ,
B: aside from the American Express , I do use my Sears card .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I try , as with the American Express , I try to pay it , you know , as it comes in .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: So , uh ,
A: It 's , it 's not uncommon for us to have paid it before we even get the bill .
A: That 's usually how we do it .
B: I know when I travel , or when I used to travel overseas quite a bit , what I would do on my American Express card is before I would , before I left I would mail a check to , to American Express and , you know , have some idea of how much was there , you know , I 'd sent them , you know , several hundred dollars , or whatever I felt I would spend . And then use it then .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , for hotels and , and so forth .
B: But , uh , but I knew that it was paid
B: I knew I knew that I had that much credit , going in .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: Sometimes , you know , sometimes I would go over ,
B: but it would n't , you know , it would n't hit me in a big , in a big way because I knew that , uh , I would have it covered in that respect .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: That 's good .
A: I 've , I don't think we 've gone that far to pay it in you know , in advance before we spend it ,
A: but , I guess if you foresaw that you were going to have to use it , that , like that , that may be good .
B: Well , I found I found in , um , in traveling overseas that , uh , often it would , uh , it would expedite things to have an American Express credit card for hotel bills and so forth .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh really .
A: Yeah .
B: Plus I would , uh , when they , uh , would send the bill , they would automatically convert to the exchange rate .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: So , now , the only time that got to be a problem was , if the exchange rate changed drastically .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , for example , I remember on one trip to France when I started planning the trip , I think , uh , a dollar was worth nine or ten
A: Uh-huh .
B: And when I finally got over there , it had fallen , uh , two or three francs to the dollar .
B: So the
A: Wow
B: So , I got caught a little short in that regard ,
A: Wow .
B: but , uh uh , I , I was anticipating , you know , my room would cost , uh , let 's say
A: Yeah .
B: if it were , say sixty or seventy francs a night that would mean it would be about ten dollars or so , or maybe twenty
A: Right .
B: maybe it would be more than that .
B: It was more than .
B: It would average out to thirty-five or forty dollars a night which is a reasonable rate .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: But then when I got back and I was working for the government at the time
A: Uh-huh .
B: of course the government was several months behind in , their , on its per diem for exchange rate .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
A: Right .
B: So there 's a little consternation , you know , in trying to get them to compensate , for the difference in the exchange rate .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Yeah
A: especially ,
B: That was the only time I really got caught short .
B: And I , But as I said , most , most of all I try not to use them , uh , to any , you know , lavishly , in that regard .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: well that 's good .
B: Well , from where are you calling ?
A: Oh , from the Dallas area .
B: So you 're from
B: okay ,
B: I 'm from Maryland .
A: Oh really .
B: Yeah
A: Wow .
A: Do you work for T I ?
B: No .
B: I work for G T E .
A: Well , really .
B: Yes .
A: Um . I wonder how T I got G T E involved .
B: Well , I know Jack Godfrey .
A: Oh , okay .
B: I know him very well .
B: I 've known Jack for a long time ,
B: and I 'm also in the speech business .
A: Oh , okay .
B: So , when I heard that Jack was going to do this , I called him and asked for an application where I could participate in this .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: And , so that 's how I got involved .
A: Yeah .
A: You have a very , um , very ,
A: what 's the word .
A: Your , your speech is very exact .
B: Oh . Thank you very much
B: But , as Jack said , I 'm one of the , the old hands in the speech business .
A: Oh really .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh . Yes ,
B: I , I 've been doing it for twenty some odd years .
A: Wow .
B: And so , uh , I was very much interested , uh , in getting involved in , uh , switchboard .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh , you work for T I ?
A: Right .
A: I work in .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
B: I guess we 're supposed to do this part of it before we started the recording
A: Yeah
A: I think we talked for a good eight minutes about the subject ,
A: so , I think you get ten ,
A: so I think we 're okay .
B: Alright .
B: Okay ,
B: fine .
B: Well , you have a good evening .
A: Well , you too .
B: It 's been pleasant talking to you .
A: Same here .
B: Take care .
B: Good night .
A: Bye .
A: Well , what would you have at a dinner party ?
B: Well , uh , lately , since I have children I 've cut down on having dinner parties
A: Uh-huh .
B: but when I do I try to keep it pretty simple on things that I can prepare ahead of time
B: uh , I have one recipe for , uh , a really good , um , type of a meatball .
B: It 's called burgundy meatball
B: and it 's made with red wine and ,
A: Oh , gosh , that sounds great .
B: um
B: It 's , it 's really good
B: and you can make it ahead of time and then , um , make the sauce when you 're ready to , um , to serve it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's one of my favorite things to , to serve .
A: Well , um , I think it would probably depend on whether this was a formal or a informal dinner party .
B: Sure .
A: But if it was informal , my first choice would be crawfish .
B: Oh , really .
B: Well , I guess being from that part of the country .
A: Because , I mean , crawfish , everybody over here likes crawfish
A: but you know , I , I would n't have to worry about satisfying my guest .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But if it was a formal dinner party I would probably think of something else like , uh ,
A: shrimp , shrimp fettucini is real easy to , um , make and everything
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's usually well liked by people , I guess ,
A: I 'm just a seafood fan
A: so , I think on the lines of ,
B: Well , how do , make , how do you , you cook crawfish ?
B: I , in fact , I just came back from the grocery store
B: and being in Texas we don't have too many , you know , people that , that eat crawfish
B: but they had live crawfish , on sale .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: um , you 're not supposed to , I mean , you 're not supposed to eat them dead .
A: I mean , well , you eat them dead
B: Uh-huh .
A: but ,
B: don't buy them that way
A: Right .
A: Because if , if they are dead for too long ,
A: you can always tell whenever they 're cooked if they 've been dead for a long time because their tail straightens out .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you 're not supposed to eat those because they 're bad for you .
B: Okay .
B: Well , I 'll remember that .
A: Yeah ,
A: so if you ever go in a restaurant , order crawfish ,
A: I mean , every once in a while you 'll see
A: I mean , it does n't happen very often because it 's just an accident
A: but if the tail is straight on it then , yeah , don't eat it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , um , you just put some Cajun , well , lots of pepper
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you just boil them
A: and they 're absolutely wonderful
A: but there 's , uh , they 're a pain to peel for some people .
A: Once you get used to it they 're real easy
A: but , um , you know , if you have nails or anything you can plan on those being shot .
B: Huh . When you were , um , when you serve it do you shell them and then serve em too ?
A: I think for a dinner party
A: I , I don't know
A: it depends .
B: Um-hum .
A: Like if , like my age , if there was a bunch of college kids coming over for a dinner party , no , I , they would shell their own ,
B: Sure .
A: you know , we 'd just have crawfish and beer or something
A: but , um , if it was more formal like if I was , you know , working environment then I would probably , um , shell 'em or at least disconnect them from the head
A: But there 's a , There 's a , big thing over here that everybody sucks the head .
B: Still have see that . * slash error Ooh * slash error should be 'ba '
A: So , um it , it would just depend .
A: That 's the best part of the crawfish .
A: Sucking the head
A: But um I don't know
A: it it just depends on what type it was I guess
A: But you can buy uh the crawfish shells already peeled 'n everything
A: And usually you use those like for frying or to put in salads or to um You know make a sauce with or something like that
B: Um-hum
A: But you can go ahead and buy 'em cooked and shelled
A: and they 're more expensive of course
A: but
B: Does it taste a lot like shrimp
A: Um Yeah
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Just um The crawfish I mean it just has a taste of its own
A: It also depends on who 's cooking it and how much seasoning they use stuff like that
B: Sure
A: but um I think that
A: And also to get totally off the subject of crawfish lots of vegetables and hors d'oeuvres and stuff like that for a dinner party I think that that really helps
B: Yeah .
B: We have a a friend another couple where the husband is the one who cooks all the time
B: And
A: That 's what I need
B: Yeah
B: that 's what I wish I had
B: but in our family I am the one who who cooks
B: And I I really enjoy it
B: it 's gotten a little more difficult with kids
B: But I really do enjoy cooking
B: And we um we have them over for dinner back and forth quite a lot
A: Uh-huh
B: And before I had my second child we sort of had a contest going where you know he would cook and then the next time it would be my turn and I 'd try to outdo him and then he 'd try to outdo me
A: Oh !
B: and we we
B: was really a lot of fun
A: I bet
B: and
A: that that got pretty competitive you know as far as who could come up with the best recipe
B: Yeah
B: it did
B: we we tried to be fancier or more courses than the other
A: That would be fun
B: or
B: Uh it was a lot of fun you know
B: it something unique you know
B: and then we got into different um themes you know um whether it would be ethnic food Or um sometimes it would be um oh Oh I don't know maybe an outdoor theme or uh elegant theme or you know
A: Uh huh
B: It was a lot of fun
A: Sometimes it might be the candlelight
A: and sometimes it might be the picnic out back or something
B: That 's right
A: Well that 's you know that 's fun
B: it was fun
B: and and we threatened to make the other two uh make us dinner one time Uh Just to even it out since we seemed to be unfairly doing all the cooking and they were doing all the enjoying
A: Uh huh
A: That sounds right I would I 'd take him up on that
B: I 'm
B: It does
B: except that knowing them they would probably do something ridiculous and terrible just just to uh make sure that they did n't have to do it again
A: Uh huh
A: I 'd be
B: make hot dogs or some potato chips
A: I that 's about how much I can cook You know
A: I 'm I 'm doing a lot more cooking now than I used to
B: Uh-huh
A: but that 's only because my mom just started working
A: so she 's tired when she comes home in the afternoon
A: so I try to have things cooked for her
A: but uh um I usually try to stay out of kitchen
B: Oh that 's nice
A: I don't know
A: not one of my favorite hobbies
B: It can it can be fun I if you have the time
B: But you know a lot of times it 's too much of a rush really be able to enjoy it able to
A: Well um my grandma speaking of those meatballs again she owned every Christmas and and Easter
A: whenever we have at the big get-together over at her house she makes this meat ball sauce
A: and it has
A: I don't know
A: they are just kind of like quarter size meatballs
A: and they are absolutely delicious
B: Uh-huh
A: I don't know what she calls them in
A: I don't I 'm sure she puts wine in it because um she cooks everything with alcohol
A: But
A: um
A: I don't know
A: I would I would be interested in getting that recipe for you if you have it around
B: Yeah
B: it 's um it 's in the other room
B: I don't know if we have enough time for it
A: Oh
B: it 's real easy
B: one of the unique things in this it 's like a pound of ground beef some bread crumbs um an egg um whatever seasonings
B: you can just light
A: Yeah
B: so salt and pepper Um and chopped up water chestnuts which is something different um
A: Oh
A: that would be wonderful
B: makes them a little bit crunchy
B: you need to chop em up real fine
A: Yeah
B: But um it makes them crunchy
B: and that adds something new to it
B: And then the sauce is just made with um bouillion cubes water burgundy wine and um cornstarch instead of flour
A: Um-hum
A: Oh
B: So it 's not a it 's not a thick rich type of a sauce
B: it 's more of a
B: when you use corn starch in in gravy like you know when you have um Chinese food
A: Um-hum
B: And it gives it a bit of a different consistency
A: Well um how long do you cook the meatballs
B: The meatballs you just um after you form them fry them in a pan until they 're uh browned on all all sides
A: Uh huh
B: and then drain off all the grease
B: Uh then what I usually do is I freeze them
B: And then when you 're ready to serve them then you cook the sauce and then put the meatballs into the sauce And heat it
A: Oh
A: yeah
B: probably you have to heat it up for a good oh
B: if they 're frozen you know it may take a half for them to thaw out
B: But then heat them thoroughly in the sauce itself
B: Let them simmer in the sauce itself
A: Hum
B: and it 's real good
A: That sounds great
A: Especially I mean the fact that you can prepare the meatballs so so far in advance
B: Right .
A: I mean like if if you are having a dinner party on Wednesday night you could do it on a weekend
B: And then freeze them
B: Sure
A: That would be great
A: I think I 'm going to have to keep that in mind for my future because I hope to have to have lots of dinner parties Cause I like to
A: I mean um Um I 'm sure that I 'll be involved in a big company
A: and I know that my future husband will be You know
A: He 's going to be working for Chevron in Houston
B: Uh-huh .
A: so he 's going to be
A: Um You know I 'm sure that dinner parties will come in handy
B: Yeah
B: you 'll meet friends
B: invite invite the boss over and and friends at work
A: Oh yeah
A: I have to impress the boss and clients cause Um I 'm in I 'm in public relations in school
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I 'm going to have You know my whole job 's going to be based on my clients 'n stuff like that
A: so I 'm going to have lots of dinner parties
B: Sure .
A: And have to take 'em out to eat
A: Right now I 'm taking a class on ettiquesy * Did she really say `` ettiquesy '' ? ?
A: and all the little bitty things that I did n't even know
B: Oh
B: really
A: I mean I thought for sure I 'd been raised properly
A: but I 've been doing a lot of things wrong I did n't know about
A: but um So Is there anything else
B: Well I I think we 've covered the subject
B: I got some interesting information about crawfish
B: I was in fact
B: It 's good cause I was curious about that today when I saw those for sale
A: Oh
A: yes
A: you need to try em
A: Oh they 're wonderful .
B: Oh I will
B: I 'm sure my husband will be surprised , 'cause we were talking about them the other day before
A: Okay ,
A: so which , uh , what basketball teams are you interested in ?
B: Well , I guess I 'm a big Laker , L A Laker fan , when it comes to pros .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , the college ranks , um , I guess I really ,
B: of course I try to follow my alma mater ,
B: that 's , uh , B Y U , in Utah .
A: Uh-huh
B: But they don't have much of a team usually .
A: No ,
A: they 're more of a football team than they are basketball team .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: You see them in football on T V once in awhile .
A: Yeah .
B: You never see them on a , on nationally basketball .
A: You know , that 's true .
A: I don't think I 've ever seen them nationally on basketball .
B: They , uh , last year they had a really good team ,
B: the year that Danny Aines was there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That was about five , six years ago by now .
A: Huh .
B: So , they made it to the sweet sixteen , once or twice , in their history ,
A: Um .
A: That 's not too bad .
B: and that 's ,
B: and they usually lose in the first round .
A: Uh-huh .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , I 'm , uh , originally from the Saint Louis area ,
A: so the only basketball team , pro anyway , in that part of the country is Chicago .
A: So , I , I do pull for Chicago .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , of course , this year is a good year to be a , a Chicago fan , I guess , because they 're doing pretty good .
B: Is it the Bulls you 're talking about ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: the pro ,
A: Um , as far as college teams , uh , I know it 's really easy to say ,
A: but I 've been pulling for , uh , Duke for about four years now
A: so , uh , so , I finally am feeling better about myself as far as college teams . Although , I 've , I 've really , you know ,
B: Is that right ?
A: again being from Saint Louis , I pull for Missouri .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , but they 're on , uh , probation this year
A: so you ca n't do much about that .
B: No ,
B: no .
A: But , uh ,
B: So , did you watch the , uh , final four this year ?
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I watched every , uh , I watched all three games of that .
B: Every game ?
A: And , uh , I was very pleased with all three games , because Kansas , uh ,
A: you know , I was pulling for Kansas on the other side ,
A: so it was real nice to have the , the teams that were there .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: Of course , I was n't really ,
A: I mean , I , I ,
A: U N L V kind of gave me the impression of being a , uh , uh , oh , I don't know , a macho team , you know ,
A: they just did n't seem , they seemed to think they were better than everybody else
A: and , and maybe they were ,
A: but , um , I was real happy to see them get knocked off .
A: So ,
B: Yeah .
B: I , I watched that game .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it was a good game .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: It was a very close game , and hard fought game .
B: And it just ,
B: I don't know ,
B: it looked like U N L V may have had more , uh , talent ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , as far as playing together as a team that day , it did n't , Duke seemed to have them off balance .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that , uh , they did n't , could n't ,
B: are n't they more of a running gun team ?
A: U N L V ,
A: yeah ,
A: they , they play the pro style , is , what I 've always called it .
B: Right .
A: And , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: fast breaks and things and ,
A: yeah ,
A: the fast breaks and , and ,
B: They shut all that down and made them play half court it seemed
B: and ,
A: Right .
A: And , uh , U N L V was n't used to that .
A: Of course , I 've , I knew whenever U N L V went in at half time ,
A: see I don't know if they were necessarily behind ,
A: but they were n't ahead as much as they normally are .
B: Right .
A: Uh , and , you know , that meant that they had to play a second half
A: and they , they 've not had to do that all year
A: and , uh ,
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: They did n't have , they did n't have to go through some tough games during the year
B: and that , and that , so that 's a terrible time to have to deal with that , right in , when it , when it counts so much .
A: That 's right .
A: I mean Duke 's schedule was , was so much harder than U N L V 's that it , uh , it just made them a much tougher team overall ,
B: Right .
A: and , uh , that had to help them a lot .
B: I think , I think that , that probably was the difference in that game .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because it really could have gone either way . Down to the end , you know .
A: So do I take it that you think though that the Lakers will , uh , will win
B: Well ,
A: or ,
B: I don't know .
B: Probably not .
A: I mean , Portland 's pretty good . Um ,
B: Since Kareem 's retired , they have n't had a center .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , they 've got Perkins ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I don't think he 's really been a super star for them .
A: No .
A: Well , he 's , uh ,
A: I don't ,
A: I ,
A: he , he to me is not a center ,
A: he 's more of a , a real tall forward
B: Yeah .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: Uh ,
B: So ,
A: I think Magic does a ,
B: They 'll make it , you know ,
B: it , it 's going to be a war between , uh , between Chicago and , uh , and , uh , uh , Boston Celtics .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: That 's going to be a war .
A: That sure is .
A: It ,
B: It 's going to be a great series .
A: I think that 's going to be one of those that 's , uh , that 's won by the home team , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: whoever has home court advantage is going to win that one I think .
B: One of those two will probably be , um , in there ,
B: um , let me see ,
B: where does Detroit fit in ?
A: Detroit 's in that same , uh , that , that same , uh , division .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So , I don't know ,
B: those three ,
B: uh , Detroit has n't been having that great a year this year .
A: No ,
A: but as I heard , Isaiah came back this week .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , that might help them .
B: Yeah .
B: They have the , they have the play-off experience ,
B: but ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: so does Detroit , I mean , so does Chicago . So all three of them do , with Larry Bird back , uh ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: you can never count the Celtics out when Larry Bird 's , starting to click on all cylinders .
A: That 's true .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They say he 's starting to do , starting to play ,
A: He 's , yeah but he 's been , yeah , but he 's been kind of up and down all year .
B: Right .
A: uh , one game and he 'll be playing to where everything he throws up goes in
A: and then the next time he 'll , you know , he ca n't seem to hit the side of a barn .
B: Right .
A: So , I don't know ,
B: Right .
A: I 'm , I 'm kind of , I 'm not sure about him this year .
B: Last I 've heard is that he 's starting to peak right now .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well that 's when , you do it .
B: He 's , starting to be more consistent , you know , right at the right time of the year .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , any dark horses I , uh , you know ,
A: Well , the dark horses ,
B: San Antonio , San Antonio is the dark horse that could , could really flip in there , I think .
A: Yeah
A: that 's ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well , anybody who has David Robinson , has got to have a chance anyway .
B: Yeah .
B: He 's got to be pretty much , you know ,
B: I use to say Akimo Lija was the dominant player , you know , when he ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: against any team he would dominate ,
B: but Robinson 's getting up there where , every game , he 's just ,
A: That 's right .
B: I mean , it looks like he 's going in for a dunk
B: and they kind of just scoot out of his way or take a step back , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: nobody 's got enough beef , I guess , to challenge him when he 's , when he 's driving hard to the hoop .
A: Huh .
B: He 's , uh , he 's ,
B: too bad the Mavericks could n't get him .
A: That 's true .
B: With Roy Tarpley they 're in big trouble .
A: Yeah .
A: Well then , he 's gone now
A: so , they don't have to worry about that .
B: Yeah ,
B: for awhile anyway .
A: Well , I thought he was gone period .
A: I , I did n't read the story ,
A: but I , I , read that , uh ,
B: I heard he was suspended . Because of his ,
A: Well , that might have been what it was ,
A: but I , I guess the headlines said something about him , you know , that the Mavericks released him or something ,
A: I , maybe I misunderstood what they meant .
B: Um . If they did , they 'd still have to pay his contract
A: Well , yeah
B: They may have done it .
A: you never know .
B: It was a lot of money .
B: He was making like ,
A: Yeah
A: but ,
B: I heard on the radio it was sixty-three thousand and change a month .
B: That 's what he was being paid , you know ,
B: he was n't even playing .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , boy , what a good job he had
A: That 's what I think .
B: He ruined his sweet position
A: Yeah
B: Yeah .
B: I 'm looking forward to the , the pro play-off , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: It 's coming up , is n't it .
B: L A ,
B: yeah ,
B: San Antonio ,
B: who 's the other one that 's doing so well this year ,
B: is that Portland ?
A: Portland .
A: Yeah ,
A: Portland .
B: Portland .
B: I have n't seen them on much T V that much at all ,
B: but all I can do is hear about ,
B: boy they have the seeing eye .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What do they have
B: Walter Davis and ,
A: They 've got two , the two Johnson brothers
A: or they 're not brothers ,
A: but I mean there 's two guys named Johnson on their team that are really good or doing good or something ,
A: I forget how that works .
A: But , um , like I said they 're doing extremely good right now .
B: Um .
A: Phoenix is n't doing too bad .
A: So , It , it ought to be a real interesting play-off .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't think there 's any clear pick , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I guess the two teams that you ca n't count out are the Celtics because of Bird , and the Lakers because of Magic Johnson .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They are two guys that seem to find a way when they ,
A: When it 's on the line .
B: When it 's on the line , they seem to find a way . You know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , so , those are what makes a champion I guess .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , it 's been nice talking to you .
B: Nice talking to you .
A: All right .
A: Take care .
B: Take care .
B: Bye .
A: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: now when you baby-sit , what age group children do you sit with ?
A: Well , gosh
A: all kinds , um ,
A: mostly between the ages of two and ten .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , last , like a few summers ago I kept two children every day for the entire summer
A: and , I mean , they became like my children
B: I 'd think so .
A: And , um , and they live in an apartment complex
A: so we swam a lot
A: and we played on the playground a lot
A: and then we would go to a movie on Thursdays
A: and , um , there was always an activity ,
A: you know , they had their favorite T V shows and things like that that we watched
A: and then we took naps
A: and , um , I don't know
A: it , it just seems like there was always something to do .
A: Children are so full of energy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , oh , they were , they just , they just keep you going
B: Now was this a one parent or two parent family ?
A: Uh , one parent .
B: One parent .
A: Yeah .
A: She 's just ,
B: How much time did she spend with them ?
A: Not much at all
A: I mean , I would get there at eight o'clock in the morning ,
A: the children usually were n't awake by then .
A: And she would get home at like five thirty in the afternoon .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they would have dinner
A: and then it was time for them to go to bed .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , now at this particular time the children were two and six .
A: But then I also ,
A: I 've been baby-sitting this child , uh , for about eight years ,
A: he 's nine now
A: and , um , you know , I 've watched him grow up
A: and he 's like a little brother to me .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it 's changed over the , over the years , um ,
A: we get along a lot better now that he 's older .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , we do different things now ,
A: we used to play ball a lot
A: but now it 's , he likes to watch T V
A: and he 's into wrestling .
A: And , um , I kept him on Friday night ,
A: we went we went to go see a movie and , um , things like that
A: but I feel like , I don't know , when I have children I want to be able to spend a lot of time with them .
B: Yeah ,
B: you say your , you go to school ?
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I go to L S U .
B: And what are you studying ?
A: Uh , communications .
B: Well , sounds like your getting a lot of experience in communicating with children
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I mean , I love children .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I don't know ,
A: seem , this looks like a typo for 'see , ' when I was growing up my Mom stayed at home with me and my brother until we were in junior high .
A: And I don't ,
A: it would , I think it was very beneficial to us .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , like in the summer we were always in the library programs reading books
A: and we went skating a lot
A: and , you know , she was just always there for us ,
A: but nowadays if there are two parents to a family , the mother works just as hard as the father does ,
A: and the children either stay at home and get into trouble
A: or they 're stuck in a day care .
A: And I just , I just don't want my children to have to be raised like that .
A: All my friends , they , their parents worked all the time ,
A: they got to stay at home by themselves
A: and when I was younger I thought they were lucky because they got to get away with things , like I could n't ride my bike across the street , but they could because their Mom would never know it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: But now I realize that it was better because , um , they have got into a lot of trouble , because of lack of supervision .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , that , that certainly can happen now if
B: you , you say you 're in communications ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , what base of communications would you be most interested in getting in to ?
A: Well , I 'm majoring in , uh , public relations .
B: Public relations ,
B: so , so , you would have a job with a company ? Rather than , uh , radio or television or newspapers or , what have you .
A: Yeah .
A: Yes , ma'am .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , uh , then you 'd be willing to give up your job to stay home and with , or stay with the children ?
A: Well , I would like to , uh , stay at home with my children for at least the first five years .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But what , what I plan to do in the future is , um , go ahead and get my upper education as far as my masters , and work on my doctorate and teach , um , college ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and in that case then I 'll be , I 'll be at home when my children are at home ,
A: but I 'd like to stay at home with them until they get in , at least into kindergarten , where they 're at school from what , eight to three or something
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then I would be at my school , teaching .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And , um ,
B: Well , that , that 's , uh , is an advantage of being in the education field .
B: I spent thirty-four years in education .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yes ,
B: and , so ,
A: What grade ?
B: oh , I started out with college and then went to high school
B: and then I preferred the high school age level much better than I did the college , because you have a closer relationship with the , uh , students , that ,
A: Oh , did you ?
A: What did you teach ?
B: I taught physical education .
A: Oh , oh , I started out as a P E major , in education .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I wanted to be a P E teacher .
B: Well ,
A: I sure did .
B: I , uh , I found that , uh , it was a perfect combination from the standpoint of having vacations off at the same time .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And , uh , and it worked out fine from that standpoint , uh , plus the fact that , uh , when I left , uh ,
B: usually , uh , my husband was seldom home for maybe forty-five minutes or so
B: and then our son , he had to get on the bus ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he did get on the bus ,
B: it was his responsibility
B: and he never ever thought of , uh , not going to school he said , in view of the fact that he was certain I had a hot line to his school . Because , uh , I , uh ,
A: Absolutely .
B: well , I , I was in physical education then
B: and I just kept getting pushed into administration ,
B: wound up in administration ,
B: and so , he thought surely that I , or I would have bought a hot line , to know if he ever skipped school , which , of course , was not the case
A: Oh .
B: and I would n't have checked on him .
B: However , uh , there are , there are , points both directions in that , uh , from the standpoint of parents working and not working .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , I listened to more than one parent say I don't know what this child wants .
B: I 'm working two jobs ,
B: they each have their own television ,
B: they each have their own telephone ,
B: they each have their own rooms ,
B: they each have this ,
B: they each have that .
B: I 'd say , but what they don't have is you .
A: That 's right .
A: They need some attention .
B: Absolutely .
B: And , uh , I think out
B: because that is the way of getting attention .
A: Well , see whenever my Mom stayed home with us , we did without a lot ,
A: I mean , we were ,
A: it 's hard to make it on one income ,
B: That 's right .
A: but we did
A: and , and we lived in a trailer for eighteen years .
B: Huh .
A: And , um , you know , we , we only had one car ,
A: we only had one telephone , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: we did n't get to eat out all the time
A: but I , I feel like that it helped me now because I appreciate the value of the dollar ,
B: Right .
A: and , um , I also had the supervision that I needed while I was growing up ,
A: and I hope that I can provide that for my child too .
B: And we certainly , uh , we need more of that ,
B: we need more parents willing to supervise ,
B: though we 've had such a breakdown in the family structure , from the standpoint of , of , uh , church and school and everything along the way .
A: Oh , we have .
B: And that I think has contributed much to , uh , the delinquency that works grant and the poor school results that we 're having . Uh , that the students ' , uh , parents have just not really taken enough interest in them from the very very beginning
B: and I think my feeling was that the very best teachers should be in grades one , two , and three . To get the students off to a good start let them have positive , um , uh , experiences , from the lower levels so they want to continue learning and , uh , keep going and not wait until they 're , they 're in the ninth and tenth grades ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's too late then ,
B: you can not , reverse that trend at that point .
A: It is .
A: It 's way too late ,
B: Right .
A: I agree .
B: And , uh , while parents very often will be involved with the school activities when the child 's in the elementary school
B: and they get into the high schools so often they seem to drop away at that point .
B: And , that is just as valuable , at that time , as to the rush in the elementary .
A: It is . Because all the peer pressure , it starts in high school
B: Yes ,
B: right .
A: and the parent really needs to be there for the child .
B: Right .
B: And , uh , the child needs to take pride in the fact that their parent is doing something .
B: Uh , we were fortunate in view of the fact that my son did play football
B: and I did keep statistics for his team ,
B: and , his Dad did take movies of the football team and movies of the basketball team ,
A: Oh , great .
B: and we tried to be a part of it but not overshadowing him or making him feel that we had to be there all the time .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I feel that I learned a great deal from my students , uh , with regard to what their biggest complaints were with parents .
B: And a thing such as , uh ,
B: one of the biggest complaints I well remember because I spent a lot of time with seniors , uh , was , um , carrying their
B: when I was your age I did n't have this or that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I know I never ever said that because I knew that that was one thing that was really irritating to young people .
A: Well , I guess that was good that you were , you were hearing it from other students .
B: Yes ,
B: and I had to deal with their problems
B: and I could talk about the kinds of problems which they were bringing that they had just in general aspect
B: and our son would share this
B: and then he would have to make decisions for himself along those same types of , of , uh , lines . So that , I think he benefited from my experiences .
A: Well , um ,
A: Does your son work for T I ?
B: No .
A: Oh .
B: No ,
B: he , uh , works , uh , for a different company .
B: Yeah ,
B: in the Dallas area
B: but when he went away to
B: and he was on the lawns from the time he was in the seventh grade and , uh , a small and all the way through college
B: and he held three jobs . Wally was in college * Could this Wally be `` while he . . . `` ?
B: and we did n't even know it .
A: Oh , goodness .
B: He did n't even tell us . Uh , that he had three jobs
B: but when he graduated he had a five thousand dollar bank account
B: and , uh , we had told him that if he ever wanted to go to college he could go ,
B: if he got married he was on his own ,
B: if he flunked out he was on his own ...
A: Okay , um ,
A: yeah ,
A: one year public service for everybody .
A: Is that , that was it , right ?
B: Right .
B: Uh , who wants to start this one ?
A: I don't know ,
A: I 've been , I 've been sitting here thinking ,
A: yeah ,
A: because it was , you know , took a couple tries before I found somebody .
A: Well , you know , I 'm like , I 'm not really sure what I think about this .
A: Um , uh , I mean , the first thing is , the uh , if it 's going to be mandatory , it 's got to be mandatory ,
A: I mean , everybody , not just like , you know , poor people and all that , you know . But , you know , senators ' sons and all that stuff too .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: I mean , everybody 's got to do it .
A: Um , I don't know ,
A: it 'd probably be , it 'd probably be good ,
A: I just don't know if , you know , I was eighteen or whatever , I 'd want to be stuck doing it for a year or whatever .
B: I 'm not sure I want an eighteen year old to make that kind of decision .
B: Uh , I mean , that , that does n't sound right .
B: Um , I guess I see overall beneficial , if , if we 're going from that point of view .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um . you know , in the past ,
B: I don't know , I don't know how old you are ,
B: but when I was , uh , in high school , it was the beginning of Vietnam and so forth .
B: And many of my peers were being drafted .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I could see that many of them had conscientious objections to war or whatever .
B: But I , I felt strongly then that even if they did n't feel like they could kill someone , or go into a military situation , that they could help the country in other ways . Be it cleaning out , uh , lots , in , in their neighborhood or , whatever kind of community or public service might be available .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I guess I see that as , as not so much a demand but , but a privilege .
B: It 's , it 's kind of , uh , uh , It 's something ,
A: It is , uh ,
B: it 's , it 's
B: since we live here and we all benefit , rich , poor or in between , uh , there are benefits even for those who have it the hardest . I just see that as maybe a good idea .
B: I would n't mind doing it at forty-four .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and I find ways to , to turn some of that back to , to others .
B: Uh , and I , I guess I , I ca n't see that as being something to really object to .
A: Well , I guess it would still depend on how ,
A: I mean , if , if you 're talking about if you 're talking about something that 's like a full time , you know , one year full time , you know , this is what you do , you know .
A: You 're going to go and , and fill pot holes and , you know , and , you know , all that stuff .
A: I mean , I , you know , I don't know
B: I could see a , a full , a a gamut of different kinds of opportunities .
B: Things that need to be done , that that could be done in an hour or two , uh , a day , or several hours of the week . Like a half of a day on Saturday or something like that . In addition to what one does , uh , besides that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I ca n't , imagine what kind of , uh , uh , bureaucracies we 'd get into and expense having it be full time ,
B: oh , you 're going to go to this camp
B: and you 're going to , you know ,
B: like , um , back in the Depression , the C C C ,
A: Yeah .
B: it was needed ,
B: it gave some folks some jobs ,
B: and we got some great public works out of it .
B: But , um , I don't see that as being necessary now .
B: I can see it being done , uh , on a regular schedule .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , everybody has to put in so many hours of , uh , public service in a given time , perhaps .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I , I guess I see all of us benefiting ,
B: and I , I don't see it just relegated to the young .
B: But I see , I , I see so much going on that , that 's bad .
B: And this would give them a chance to have some positive self-esteem .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Something that they turn , back .
A: Well ,
A: and also , you know , you , you feel more like , you know , you 're actually part of the community if you 've done something , in it .
B: That 's right .
B: You take pride in that , and , and get some , some positive feedback from those who benefit , besides yourself .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I , I see it being most beneficial if it 's in the neighborhood where or , or at least the area where the person lives .
A: Uh , definitely .
B: It might not be the same neighborhood , but the same city or county , because then you 're , you 're coming in contact with it .
B: It 's not as meaningful for me to go to Minnesota and do something up there that I 'll never be able to see again , unless I happen to go on vacation , up there .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's , it almost needs to be something that has more impact for the individual , on going .
A: Yeah .
B: But as far as putting that into work , I don't want to , I don't want to deal with the , with the heartache of , first of all , getting it started and figuring out how to do the logistics , of it .
A: Oh , that would , be a nightmare .
A: And just , I mean , just getting , getting it going .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I , see a lot of things like , uh , scouting , uh , Boys Clubs , Girls Clubs , things like that , that kind of get into that citizenship , uh , the uh , looking after the environment sort of thing
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I guess , I don't see , uh , this being that different . But even more beneficial because it would be something that everybody participated in , and would take a turn in .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh
A: Yeah .
B: Do you have kids ?
A: no ,
A: not yet
A: In about six months we will
B: Oh , well good .
B: you 'll have a little time think about that .
B: I guess , I , I have , uh ,
B: when I was teaching school I saw many , so many kids that were at loose ends and that did n't really have a purpose .
B: And I can see , you know , some , some really significant things coming out of it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I know you 've got to get past that , that grudge attitude that many have ,
B: but that 's , uh , that would be a part of selling it to the community . uh , parish or however the state was divided up .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I may ,
B: well I don't know ,
B: around here we have a number of community projects that folks just volunteer for .
B: Boy Scout troops or church groups or civic clubs will , uh , police a , uh a couple of miles of the highway and
B: and I , I 've seen it in other states too .
A: Yeah .
A: They have , that here . Um ,
B: I don't know ,
B: um ,
A: they 've got , um , in most of the states around here I think , uh .
A: You know , down in North Carolina , there was a big controversy for a while , because they , uh , the local chapter of the K K K wanted to , uh , uh , to participate in it
A: and , uh ,
B: and there were those that said , No ,
B: you ca n't do that , I 'm sure .
A: Well , uh , it was , it was interesting because that 's an interesting question , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: Should these people be allowed to or not ?
A: I think they finally decided not to because they figured that stretch of highway was going to get trashed
B: Oh .
B: And I had n't even thought about that , uh , the , the other end of that .
B: That , that 's an interesting , uh , situation .
B: I had n't thought of that .
B: We had visited relatives in Virginia , not too long ago ,
B: and I thought I had seen , when we were traveling around the state , some similar signs up that indicated that certain sections were being policed and cleaned up
B: and ,
A: Yeah .
A: I think Virginia 's got it
A: and I know Maryland does ,
A: and we just , we went to Indianapolis last weekend , and back .
A: And , um , I 'm pretty sure I saw , yeah , stuff in Ohio and Indiana about it and Pennsylvania , maybe Pennsylvania ,
A: I don't remember for sure now .
B: And I don't know about your part of the country ,
B: but , uh , down here in the last , oh , year plus , I , it was beginning with last year 's Earth Day There 's just been more of a turn toward uh , environmental concerns ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I work for Texas Instruments .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they , they 've started some recycling campaigns that a year before that had been turned down because they said , Well , it 's not feasible ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's not a good idea .
B: And , I see that as being , I , I see that as being a , a , a change , uh , for the positive . Kind of along the same line as , as , as the mandatory thing .
A: Yeah .
A: And but then they lost , too much business
B: It 's just , thing , a part of everyone 's consciousness .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , the thing about that is though , it 's got a ,
A: I mean because it was , I mean it was big , you remember , like in the early seventies and all that .
A: And , you know , and then it kind of just went out of vogue .
A: And I , I 'm worried that it , it might , you know , it 'll , it , the same thing will happen .
A: It 's like , you know , environmentalism was really big for a couple of years
A: and then people like , well , you know ,
A: I 'd ruther , rather spend , you know , fifty cents less on , uh , on , on such and such , you know ,
A: and even if it 's not environmentally safe , who cares , you know .
B: I 'm sure the pendulum will swing the other way .
B: Uh , there have been too many other things that it 's done that for , just in my life .
B: And if you look at history at all , you see that , you know , uh , we go from one side to the other on just about any subject , that you , one might care to bring up .
A: Yeah .
B: But , it is comforting to me to see , uh , more concern about some of these things that , that cost us money .
B: Especially when we have dwindling , uh , resources such as oil that 's burning out of control in the Persian Gulf , and , and so forth .
B: Just , just every little bit does ,
B: it makes me feel better .
B: It , it makes me feel like , well , there may be something left for my children , my nieces and nephews and so forth .
A: Well , yeah , uh .
A: Well , uh , would n't ,
A: it 's just probably a good thing that the oil 's burning and may , may , make some people realize that hey , you know , this stuff runs out .
B: That 's , that 's right , because ,
A: Of course , that 's probably blasphemy for you to say , uh , coming from where you are in Texas .
B: Uh , no ,
B: no ,
B: because if , we ,
B: what was it , seventy-four when we had the , the last last oil crisis ?
B: And , uh , we started getting smart
B: and , and we were looking all these alternative sources of the energy and so forth .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And as soon as the oil prices came back down , we , the pendulum swang the other way .
A: Right .
B: And we need those reminders .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , or we 'll suddenly be in the dark and say , Oh , my goodness , now we don't have the ability to go on to some new technology .
A: Right .
A: Well , my dad 's in the , in the solar energy business ,
A: so , uh , You know , we 're acutely aware of a lot of this .
B: Ah !
A: But , you know , on the other hand , he voted for George Bush ,
A: so um , you know , I , I wonder sometimes if he knows what he 's doing .
B: Well , I you know ,
B: just about anybody you could name , whether I voted for them or not , uh , makes , um , uh , decisions that I just ca n't go along with .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But that 's why they 're there and not me .
B: I don't want the , I don't want the stress .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , the , the thing with Bush ...
A: Okay , uh ,
A: I was just trying to think about how I , how I dress for work , you know ,
A: T I is a very casual atmosphere .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , what I usually do on the weekend is , is lay out five outfits
A: and , uh , on Monday I , I wear the , the worst looking one Because it does n't seem like people are really , you know , are that alive on Monday , you know ,
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: And then progressively through the week , I 'll , I 'll wear nicer looking things
A: and then on Friday most everybody wears jeans , jeans and sweatshirts , or , you know , jeans and blouses or something like that .
A: Uh , but mostly what I wear are skirts and blouses or , you know , skirts and , uh , pullover sweaters or , uh , you know , little two piece dress suit , suits like ,
A: but .
B: Yeah , uh ,
B: you know , that 's a good way to approach it .
B: I 've never thought about , um ,
B: I do plan my clothes a week in advance .
B: Actually , I plan them a month in advance .
B: I usually do a month at a time ,
B: so I don't repeat an outfit .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , um , I 've never thought about wearing your worst outfit on Monday , because really no one 's paying attention .
B: But anyway , um , I really , I don't work outside of school .
B: Um , I work in the computer lab at school
B: so I can just wear whatever I have on for school ,
B: an , and , um , and really it 's ,
B: I try to dress presentable but very comfortable .
A: Right .
B: Like , um , in the warm weather it 's always shorts and a t-shirt or a button up or something like that
B: and then in the winter time it 's jeans or , or pants .
B: I usually , uh , you know ,
B: college is so casual ,
B: you really don't want to dress up unless you , you , uh , have a job
B: and you have to be there right after school or something like that ,
B: so .
A: Right .
A: Like where I work , it 's , it 's pretty casual , uh ,
A: it 's , it 's , I guess it 's more like a , a college campus
A: also , I mean there 's you know , hundreds of people work for T I .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , a lot of people just , just wear jeans and , and , uh , sweats all the time
A: and they dress up like when customers are coming in , or , uh , when we have department meetings or something like that .
A: And , uh , you know , a lot of people like those that work in the legal department for their , the real , uh , higher ups , like the the , the T I lawyers , and , uh , those that work for the , the higher executives , those secretaries . They , uh , they really dress up all the time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: So there 's a good combination in the hallways all the time , you know
B: Well that 's good that they 're so casual .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , uh , my brother works for T I
B: and he 's a computer programmer , or computer engineer .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And , uh , you know , whenever he was going to school , he was expecting to having to wear , uh , a tie or a dress shirt everyday .
B: But , uh , he goes to work in his blue jeans , t-shirt , and tennis shoes ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he just loves it .
A: And that 's very acceptable at T I .
B: Yeah .
A: I believe at I B M they , they make you wear a blue suit and , uh , some kind of colored shirt and a tie .
B: That 's what I 've heard .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I I would hate to be in that atmosphere .
B: But , uh , I mean , they , they just moved into the new building ,
B: he calls it the new building .
B: I don't know ,
B: it 's where all the executives are .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , um , and so they were , they were going to try to take their blue jean code with them and trying to get all the , all the upper level to start wearing blue jeans .
B: But , he just left for Italy today at four ,
A: Oh .
B: and he 'll be over there until July first setting up some kind of computers for them .
A: I see .
B: Over in T , I mean for T I but over in Italy .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , T I is everywhere .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: he was so excited about going .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , he did n't carry any ties or anything because he , he just went over there with the that attitude , well if I don't take it then they wo n't make me wear it
A: That 's true ,
A: that 's a good idea .
B: Because , uh , he just , he did n't , you know ,
B: he 's not really into all that .
B: He would wear it if he had to for his job and all
B: but , you know , if he had the preference , I mean his , his preference is , um , blue jeans and a t-shirt ,
B: so .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I think that 's great about T I ,
B: and also , uh , to get off the clothing , the smokers , you know , how they have the , the different designated areas for smokers and stuff .
A: The ,
A: no ,
A: Right .
B: I think that 's great .
A: Yeah ,
A: and if you happen to go into one of areas that is a smoke , smoke area and you don't smoke , you almost strangle .
B: Oh , really .
B: Do you smoke ?
A: So much smoke in the air .
A: Yeah ,
A: areas , the smoking area , you know , it 's closed in ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if you if you don't smoke and you go in there ,
A: everybody that goes in there smokes
A: so it 's full of smoke when , when you go in there .
A: I used to smoke a long time ago .
B: I think that 's , um ,
A: I used to burn my clothes , talking about getting back to clothes
A: I used to burn my clothes with cigarettes .
A: That 's one of the reason that I stopped
B: Well , um , you mentioned your daughter had graduated from college .
B: Well when she was in high school did she always have to have all the new fashions
B: and , uh ?
A: Yeah ,
A: she always had , uh , yeah , she always had to have a lot of clothes .
B: See that 's how , that 's how I am
B: but my mamma was not raised like that
B: and so ,
A: No ,
A: I , I was n't either ,
A: she , my daughter , she 's real good at finding sales though , you know .
B: Oh , me to ,
B: boy I have to , hunt them down
A: she 'll buy a lot of , yeah , she 'll buy a lot clothes , at the end of seasons , you know , and , uh , just have them for the next year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And she , you know , she finds all the outlets and all the discount places and , uh , buys clothes .
A: Uh , you know , when they were coming up , I , I did n't sew ,
A: but now I 've , I 've learned how to sew ,
A: so I 'm , well I 'm , I 'm still learning how ,
A: but I 'm and I 'm getting much better at it
A: and I , I 'm going to be able to make my own clothes .
B: That 's great .
B: I wanted to take a sewing class at school
B: but I just have n't fit it into my schedule yet ,
B: but that , I mean , that can really benefit .
A: Right .
B: Um , that 's something that I 'd be very interested in , very interested in learning .
A: Right ,
A: because clothes are are really expensive . You know ,
B: Uh , they 're outrageous !
A: uh , uh , a little simple shell , shell blouse , you know , that you can make for about , say ten dollars at , you know , at , at the most out of a decent fabric , boy , runs you like twenty something dollars in the store .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah it 's , it 's marked up .
A: Just a little shell to go under a suit , you know .
B: It is , it is really outrageous
B: but , uh , I mean like whenever I , I was growing up and all , my mom ,
B: I never understood this then ,
B: but I do now ,
B: but she never would buy me like the new designer jeans that had come out that were thirty dollars ,
B: or , um , or she would n't buy me the fifty dollar tennis shoes and stuff like that
A: Uh-huh .
B: and she always told me it was because I was still growing
B: and she was n't going to buy me something I was going to grow out of next week .
A: Right ,
A: especially to pay that kind of money for it .
B: Yeah .
A: I have a friend who , uh ,
A: she had a , she had a a little boy
A: and , uh , she used to dress him out of Neiman Marcus .
A: I mean , she dressed him , uh , fabulously .
B: Oh no
A: And then , seems like every time she turned around he was outgrowing stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And she finally learned that you just can not do this , you know . * can not can not
A: So now she finds the basement sales and , just like , you know , everybody else .
B: That 's the best way to shop .
B: I mean , I always thought my mom was being mean to me
B: but I look back at it now
B: and my child is going to ,
B: I mean , I 'm going to raise mine the same way .
A: Right .
B: Um , I don't know ,
B: I just , they 're just so outrageously priced ,
B: it 's just incredible .
A: Yes ,
A: and you ,
B: I try to , uh , always catch the sales .
A: Right .
B: Always
A: And , yeah ,
A: and you just have to keep buying them , you know .
A: If you , if you , if you 're not buying the most expensive clothes out there the , the quality is really not that great , you know , for the price that you pay .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it depends on , um ,
B: yeah ,
B: there 's , there 's always a reason why they 're on sale
A: Right .
B: So that , that has a lot to do with it .
A: Right .
B: But , um ,
B: well ,
A: Like I bought , I bought the most beautiful uh , sweater from , uh , I believe it was Ross Dress For Less
B: Uh .
A: And it it was really pretty ,
A: it was just , you know , it was just plain , a plain , uh , you know , round , uh , necked , uh , sweater .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it had , like , it was embellished around the , the top , you know ,
A: it had , uh , leather , leather designs and , um , some other , other little things on it
A: and I just thought it was so pretty
A: and I I got it at a real good price ,
A: I think maybe it was nine ninety-nine or something .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: And it was so pretty ,
A: and after I wore it a couple of times I realized why , why it was , it was so cheap .
B: Uh , oh .
A: There was , in the middle of the back of it , there was ,
A: it 's like there ,
A: it had been slit
A: and they had like just sewed it back together , right in the middle of the back , you know ,
B: Oh , no .
A: was n't a seam or anything , you know .
B: Uh-huh
A: And that 's why it was so cheap , although , it 's not , it 's not really noticeable , like she was moving the uh , from the outside ,
A: but , but still , it 's , you know , it 's really not , not , not a good quality .
A: And then I was told by somebody that works for J C Penney 's that , uh , Ross , Ross is just one of those places that sell , sells seconds .
B: The defect .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: um , they don't really buy the first quality ,
A: they buy the second .
A: And , uh , places like J C Penney 's that they 'll reject the seconds ,
A: they 'll send them back every time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But places like Ross Dress For Less and , uh , T J Max .
B: T J Max does that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: yeah
B: we have a T J Max over here
B: and , um ,
A: Okay ,
A: what do you think about it ?
B: Well , uh , the roles have definitely changed in the last generation or so .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Um , I think a lot of it has to do with women working .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I do too .
A: I think it 's going to ,
A: in , like in the future , I think all women are going to work .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , they may let you off for a day or two to have your baby ,
A: but that will be it ,
B: Yeah .
A: or either they 'll have a computer at home and in the hospital where you can just , you know , just continue right on with your work .
B: yeah .
A: I mean , it really is coming to that because most women now days can not afford the time that they could take off unless the company pays them .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: They ca n't even afford to take off , you know , to have children it seems like .
B: And it , and it seems , if you 're going to have kids , uh , that you are , you know , society has decided for you how many you can really have and make it .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , because if you have , you know , two , well , if you go to work , you 're , just working to pay for day care , two or three , you know , um .
A: Right .
A: Now , I was real lucky because my husband had a good enough job where when my kids were , you know , when I had them and when they were small , until they got in junior high school , my youngest got in junior high , I did n't have to work .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , that is good .
A: I mean I did n't work ,
A: I , I needed to
A: but I did n't .
B: Yeah ,
B: Steve 's , Steve has a sister who has four .
B: She just had her fourth one in , uh , March
B: and she does n't have to work either .
B: I don't know how they do it .
B: I I don't know how people do it with one ,
B: you know , um
A: Let me tell you , you go without a lot of things that you you know .
B: yeah ,
B: obviously we don't have any
B: and , and I don't , I think that 's part of the role reversal , is it 's okay to get married and not have kids .
A: Oh yeah .
B: And I think for society for such a long time said , well , you know , you 're married , now you need to have , have your family
B: and I don't think it 's been until recently that , that they had decided that two people was a family .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: You know and ,
A: Well it 's getting where you ca n't hardly afford , if you 're going to give your kids any kind of education and stuff you ca n't hardly afford to have over two .
B: Right .
A: And I mean it 's hard with two ,
A: now , we ,
A: uh , my youngest one ,
A: I have two ,
A: I have a son and a daughter ,
A: and my youngest one is going to be graduating from college soon ,
B: Oh !
A: and if I had a third one , I just don't know where it would come from .
B: Yeah .
A: Because I work now ,
A: I work full time
A: and , uh , you know , it ,
A: when you put them through college it just takes just about everything you got .
B: Yeah .
A: They get loans and grants and scholarships and stuff like that ,
A: that helps out ,
A: but still , it cost a lot .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I mean , just the , you know , the cost of living and loans don't pay for groceries and stuff .
A: Right ,
A: and cars and all their books ,
A: and the books are outrageous . I mean , absolutely outrageous ,
B: Oh , I know ,
B: I know .
A: and they 're getting worse .
A: Uh , my daughter brought home a book the other day that she was going to have to have for her , one of her next classes
A: and it was like ninety-six dollars .
B: Gee
A: And this book is a little bitty skinny book .
B: Yeah .
A: I said my goodness , what is it , lined in gold , you know , uh .
B: Yeah .
A: But it is , it 's getting worse ,
A: and , if I 'd of probably had three or four children , I don't see how we could have made it , you know , without me working .
B: But that 's , that 's probably because , you know , if you had three , you , you know , would say , if I 'd of had four .
B: I guess it 's always not , not being able to picture one more ,
B: but in essence you probably would have worked out fine .
A: Right ,
A: but I think I would have had to work .
B: Yeah .
A: If I 'd of had that many , I 'd of had to work in order for my kids to ,
A: you know , even though he brings in a real good living and everything , in order for me to keep up , I would have had to work .
B: Yeah .
A: But I think it 's getting more and more like , when you have one child now , that 's it , you know ,
A: then you go to work
A: and you work ,
B: Yeah .
A: because if you have two or three kids , by the , way the inflation 's going I think a woman 's always going to have to work
A: and it 's just going to be an accepted thing .
A: There is n't going to be any of this , you know , very few people will ever stay home .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and that 's all right with me , because I don't want to stay home
A: Yeah .
B: you know , I think I 'm just part of the new stuff , that is just ,
B: I don't know , I think I would just go nuts sitting at home all day long .
A: Well you know , I ca n't imagine how I did , because now I work all the time ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , um , well I work all week ,
A: and , um , I ca n't imagine how I stayed home .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , I think to myself , what did I do .
A: And I think it just , it revolutionized an , where a woman thinks that a way , you know , just like ,
A: now my daughter , there 's no way that she can imagine herself married at the age that she 's at now
A: To her everything is , you 've got to go through college , you 've got to get a job , you know .
A: And then when everything 's set up , then you look for somebody that you want to spend the rest of your life with ,
A: but . I mean it is so far down the road ,
B: Right .
A: where , now when I graduated high school , the thing ,
B: That 's , you did , that 's what you did . Uh .
A: uh-huh ,
A: and then you got married
A: and then you had a family .
A: I mean that 's just the way it was , you know .
B: Yeah
A: And , uh , that 's like when my
A: I know when my mother 's age it was always the kids and the family and everything had to come first
A: and the woman stayed home and took care of them ,
A: an .
B: I , uh , I , I like the way it is .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's , uh , being ,
B: see , we 're from Houston and so it 's not so hard for people ,
B: you know , you 've been married three or so years
B: and you don't have kids , well it 's okay , nobody does .
B: But you come to a place like Belton ,
B: and
B: a lot of the kids here get married out of high school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's real small town ,
B: and
B: and a lot of people in our
B: we 're the only couple in our Sunday School class , except for one other couple , who are in their forties ,
B: and they ca n't have children , who don't have children .
B: And they ca n't imagine why we would want to have children . * I think the word might be `` would n't '' , otherwise it does n't make sense .
B: And , I 'm going well , you know , there 's more to life , you know , there 's life in there that 's ,
B: you know , not everybody has to have kids ,
B: and , I 'd rather spend the time with my husband than , you know , spending time ,
B: here , it 's your turn , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: but , you know , that , now even
A: whenever I was coming up and everything
A: and we got married right out of high school , well a year after I got out of high school
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I did n't have kids for four and a half years
A: but that was because I wanted to work
A: and I was n't ready for kids .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's what it is ,
B: I 'm not either .
A: And , everybody thought , oh , my gosh , what is the matter with her , you know .
B: They 're probably going , oh , I bet she ca n't get pregnant
A: Right ,
A: I mean they thought that it was terrible , you know ,
A: and then when I 'd tell them , you know , well I 'm just not ready for children yet ,
A: oh , but that , you know , you better , you better just get ready now .
B: Yeah .
A: Well you don't just get ready .
A: But I was kind of odd because as a general rule the people that married during my time , they had kids within a year .
B: Yeah .
A: And I just was not ready for kids .
A: I wanted to get out and work a little bit
A: and I wanted to travel and stuff like that , which we did .
A: And , uh , kids did n't fit in right then ,
A: but , it 's getting more and more like that where there 's more and more couples
A: and , really , if you don't want the kids , then it 's not the time to have ,
A: I don't care what anybody tells you .
B: Right .
A: And I think that more and more the attitude 's getting that a way .
A: Because that 's like my daughter
A: now , she says that , you know , maybe when she 's thirty she might want a child then .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , even though I 'd like to have grandchildren , I can see her point .
B: Yeah ,
B: Steve 's mom finally , uh , finally you know , said that , that God will take care of us when it 's our time .
A: Right .
B: She finally admitted , you know , she finally told me it 's okay if you don't ,
B: but it took every nerve in her body to say that because she 's from a very , very old fashioned family .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , she stayed home and raised her kids
B: and , and she expected all of her kids to do that too ,
B: and their wives and to be the , the housewife and have dinner ready by five and , and , you know , be there at every beck and call
B: and , I was raised totally opposite
B: How we got together , I don't know ,
B: but . Because my mother had six girls ,
B: and , you know , she worked too .
A: Yeah .
B: And , I guess I just
B: and I saw how life was when she stayed home
B: and it was rough ,
B: it was hard ,
B: and , uh .
A: Yeah ,
A: and it really is ,
A: I know ,
A: just like now , you know , there 's , there 's so much more now .
A: All my income goes for things like luxuries ,
A: I mean , it really does . Accept for what we give to my daughter , to , you know , put her through college and stuff . * Spellingusage : `` Accept '' should be `` Except ''
B: Uh-huh .
A: But the rest of it
A: we just buy things like boats ,
A: or we go on trips , or , you know , just the more or less like entertainment stuff ,
B: Right .
A: but .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think you 've , you 've earned that though .
A: Yeah ,
A: I feel like I have , you know , because well , we 're just a age now ,
A: I 'm not old
A: but , I 'm older .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I got to stay home with my kids , which I really wanted to do ,
A: but now I could not go back and do it .
B: Yeah .
A: And I mean , I did stuff
A: but , to me it feels like I must have done nothing .
B: Right .
A: And I think it 's just the new way that people are thinking .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think so .
A: But , uh ,
B: I think it would be neat if , if they could incorporate into small and large businesses both a built in day cares where the children were there in the facility but not necessarily right there with you .
A: Well you know more and more of them are ,
A: I don't know if it is up there where you are
A: but where I am , the , just like all the hospitals , they 're getting day care .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Are they ?
A: But the reason they had to do this was because so many people , you know , so many women could not afford ,
A: like you said if you had four kids , or even if you had two kids , you would be paying all your salary to pay for those two kids to go .
B: Right .
A: So , uh , more and more of our hospitals , especially , over here are getting them
A: and then some of the bigger companies ,
A: but it 's mainly the hospitals .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't know if the T I in Dallas does or not .
B: I know , I know nobody around here does , it ,
B: we 're , it 's too small around here .
A: Oh really .
B: Yeah .
A: All right .
B: Okay .
B: Well , I can go ahead and start and tell you mine
B: and ,
A: Okay .
B: We 're from San Antonio
B: and that 's where I grew up ,
A: Oh ,
B: So I was used to the heat , out here right now ,
A: Yeah .
B: Gosh , it gets to about seventies , high seventies
B: and it gets very cold at night .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And Monterey it 's , um , right on the coast .
B: And , I don't know if your familiar with California coastline , * your you 're
B: but we 're we 're about two hours , about a two hour drive south of San Francisco ,
A: Oh , okay .
B: And it 's , uh , really nice .
B: It 's a big area for people to come from the different , uh , countries , mostly like Japan , Germany and England .
B: And they usually go to Carmel and vacation on the beaches ,
B: so it 's , it 's pretty nice , uh , year round .
B: But , uh , cool , always cool in the evenings . And warm , warm in the Summer ,
B: but it 's stays pretty cold even , uh , during the Winter , for as nice as it is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , um , we usually get a fog . Uh , right about , I guess , about four o'clock
B: and it kind of rolls in over the coast .
B: And , uh , then it usually breaks back off again the next morning .
B: And if you go just a little bit ways in , I 'd say about a fifteen minute drive in towards Salinas , uh , the weather completely changes
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it gets very hot and dry
B: and the fog never makes it that far .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But along here it 's , uh , very very different from the Texas type weather .
B: What 's it like down there ?
A: Well , right now we 're we 're having the little bit of Spring that we have .
B: Oh , really ,
B: well at least you 've got some
A: We don't have many seasons here .
A: It goes from Winter to Summer , usually .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Spring usually consists of a lot of rain . Especially thunderstorms .
A: We 've got , we had one of those blow through tonight .
B: Oh , well , that 's good .
A: And I think we got the same thing in the forecast for the next two or three days .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So .
B: Have y'all been having any heat waves or like the ninety degree ,
A: It 's gotten up to , uh , ninety a couple of times .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , basically , it 's been in the low seventies and eighties .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Women , that 's good . For this time of year .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's not really been too bad .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Usually it sneaks on into the nineties a little earlier .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So do y'all have many bluebonnets and stuff this year ?
A: Yeah ,
A: quite a bit .
B: Oh , Uh-huh .
A: Well , the season is just about over for that ,
A: uh , in fact we drove down to Corpus last week
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , there were still some paint brushes and bluebonnets down along the way .
B: Oh , I miss that
A: drove through San Antonio
A: and I spoke to somebody else this morning from San Antonio
A: and were ,
A: they had ,
A: and we came back .
A: What day was that , Sunday evening ,
A: and they had a big rainstorm come through there , part of the same thing we 're getting now , I guess .
B: Oh . Oh , well that 's real nice because I can remember two years ago that in about February the hundred degree weather started in San Antonio and just continued .
B: At least y'all are getting some rain up in Dallas .
B: I 'm glad to hear that
A: Yeah .
A: That 's the second or third year in a row that we 've had a real rainy Spring .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We had a pretty rainy Fall last year , as well .
B: Y'all were n't getting any of the strings of the tornadoes and stuff were you ?
A: Um , we 've had a few down here , but not anything like Kansas .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But this is the season for that .
B: Oh , gosh .
A: They do , they do pop up occasionally , around here .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh Yeah .
B: I really don't miss all the heat there .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm getting acclimated to have the cool evenings
B: so we get a bit of a relief .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm from here originally ,
A: so when it 's July and August , I 'm pretty well used to the , hundred degree temperatures .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
A: The biggest problem with , with the weather and the rain in this area is the soil .
A: It 's that black clay soil .
B: Oh . Is that what Dallas is ,
B: okay .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , it 's not sandy like most of the state is ,
A: so it does n't absorb the water real well .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , once it rains a little bit , it 's , it 's filled up and everything else just runs off ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know .
B: Yeah .
B: San Antonio has that same problem when the rains come .
B: It 's , it 's a complete mess , everything floods , all the under passes .
A: Yeah .
B: I did n't realize that Dallas had that same problem .
A: Yeah .
A: We have it ,
A: especially as rainy as it 's been in the last couple of years .
A: And there 's a section in South Dallas that 's had a whole lot of flooding problems because of the rain .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , we could use some rain up here .
B: We 're like in the bottom of the fourth year of drought , up here
A: Really .
B: and they had a pretty good early Spring
B: and we got quite a bit of rain ,
B: but it was n't enough to offset what they lost over the last four years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , so they 're still talking water rationing this Summer ,
B: so it would seem strange because in San Antonio ,
B: we had lived out , um , west of San Antonio , in Castroville ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the water in Medina Lake and that area was really going down , that they were considering that they might have to do water rationing
B: and I thought oh , gee I 'm so glad to get out of there and get up here to the California Pacific coast where it rains and everything has flowers
B: and there 's no problem with water .
B: And then I came here and found out they were in the , you know , four year draught
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I said , well , gee , this is pretty much like Texas .
B: And it pretty much is in the middle of Summer .
B: They have rolling hills around here
B: but , um , they turn to golden dead grass , for the majority of the Summer just because there is no water to keep them green .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: But , um , it 's a really nice area .
B: It 's just , it 's just such a change from , uh , Texas because I had grown up with , uh , the heat ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and used to essentially ,
B: like you said , you have the cold Winter
B: and then you have the hot Summer Spring
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , to come here , it 's kind of the temperate weather all year round .
B: It 's kind of like , uh , Spring , I guess , if you , year round , except ,
B: and then in the Winter
B: and then it seems sort of like a San Antonio early Winter or Fall , year-round .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it seems like we only have two Springs which is , or two seasons
B: and that would be Spring and Fall .
A: Yeah .
B: We never really get any of the other ones .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But it 's a really nice , uh , change of pace .
A: I guess I 'd prefer that
B: Yeah .
B: To the heat .
B: I really don't miss the heat .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , we do a lot of , you know ,
B: when you do a lot of outside , like running and stuff , it 's just so much easier , up here
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you don't have to worry about the high humidity .
A: Yeah .
B: Does Dallas get high humidity ?
B: Or is it pretty dry .
A: It 's pretty dry .
A: We get some when it 's this rainy ,
A: but it 's nothing like , I guess , San Antonio Summers ,
A: it 's nothing like Houston .
B: Uh-huh .
A: or East Texas , is a little more humid .
B: Yeah .
B: It seems like San Antonio is increasing in humidity over the years ,
B: because I had lived in San Antonio for about twenty years ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it just seemed like every year it just got more and more humid , more and more humid And here it 's , uh , well it 's right by the ocean ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , um , it 's not the same as Corpus .
B: Corpus , you get that humid salty feeling in the air .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But here , um , well the water is extremely cold , up here ,
B: you can lay on the beach all you want ,
B: but if you want to go wind suffering or diving or swimming , you have to wear a wet suit . And a thick wet suit at that , because it 's just extremely cold
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I ,
B: for some reason , because of the cold , uh , ocean , uh , water , the air is always cool .
B: It 's never humid or sticky or salty feeling ,
B: so I really like that about this area .
B: And , uh , we just had n't expected it ,
B: we were used to , what , uh , gulf coast weather was like , when we came here to Pacific coast weather .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's just completely different
B: and it 's much nicer .
A: Yeah .
A: Probably the Pacific breezes make a lot of difference ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: It does
B: and the air does n't feel anything like it does along the gulf coast region .
B: But you , um ,
B: but we like it
B: so it 's a nice change .
B: So we 'll be here a couple of years
B: and we thought well , we 'll take advantage of it and see what all the Pacific coast is like .
A: That 's nice .
B: So it 's been good .
A: Well , my wife 's originally from Virginia
A: and we lived there for about nine months
A: and that was a real change for me .
B: Oh , I imagine .
B: Virginia , I imagine , gets real humid , does n't it ?
A: Um , parts do .
A: We , we 're over in the western edge in the mountains .
B: Oh .
A: And , they have , of course , some pretty severe storms , Winter storms , snow and that type of thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But they 're so good about clearing the roads , that , you know , it does n't usually bother you very much .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
B: Not like Texas where everything comes to a stand still .
A: Yeah .
A: Their Springs and Summers are pretty mild , too .
A: It never gets real , real hot .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 'll have to try that out because I had heard that North Carolina was sort of like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I 've just never really been in that region of the country
B: and I guess I 'm going to have to try that area sometime and see what it 's like .
B: Because a lot of people that are from that North Carolina region really like it .
B: And , uh , they get the snow ,
B: but they said it does n't really get messy
B: and it does n't really hang around that long .
A: Yeah .
B: So , they , the people I know that are from there , uh , they always miss it
B: and they want to go back
B: Nothing seems quite as good .
B: But , anyway . Well ,
A: Well , as we were talking the weather came on
A: and there 's a flash flood watch and , more rain for the next three or four days .
B: Oh , gee-whiz .
B: Oh , gosh .
B: Well , I hope it moves up this way ,
B: but I 'm sure it wo n't
A: Yeah .
A: Maybe we can send you some
B: Yeah .
B: Because we could sure use it .
B: Well , you think that takes care of the time and ,
A: I think that will do it .
B: Okay .
B: Well , I sure appreciate hearing how things are going in Texas and , uh ,
A: Well , I enjoyed talking with you Lisa ,
B: Yeah .
B: Good luck to you .
A: Uh-huh .
A: You , too .
B: Okay .
B: We 'll see you .
A: Bye .
B: Bye .
A: Well , what movies have you seen recently , Valerie ?
B: Let 's see ,
B: the last one we saw was THELMA AND LOUISE .
A: Oh , we have n't seen that one yet .
B: Well , don't bother
A: Oh , it was n't that good .
B: Well , oh , from a woman 's point of view and it was very , uh , chauvinistic as far as women go .
B: Uh , it was , it was entertaining ,
B: but , yeah ,
B: I don't think the general audience would , would go for it .
A: The most recent one that , uh , my wife and I have seen was the CITY SLICKER .
B: How was that ?
A: That was excellent .
A: It was just a really , a really funny movie .
B: That is one I 've been dying to see .
A: At the same time , it had a story line about people trying to find themselves .
A: There were parts that were sad .
A: I mean , it just ran the gamut of emotion .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: and ,
A: And , but it was just all around entertaining .
B: How long did that movie run ?
A: Uh , it 's still on , to the best of my knowledge .
B: But , I mean , time wise , how long ,
B: was it two hour
A: Oh .
B: or ,
A: Uh , it 's , I think it 's less than two hours .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Okay ,
B: okay .
A: We , we rented one recently that seemed to go on forever
B: That always seems to happen when you rent them , you know
A: Yeah ,
A: but this one , it was fairly long .
A: I , I 'm guessing probably an hour and forty-five minutes , maybe .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: and , uh , it ,
A: But excellent acting by Billy Crystal and Bruno Kirby ,
B: Was it , oh , good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , who was the ,
A: oh , Jack Palance had an excellent part in there as the old cowboy .
B: Oh , great .
A: So we really enjoyed that .
B: Oh , well , I 'm looking forward to seeing that one .
B: That was next on our list ,
B: so , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that , uh , I can highly recommend that movie this , to see .
B: Okay ,
B: okay ,
B: good deal
A: Yeah .
B: good deal .
B: Do you rent movies very often ,
B: or ,
A: Uh , we generally rent a couple a week .
A: Uh , in order to get a decent movie to have on a weekend , you 've got to rent it on Thursday .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: They get they get taken up at the store ,
B: That 's exactly right .
A: so ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: We will rent two or three movies on Thursday
A: and , uh , with luck , you 'll have one or two that are good .
B: Yeah ,
B: right ,
B: right .
A: Most of them are a coin flip
B: Oh , gosh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: And we usually have , oh , we don't get out as much as we like .
B: We have two children ,
B: so we occasionally get out to the movies
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , it 's , it 's fun , it 's a fun thing to do to get out and be entertained for once .
A: Yeah , well ,
A: Quite frequently , we have our grandchildren on the weekends
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , we 'll try to rent something that they can see as well as something else that we can see
A: and , Uh , Uh , generally try to stay in the at least P G range .
B: Uh-huh .
B: What ages are they ?
B: Have you found trouble finding movies for them
B: or ,
B: Right .
A: The , uh , the oldest is nine ,
A: the youngest is three .
A: He does n't really pay attention .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: The five year old does n't have the attention span , either .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: But the , the nine year old will watch anything that 's on T V
B: Uh-oh , uh-oh , yeah .
A: So ,
B: They have been doing that .
B: We 've been waiting for a , a good movie out this summer for the kids to see .
B: The last one they saw was HOME ALONE
B: and , uh , they enjoyed that ,
B: but , uh , I missed that one .
B: My husband took the kids to see that one
B: so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: my wife took , uh , I think the kids to see that one ,
A: but we can generally find something at the store for them to watch .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: well , that 's a good deal .
A: The ,
A: uh , oh , we saw this movie ,
A: PRESUMED INNOCENT was the one we rented , uh last weekend .
B: Okay ,
B: let me think if I have rented that one .
A: Harrison Ford .
B: Harrison Ford and , how does the story line go ?
A: It 's , uh , he is a prosecuting attorney
A: and , uh , another prosecutor in the , a woman prosecutor in there is murdered
B: Oh , okay ,
B: we have n't seen that one .
A: and he 's trying to find it ,
A: but , course , it 's one of these with a twist where it looks like he 's the one that wound up killing her
A: so it 's , And it 's an extremely long movie .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: It 's , it 's over two hours long .
B: Oh , gosh ,
B: oh , gosh .
A: Which ,
A: uh , my wife she likes the suspense movies .
A: I enjoy them to a degree .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think that 's the one I wanted to pick up the other day ,
B: and then my husband was n't going to be able to watch it with me ,
B: so I thought I better save that one for another day
A: Save that for another day .
B: Yeah ,
B: because I think he 'd like that one .
A: Yeah .
B: You enjoyed that one , then .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think you , it 's , uh , it 's something I think you would enjoy ,
A: yes .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: okay ,
B: well , that 's a good one to put on the list .
A: It , it 's like most suspense movies ,
A: what was
A: it was on T V recently , uh , FATAL ATTRACTION .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's one that , once you 've seen it once and , uh , the suspense there is not really you really ca n't see it again
B: Right ,
B: okay .
A: so you know all the story and who did what and when it happened ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so once , once you seen one that 's a suspenseful type movie like that , then it 's , it 's not good for a second watching particularly .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: okay .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh
A: At least I don't think so
B: I don't think too many of them are anymore .
B: It 's , it 's a shame ,
B: but , uh ,
A: I don't know ,
A: we 've watched WEEKEND AT BERNIE 'S any number of times
B: I know
A: It 's just slapstick comedy
B: Oh , no
B: Oh
A: Sit there and laugh ,
A: and , my one grandson and I ,
A: my wife ca n't understand it ,
A: but we like BILL AND TED 'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE which is another funny one
B: Oh , gosh .
B: Yeah ,
B: we 've heard about that one ,
B: but we have n't seen that one either
B: So , well , it sounds like you and your grandson like the same kinds of movies .
A: Yeah ,
A: we like to laugh
B: Oh , God .
A: I , I have a theory .
A: I like movies for entertainment .
A: I don't want to uh , go away depressed from watching a movie .
B: Right .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: I agree ,
B: I agree .
A: Life 's depressing enough
B: That 's for sure
A: Well , I 've certainly enjoyed talking with you .
B: Well , you , too , Jim .
A: Okay ,
A: bye .
B: Thanks for punching in
B: and , uh
A: Have a nice weekend .
B: I hope you see a good movie soon .
A: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: Bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: I guess we 're going to discuss food and cooking .
B: Alright
A: Do you enjoy cooking ?
B: Sometimes , not all the time
A: I 'm kind of that way , too .
A: When I have , I , I enjoy cooking when I have time .
B: Right .
A: I don't enjoy preparing three meals a day everyday
B: Yeah ,
B: that , that 's about the same boat I 'm in , too .
A: It gets kind of boring .
B: Yeah .
A: How big is the family you cook for ?
B: Uh , five .
A: Uh-huh .
A: We have four ,
A: so , and two of them are teenage boys ,
A: so
B: Oh , well I 'll be hitting that fairly soon because all of mine are boys , too .
B: So ,
A: Are they ?
B: And they get pretty particular sometimes in what they want to have .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have that problem too .
B: Huh .
A: But also , now it 's just the amount that they eat .
A: It 's just absolutely incredible
B: Oh yeah ,
B: well see , I , my oldest is nine
B: and he already he already does that
A: Yeah .
A: Does he ?
B: And I told him he 's going to have to get a part-time job by the time he reaches teenage years so he can eat .
A: .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's true .
A: Uh , do you have any favorite things that you serve when you are doing a special meal ? Favorite recipes that you 've come across or ,
B: Um ,
B: My husband and I , our favorite meal is , uh ,
B: and we do it
B: like for special stuff celebrations and , we have like steak
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he does the steak
B: and then uh ,
A: Out on the grill ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And he marinates it in his special stuff that he does .
A: Ooh
B: And it 's real good .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I do sauteed mushrooms ,
A: How ,
B: so
A: Ooh , yeah .
B: and asparagus .
B: And that 's our favorite , dinner .
A: Ooh , that 's sound good .
A: I love that .
A: My husband really likes seafood .
B: Yeah ,
B: so do we like a
A: Um , and , I think that no matter what I do , I don't serve enough of it , really , to , uh , to suit him .
A: I did n't grow up eating that much seafood
A: and , uh , so I don't know ,
A: it 's just kind of not natural to me
A: but I like it .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I don't know ,
A: one of his favorite things is , uh ,
A: well it 's called seafood stew
A: and it 's really , it 's really like a soup that , that you serve over rice .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , it has oysters and shrimp and crab in it .
A: And ,
B: It 's not the one with all the shells and stuff in it , is it ?
A: No ,
A: no .
A: That 's kind of Louisiana I think if you do that .
B: I don't know what that ,
A: Yeah ,
B: I don't see how you eat that ,
B: but
A: I don't either
A: But , uh ,
A: no
A: this is just it is really good
A: and , and one thing that 's good is it makes the , a large amount .
A: And so I 've , usually we eat one
A: and I freeze two containers of it .
B: Oh .
A: Then that 's just real quick to get it out and serve it over rice .
A: But neither of my kids will eat it . You know ,
B: Yeah .
A: so then they eat a pizza or
B: So it ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it defeats the purpose .
A: Yeah ,
A: it really does .
A: One thing I 've run across , recently though ,
A: a friend gave me a recipe that I really like for chicken enchiladas .
B: Oh yeah .
A: Have you made them ?
B: Yeah .
B: My husband makes those .
A: Does he , ooh .
B: I 'm not , I don't eat enchiladas .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I don't like I don't like the
B: I don't know ,
B: I guess it 's the texture , or something .
B: I don't like the taste of enchiladas .
A: Yeah .
B: But everyone else in my family does .
A: Well , are , these are done with a flour tortilla .
A: Is that what he uses ?
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know ,
B: I , it 's , I don't know what ,
B: I don't know .
B: I , I don't know what it is about the enchiladas .
B: I just ,
B: and I 'm the only one including my Mom and Dad and my brother .
B: I 'm the only one that does n't eat it
A: Is n't that something ?
A: Yeah .
B: But , my kids love it .
A: I was going to say , my kids both eat it .
A: I guess that 's one thing that I particularly like , um .
A: But I think it 's good for , you know , for , for company , too ,
A: and I 've made it a few times .
A: Um , and you can make a lot at one time when I needed to make something to , uh , to give somebody . You know , like , you know , to take over to somebody 's house or something else .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've got a chicken casserole that 's like that , that , that I 've ,
A: It , it 's nice when it makes , a lot because you can feed your own family
A: and then ,
B: Yeah ,
B: because I , when I make this chicken casserole I , it , it makes a real big casserole and then another one that I freeze .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , or I give it to my Mom and Dad if I know we 're not going to eat ,
A: What , what does it have in it ?
B: It 's
B: you can use chicken or turkey ,
B: because my Mom started making it like right after Thanksgiving and using the leftover turkey .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Sure .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's rice and , ,
B: when I do recipes I just throw stuff in .
B: I don't , I 'm not real good about measuring
A: Yeah .
B: because I just ,
B: I do it to taste .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Sure .
B: And ,
A: Sometimes those are the best ones ,
B: Well yeah ,
B: but it , it 's like , it 's just chicken ,
B: it , it 's , as much as you want , you know torn up and , and rice and cream of chicken soup and some mayonnaise and lemon juice and celery
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that 's it , and some hard-boiled eggs .
A: Yeah .
A: Ooh , that sounds good .
B: And that 's it .
B: You just mix it all together and pop it in the oven just to , you know , heat it through .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And you sprinkle , uh , that , those , uh , toasted onion rings . On top of it for the crunchy .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Those are good are n't they ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's it , you know
A: Um .
B: And it , it , it goes
A: That sounds good .
B: and it 's filling because of the rice .
A: Right .
B: So ,
A: You cook the rice before you put it in ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: I bet the mayonnaise in there makes it really , kind of gives it a tang that would be good .
B: Yeah ,
B: it gives it a , an extra yeah , little tang .
A: I guess I would now use the , the new mayonnaise free .
B: Yeah ,
B: that cholesterol fat free ?
A: Yeah .
A: That 's really wonderful that they 're coming out with so many new things like that because like I told my husband this summer , I love to eat , you know , chicken salad and tuna salad and stuff like that
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and , you know , basically it certainly a low calorie , you know , good thing except then you put your mayonnaise in there and spoil the whole thing .
B: I know .
A: You know and now it 's , it 's , it 's okay
A: and you can even ,
A: I used to just put a tiny bit in .
A: Well now , I 'm just putting more and more in
B: I don't like tuna salad unless it 's got lots of mayonnaise in it .
A: Yeah ,
A: and it 's only , it used to be like a hundred calories per tablespoon
A: and now it 's like twelve .
B: Yeah .
A: Oh !
B: I know .
A: I just think that 's the best thing to have happened ,
A: I 'm just so excited about that .
A: Anyway Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: we did the low-cal stuff .
B: Well with my kids I don't ,
B: they get enough sugar and stuff anyway .
B: Mine are bouncing off the walls normally anyway .
A: Yes
B: And they don't need any added help .
A: Right .
B: So , when we 're here at home , you know , with sweets and stuff , they , they don't , we don't really do that much .
B: I do a lot of fruits instead of the cakes and the candies and you know , stuff like that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and drink wise they have Kool-Aid , milk or water . Normally .
A: Yeah .
B: Now when they go to their grandmother 's house , which is every weekend . It 's a , it 's a different a different story all around .
A: That 's when they , As our family would say , a pig out
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's good .
B: That 's exactly what it is .
A: Oh , one of my boys that , that 's , twelve , um , is , has high cholesterol .
B: Oh really ?
A: Have you ever found out about your kids .
B: No ,
B: not yet .
A: Um , and my other one does not .
B: Huh .
A: So , oh , year or so ago he found out
A: and he went on a fairly strict diet to try to get it down . And did !
A: He was able to get it down .
A: It 's , I think it 's mostly hereditary because we really have never eaten high things in cholesterol .
B: Yeah .
A: He 's never eaten any eggs .
A: He 's never had anything but skim milk
A: and you know , I 've never bought butter and things like that .
B: Huh .
A: But , um , oh , he just left for the doctor again
A: and it 's , it 's kind of back up .
A: Um , so he needs to be careful again .
B: Yeah .
A: So we 've really been talking about the foods , you know , for him to , to be sure to eat
B: The lower cholesterol foods and stuff
A: and , uh , so he 's eating an apple a day for the last two days
A: And all that kind of stuff does really help .
A: Well , I think we 've probably talked long enough
A: and
A: Okay ,
A: well I guess I enjoy eating out , um , uh , here and there ,
A: or it 's , it 's a good change and , a good change from cooking and eating at home
A: and I guess I like a variety of , a variety of restaurants .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , sometimes it 's fun to go out and just have a hamburger and french fries and , and sort of a hamburger and french fry meal ,
A: and sometimes it 's , I enjoy it 's , I enjoy going out having a formal meal .
B: Yes .
A: And , uh , sometimes it 's nice to go out and have a salad .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Something , you know ,
B: Do you usually go out , uh , with the children or without them ?
A: Well , a variety .
A: I , I like to go sometimes without them
A: and , sometimes I , sometimes it 's okay to take them along .
A: So
B: Right
A: Sometimes I think we pay the baby-sitter as much as paying for their dinner or lunches
B: Yes .
A: so , uh , it just , you know , it just varies ,
A: we do a mix .
A: Sometimes it 's really nice to be able to go out and eat with just my husband
A: and it would n't even really matter which restaurant it was , just to , you know , have a moment of peace and quiet without little ones at the table .
B: Yes .
B: Yes .
A: So , uh , I guess I guess actually on those , those times , uh , we even , there are times I even say , oh , please don't sit us next to a table with other children ,
B: Well ,
A: this is our night out .
A: So but , uh , anyway , where do you like to eat ?
B: Uh , well , uh , we don't have any children
B: so , uh , we tend to , like to try all sorts of different things .
B: And , uh , we 're very attracted to exotic food .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , we like Indian food , and Thai cuisine and , uh , sort of gourmet Mexican and , uh , things like that , as well as Tex-Mex and Italian and , uh , Chinese and things , and , and things of that sort .
B: Now , yes ,
B: of course , we like to occasionally go out and get down and dirty with barbecue or hamburgers or something like that , too .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , we probably go out one to two times a week .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , uh , we 're pretty much regulars at an Italian , local Italian restaurant .
A: Oh , which one do you like ?
B: Momo 's .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Well , it 's been a long time since we 've been in there
A: but , uh , but it 's good .
A: There 's an Italian restaurant over , over by the mall , over by , uh , Plano Parkway there ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , is it Campari 's or something ?
B: I 've heard about it ,
B: I have n't been in there .
A: Well , it 's good .
A: I have n't , my husband had been in there several times
A: and we went in there , actually we went in there for lunch one day .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , their pastas were great .
B: that 's one of the things , a good pasta means a lot to me .
B: I , I like different kinds of food .
B: So , when we go out , I 'm always looking for something other than the standard menu , even if , it 's a Mexican Restaurant , like something other than , uh , you know the standard tacos , enchiladas , tamales and fajitas now .
A: You 're brave
B: Yes ,
B: yes
B: and once in a while things backfire .
B: I mean , we 've gone for Romanian food and Lebanese food , and things like that
A: Oh , God .
B: And I 'm not fond of some of those things
B: but we 'll try , we 'll try anything .
A: Right .
B: Ethiopian , we 've had Ethiopian . And , uh , not in Plano of course
A: No ,
A: I don't think so
B: But , we really , we really do enjoy going out
B: and uh , and , um , I 'm pretty adventurous in cooking , too , which also occasionally backfires .
A: Oh , well . Even though traditional it can backfire .
B: Yeah .
B: I think we 're supposed to say what will bring us back to a restaurant or , or what attracts us to a restaurant .
B: How do you usually find a , a new restaurant ?
A: Uh , well my husband 's kind of the he , he 's the ethnic fan .
A: So he 's ,
A: I don't know .
A: You know what , we read , we read the , uh , D MAGAZINE
B: Uh-huh .
B: So do we .
A: we , we check that and , uh , the Friday section in the newspaper the pull out section there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They often do ratings of restaurants ,
A: so
B: Right .
A: uh , we 've , uh , we 've usually , we often save those and ventured out on , from there , uh , just for something that had a high rating .
B: Uh-huh .
B: We have found , uh , a number of restaurants either through D and the , Friday paper and sometimes the , the OBSERVER . Which my husband usually picks up . And also through coupons .
A: Okay .
B: When a new restaurant opens up , they usually send out coupons .
A: That 's , That 's right .
B: And you know , when they say , you know , buy one get one free . It 's hard to resist ,
B: so we 'll go in .
B: And very often we 'll , find a place that we like
B: and we 'll stick with it
B: once they , give , they no longer give coupons . We 'll , we 'll , uh , we 'll stay there .
A: Oh good .
A: Oh , good .
B: But we 've found probably half of our sort of regular restaurants through coupons , and the other half through the , through the newspaper reviews .
A: Oh . Oh , yeah .
A: We , I guess we , we use the coupons , too .
A: That 's true .
A: That 's true .
B: I mean it 's wonderful , particularly if you have more than two people and you 've got say four or something like that .
B: It 's very expensive to go out to eat .
A: Oh right .
A: Right .
B: So , yeah
B: that , that is really one of our ,
B: it 's almost a hobby with us .
A: Well I think that it 's just , that 's sometimes I think going out to eat it 's , it 's sort of a recreation .
B: Yes .
A: So , uh , just a , just a change of pace from , uh , eating at home .
B: Yes .
A: So , uh anyway . I guess , uh , as far as , as far as service when we go out gosh , it 's nice , it 's nice to have someone come and wait the table . And clear the table and ,
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , absolutely .
B: And do the dishes
A: Yeah ,
A: and do the dishes .
A: And , uh , actually it 's kind of nice to , you know ,
A: I always ,
A: uh , a waitress or waiter that waits the table , it 's nice that they 're attentive
A: but it 's not nice when they 're too attentive .
B: Oh , yes .
A: So , uh , we 've had experience with that , too .
A: So ,
B: my sister , who also lives here in Dallas , uh , tends to , uh , chat with waiters and waitresses and become their best friends during the course of dinner , which drives me absolutely batty .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Well , how we
B: but ,
A: it may , it may help their tip , may not , huh .
B: What 's your favorite restaurant ?
A: Gosh , I guess just in Plano , I , Plano I like to go to Souper Salads .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , Chili 's , Chili 's is always fine .
B: Sure .
A: I guess if we go to Dallas , into Dallas , we like , uh , the Routh , is it Routh Street Cafe .
B: You know , we 've never been there .
A: Well well , you would like it .
B: And that 's supposed to be wonderful .
B: Um .
A: You 'd like it especially it you 're adventuresome .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It just , we 've , we 've taken people there several times
A: and , uh , they have a good , they have a good choice of things that are very different sounding .
A: I guess , it 's , whether you call it Southwestern
A: but , uh , oh we had venison venison chili one time . Which was absolutely wonderful .
B: Ooh .
A: And then I guess it must be seasonal
A: and we 've been back ,
A: oh , I guess it 's in the winter season
A: well they 've never had it when we 've been back ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so . But , uh , well you ought to try that .
A: It 's , it 's , it 's very good .
B: I would probably like that .
B: One or two times in my life I 've ever had venison , I 've loved it .
B: But , you know , just , it 's just not ,
B: I don't know people who hunt
B: so
B: uh
A: No .
B: That 's , that 's supposed to be a wonderful place .
B: uh , uh , uh , here in Plano , well , we tend to go to Momo 's a , fairly often .
B: And , uh , sometimes we 'll go , you know ,
B: we , we also go to Chili 's and , uh , Colter 's Bar B Q ,
B: and , and uh , we go to , there is a little Thai place that 's over on Park that , we go to .
B: My husband particularly likes that .
B: We go into Dallas , a lot and , because we 're both were from the Richardson , North Dallas area , up until fairly recently .
B: And , uh , we 'll go down to , uh , Blue Mesa Grill , Mexican food ,
B: and
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: Yes ,
A: I 've been there .
A: Okay ,
A: why don't you start
A: so you probably have a job you need to get to pretty soon .
B: I 'm already on my job
A: Oh , you are ,
B: so , you , you reached me at my job .
A: Oh , wonderful ,
A: well how do you dress for work ?
B: My , my dress for work , uh , most of the time is , uh , rather comfortable and casual uh , usually , uh , slacks and a soft colored shirt .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The , um , thing that , that distinguishes me a lot of the time when I have to dress real professionally for a meeting or something is I wear a clerical collar and a suit and , uh , all of that sort of thing ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but when I don't need to dress up for a , a meeting or a service of some sort , I don't .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So you 're in a church there ?
B: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I 'm working , this is my first morning to work down at our little church preschool ,
A: and they 've told me to wear just something terribly comfortable because these are two year olds ,
A: and they have a lot of , uh , they have BIBLE lessons
A: and they have all the things during the morning ,
A: but they still have snack time and play time ,
A: so , I 'm going to be dressing just in casual slacks and T-shirts , probably not blue jeans , but little bit short of that , just , just tennis shoes and play clothes .
B: Well , around there you can probably wear , uh , T-shirts and other things ,
B: but around here , at this time of the year we are into sweaters and , uh , coats .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm envious
A: Well , it 's a beautiful day here ,
A: and it 's in the sixties ,
A: but we still have a lot of hot afternoons ,
A: it 's supposed to be eighty-five today ,
A: so you 'll still see people ,
A: it , it 's kind of an in between change , that they 're in their play clothes , I mean , they 're in their summer clothes during the afternoons , because you just ca n't stand the sweaters ,
A: but in the mornings people are dressing for work in their sweaters because they just want it to be fall so badly
B: Today , today we , we wear coats
B: and as the day , uh , warms up , we may go to light jackets ,
A: Did you ?
B: but I don't think there 's an escape from light jackets .
A: I understand .
B: The wind will take away a lot of body heat .
A: Well , so are the people around you , um , dressing similar to you ?
B: Very similar .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: so you don't have to , you don't have to buy the lot of the wardrobe that some of the people in banking and that kind of thing do .
B: No ,
B: I 'm not stuck with that kind of a , uh , situation .
A: Well , that 's good .
A: That 's good .
B: As I say , unless it happens to be ,
B: now yesterday I had to dress up , and and , uh , be more formal because I had a , a formal meeting at noon time ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but then I can go home later in the day and , and be a little more casual
A: Well that 's wonderful
B: and then if I have a , a meeting of people that I know , I can be very casual in the evening .
A: Well , my husband has to take the bus into Dallas , and does n't return all day ,
A: so he has to dress ,
A: and he just really hates it ,
A: they have the long sleeve shirts and the whole tie and the whole suit ,
A: and even when his job is not going to be with people all day long , he said it 's just part of the uniform and the expected image that they have to dress .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , around here in a lot of places that 's the way it is
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , there , there are expected , uh , dress codes
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the people need to follow that .
B: I think , uh , years ago , I used to be far more , uh , committed to the idea of , of a dress code
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I 've relaxed a lot more as I 've gotten older and become more comfortable with myself .
A: Well , I think that 's , I think that 's great .
A: I think that 's good .
B: It 's taken a long time to break away , from , from that
A: I understand .
B: but now that I 've broken away from it , I 'm , I 'm glad I have .
A: Well , another interesting thing on the our , our end here is how , even in my forties , how much younger I dress than my mother would have in her forties ,
A: and I will run around to the store in things , in slacks and tennis shoes ,
A: and she ,
B: You mean you don't need to wear little old house dresses any more ?
A: Right ,
A: and pearls ,
A: and she would not have even probably owned a pair of tennis shoes after she got out of high school ,
A: so , uh , she tells me I dress young ,
A: but that 's okay
B: That 's a good idea ,
B: that 's a good idea .
A: Well , there 's not a lot more I can think of to discuss on clothing .
B: No ,
B: there , you know ,
A: I guess this is what you call a natural end
B: Yeah ,
B: what kind , what kind of shoes do they wear down there ?
A: Well , we wear ,
A: of course , like I said , if my husband 's going downtown , he 's got the whole , uh , you know , the dress men 's dress shoes
B: Uh-huh .
A: but for as out here , just anything that the moms ,
A: we all kind of have our own little dress code of just either tennis shoes or little loafers and , and , uh , tights , and things that feel comfortable to us around our kids .
B: We , we can wear pretty much that , although , um , tennis shoes are kind of out in , in almost every , every situation unless you want to look like a gook
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm sure they are there .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm sure they are .
A: That 's right ,
A: I 'm sure that true .
A: It 's a lot different than working in a kids preschool .
B: A lot different .
A: That 's right .
A: Well , you all have a nice day there .
B: You too ,
B: and thank you for calling .
A: Thank you very much .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
B: Do you have any ?
A: Sure .
A: I have a Springer Spaniel ,
A: and her name is Thumper .
A: She 's about seven or eight years old .
A: I got her for Christmas from my family , and , uh , back when we lived in Nebraska .
A: I like to hunt ,
A: and , uh , so , I thought that if I had a good hunting dog like Thumper that , boy , I could just go out and get all kinds of game
B: Did it work ?
A: Yeah ,
A: except we live in Plano , Texas now
B: No ,
B: right .
A: so
B: I , um , I had a , for many years I had a dog that was part Springer Spaniel .
B: I just love them .
B: Her name was Molly ,
B: but she is n't alive any more
B: We had her for , um , fifteen years , I think , my family did , and just loved her .
B: She was the greatest , greatest , um , went through two generations of children in my family and was always very gentle .
A: Do you have a pet now ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I have a cat now .
B: He just turned seven , also ,
B: and he 's , I , um , got him in Arizona and , when I used to live there ,
A: Oh .
B: and he is huge .
B: He is eighteen pounds .
A: What kind of cat is it ?
B: Just ,
B: um , I got him ,
B: he was , um , he was born in the wild , like in a , in a shed and had never been in a building when I got him .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So he ,
B: and he 's , he , he must be part , cross part with some kind of desert animal , because he 's very long and lanky ,
B: but he 's a very tame spoiled house cat , you know , now that I 've had him for seven years .
A: Being born outside , you did n't have any problems house training him ?
B: No ,
B: no
A: That 's good .
B: he 's ,
B: yeah ,
B: he 's great ,
B: and uh , he 's , uh , he 's really spoiled , though
B: So , but he 's really big ,
B: so , lots of times he , it , he seems to get in fights ,
B: and when he was younger I think he started them ,
B: and now , I think he barely makes it .
B: I think he gets beat up even though he 's big , because he 's pretty much overweight , and comes home with a few scratches now and then ,
A: Sure .
A: And older
B: yeah .
A: Well , we went to a cat show at the Plano Center here in town ,
A: and , uh , we thought that , we have a cat now ,
A: but we thought , Well , if we ever get another cat , you know , we 'd want something kind of unique ,
A: so , we kind of looked around ,
A: and they had everything from hairless cats to Siamese cats and Persian cats
A: and we sort of fell in love with the , uh , Maine Coon cats .
B: Oh , I 've seen them .
B: I
A: They 're huge .
B: yeah ,
B: I have seen them .
B: They , um , were n't they , they were
B: actually , I ca n't remember ,
B: they were used to be used on ships and in , for , for mousers you know ,
A: Oh .
B: so they 're very nautical , too
A: I 'll be darned .
A: I did n't know that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I just ,
B: uh , I think I 'm , I think I 'm being accurate in the , in the area of folklore ,
B: but I 'm not sure .
A: Well that 's interesting .
B: Yeah .
A: We kind of like ,
A: well , my family did n't necessarily like , like them as much as I did ,
A: but the Manx , is that the one that does n't have a tail
B: Yeah .
A: it sort of has a bob tail .
A: I kind of like that , too ,
A: but .
B: Yeah .
B: I 'd love to go to a cat show .
B: I 'm real , a real cat lover .
B: I 'd have a lot more cats if my boyfriend would let let me
B: He does n't really like mine , let alone another one .
A: Well , I 'll tell you an interesting story about how I got my dog ,
A: and then I suppose our five minutes will be up .
B: Yeah .
B: Okay .
A: I work for a university ,
A: and I went to , uh , Omaha , Nebraska to recruit students ,
A: and I had some time off in the afternoon ,
A: so I went to a , a pet shop ,
A: and I saw these little Springer Spaniels
B: Um .
A: and so I decided , well , you know , this would really be a nice dog to have ,
A: so , when I got back home to Carney , Nebraska , I told my wife about it ,
A: and I said , You know , this is just a ,
A: I , I , I can just hear the dog crying for me now
B: I know what you mean .
A: And Christmas is coming up , hint , hint ,
A: and so , I had to go back the next week , as well as a bunch of other people from the university ,
A: and one of the people , uh , that we went with , uh , they were friends of ours ,
A: and so , we got to Omaha ,
A: and I decided I 'd take my friend over and show him the dog ,
A: and so I got over there ,
A: and she said , Oh , that 's too bad , the dog has already been sold .
A: And I did n't realize it ,
A: but this guy had somehow worked it out so that he got there a little bit earlier , bought the dog ,
A: and she was in the back room ,
A: and so that night we had a reception for some of the , uh , potential high school students or college students ,
A: and , and , uh , he had the dog the whole time in his room ,
A: and , and I had no idea .
A: And so we headed back to Carney that night ,
A: and the dog rode in the car
A: and we stopped along the way and had a bite to eat
A: and they left the dog in the car ,
A: and I guess while we were inside eating , Thumper just tore the heck out of the inside of the car ,
A: and , uh , finally we made it back to , uh , to Carney
A: and ,
A: I guess we 're recorded .
B: Okay .
A: What ,
A: do you have any hobbies that you like to do ?
B: Oh , yes .
B: Cycling , computers , uh , backpacking , just about everything .
A: Oh
B: Oh , I generically have , you know , millions of hobbies .
A: All right ,
A: that 's an interesting assortment .
A: My husband is into cycling .
A: In fact , he 's out there right now before it gets dark trying to get in his miles for the , the time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm not quite that bad .
B: I 'm just a weekend cyclist .
A: Uh , do you have any , do you do any handicraft type things , I think was the question .
B: Handicraft type things .
A: Yeah ,
A: whittling or
B: Yeah ,
B: just whittle away my life .
B: Uh , no ,
B: no ,
B: I
A: Nothing like that .
B: Uh , uh ,
A: I , I do some things .
A: I 've gotten into ,
A: uh , oh , I , I like to decorate things
A: and I do sweatshirts and T-shirts
A: and I 've gotten to where I start , have started selling them at craft shows and things .
B: Oh , that 's pretty good .
A: Uh , and I have , have done fairly well at them .
A: I 've had
A: a , a few of my little hobby projects have totally bombed ,
A: but most of them have worked out pretty good
B: Yeah ,
B: they ,
B: my only craft work is kind of like computers and , you know , go off to the little computer club meetings ,
B: and , it 's kind of nice because I 've made money at it , too .
B: Considering I , I work for it a living ,
B: but I , you know , I , I 've got a couple of articles published .
A: Oh !
B: It 's kind of , kind of neat .
A: Yeah ,
A: what , what does a computer club do .
A: I did n't know there were such things .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: just all over the place .
B: They just get around and , and talk techy or , or else , uh , uh , you know ,
B: like half the members are really expert
B: and the other half are like really not .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , we kind of help out the people who are really not
A: You don't , uh , you 're not into hacking or whatever
B: Oh , I , I think I 'm , I think I 'm a hacker ,
B: but I 'm not , not kind , not the , uh , the , you know , dial around randomly trying to break into computers type hackers ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: no ,
B: that 's one of those sports I don't go for .
A: Well , that 's kind of interesting hobby .
A: What else , did you ,
A: you said you did cycling ?
B: Yeah .
A: What was the other thing ?
B: Backpacking .
A: Backpacking .
A: We ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I belong to a , a Boy Scout troop .
B: It beats paying United Way .
B: I just , you know donate a whole bunch of my time to the Boy Scouts and have fun .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , that 's , we have done that .
A: Uh , our two older boys were in Boy Scouts
A: and my daughter was in Girl Scouts until just about a year ago
B: Uh-huh .
A: so we 've uh , done a fair amount of that in our spare time , also
A: But , it ,
A: I ,
A: that 's a great thing to do , you know , really .
A: Have you been backpacking anyplace exciting ?
B: Uh , well , just last weekend went to Davy Crockett forest which is kind of out in east Texas .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we go to , uh , places out in ,
B: uh , uh , let 's see
B: what 's that , what 's that state north of us ,
B: that state
A: Oh , that one .
B: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that one .
B: That one .
A: Okay
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: And ,
A: To the ,
A: uh , oh , by Fort Sill there ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: to another a , uh , old Indian fort that 's out there .
B: Trying to think of the name of it .
B: Durn .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: no ,
B: sorry ,
B: no memory .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Have you gone , like to Fillmont with the Boy Scouts ?
B: No ,
B: I missed out this last year .
B: I was n't able to get the time off , but maybe next year .
B: It 's a good possibility .
A: I 've always thought that would be a real fun thing to do .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: When I was a kid , uh , we 'd do the equivalent thing in the High Sierras .
B: That was loads of fun .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Does , does your whole family like to do it ,
A: like you , you know , for a vacation you 'd go backpacking ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: not quite because I 'm not a whole family .
B: I 'm just me
A: Oh , okay .
A: You just , oh ,
A: and , and you volunteer for the Boy Scouts , huh ?
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I rent my kids
A: Uh-huh
A: Well , sometimes , uh ,
B: It 's better than , you know , owning on them and making payments on them , and , you know , things like that .
A: Sometimes I think that might not be a bad idea
A: Have ,
A: uh , you said you did it in the High Sierras .
A: Uh , do you ever , you know , just vacation someplace where you strictly backpack ?
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh , not recently because , you know , like the Boy Scouts makes it so that I go like once a month , you know . Someplace .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , there 's , uh , some , some stuff that I want to do with like Sierra Club and go down to Grand Canyon or something like that .
B: So , you know , they have lots of tours where they get a bunch of people together and off you go .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Which seems kind of reasonable because that means you don't have to take twenty thirteen year olds with you , which seems a , a , just a tad more relaxing
A: Well , I ,
A: probably ,
A: probably .
A: That 's ,
A: uh , well , my , my other things that I like to do in my spare time , I 'm , I like swimming .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Which is in now .
A: I 've done that
A: and I , I also ,
A: when I like something , I usually try to figure out how to make money off of it .
A: Okay ,
A: is it Mike ?
B: Yes .
A: Do you repair your own car ?
B: I try to , whenever I can .
B: I 've always been a , a I guess a product of a handyman father .
A: Well , I tell you what , that 's , count your blessings because uh , it really is good when someone can do some things to a car themselves .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: There 's ,
B: although I 'll tell you , you know , over the years the cars get more complicated .
A: Well , that 's why I don't do as much as I 'd like .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: Because they are , I mean they 've got , they 've gotten complicated have n't they ?
B: Yes .
B: One of my first cars was a fifty-six Buick . Which , after awhile I could , you know , take it apart in my sleep if I needed to .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Is that right ?
B: Yeah .
B: It , it got to be pretty straightforward to understand
B: and , now since then , you know , the closer a car is to a fifty-six Buick , the , the more I know about it .
B: And then start getting into these Nissans and the like
B: and I just ca n't keep up .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I agree .
A: About all I ever ,
A: I never was too mechanically inclined ,
A: but I used to always change my own oil and do the points and plugs and ,
B: Yeah .
A: Course , they don't use , uh , points anymore .
B: That 's right
A: But , Uh , they do still use plugs .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , now brakes , I 've always done a lot of , you know , changing brakes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I used to do , I could always do the alternator , you know , and starter .
B: Yes .
A: I don't anymore ,
A: but I have on a lot , a lot of times .
B: Yes ,
B: I understand .
B: My last car repair actually had to do with brakes
B: and it 's one I did not do myself .
B: I took the car , my ,
B: I have a seventy-nine El Dorado , took it to be inspected
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the parking brake failed .
B: So I got under there and messed with the , the that , uh , that adjustment to make , to tighten it up
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that did n't do the trick
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then I got there and tried to ,
A: It probably slipped loose , did n't it ?
B: Well , actually that was n't even eventually the problem .
B: I , I did a lot of things that I , I did everything that I could think to do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , eventually I brought it up to a , a place called Just Brakes
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it turns out that there 's a ,
B: the parking brake in the rear ,
B: there 's a , there 's disc brakes
B: and the parking brake is a piston deal .
A: Um .
B: And because the parking brake had n't been used in so many years , the piston froze up .
A: Oh .
B: So they ended up having to pound it out .
B: And one of them , they , were able to get running , uh , kind of oiling it and playing with it
B: and the other one they just , it was just frozen solid ,
B: so I ended up having to buy one
B: and all total , it was just under two hundred dollars , believe it or not , to get all that done
A: well , it really was n't quite , as bad as you thought , was it , was it ?
B: yeah ,
B: actually , I , I think it was a lot of money ,
B: but I , I don't , like I
A: Well , it was a lot of money ,
A: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: but , I ,
B: it got to the point where I did n't know what was going on
B: so ,
A: You had to have the help , did n't you ?
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , do you still do much work on them , then ?
B: I do .
B: actually that was just a , at , at the beginning of September
B: and , whenever I can , I do try .
B: I
B: actually , I 'd say this .
B: I , I 've gotten to the point where I don't change the oil anymore . Only because ,
A: Disposal is a problem .
B: Well , that is one problem ,
B: but also these , uh , these fast oil change places , you just ca n't beat them .
A: That 's true .
B: For sixteen bucks they 'll not only will they change the oil in ten minutes , and do a you know , as good a job as I can do , but they 'll , uh , lube , too
A: That 's true .
A: Right ,
A: that , that ,
A: I 've , I 've quit doing that myself .
B: Yeah .
A: And , but one of the main reasons was the disposal of the oil , you know .
B: Yep ,
B: that 's right .
A: And , uh , but , it ,
A: but , no ,
A: I guess ,
A: that ,
A: and the main reason that it 's , it 's quick .
A: Well , have you seen a new movie lately ?
B: Well , uh , I am a student
B: and I have , uh , been actually watching more movies on video , than being able to go out to see , uh , movies at the store , or at the theater .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I I want to see the FISHER KING and , and , uh , catch ROBIN HOOD .
A: Okay .
A: I , uh , I have n't seen either one of those .
A: Uh , what , what are some of the shows that you have been able to rent though ?
B: Uh , let 's see .
B: Uh , I 'm trying to just think of the ones that have come on .
B: Uh , WHITE PALACE which I thought was over rated , over hyped , um , recently .
B: Well , you 're catching me at , it , uh , uh , at mind 's end here .
B: What have you seen recently ?
A: Well , maybe you , uh , you have seen DANCES WITH WOLVES .
B: Yes .
A: Okay .
B: Yes .
A: What did you think of that one ?
B: Enjoyed that quite a bit .
B: Um , I thought the , uh , the the cinematography was excellent .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , the story was ,
B: uh , though it tended to be a little one sided uh , it was good .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , it was , it was believable .
A: I , uh , I just moved down , in fact , from South Dakota in , in June ,
A: and that 's when the movie was filmed ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , we , when , when the movie came out , we went ,
A: uh , my dad lives in the state capital , which is Pierre
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it was filmed right outside of Pierre .
A: In fact , the buffalo , the scene , the big buffalo herd scene , that was , that was a live scene .
B: Wow .
A: Uh , there 's a guy that has got a , a buffalo farm ,
A: and he has got over ten thousand head of buffalo and , and , uh , we , my dad has got a little plane , we flew over it all looked at the buffalo ,
A: it was really neat .
A: But , uh , so we are watching the , the movie in the movie theater in Pierre
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , just every time I would start to get into the movie , and it was getting good someone in the crowd would yell , hey , there 's John Red Eagle , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: or , you know , they 'd start recognizing people .
B: They knew , they knew the extras or the ,
A: Yeah .
A: So , I kind of , I think I enjoyed it more when I , when I watched it on video cassette than I did , uh , in the movie theater because my attention would get diverted every time they 'd say that .
A: I 'd go now , now which one could that be you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I 'd , I 'd start trying to focus in on people instead of , of picking up the overall ,
B: Scope .
A: Right .
A: Exactly .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , but I , I thought it was a good film .
A: But you are right ,
A: I think , I think it was very one sided .
B: It , it was ,
B: but it 's a side that has n't been told . Uh , as far as , you know , telling it from , you know , the Indians as the good guys and the , the white men as the bad guys .
B: I , I really thought about , uh , all the , the westerns that we have seen for years and years ,
A: Sure .
B: and it 's just , shoot the Indians ,
B: and they are always the savages .
A: Right .
B: So ,
A: In fact , I was watching WILD WILD WEST last night
A: and , it was a similar , uh , situation with the Iroquois Indians attacking a , an army fort .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , but it was an interesting movie .
A: Uh , have you seen PRETTY WOMAN ?
B: Yes .
A: Now I thought that was a good show .
B: Yeah .
B: That was , that was a good movie .
B: Um , it was just kind of a get away movie .
A: Yeah .
B: Kind of ,
A: It did n't , uh , it did n't have any real social bearing
A: or , uh , and it was n't really a comedy ,
A: but it was an enjoyable movie .
A: It was , it was kind of like the STAR WARS series , you know , just something a little different , yet believable .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Yes .
B: You 're bringing it ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I had a , I sure did have a mind lock about the movies I 've seen .
B: But , yeah ,
B: I 've seen PRETTY WOMAN and DANCES WITH WOLVES ,
B: and , uh ,
A: Uh , now are you , are you going to see , or do you , are you much of a STAR TREK fan ,
A: are you going to see this next one that 's coming out ?
B: Oh , definitely .
A: Have you seen the rest ?
B: Yes .
A: I think I 've missed one .
A: I 'm not sure ,
A: but I think I 've missed one .
B: I actually went to the STAR TREK twenty fifth anniversary marathon that happened about a month ago ,
B: and they showed all five in a row .
A: Was that here in Dallas ?
B: Oh , they had it everywhere ,
B: uh , every major city had one theater that did it
B: and ,
A: Okay .
A: Because we had one here in Dallas .
B: Right ,
B: and they did it in Houston ,
B: they did it , well , they did it everywhere .
B: And it was , it was really good to see all the movies and how the story developed ,
B: and the thing that I did n't realize is that if you watch the movies in a row , uh , time wise they happen one after another and just no , no time between them ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but you can watch the characters develop ,
A: I said Arlington , Texas because the other day , I was talking with somebody
A: and he was in Arlington , Virginia
B: Oh , no .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's the only one I 've got now for this area .
B: Oh , gosh , oh , gosh .
A: Well , anyway , we 've got a easy subject .
B: Yes ,
B: we do .
A: You go ahead first , if you 'd like .
B: Okay ,
B: let me think here .
B: Favorite ,
B: I have n't been watching much T V lately
A: Yeah ,
A: you know you get so busy .
B: I used to .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have , uh , I have one favorite soap opera .
B: I still watch
B: and I tape because I 'm not home
A: Oh ,
B: And , uh , let 's see ,
B: that 's GENERAL HOSPITAL ,
B: and then , uh , at night , uh , I don't , uh , when I sit down , I don't usually sit down till almost nine o'clock when my kids get in bed
A: I know .
B: and , and , uh , then I watch ,
B: uh , what do I watch at nine o'clock .
B: Let 's see ,
B: oh , well , Tuesday nights I guess , we try to catch a couple of the shows that the kids like .
A: Right .
B: And , uh ,
A: Are they little ?
B: I have a seven year old and a ten year old .
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're pretty young .
B: And , uh , so we usually catch , uh , FULL HOUSE ,
B: and , uh , what 's the one comes on after that .
B: It 's a new one , uh ,
A: I don't know ,
A: my kids are older
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I don't , I don't know some of those shows now , like I used to
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh , other than that , uh , oh , gosh . I watch KNOTS LANDING on Thursday nights , for pure entertainment , nothing else .
A: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: Well I , I like the comedies .
A: They 're just light , too .
A: I have to watch MURPHY BROWN
A: I really like ,
B: Oh , now that is a good one .
A: I make a point of that .
B: That is .
B: Yeah ,
B: if I 'm home on Mondays , then I , I definitely watch her .
A: I love that
A: and I really like COACH .
A: I think it 's , when it 's good , it 's just a scream .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: well , he 's a good actor .
B: He really is good .
A: Well , he 's probably playing himself .
A: Half the time you see these people on an interview show , they 're , they act just like they do in their parts
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
A: He ,
A: I saw him on JOHNNY CARSON once
A: and he acted about the same
B: Oh , God .
B: Well , he could very well be
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh ,
B: So , do you watch much T V ,
B: or ,
A: Well , I watch more now because , well I , I had been going to school for years and have really been too busy
B: Uh-huh .
A: but this semester I 'm only taking one course
A: and so I see MURPHY BROWN and COACH and THE WONDER YEARS .
A: I just make a point of seeing those .
B: Now , I never see that .
B: Well , I 've got a friend that says that is just wonderful show .
A: Oh , it 's fabulous .
A: Really , you should never miss that .
A: It , they are just gems of shows . I mean , they really , fabulous in every way
B: Oh , nice .
B: What , now what night is that on now ?
A: Oh , that 's Wednesday at , uh , seven thirty .
B: Wednesday at seven thirty ,
B: oh , okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: Wednesdays I , I go to church choir ,
B: so That 's my one night out and about ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: so ,
A: Sure ,
A: yeah ,
A: well , maybe , maybe your husband could tape it for you sometime .
B: Yeah ,
B: I should get him to do that . Because I know ,
A: Just so you get the idea .
A: It would n't take , Would n't take much to get hooked on those
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: So , so , I watch those .
B: Are there any new ones this year that came out that you like
B: or ,
A: Well , you know , I have n't , oh ,
A: yeah ,
A: we started watching NORTHERN EXPOSURE .
A: Well , it 's not really new ,
A: but it 's still kind of new .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: How 's that ?
B: I have n't seen that .
A: I like it a lot .
A: It 's real different .
A: In fact , they never thought it would be a hit .
B: Huh .
A: I mean , they 'll have some things in there that almost , almost , you know , like supernatural , or something ,
A: you know , I mean , somebody will see a figure from the past that nobody else does
A: or , I mean , it sounds weird ,
A: but , it 's very , uh , unique show and very well done .
B: Huh .
A: Excellent actors .
B: I 'll have to watch for that .
A: I , I guess we just ,
A: it came on after something we used to watch
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and I guess we just kept sitting there
A: and then now we make a point of watching
A: I ca n't take all these shows on because next semester I 'm not going to be able to watch hardly any television .
B: Uh-huh
A: Well then , it will be mostly reruns , I guess
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And by the end of February , the way they do it nowadays .
B: Gosh . Well , we used to watch a lot of DESIGNING WOMEN ,
A: But , uh ,
B: but , uh I have n't seen that much lately . Since they got rid of , uh , Delta Burke and , uh brought on the new ones .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've seen that .
A: Was she the , was she the best one ? Was she the best one on that old show ?
B: Oh , she was just funny .
A: Really ?
B: She was really funny .
B: And her character was good .
B: I don't know that it was her in particular but just the character .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: So , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: they had a big fight on that show , did n't they ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: They were all accusing each other of everything in the world
B: Oh , that was awful
B: and who knows still , what really happened , you know .
A: Well , I know ,
A: gosh , you never will , probably .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: so ,
A: Well , I think the latest soap opera for people is the Kennedy trial for those who have cable .
B: Oh , I know .
A: I don't have cable .
B: Now I told ,
B: no ,
B: we don't have that station either ,
B: so , uh , I have n't been able to catch any of that ,
B: but just what little we caught on the news .
A: It 's just as wild as any soap opera , from what I hear on the news .
B: Oh , I know it .
A: And I think he 's guilty as the devil .
B: Well , I don't see how he could n't be , you know .
A: I know ,
A: what 's in it for her .
A: There 's never anything for you to go to trial as a witness in a case like that . Because you know they tear you to shreds , especially those rich high powered lawyers .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
B: Oh , and they said this lawyer is unbelievable .
A: Um .
B: But , they said she held up so well yesterday .
A: I know ,
A: everybody was saying that
A: and then , in the paper said it
A: so , It should be interesting .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , God .
A: Well , the NATIONAL ENQUIRER says
A: I was reading that in the supermarket line .
A: I never have the nerve to buy the thing .
A: Uh ,
B: Oh , shoot ,
B: well , do you watch any , uh any sports or anything like that
A: Says he ,
B: or ,
A: No ,
A: I don't care anything about that .
B: Because I don't either .
B: I ca n't , I ca n't watch it on T V ,
B: so
A: I like the ice skating ,
A: you know , occasionally , some ice skating will come on , on a Sunday or during the Olympics
B: Uh-huh .
A: I always watch that .
A: I think it 's so beautiful .
B: Yeah ,
B: I like to catch the gymnastics sometimes , too .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: that 's good .
B: Well , I suppose we both have credit cards .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: they seem to be a part of life
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: how do you use them ?
B: Well , I do use them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I have a few favorites that I use more than others
B: and , uh , I try to keep my balances fairly reasonable .
B: I , I could probably pay them off any month if I wanted to .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , but occasionally they can get out of hand and get higher when , when you start using more than a few
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , they all can build up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I think they 're handy .
B: I just get , uh ,
B: I don't carry a lot of cash with me
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I hate writing checks when you go shopping .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , do you use credit cards ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I use a few .
A: I , uh , I watched my grandmother go into debt on them
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so I 've ,
A: and then I guess my mother ,
B: Grandmother
B: huh ?
A: Yeah ,
A: so my mother learned from that
A: and I guess she taught me to be very , very careful with them .
A: So basically , uh , I just keep them ,
A: I use them so that I build up a credit rating , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , otherwise , uh , I generally ,
A: and my husband , it turns out ,
A: I 've just been married seven months ,
A: but he has the same habit
A: and we just keep a few you know , few of the major ones , and then use them once in a while for something ,
B: That 's good .
A: but we always pay it off right that month so that we don't pay any service charge .
B: Oh that 's , That 's wonderful .
A: So that way we keep out of debt
A: and we keep on top of what we 're spending .
B: Well , the interest rates in credit cards is so high now compared to what your savings is bringing .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's really , I guess ridiculous to let them keep building .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's what I feel .
A: So ,
B: But I know some people can get , get , you know , carried away with them and let them get out of hand .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It 's really easy , just to forget , you know , that you , you charged that or charged that .
A: I try to keep all my receipts and keep them in someplace where I know that the bill 's going to come ,
A: but sometimes I forget
A: and so , you know , a bill will come in
A: and I 'll think , oh , no I did n't know it was going to be that high .
B: Uh-huh .
B: yeah .
A: But so far , I 've been able to , we 've been able to pay it off every time
A: so ,
B: Well , that 's good .
B: I 'm looking , right now I 'm kind of looking for a Visa that has a lower interest rate .
B: It seems that some of them have gotten higher
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I saw on T V , they had a program on , uh , credit cards
B: and they 're supposed to ,
B: I don't know if it was Tennessee or Arkansas or some , some other state had a Visa card that was the lowest one in the country .
B: And I did n't write it down at the time
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then I went and looked and , to see what my visa was
B: and I think it 's eighteen percent or something
A: Um .
B: so , think I want to find something that has a lower rate .
A: Yeah .
A: Have you ever used Discover card ?
B: No ,
B: I have n't .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm not even sure what their interest rate is since I pay it off
A: but you know ,
B: Is that the one from Sears ?
A: Uh , I think Sears originally put it out ,
B: Okay .
A: but it 's , uh , it 's pretty well taken all over the U S now .
A: I mean , uh , I 've have n't found many places that don't take Discover .
A: And there 's no annual service fee , which is good .
B: Okay .
A: You know , and then , uh , they also give you , they say cash back , uh , like at the end of the year .
A: For the amount that I charge , I get two dollars back or something
B: Uh-huh .
A: but if you use credit cards a lot you probably get more back .
B: Oh , they give you money back for using your credit card .
A: Yeah ,
A: basically .
B: Oh
A: That 's it .
B: I did n't know that .
A: And I think the service charge is pretty low , too ,
A: but , I 'm not sure .
B: Um . Well , you know , Sears was one of the few department stores that never would take any other credit cards .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I worked at Sears for over ten years
B: and , uh , it was only a Sears card that they would take until I guess they decided to join the club and come up with their own credit card , another credit card that was accepted ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , you know , now they 'll take the Discover ,
B: but I still don't know if Sears will take Visa or Mastercard .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh I never did apply for a Discover card .
A: Yeah .
B: I just figure with the Visa and American Express , I probably have an ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I can do enough damage with those two .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think it 's best to keep the number down that you have .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: I 've got some that I , you know , I have n't even used at all , uh , past few years
B: I probably would n't be able to use them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I , I do like my Dillard 's ,
B: I have to admit that 's one of my favorite places to shop .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I do use Dillard 's probably as , more than any of the other department stores .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well , Do you have anything else to say ?
B: Well ,
B: No ,
B: not too much more about credit cards
A: Okay
A: I don't think I do either
A: so ,
B: Okay
B: well ,
A: Well , it was good talking to you .
B: Good talking to you Beth .
A: Okay .
B: Good luck .
A: Have a good evening .
B: You , too .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
A: Well , got any problems on Mockingbird with crime
A: or is that a crime free zone there ?
B: No ,
B: I don't think there is any such thing , as a crime free zone any longer .
A: I 'm afraid you 're right .
B: Uh , one evening I decided to retire early and heard sirens and noises and thought , oh , well , something 's happens on Mockingbird and then heard yells and screams
B: and the next thing I know there are policemen all around my house .
A: Oh , my .
B: And they had stopped a , uh , a stolen car and caught one of the men in the hedge
A: Oh , boy .
B: and then the other one was on the roof in the back .
A: By your house ?
B: on my house
A: Oh , my goodness .
A: Aye , aye , aye Oh , my .
B: So I 'm very much aware of , uh , crime in the cities and the , and the concern about it .
A: That 's , that 's got to be a frightening way to spend an evening .
B: It was .
B: I , uh , I kept hearing noises
B: and so I , I knew that I was not going to sleep until I got up and went out and checked the garage ,
B: so I got a my gun and walked to the , you know , through the house into the garage .
B: There was no one there ,
B: but I wanted to be sure .
A: Oh , boy .
B: Is Plano beginning to experience the , the kinds of things that are more common in the metropolitan , you know , in the urban area ?
A: Unfortunately yes .
B: That 's too bad .
A: Yes .
A: I think , uh , you know , as any city grows up , uh , you get the hoods and the riffraff and everybody else in there ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I think ,
A: uh , you know , fortunately the sirens and everything we hear are over on Spring Creek ,
A: but , uh , we 've been , we 've lived here sixteen years
A: and now you , you know , you can tell the change , for sure .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I was thinking , if you 've been there that long , you 've seen Plano grow from what was really a , a small town to a city .
A: Yes .
A: Well , with all the , uh , Central Expressway , uh , with all the stores and the , uh , restaurants and the uh , convenience stores and all that kind of stuff , it 's just prime pickings for people driving by .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: You know and ,
B: Well , I was appalled to read the other day about the , uh , uh , shooting on the tollway .
A: That 's , that could n't be too far from you , neither .
B: Uh , well , it 's farther west of me .
A: Okay .
B: I live over near White Rock Lake .
A: Oh , yes ,
A: okay .
B: But , uh ,
B: uh , it was really frightening to , think that , uh , it 's not even safe to drive onto the tollway , or for those people in the tollbooth .
B: Uh , I never thought about someone robbing those ,
B: but , apparently , they do .
A: I don't know , uh , how a few bucks can be worth shooting somebody
A: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it just does n't seem possible , does it .
A: It 's kind of , kind of stupid , is n't it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I guess when people do those things , they don't really give a thought of the consequences at the time .
A: It 's , looks like easy pickings
B: No .
A: and away you go , right .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I think the drugs play a tremendous part in , uh , the theft and the , the violence that we see .
A: I think you 're right , uh , although I think that may be an excuse for people , too .
B: It , it is convenient , is n't it ?
A: Right .
B: I did n't know what I was doing .
A: Right .
B: That kind .
A: Right ,
A: just like the old alcohol idea
A: and I think people , uh , I think when you have haves and have nots , you 're always going to find people that are too lazy to figure a way to earn money and find it 's easier if you can get a gun to go out and hold something up than it is to figure out a way to legitimately earn the money .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , yes ,
B: and I work in South Dallas for the Dallas School System .
A: Oh , boy .
B: And , uh , uh ,
A: Where do you work ?
B: Uh , do you know where Oakland and Hatcher are ?
A: Uh , yes ,
A: I think I do .
A: That , uh , is that Amelia Earhart , School there ?
B: Uh , no
B: this is over near Lincoln High School . Uh , just , not far off South Central Expressway .
A: Okay .
A: That 's a pretty rough area there , is n't it ?
B: It is a pretty rough area .
B: We 're over by Fair Park .
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: And , uh , you know , you watch the people .
B: There are marvelous B M W and Mercedes and Cadillacs and everything parked all up and down the street outside these awful taverns .
A: Huh .
B: And the kids see that
B: and , uh , they know that they can earn several hundred dollars in a day where , uh , you know , running for , uh , drug dealers if ,
A: Definitely that area , that , that 's big time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Big time there , sure is .
B: It surely is .
A: I don't think I 'd go to work without a bulletproof vest on myself .
B: Well , I 'm careful .
A: that 's the worst neighborhood in the whole area .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , uh , a little scary sometimes
B: and , uh , I manage the ,
A: Well , credit cards
B: Yeah .
A: I 'll tell you what , I , I ca n't say a whole lot about credit cards because I , uh , tore mine up .
B: Is that right ?
B: I , I know I know some other people that have done that .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , I got in some problems with , uh , financial problems because of credit cards
A: so I , uh , basically just got rid of all of them .
B: Um .
A: I , I have a , a couple .
A: I have a , uh , gas card that I , that I use just for gas and you know , uh , one that I use just for emergencies
B: Uh-huh
A: but ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I I have , we have some , some friends that did the , exactly the same thing .
B: They , uh , you know , they kind of overextended and borrowed and borrowed
B: and finally they realized that they were , they were abusing them and were n't going to get out of the hole
B: and they just cut them all up except for , for one they kept for emergencies
B: and they 're still paying away to get out of debt .
A: Yeah .
A: I know it .
B: But , no ,
B: I did just the opposite .
B: I , I guess I , I sort of followed in my , uh , parents ' footsteps .
B: I have quite a few of them .
B: I use them continually ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I , uh , I basically never charge anything I don't have the money in the bank to pay for .
B: And , uh , and I always pay them off totally every month .
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: Yeah .
A: That 's a , that 's a good policy .
B: Yeah ,
B: and it , you know , I mean , they , they 're just a convenience for me .
B: I don't have to get cash out of the bank ,
B: and I don't have to to be writing checks
B: and and , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , sometimes I wish I had them ,
A: but in most cases , I 'm glad I don't because I , you know , unfortunately I , I , I don't have the control you have
B: Uh-huh .
A: I wish I did ,
A: but but I don't .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , and it , you know , it ,
A: I just don't want to get into that situation again ,
A: so we 'll ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean , it , it 's easy ,
B: I mean , you don't have anything transferring , just a little signature ,
B: so what , you know
A: Oh , that 's it .
A: See , and that 's ,
A: even with my gas card you know , I find that I 'll go in to get some gas
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I 'll end up buying , you know , candy and drinks and you know , sweets and whatever ,
B: Right .
A: and then at the end of the month I , you know , I get a bill
A: and I 'm thinking what did I get , that costs so much .
B: Surprising .
B: Yeah .
A: And ,
B: Well , you know , but the ,
B: I mean , there are sort some inherent limits there ,
B: you 're not going to , you 're not going to run up a few thousand dollars for that ,
B: right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that , that 's true ,
A: but I can , I can certainly understand where
B: Now I ,
A: You know ,
B: the thing that probably helps me most doing that is really , you know , uh , not so much discipline ,
B: I mean , well , I mean , you have sort of a discipline in general about finances ,
B: but , but I hate their , their rates so badly , I mean their interest rates so badly that I ,
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Is n't it ,
A: that 's unbelievable .
A: How ,
A: let me ask you this .
A: How , how old are you ?
B: I 'm , uh , thirty-three .
A: Thirty-three ?
B: Thirty-two ,
B: excuse me .
A: Okay .
A: You 'll be thirty-three this year ?
B: Yeah .
A: You want to be thirty-two as long as you can , huh .
A: It 's coming .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I know what you mean about the interest rates . It 's , uh , it 's unbelievable .
B: You know , I just , that just irritates me so much that , that I refuse to pay them interest
B: and , and my wife recently , uh , decided she had to go to Brazil and was going to take off
B: and , she 's from there and and , uh , did n't really have the money ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , you know , she could pay it off ,
B: and so I , sort of reluctantly let her put it on credit cards ,
B: but she 's paying it ,
B: and , uh , I just wo n't do it .
B: I mean , she 's paying , I don't know , I don't know what per month , you know , forty , fifty dollars per month in interest
A: Oh , jeez .
B: and I just , you know , I just refuse to give it to them .
B: If I need to borrow that kind of money , I 'll go to the bank
B: and , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and then , you bet .
B: You know .
A: That 's ,
A: uh , yeah ,
A: I , in fact , I 've , I 've even , uh , heard some people that have applied for credit cards with much less , uh rates and have paid off their , you know higher interest rate , uh cards and just sent them back , you know .
B: Income .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: And I , I guess there 's some , there 's , uh , uh , some negotiating there , too ,
A: because I heard , uh ,
A: on one of the local talk shows here , they had somebody on and , and said , what you can do is , uh , call , you know ,
A: if you 've got a pretty good rating , uh , credit rating you can call your you know , your , your card , wherever you got your card from and tell them , hey , either drop my rates or drop my , you know , uh annual fees or I 'll just go to somewhere else .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: High ,
B: I might ,
A: You know , and if you 've got , if you 've got a pretty good uh , uh , history with them they 're more than willing to do that .
B: Um .
B: Right .
B: Um , I might try that because I , I have one card that I 've had for about , uh , I don't know , nine or ten years .
A: Yeah ,
A: in fact , that 's , that 's what this guy ,
A: you know , he wrote a book on it
A: and he says that 's , you know , he 's tried it with several of his cards
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he 's just told them , you know , I , I can get this card from this bank at this rate
A: and yours is at , you know , eighteen or nineteen percent .
B: Right .
A: It does not make sense for me to do that
A: and if you wo n't drop my rates , I 'll just go ahead and send you back your card
A: and I 'll go somewhere else and get it .
B: Yeah ,
B: for me the big thing , you know , is the , uh , uh , is the annual fee
B: and I just refuse ,
B: I wo n't get any card now ,
B: I 've , I 've got a good rating
B: and I 've got , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 'm not going , I 'm not going to pay an annual fee .
B: The only one I actually pay on is this one that I , that , the very first ,
A: Hello .
B: Hello .
A: Hi ,
A: my name is Dolphene .
A: I live in Texas .
B: Hi ,
B: my name is Pat Johnson
B: and I live in Texas too .
A: Okay ,
A: I work for T I ,
A: do , do you also ?
B: No .
A: Okay .
B: No ,
B: I live in Dallas .
B: I work for the Dallas school system .
A: Oh , okay .
A: uh , you ready to begin ?
B: We might as well .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Okay .
B: I understand we are doing care of the elderly , right ?
A: Yes .
B: And how do you feel about putting someone in the nursing home ?
A: Well , I don't think that uh , any of my relatives would really like to go there .
A: I , I believe , if I , am in a position , uh , like when my mother gets to a point where she needs special care that I will be able to just bring her into my home and my father also , and uh , or have someone go into their home , you know and uh , and look after them .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That way .
B: Yes ,
B: I would find it very difficult , uh , to , uh , place my father or my step-mother uh , in a place like that . Particularly , since I know how they feel about it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: it 's basically , it 's more how they feel about it .
B: Yes .
A: And it is like they feel , they are , uh , the way my mother would put it like somebody had thrown them away You know ?
B: Yes .
B: I do think that there are some significant kinds of things to to look for , you know , if you are faced with placing someone . In a place like that , uh , you know , aside from the cleanliness and the medical care that is offered and such
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: but attitude of staff makes such a tremendous difference .
B: And I have a a friend who is partly paralyzed and is in a nursing home and has no family who , you know , could care for her .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I know that the cheerful pleasant people who treat her kindly make all the difference in the world in how she feels about , uh , her situation .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And another thing to think about , uh , on the positive side of the nursing homes here ,
A: I use to work in one of the offices in a nursing home
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I got to see a lot of the things that they did
B: Uh-huh .
A: they , uh , they had a lot of crafts
B: Yes .
A: and they had a lot of games
A: and , uh , they , get together and just do , they they do all sorts of things
A: and then there
A: some , some of the , uh , the people that are in there are real , you know , very nice and friendly to everybody
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , then there are others that are ,
A: uh , it is just a job
A: and they just you know want to go in and do what they have to do and get out go home .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , the , the attitude of the staff as you said is really very very important .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think it would matter too , uh , kinds of , uh , disabilities that the nursing home accepts . Because there are some , uh , who poor things , you know , don't have , uh , any real grasp on reality any longer .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: And they may be ambulatory ,
B: but they tend to behave like children , small children
A: Yeah .
B: and that would be very difficult I think for an adult who was n't in that situation to to have to deal with on a daily basis .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh .
A: Well , it is like , the one that I worked in , uh , you would see some of them just like in wheelchairs all day ,
A: they would just roll themselves around all over the place
A: and and they would enjoy enjoy themselves with activities
B: Yes .
A: and then you would see see some of the others that are were like distant from the other group
A: and they they just did n't like participate together with the others because they had some some , uh , I guess , uh , slight mental disabilities and things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yes .
A: What , what do you call Alzheimer disease and stuff like that
B: Yes ,
B: Alzheimer ,
B: yes .
A: and they don't , don't , uh , they were n't really together with the rest of them , when they got together for such activities .
B: Yes
B: and that can ,
A: Okay .
A: So Frank , what , uh , type of , uh , budget do you or your family have ?
B: Well , uh I don't know that we really have a budget .
B: I have a set amount that I , that I save .
B: Actually , well actually there is a , a way ,
B: budget our money apparently .
B: The ,
B: uh , my wife , uh , has so much , uh , gets so much to do shopping with every couple of weeks
B: and , uh , we allot each of us so much money per week for our personal stuff , gas , and things like that
B: and besides that I , uh , you know , I have a set amount that I save every month .
A: Right .
A: That 's , uh , sounds like probably a tighter controlled budget than what I have
B: Uh-huh .
A: I am single ,
A: so . I guess , I don't know if that 's an excuse for not having a tight budget ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I basically ,
B: Really don't need to .
A: Right ,
A: I don't need to .
A: I am the only that I have to keep track of
A: so it makes it a little bit easier .
B: That 's right .
A: Uh , and also I , you know , I try to save a certain amount each month as well
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I try to , try to have an idea of what my expenses are
A: and I am pretty consistent from month to month
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , whenever , uh , I need to , uh , whenever that changes I am pretty well aware of it without actually having to maintain a budget for it .
B: Right .
B: Well , I found that , uh , you know , things , as I have gotten older ,
B: I am in my fifties now ,
B: but before we use to have , to have to have a very strict budget ,
B: I had four kids
B: and , uh , you know we planned out how much we were going to spend for food and how much for , for this and for that .
B: Kind of anticipate how much things were going to be .
B: Uh , I guess one interesting aspect of the budgeting I do now is that I set aside , uh , I kind of fence off areas of my check book .
B: For instance , there are certain things that I know come up , uh , every so often .
B: Every six months I have to pay car insurance .
B: Uh , every six months I have to pay my taxes .
B: So I take a set amount .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've got a money market account that I do a lot of uh , uh , saving in
B: and I also have got a checking account besides that ,
B: but , what I do on my money market account , my taxes for instance which amount to an average of two hundred and twenty dollars a month . I will just take two hundred and twenty out
B: and I put it in parenthesis .
B: I take it out of the right line total and put it in parenthesis in there and let it build up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Every month I add two hundred and twenty dollars to it .
B: Then when the tax bill comes in I 've got that much set aside .
A: Right .
B: And I guess that 's a way of budgeting .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's ,
A: I guess I kind of do a similar thing . More , uh , medium or longer range .
A: I just have a maybe a targeted amount that I will save for .
A: Like I am ,
A: probably within a year I would like to buy a new car .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I kind of have a , an amount in my mind
A: and I am making every effort to , to put a little bit away and increase the amount that I need for a down payment or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , cars are definitely something that you have to figure into your budget . Not only for buying them , but for keeping them on the road too .
A: Right .
B: Uh , you know , we 've got two cars .
B: My wife has a car
B: and I like to drive pick up truck .
B: So , we are on a schedule where I try every , uh , three or four years to , to buy a new one .
B: And you know I am constantly making car payments ,
B: but I figure that 's got to be the story of my life anyway , is making car payments .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , you know , I get one paid for
B: and , uh , actually I am saving up for another one besides
B: so it 's you know , it 's kind of a never ending thing ,
A: Huh . Right .
B: but you try to , you try to schedule those things so that , uh , you only , you 're not paying for two of at the same time I guess is what I am saying .
A: Right .
A: Have you thought about , uh , leasing ?
B: Well , uh , I have thought about it ,
B: but leasing would n't ,
B: you know , I don't use it for my business .
A: I see .
B: My wife uses hers just for pleasure
B: and I use mine just to go back and forth to work which is only ten miles away
A: Right .
B: so .
A: But if you are rolling it over every three years , it might be advantageous to do that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess .
B: Uh ,
A: You know , typically , you , if you purchase your own car you tend to make , uh , the best returns after you pay it off .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Of course , the longer you keep it beyond that point , the more profitable it is to own it yourself .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: you 're right .
B: Uh , I have , uh , been know to keep trucks or cars for oh , ten or twelve years ,
B: but I find that after about four years they kind of start going down hill
B: and you got to put put stuff in them you know .
A: That 's right .
A: Yeah ,
A: mine 's , uh , seven years old
A: and I think last year was , that was a rough year for it .
A: I had a number of expenses
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , I am hoping that most of them were just kind of ,
A: uh , you know the ,
A: as you get to a certain number of miles , you have to get everything replaced , brakes , shocks and all that .
A: So , I just went through that whole set last year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I hope that I only have a slow period before I do that again
B: Those things can really upset your budget when they , when they come in .
B: Uh , you know , it 's nice to have a little bit set aside for the , for the unexpected shall we say . So that it does n't , uh , kill you all in one month .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: What line of work are you in ?
A: Your turn .
B: Oh , I , I start .
B: Okay .
B: Well , uh , we keep a budget to an extent .
B: Uh , and really , we were really forced into keeping a budget because I 'm , I 'm paid once a month which sort of , sort of forces some , uh , uh , restrictions
B: and you need to make sure all your bills are paid .
B: Uh , about yourself ?
A: Well , I have to say I really don't have a budget .
A: Both my wife and I , uh , grew up in , uh , families of rather modest means
A: and , uh , our family income , at this point , is comfortable . Upper middle class I guess you might say .
A: And , uh , we 're both so , uh , frugal that , uh , we really don't need a budget , you know .
A: We just sort of invest the money and go on vacations and always never seem to have any money problems which I guess is a comfortable thing .
B: Yeah .
B: Well I guess that really is sort of , uh , keeping a budget ,
B: you know . You stay within your , uh within your means .
A: Well we stay within our means
A: but we don't do it , uh , by conscious effort .
A: It just sort of happens automatically .
B: Yeah .
A: Although we just moved to California
A: and , uh , the cost of living here in California is , uh , I would say rather pathological
B: Yes
A: Uh , housing prices are , you know , like from four to ten times more expensive than , uh , uh , they were where I came from in , uh , Dallas .
B: Oh , you moved from Dallas to San Francisco .
A: Yeah .
A: So , uh uh , that presents a , a real shock
B: That is a hugh difference .
B: Yeah .
A: actually our standard of living has gone down somewhat since we 've moved to California
A: but ,
B: But you have good sour dough
B: and it 's a beautiful place to live
A: Yeah .
A: It 's God 's country .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , and one way you know that is that only God can afford it
A: Uh , so budget is not a problem for us .
A: Uh , at least it has n't been .
A: It may , may be at this point .
A: But , uh , up until this point it really has n't been
A: When I , uh , was in , uh , undergraduate school a long , long time ago , I , uh , noted that the monthly salary , starting average monthly salary salary for engineers that , you know , in my discipline , was like oh , six hundred ten dollars a month or something like that .
A: And , uh , I noted at that point that I was , you know , if that 's what my salary was that I drew then I would be making almost twice as much as my father made during his best year ever .
A: So I stopped worrying about money .
B: Yeah .
A: And it ,
A: never have worried about money since then .
B: Well , that , that 's a system too .
A: Sometimes , uh , it 's a bit of a , a problem , you know , because I guess I don't really manage my money the way I should .
A: But , uh , I suppose I 've lost money on not taking good advantage of , of , uh , investments
A: but ,
B: Well then again , you know , you said you , you are able to take trips .
B: And you do , obviously , have enough to live on
B: so I guess you 're indirectly budgeting . Uh , just bye-bye the fact that you said you 're both very frugal , uh , in spending the money .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I mean that 's , that 's a form of budgeting I would think
B: It 's , it 's kind of a strange topic to , to try to , for two people who don't really have a budget to talk about budgeting and how they manage their money .
A: Well , I guess we 're both lucky in that regard then .
B: Yeah .
A: How big is your family ?
B: Uh , well we 're , we have one on the way .
A: I see .
B: Uh , my wife ,
B: and then , we 're , we 're having one on the way in , uh , in , uh , September .
A: So how ,
A: you , once you get ten children though , you may have ,
B: No
B: I think it 's just going to be one .
A: Oh , all right
B: How about yourself ?
A: I have two kids .
A: Uh , one nine and one thirteen
B: Oh .
A: and they are beginning to be a budget problem but , uh , have not been really up until this , up to this point .
B: Do they budget at all ?
B: I mean do you have them on an allowance ?
A: I give them a , I give them an allowance
A: and they , uh ,
A: I basically give my son ten dollars a week
A: and I put half of it in the bank
A: and I give , give him the other half in cold cash .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , he has a teller card so he can , uh , do what he do what he wishes with the money that I put in the bank .
A: But , at least , it is n't , you know , burning a hole in his pocket .
B: Yeah .
A: If he wants to use it , he has to go get it
A: and that usually
A: Capital punishment , uh , I guess , out in California is , has had a lot of , uh , a lot of , you know , discourse in the paper .
A: Uh , apparently , you know , there 's , they have n't , uh , executed anybody since nineteen sixty-seven , I believe .
B: Uh , yeah .
B: That 's , that 's as far back as I can remember
B: Well , that 's before my time actually .
A: Yeah ,
A: they ,
A: Well , I , we were , we , uh , we just started , we lived in Redwood City when we were out there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , and we found that , uh you know , it was a very liberal kind of community .
A: But the , uh , I , I really feel that , that the law enforcement community , uh , you know , puts these people behind bars
A: and then they , they , uh , uh , you know , lawyers , these lawyer groups get together
A: and they , uh , they , I think , extend beyond the normal , uh , appeal process . Uh , you know , and just drag these , this guy , uh , his , his , uh , ultimate , uh , demise out for ten or fifteen years .
A: Uh , and I , I think that , uh , that there 's something that has to be changed in the system to , to do that .
A: I think capital punishment , uh , uh , was or probably stringent enough
A: but I think the appeal process is really getting in the way .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Do , do you feel as though there should be , uh , more , uh , was or , or more , uh , you might say transgressions that would be enforceable by , uh , by , uh , uh , capital punishment ?
B: Well I think that currently the way the law stands is n't so much that the laws are enforceable or not ,
B: it 's more they 're not enforcing the death penalty itself .
B: It 's at that point where they 're saying like here you 're , you 're going on death row
B: but you 'll stay there for twenty years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And nothing is being done about it .
B: Uh , the laws exist and are frequently upheld in , in , uh , in Appeals Court just because of technicalities and because of maybe small little holes that their defending attorney can find .
B: And it 's , it 's really getting out of hand in many states .
A: Well , the term technicality .
A: The law enforcement community , uh , uh , you know , has to , has to separate the difference between somebody who is being set up in which , uh , grievous acts are done to , uh , to , you know , to get somebody into a , a situation where they 're going to be guilty of , of a crime .
A: Or whether , uh , and whether the rights of that individual are been , have been , you know , impuned .
A: Uh , but or whether there 's just , you know , a policeman has just made a , uh , a , you know , a non , a noncritical error , though be it not the right way to do it
A: but , but , you know , the , the merits of the case in terms of , you know , the guy was a law breaker , as being supportive .
A: Now , I , I 'm , at this juncture
A: I , you know , I 'm , I 'm not sure , you know , what constitutes a , a technicality .
A: You know , that , that 's what all these , these hearings are about
A: and that 's what all these , you know , court cases are about .
A: I mean our , uh , our , our glorious , uh , you know , mayor here in Washington is six days away from getting out of , out of the can
A: and , uh , you know , he , he tried to appeal his conviction . Uh ,
A: and , you know , it did n't work .
A: But be that as it may , everybody who got enough money will pump the appeal process dry .
A: Uh , in , in the old days , you know , and say round about times of battle of Hastings , you know , and the villages if you were a transgressor , they , they either , you know , drove you out in the woods or you became a ward of somebody
A: and he , you were his slave .
A: And if he did n't like what you did , he killed you .
A: And that has , that 's pretty effective .
A: Uh , you know , it 's not good for civil rights , I guess ,
A: but it 's pretty effective in that , you know , you 've got to get along in the community
A: and if you don't you 'll perish . Either by the hand of your , your , your master or by being pushed out in the woods .
A: So , I , I , I mean as , as man has gotten more complicated so all of the , uh , imaginations to , uh , you know , protect him from , from being , uh , dumped on by , uh , civilian authority in , in in criminal actions , especially , you know , murder cases and that sort of thing .
B: Well , it seems like well it , it seems as if in the past typically there have been a lot of cases of people being wrongly tried or wrongly punished ,
B: and the whole idea behind the current criminal process system is to protect those who actually did n't the crimes , albeit it seems that we are failing in that , in that ultimate goal because there are times when people who are guilty are getting off .
B: Um , for instance , um there 's a case a few years back where , uh , someone , uh , someone who 's being convicted for , was under a was going to trial for murder , was let off because of a technicality in that . The the arresting officer , uh , did not read the defendant their rights .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And where his , old evidence was there , the witnesses were there , the , everything was conclusively pointing to this individual yet
A: Uh , a lot of companies now are , are using , uh , drug testing paraphernalia and drug testing situations to , to root out the , the either , uh , elementary or intermediate or advanced , uh , drug users .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I know the , the government is , uh , you know , gives drug tests to all new entrants , all new applicants coming into government .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and I quite frankly , don't see anything wrong with it .
A: I , I 'm , I guess I 'm not a good civil libertarian .
A: And , and I , I feel as though , uh , that , uh , uh , you know , that if you , you 're a drug user you have a hidden agenda that 's difficult unless you really go into a deep background .
A: Of course , we 're , we 're ,
A: being involved in my organization , uh , we , we have deep background checks
A: and and so , uh , but , but , sometimes , you know , drug use can , can escape that .
B: Sure ,
B: sure .
A: And , uh , I have absolutely no compunction about , uh , using any and all means to , to , uh , uh , you know , work out , figure out who has a drug program or who has a drug problem and , uh , and putting that guy into , into therapy to , whatever it is to , to , you know , break this , uh , activity .
B: Huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Of course , if he 's fallen in love with drugs
A: and there is n't anything
A: but getting stoned or high is , is the only thing in life that seems to be meaningful , then maybe there is no hope
B: Yeah .
A: What 's your , uh , feeling ?
B: Uh , well I guess I , I guess I 'm probably a little more to , toward the other direction .
B: Uh , well I guess , mainly because , uh , it 's , I , well ,
B: like there 's two sides to it I guess .
B: Uh , one is that , uh , if you 're coming to work under the influence of any sort of drug , alcohol , whatever , or , you know , even if it 's smoking , inhibits , you know , your ability to function , then I , I think that , that , you know , I don't have any problem at all with testing that individual , you know , on the spot .
B: Uh , but I guess I feel more like whatever you 're doing in your own private life is your own private business .
B: Uh , and I guess part of the reason there is because of the fact that , uh , things like drug laws seem to come and go .
B: You know , we had prohibition for awhile
B: and then we did n't have prohibition .
B: Uh , you know , we 've had , I guess , laws against , uh , you know , various other forms of drugs for the last what sixty or seventy years , I guess .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Maybe a little longer .
A: Well I think , uh , the the laws on , uh , uh , uh , the first morphine laws were , were like ninety , or nineteen ten or nineteen five , something like that .
B: Yeah .
B: So , eighty years or so .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , so I ,
B: you know , it 's , it 's hard to , I guess , for me to justify what seems like , you know , basically a breach of the First you know , freedom from , uh , search and seizure , you know , uh , on something that may or may not stand as a law , you know , fifty years from now or even twenty or ten ,
B: who knows .
A: Well , the thing of it is the , the , that , that is , uh , uh , in , in many respects , uh , uh , you know , just , just , I think , an over simplification .
B: I mean , prohibition certainly did n't last .
A: I , I think there , there 's so much criminal activity , uh , that people go into to , to support drug habits .
B: Well , but you got to look at prohibition though .
B: You had the same problems there , right ?
A: Yeah .
A: You know , they , they support drug habits with , uh , with , uh , you know , with things like , uh , you know , burglary or , or prostitution or stuff like that ,
A: yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Sure .
B: Well it goes back to that , again ,
B: if you look at prohibition . I mean because it 's illegal , it costs more .
B: If it was legal ,
B: I mean , face it you can buy pharmaceutical grade cocaine for what , ten or twenty dollars an ounce .
A: I , I I must admit that ,
B: And clearly if you 're into coke and all you want to do is , you know , snort your brains out all day long , if it was legal , you could do it real cheap
B: and , you know , you 'd be a menace to nobody but yourself as long as you stayed at home and did it .
A: Yeah .
B: But , yeah ,
B: get , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: I , I must admit that the production costs of , of these drugs are , are zippo compared to the street market costs and , and the costs to society ,
A: yeah .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: well that 's why there 's , you know , people dealing it because there 's money in it , you know .
B: There 's ridiculous amounts of money .
A: But I , I , I , I think that , that the , that , you know , the , being in law enforcement , you know , they , I , I probably have a kind of a draconian , Philistine attitude toward it .
A: And , but , but the , uh , uh , I , I really feel as though the interdiction effort is , is ,
A: as soon as you , you get rid of one goon that 's , that 's , that 's involved in drugs and
B: Oh yeah ,
B: interdiction 's hopeless .
B: I mean
A: Yeah ,
A: and then another , another one will jump up .
B: there 's no way you 're ever going to win that .
A: But we , we see ,
B: The tighter you squeeze , the more the price goes up , the more incentive there is .
B: I mean that 's a losing fight .
A: Yeah .
A: as soon as we wind up , uh , uh , you know , for ,
A: well if we can just destroy the market by destroying the demand
A: but , but people want to , get , get stoned
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: and I , I don't see that ,
B: Well , yeah .
B: It goes back to , you know , what right , what can society impose on people .
B: I mean , can you force somebody to be a good productive citizen ?
A: Yeah .
B: I don't think you can .
B: I mean , you know , I 'm , you know , was raised with being a very strong Bible work ethic
B: so , you know , I 'm one of these , you know , ten , twelve , fifteen , twenty hour a day type people .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , you know , yeah ,
B: I can really relate to
B: yeah ,
B: everybody ought to do their own share ,
B: you know . I don't have any , you know , love lost for people who are on the public dole just because they 're too lazy to get a job or that kind of stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , you know ,
A: See , when you 're with a big company or a big organization , a lot of times , uh , you know , the benefits are good
A: and , and , you know , the pay is regular
A: but , uh , you know , sometimes you don't get tuned in to what 's going on .
A: And I , I think the biggest benefit or the biggest benefit other than wages that , that , uh , that anybody could get in , in dealing with a large company is to be in a situation where you , you get to know what 's going on .
A: And maybe that 's , that 's probably the toughest thing in the whole world to , to do .
A: What 's , what 's your feeling about benefits ?
A: What sort of benefits would you like to get from a big company .
B: Well , since I 'm kind of on the , the older side , you know , I , I , I just feel like , uh , when I start talking about benefits , I talk about , I 'm concerned about medical benefits
B: Uh , my , uh , my husband works for McDonald Douglas
B: and so his benefits , his medical benefits are so excellent , you know ,
B: that 's really great .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , I work for , uh , a bank , Western Financial .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , they don't let me know really about anything that 's going on .
B: Even some of the immediate things that I need to know , I don't know it until the next hour
B: and all of a sudden we know we 've got changes made .
B: We 're changing departments .
B: We 're changing policies .
B: We 're changing doing other kinds of things . Which to me is , is disturbing
B: I mean , I feel like if , I , I don't necessarily need to , uh , be involved since I 'm pretty much on a low level ,
B: you are , you are right there .
B: You know , I 'm pretty much on a low level as far as , uh , the company is concerned .
B: But I , I do kind of like to know what 's going on and what 's happening
B: and I think I can be a better and more effective employee if , if I had a little bit more information along that line .
A: Well ,
A: I I well I work for the government
A: and , uh , actually I work for the F B I .
B: Oh , my gosh .
A: And , uh , and so , you know , we , we don't , there 's lots of things that we don't get told . For good reason .
A: But , uh , but basically , uh , there 's lots of things that , that we should know about projects .
A: I 'm an engineer . You know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm , I 'm a COTR .
A: And
A: and I , I worked in the same lab with a guy
A: and we did n't really know that much about each other 's projects for two years .
A: And we should have ,
A: you know , we 're , we 're now collaborating .
B: Oh .
A: And
B: And it , it ,
A: for two years we did n't . And , we , which was a , kind of stupid .
A: But , uh , but our organization is doing something else on Monday .
A: Uh , we 're having a , for all unclassified programs , we 're , we 're having little tables put up in front of lab in the hallways
A: and every , all the other employees are going to come around and see what sort of things we do . Which I thought was kind of interesting and , But , uh , but that , that sort , sort of thing .
B: Yeah ,
B: that is interesting .
A: But , if you , I think you can tolerate a lot of problems if you understand what 's going on .
B: Exactly .
A: And , and , but of course most time , most of the time management has a hard time distributing or getting the word out to the people who must know .
A: And , you know , if you don't really count . If you 're not part of the program you might not get told for months .
A: Or you might , you know , if it does n't impact you directly . Or if your management does n't think that .
A: But , but regard to benefits . You know , most companies have , most big organizations have decent , you know , benefits like retirement and that sort of thing .
A: In the private sector I would think that one of the major , uh , situations , especially when you reach , you know , the , the mid-fifties , is keeping a job until you retire .
B: right .
A: And engineers are , uh , are baggage to most , uh , uh , as they get older , to , to most companies .
A: And , uh , it 's very much like the military ,
A: it windows out .
A: You know , you , you think well , boy , I 'm getting more money
A: and I 'm getting more responsibility ,
A: I 'm doing this .
A: But as you climb up that tree , pretty soon you 're , the , the branches get smaller on the top of the tree
B: Uh-huh .
A: and pretty soon somebody falls off .
A: I , I 've fallen off twice in the private sector .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , and , you know , I can get up ,
B: I know .
B: It , it seems to be , be kind of , kind of scary , you know . Because you think of ,
B: uh , see my son 's eighteen right now
B: and he , he 's , uh , he wants to go into engineering .
B: And the , the , the branches of engineering that he wants to go into is now kind of open
B: and he 's interested in , basically , three different areas .
B: But , uh , it 's difficult for me to try to give him any kind of advice or to advise him or anything like that .
B: He needs to do his own course of investigation and , and see what he can do because who knows what 's going to happen in another thirty years .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And in thirty years it becomes pretty critical .
B: I mean , my , uh , brother-in-law is like , uh , I mean he 's sixty .
B: He 's not ready to retire
B: but his company is , is , uh , is , uh , closing up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And because of the defense cutbacks and all that kind of stuff . And all the nuclear and stuff which is what he , what he was working on . He 's getting cut back
B: and he 's not ready to retire
A: Yeah ,
A: he may be retired .
A: Budgeting activity in our household I , has is , uh , uh , kind of an informal kind of situation .
A: We , we , you know , put ,
A: actually what happens is , uh , is , my check gets automatically deposited .
A: I don't even have the glories of bringing home my check anymore .
A: It just gets deposited .
A: And , and , and my , my wife , you know , you know , looks at all those bills that come in
A: and , you know , and all those people are counting on me to have my wife pay them . You see ,
A: and so our , our budgeting ,
A: we really don't have a formal budgeting situation .
A: Every time I 've ever tried one , it 's , uh , I 've just got wrapped in my inertia .
A: And , uh , I 've just decided not to pursue it .
A: Uh , what , what 's your budget situation ?
B: Well , actually , uh , I 've , I 've had a couple of different situations .
B: My current one has been the most successful .
B: Uh , at a certain point in life
B: my husband , my ex-husband was an alcoholic .
B: And we got divorced back in the mid-seventies
B: and that left me with three teenagers .
A: You know , well actually that kind of situation is just wonderful for budgets . Is n't it ?
B: It certainly is
B: But at any rate , what happened was that I , I just absolutely put away all the credit cards .
B: I did n't rip them up .
B: I did n't send them back .
B: Nothing .
B: I just put them away .
B: Because there was one that it was really handy to have .
B: If I absolutely had to have something , I could go use it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , mostly we just spent cash . Whatever we had .
B: And if we did n't have it , we absolutely did n't spend it .
B: But then , as things improved , you know .
B: Once , once I got them all through college , uh , it came to the point where , uh ,
B: my parents came through the depression .
B: I 'm not sure how old you are .
A: Well , my , you know , my , my parents too .
A: You , you you were born in , in the , in the late thirties or early forties .
B: But my ,
B: Late thirties ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , my mother hardly ever spent anything on herself or on the house .
B: And that 's kind of the way I was raised .
B: And so I 'm not a very demanding person in , in that aspect .
B: So for quite a period of time , I just flat did n't spend any money .
A: Um .
B: Now , meanwhile , I got , had a , a building bank balance .
B: And my intent was that whenever something went on sale that I really had to have , I would have the cash to buy it right then and there . And not ever have to spend any money on interest .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , that , that 's good .
B: And that , that 's the way I 've operated ever since then .
B: It ,
B: and you know , if , if something goes on sale and I don't have the money , I still don't buy it .
A: Well , we , we buy what , well ,
A: we just got through buying a twenty-five foot refrigerator , a new ceramic top stove , and a new dishwasher .
B: Oh my
A: And , and we put twenty-eight hundred dollars on the charge . Along with my trip to Japan which was , was fourteen or fifteen hundred dollars
B: Oh my !
A: and you know .
B: Oh my .
A: Right .
A: I mean , we just , we got a monster , you know , bill coming in .
A: But , but we also have zero interest being paid .
A: And we pay it off as , as it goes .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's the way I do my credit cards now .
A: Yeah .
A: So we never really get that much over , uh , over extended .
B: Yeah .
B: I do almost all my purchasing on credit cards .
A: Huh .
B: But it 's the fact that I have enough of a , of a cushion in the bank so that when they come , I can pay them in full .
A: Yeah .
A: We 're , we 're doing that .
A: We have , you know , uh ,
A: this is our , our , our big , uh ,
A: we did redecorating .
A: Two , you know , two new pieces in the in the family room and new carpet .
A: I mean we just uh , we 've just been spending , spending , spending .
B: Oh my .
B: I 'm envious
B: Well I ,
A: but we have n't really done anything for a long time because we 've , we 've had two kids in college that just have graduated in the past year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we 're , you know , we don't have that .
B: It 's time for you to do these things then . Right ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , uh , it 's about time that we did that .
A: and it all looks still pretty good to me .
A: Why , why we need to replace it ?
A: But , but , unfortunately my , my , my wife really feels as though it 's , it 's just been an inappropriate , uh , thing to , to , I mean
A: that rug is thirteen years old ,
A: why not replace it .
A: I mean , uh , I say it might go for another thirteen
A: but , uh , too late , we 'll never find that out .
B: This is so funny .
B: That 's wonderful .
B: But you 're lucky to have her because if you 're like me and you have difficulty spending money , you need somebody to help you spend it .
A: And ,
B: I mean , certain things really do need to be done whether or not you think they should , be or not
A: You know , I , I , I don't spend that much money .
A: I just , uh , we just sort of have had , uh , you know , too many obligations to , you know ,
A: we sort of take care of the kids when they were school and they , they got through school .
A: And that was the major , you know , decade of expenses , you know .
A: So we , we feel as , uh ,
A: but as far as any formal budgeting , uh , you know , I , I , we just apparently have been very fortunate .
A: When we went , want to go out to eat , we go out to eat .
A: We never really , you know , have to program money for that or make choices , you know .
A: But , uh , we don't have that uproarious a , a lifestyle .
A: After all , we 're ,
A: Okay , um .
A: How has it been this week for you ?
B: Weather-wise , or otherwise ?
A: Weather-wise .
B: Weather-wise .
B: Damp , cold , warm
A: Oh , no ,
A: damp .
B: We have , we have gone through , what might be called the four seasons , uh , in the last week .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We have had highs of seventy-two , lows in the twenties .
A: My goodness .
A: Well , I don't even want to tell you what ours has been like then .
A: It was ninety-six yesterday ,
B: I heard about that .
A: and we set a record yesterday . And , uh , very windy ,
A: but then today the wind has dropped off , and also , the temperature , so , very cool , uh ,
A: I think right now it 's like sixty-nine ,
B: Um
A: and that 's cool for
A: or it feels cool compared to yesterday , but very pleasant ,
A: no rain in the last month , I don't think .
A: The ground 's very dry
A: and our yard work , everything is in bloom ,
A: so our yard work is pretty tough , the ground being dry ,
A: but I guess it also , uh , brings about allergies ,
A: we 're having a lot of allergies down here right now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Everything blooming ,
A: and , and the weather .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I think a lot of people have contracted , uh , spring fever too ,
A: so . Had a lot of people out at work , you know , for fishing , and , and uh , and golfing , reasons and things like that .
B: The blue flu ,
A: Yeah .
B: yeah ,
B: the blue flu , or the white collar flu , depending on where you work , I guess .
A: Yes .
B: Oh , we have had , uh , as I 've said , we have had variable weather . Uh ,
A: Um .
B: It has been untypically wet for this time of year ,
A: Um .
B: and , also , we have a lot of green , you know ,
B: the grass has been growing
B: and if you look outside , you would like to go out and mow your lawn , if you could go out and buy a new spark plug , or something along those lines ,
A: Uh .
B: but fortunately it rains
B: and you , uh , do not have to go out and buy the spark plug , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: But , we 've had an unusually , uh , uh , warm spring ,
B: and , well I guess we 're still in winter ,
B: and , uh , we have had no snow .
A: Uh-huh .
A: No snow ?
B: To speak of , to speak of .
A: Um .
B: We usually average , oh , anywhere from six to twelve inches during the winter
B: and this year , as well as last year , we have had less than four inches total accumulation .
A: Um .
B: So , it 's been inordinately warm , uh , here , for , uh , for this time of year .
A: Um .
B: So , uh , in that regard , it 's fine ,
B: but , uh , I envy you your ninety-four degrees .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I thought I heard this morning that in San Antonio it was in the nineties yesterday .
A: Yes ,
A: yes
A: it is .
A: Down in the more southern and western areas .
A: And , of course we are , um , about two hours from the northern border , straight south ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , and , uh , very windy .
A: It 's amazing to me
A: because I have only lived in Dallas for three years ,
A: and I can not believe that the wind blows all the time .
A: It does ,
A: I , I
A: very seldom , if any ,
A: I ca n't remember , you know , a day that I walked out and the wind was n't blowing .
B: Uh-huh
B: Well , I spent six years in graduate school at , in Indiana . In the flatlands ,
B: and it was that way every day .
A: Um .
B: Rarely a day went by when the wind was less than fifteen or twenty miles an hour . Summer and winter ,
A: Um .
B: so , that , uh ,
B: you , you became accustomed to it , I guess .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , otherwise as I said , we have had , uh , a relatively mild winter , speaking for this area of the country .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , where did you go to school in Indiana ?
B: Purdue .
A: Purdue .
A: I have a brother that lives in , uh , uh , South Bend , Indiana .
B: Oh , yes .
A: And , I had to always ,
A: I 've lived there for eight years myself .
A: I 'd always said I was going to go back to school and go to Notre Dame .
A: But , I did n't . Uh .
B: Well , you are not from that area originally , I can tell .
A: No ,
A: originally I 'm from New Mexico .
B: Oh , okay .
A: I was born in New Mexico
A: and we lived in , uh , South Bend for eighty , eight years , and , uh , then moved to , uh , Tennessee actually .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh ,
B: Well , I thought I heard a little Tennessee in there somewhere .
A: Very much ,
A: very much ,
A: cause I , I spent thirteen years there . And , uh , then moved to Dallas about three years ago .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So ,
B: Gee ,
B: you 've moved almost , moved around as much as I have
A: Yeah , uh ,
A: my father was in the Air Force ,
A: so ,
B: Oh , I see .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I worked for the government ,
B: so I , I moved , uh , much more frequently than I had intended for sixteen years ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , I guess the , uh , this is my first conversation in this , uh , uh , series .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: I , I received a call last night because of the , uh ,
B: I had not received my , uh , personal identification number .
A: Right .
B: So , I had to call Jack Godfrey today to ask him what it was , because I , I had to abort the call last evening because I could n't get on the line .
A: Yeah
B: So , uh , is there any ,
B: I 'm not sure how long we 're supposed to talk .
A: It 's , um , it 's just as long as you want to .
B: Oh .
A: I mean it 's just , uh , as long as you want to , and just , you know , a reasonable lengthy conversation .
A: Uh , do you work for Texas Instruments ?
B: No ,
B: I do not .
B: I work for G T E .
A: Oh , okay .
B: And , I , uh , of course , was , I was sent a , uh , an application from , uh , from Jack .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've known Jack for some time .
B: I 'm in the speech processing business , and have been for a number of years ,
A: Oh , okay .
B: so I was very much interested , in , in being a speaker for this
A: Yeah .
A: Well , actually , I , I work for Texas Instruments ,
A: and , uh , I 'm an a , I 'm an environmental engineer ,
B: Oh , I see .
A: and , uh , they just published this internally , you know , getting people involved .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , that , that 's really strange .
A: I , I was wondering why we had somebody from Maryland though .
A: I was saying , God , do we have a TI in Maryland
A: or ,
B: I 'm sure you have a representative somewhere in the area . If just nothing more than a business representative or government services representative ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , um , but I have , uh , I have been a speaker in other , uh , similar type of activities .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , I know the reason why this is , why the , uh , this is being gathered and the program and so forth ,
B: so , I was interested as I said , I was interested in being a speaker .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We have n't talked much about the weather
A: Oh , well .
B: I know that 's what we 're supposed to do .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Well , really it , uh , the letter just says , um ,
A: let 's see , I ca n't ,
A: I was looking at it ,
A: I was trying to find out speedy short cuts ,
A: and I always thought it 's not necessary to measure your time , just to go ahead and enjoy the conversation , and , and , end it when needed .
A: So .
B: Uh-huh .
B: In environmental engineering , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: is that with regard to work place engineering , or just , you know , the work place environment
B: or ,
A: Uh , well , it 's actually , um , waste water .
B: Oh , I see .
A: Taking , taking care of uh ,
A: I 'm actually in the air division ,
A: and we monitor , um , anything that comes out of a stack , or out of a building ,
A: or , um , we do have customers that , um , their concerns are in the work place
A: and we take care of that ,
A: but , within our department . We take care of everything . Waste water , uh , solid waste , and recycling , and , and air and
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I had
B: my , the , the call last evening was supposed to be about , uh , concerning recycling in the community .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: The call I received ,
B: and so , I had , uh , I had thought a little bit about it , um , before hand .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: So , I ,
B: but that , that 's interesting .
B: I have a , uh , uh , friend who is a planner . Uh , a city planner .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: And , one of his ,
B: and he models , uh , city districts , and so forth , uh , does computer modeling .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , one of the , uh ,
B: he has inputs , or gets inputs from , uh , an environmental engineer . .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: we actually , our division is corporate wide ,
A: and we take care of just the Dallas area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Of course we have several plants here ,
A: but , um , we do air modeling also .
B: Oh , I see .
A: And , and , yeah , I take care of all the air modeling , specifically for the Dallas area .
A: What we do , we have a weather station , that we get all of this information , you know , temperature , wind speed , wind direction ,
A: and , uh , we have a huge chemical data base .
B: Well , that 's interesting .
A: And , uh , our , our chemical data base , so that we know every chemical on site
A: and , and , um , its concentration ,
A: and if , if anything ever happened , God forbid , you know , a building explosion or something we 'd be able to track chemicals from that building with our weather station .
A: Okay , um , well ,
A: the first thing ,
A: uh , what do you think you would offer as far as , uh , information about selecting a school ?
B: Well , first I think they 've got to have a pretty good idea of what they want to , what they want to do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , once they have that , then they can start looking in all the various publications that give out all the information about schools and write to the schools themselves , and start finding out about the different requirements for the programs and what kind of , uh , of job assistance and all that other kind of stuff they offer .
A: Yeah , uh ,
A: do you , do you feel that the first two years that the , um ,
A: depending upon the field , I know there are some fields which a person should go to the school , that school , all four years ,
A: but I know there are some fields where it 's really not necessary .
B: Yeah ,
B: a lot fields are ,
B: most of your liberal arts degrees and stuff are n't really concerned with your first two years anyway .
B: It 's , it 's your core education , your general general education requirements .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , if , you know , if they want to get a liberal arts degree , I don't , I don't know what advice I 'd give them .
B: Go to the school you 'd like to go to .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's what I did
A: Yeah .
B: I did n't care about the program or anything else .
B: I went where I wanted to go .
A: Yeah .
A: What was your degree in ?
B: Uh , political science .
A: Political science , oh ,
A: okay .
A: Well , I I know , I 'm going to school right now ,
A: and , uh , I have a friend ,
B: Where are you at ?
A: Uh , U T D .
A: University of Texas , Dallas .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I guess , everybody 's in Dallas that I talk to .
B: I 'm in , North Carolina .
A: I know .
A: That 's where Texas Instruments is .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
A: Um , something that I , I think that I 've noticed that
A: I , I have a friend ,
A: I think if you 're going into like , uh , law or medicine , a very particular , very specific field , even , even engineering , you can get , you can meet a lot of the requirements at a public , um , institution .
B: Sure .
A: And , uh , it 's a lot cheaper .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: My parents , my parents made a mistake in , uh , in sending my sister to a private institution for the first two years .
B: Um .
A: And she found out after that ,
A: she said , you know , my parents , they just , they really wasted a lot of money .
A: This is about twenty years ago .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , well , right now I just ,
A: I mean as far as selecting , selecting a school , I , I , I feel that , uh , a lot of it depends upon the major .
B: Yeah ,
B: it does . Um ,
B: I did n't know what I wanted to do after I got my , my degree .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , originally I had planned , uh , undergrad degree in political science and then a master 's in public administration .
B: And I went ahead and pursued that .
B: I , I got as far as the thesis , and decided , To hell with it ,
B: I did n't want it .
B: Um , and from that point I went to law school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And after a year and a half of that I decided I did n't want that either
A: Okay .
B: Have n't figured out what I want to be when I grow up .
A: Yeah .
B: And so , but I , I , I really did enjoy the law .
B: I mean , that 's , that 's where I wanted to be ,
B: but I did n't want to go through the , uh , the hassle that the law schools put you through , because I never did want to be a practicing attorney .
B: I just wanted a law degree .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 've since discovered that I would be far better off being in the paralegal field . Because that 's the nuts and bolts of the law , and that 's what I like ,
A: Yeah .
B: and you don't have to put up with all the B S that the lawyers have to .
A: Right .
B: So that 's , that 's what I 'm pursuing right now
A: Um .
B: and I 'm pretty happy with it so far .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 'm , I 'm pursuing what they , what 's , what 's called an interdisciplinary field .
A: I 'm a speech therapy major
B: Uh-huh .
A: and fortunately I have a lot of , I have a good medical background ,
B: Yeah .
A: and ,
B: that 's probably very useful .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's actually turning out to be more , more useful than what I thought .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , I also have a good languages background , linguistics . And some psychology .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , it 's all working together .
B: Yeah .
A: The only field I 'm not familiar with really is education , which is required , requires about four or five different fields really .
B: Oh , good grief .
A: So it 's a ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I thought at one time I wanted to be a teacher ,
B: but I , I quickly dispelled that idea when I became a substitute teacher for a while , just to get my feet wet .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I said , uh , I could n't do this everyday .
B: No way .
A: Well .
B: Maybe , maybe being a tenured professor would be one thing , but being a public school teacher is entirely another thing .
A: Oh , so you are a disgruntled graduate student
B: I am a I am , I am just a disgruntled person all around
A: Oh
B: I 'm the , uh , I 'm the , uh , original , uh , Mister Scrooge , I guess .
A: Yeah ,
A: Bah , humbug .
B: Yeah ,
B: bah , humbug .
B: Yeah ,
B: I just ,
A: I , I , I think ,
A: yeah ,
A: there is ,
A: I , I , I think , uh , law would be a fine field , a fine profession , fine field to go into .
A: Um , I know one time I was in a political science class ,
A: and you know , talking about fields , people going into different fields , I made an off , off the cuff remark about lawyers , about their integrity being questionable .
A: And I mean , oh , that was like a can of worms .
B: Probably , you probably got everybody on you , because they were probably all going to law school .
A: No ,
A: there was a woman ,
A: she said a My , my best friends are lawyers a and you know , all this ,
A: and it was just
B: Well , that remark in itself is a slam a
B: My best friends are lawyers a
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
B: You know , like , like , uh , my best friends are blacks
A: Or Jewish ,
A: it used to be Jewish , you know .
B: Jewish ,
B: now blacks
A: Yeah .
B: and I guess , I , I , guess Iraqi now is the
A: I know ,
A: it 's ,
A: but ,
B: Law , law was a lot of fun until you get to law school
A: Yeah .
B: and it does n't become fun anymore .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have a I have a friend .
A: She 's studying , she 's going into law ,
A: another friend going into law ,
A: and , she 's ,
A: I , I , I 'm really , I 'm really concerned about , you know ,
A: she 's just going to be , you know ,
A: what 's going to happen when she gets there .
B: Yeah ,
B: you going ,
A: You know , all of her dreams will be dispelled
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: if , if , if you 've ever seen the program PAPER CHASE it 's very much like that , except worse .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's I , I think it 's probably more embarrassing and very painful .
B: It is .
A: I see I see that happening .
B: Yeah ,
B: very much so .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's a lot of that . Um
A: Yeah .
B: it , it was enjoyable for a while , um ,
B: but it 's such a grind
A: Yeah .
B: and you begin to wonder , you know ,
B: if , if I 'm not , I mean ,
B: you really have to be dead set on being a lawyer to do it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: If you have any doubts whatsoever , you better not get into it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , I wasted a year and a half of awfully hard ,
B: and I aged ten years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I , I , I would n't trade the experience for anything in the world .
B: It never hurts to have some kind of a grounding in law .
A: Yeah ,
A: I went to a language school ,
A: and , and that was a , it was a , an I guess , uh , United States institution .
A: I was military at the time
A: And I , I think probably the biggest .
B: What branch were you in ?
A: Huh ?
B: What branch were you in ?
A: I was in the Air Force ?
B: I was too .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: for myself , I mean , I think that military experience was fine ,
A: it was just , I just wish that there was something else that , that , that I could have done , you know , with ,
B: Well , I got , I got tired of the service after a while , I mean
B: it ,
B: I had a terrific job , really enjoyed it .
A: Yeah ,
A: what , what was your job ?
B: Uh , command post .
A: Uh , I was , I was a linguist
B: I was just wondering , were you in SAC by any chance ?
A: Um .
B: Were you in SAC ?
A: In Tak ?
B: SAC .
A: Uh , no
A: I was n't .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: I , I thought maybe you might have had some experience with the , uh , R C one thirty-fives .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I did n't , I did n't go flight crew .
A: Matter of fact , I did n't make it completely through that , through that field .
A: I , was in intelligence school and about three weeks short .
B: Oh .
A: I did n't make it ,
A: I sort of washed out .
B: Well ,
B: Well .
A: Yeah
A: after about eighteen months of talking about the year and a half training , you know , it 's , it 's something , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think that 's why , you know , children really need to think about the field they 're going to , going into , and I mean , spend a lot of serious reading before they , I mean , not just thinking about .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: They actually should do some reading
B: That 's right ,
B: and it , And if it 's possible even get some experience at it or at least watch some people do it .
A: and they should study it .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I , I , I think , I think there 's a lot to be said for kids working after school .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: sure .
A: I mean , they , they find out whether , just how much of a people person they are .
B: That 's true ,
B: I found that out when I was in high school .
B: I worked at McDonald 's .
A: Oh , and I tell you what ,
A: I worked at McDonald 's as well ,
A: and I , I can tell you one thing ,
A: there are just some people that I , you know ,
A: you just came to the point where I mean ,
A: and oh , I eventually worked in a lab , in a as a lab technician ,
A: and I worked front desk .
A: And I mean , somebody could walk in the door ,
A: and I knew exactly what they were going to do and say .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: I was the same way too .
B: I 'm not a people person .
B: I , I , I hate , um , having to play such a nice guy . You know , especially when it 's all phony . Especially when you got some , uh , jerk coming in .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I ,
B: it 's just not for me .
B: I 'm , uh , I deal much better in research and books , and stuff like that which is why I 'm going to enjoy the paralegal field a lot .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good .
A: I was just wondering , um , getting back to the school thing , so , I , I almost wish that there was something ...
B: What kind of a car do you drive now ?
A: I drive a Honda Prelude .
B: Do you ?
B: I drive a Honda Accord .
A: Oh , yeah
B: Yeah
A: I bought mine a year ago
A: so I 'm not buying a car any time soon .
B: Yeah ,
B: me either .
B: I just bought mine , uh ,
B: it will be a year in August .
A: Yeah .
B: I love it though .
B: I love Hondas .
A: Yeah .
A: It ,
B: I think I found my car .
A: Well , I , I like where all the controls are they 're , they 're in good spots
B: Right .
B: Oh , really ,
A: Yeah .
B: I have a standard .
A: But , um ,
A: I ,
A: it 's , an it 's supposedly real reliable
A: the only thing I 've ever heard about Hondas is that the breaks go out first .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
B: I had n't heard that .
A: Yeah .
B: What did you have before you bought that .
A: I had a Buick Regal .
B: Did you ?
A: Yeah .
B: I had , uh , a Mazda R X Seven before that
B: and that was the worse car I 've ever driven in my life .
A: The Buick was , was great .
A: It was nine years old
A: and it , was still going strong .
B: Really ?
A: The only problems I had with it in the nine years that I owned it , I had to replace the compressor when it was about seven years old .
B: Really ?
A: And that was the only major problem that I had , I mean ,
A: I had like little piddly things like I had to replace the muffler
B: Yeah .
A: and I had replaced the tires
A: and , uh , seems like it had a radiator leak once .
A: But I never had any major anything , other than the compressor .
B: Right .
B: I really never had anything major with my Mazda
B: but it was a standard also
B: and the clutch went out on it toward the end ,
B: I had it five years
B: and the last year , last two years it seemed to go out really easily .
B: I think it went out twice in two years
B: and that 's , that 's a lot
B: it should n't go out that much .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And so I went ahead and bought another standard when I bought the Honda
B: but I don't think I 'm going to do that again .
B: I think I 'm going back to automatic now .
A: Well , I never , well ,
A: I kind of know how to drive standard
A: but I 've never owned one
A: so I had n't , I don't drive one a lot .
B: Right .
A: So , I don't feel comfortable in traffic with it .
B: Right .
A: And for everything I 've heard it 's a lot easier to sell an automatic .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
A: And , and resale value is really important to me
B: That 's true .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is me too
B: that 's why I got the Honda .
A: Yeah .
B: Hondas have great resale value .
A: Yeah .
B: The Mazda definitely did not
B: Not at all .
B: They 're worse than American cars I think or just as bad as far as resale goes .
A: I did pretty well with my , uh , Regal because it was in really good shape
A: but , it still looked real nice ,
B: Yeah .
A: the , the interior was still really nice ,
A: there was n't cracks all over the dash board and stuff .
B: Right .
A: And it had some , some nice features .
A: So I ended up okay with the Buick ,
B: Good .
A: and I anticipate the same thing with the Honda whenever I decide to sell it ,
A: of course , I may never sell it
B: Right .
A: I may drive it until it 's dead
A: but ,
B: Yeah .
B: That 's what I did with the Mazda , drive it until the , until the clutch went out and the wheels fell off ,
A: Yeah .
B: so , probably what I 'll do again .
A: Yeah .
B: But I really like the Hondas .
B: I like foreign cars a lot .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well ,
B: I looked at the Mitsubishi Galant .
B: I was looking for a four door car having driven the R X Seven so long ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it was so small
B: and it 's really impractical .
B: So , I wanted something with a real trunk , and four doors something easy to get in and out of
B: and I looked at the Galant
B: and those were really nice
B: and I can get them for a great price .
A: Yeah .
B: But I found it hard to deal with the , the dealership I was going through .
A: Oh .
B: So , that 's how I ended up with a Honda .
A: I was n't even looking for a car when I bought this car .
A: I , uh , I was thinking about buying a Prelude from a friend who was moving to New York or something
A: so and she was going to sell her car because she did n't need it anymore
A: and it was only like a year old
A: and I had never driven , uh , a Prelude .
A: So , I went to a dealership because they had like , uh , the same year and same model , of Prelude on their used car lot
B: Right .
A: and I went and I test drove it
A: and , you know , I just fell in love , with this brand new white Prelude , uh , you know , two liter S I with the sun roof and the moon roof
B: Oh , yeah .
B: They 're nice I think .
A: and I , bought it loaded .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: I have to have them loaded ,
A: Oh ,
B: um , I love all those little things that you don't need
B: but they 're so wonderful .
A: Yeah .
A: I went there looking at a used car
A: and two days later I bought this car .
A: I felt like , I felt like that was the worst impulse , that was , that was largest impulse that I , that I had ever made .
A: The the two , other things that I bought on impulse are a V C R and a washer and dryer .
B: I understand .
A: I go for the big stuff .
B: Yeah .
B: I noticed
B: Mine was definitely not impulse
B: I really needed a new car .
B: Mine was just , it was getting worn out I guess from being a sports car .
B: I drove it kind of hard ,
A: Oh .
B: and I got it right after high school .
B: So , by the time I traded it in it was ready .
A: Yeah .
A: I got , I got my Buick as a high school graduation gift .
B: Did you ?
A: Yeah .
A: But I , I guess this was n't really an impulse , I mean ,
A: buying it right then and , you know , right quickly was kind of impulsive
A: but I 'd been thinking about buying a new car for about three years
A: and I was just scared to .
B: Right .
A: I was scared to start taking on payments because the Buick was long since paid for .
B: Right .
B: That 's the same with me .
B: Would you ever buy a used car for a new car for yourself ?
A: Buy a , you , buy a used car ?
B: Like ,
B: Right .
A: Sure .
B: I , I was going to buy one once
B: but I just , I worry about who 's driven them and what they 've been through and the warranties and things like that .
A: Yeah .
B: Just , I ca n't seem to get over that .
B: That just bothers me
B: I don't know why .
A: Well , um , like on Hondas they ,
A: supposedly , the maintenance records was supposed to be registered with Honda or whatever
A: and you can request whatever maintenance records exist on cars
A: and you can have them checked out by mechanics and stuff .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: I mean they ca n't stop you from doing it .
B: Hoping that they do go to a Honda dealership to get them serviced .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , and even if they did n't , you can still get a good idea from a , if you can get a good mechanic to , check it over real carefully and check the block and everything .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
A: So .
B: Well , I guess that 's all .
A: Okay .
A: Well , I enjoyed talking to you .
B: I enjoyed talking to you .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Anyway , what are your , what are your first comments on that pauses and subject ?
B: Uh , my first comments on the budget .
B: I would say there has ,
A: What would you start cutting
A: what would be the first thing you 'd cut ?
A: Defense ?
B: Surprisingly , no .
B: I would , I would cut the prison systems and let them self-support .
A: Mean private enterprise ?
B: Huh ?
A: Have private enterprise do it ?
B: You mean the prisons ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: They 're already talking about it .
A: I mean , they 're talking about , uh , having it , uh , as a , you know , business . Uh , to , uh , you know , to , so , the , you know , the government does n't have to deal with it .
B: I had n't heard that .
A: But , uh , yeah ,
A: because I think it 's all funded , either state or federally funded
A: so , or , uh , obviously .
B: Right .
A: So , but , uh , But see they 're , they don't have enough , uh , uh , you know , there 's , there 's not enough room in these prisons and that , and that , uh , to continue funding it .
B: But to me it ,
A: They think they need to , maybe have , uh , you know , private , you know , business , private enterprise come in .
A: So ,
B: Well , see the other way I 'm thinking about is they should be self-supporting , like , uh , the prisoners make license plates or farm or small industry inside the prisons . Anything to where they can be self-supporting within themselves .
B: In other words , they 're in there for a purpose ,
B: put them to work rather than sitting there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's the same thing like the whole criminal , I should n't say criminal , but the whole police department of the United States .
B: I feel the same way .
B: Uh , someone gets picked up for drunk driving ,
B: he should put enough in there that goes back into paying for that policeman being out there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's self you know , self-defense on that point .
B: Uh , as far as my defense budget , uh , they 're cutting it back now , what , twenty-five percent ?
B: I would n't want to see it cut any more than that .
A: Yeah .
B: But again I 'd like to see something on the other end back into education . But not in the education we have today .
B: So I 'm lost on that one .
B: I would like to be a little more into investigating some of the other countries in the world and their educational problems . And to come up with something a little better than what we 've got .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: its tough to , to say what , uh , you know , what , uh ,
A: as far as this , that good or bad or what .
A: But , uh , I was just talking to somebody else ,
A: and all those European countries , they pay all the way through college and stuff like that .
A: They ,
A: so , uh ,
B: Well , not so much pay .
B: I 'm not trying to see the government put out any more .
A: No .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know what you are saying .
A: But I 'm just saying that even the differences , uh , is that , you know , some countries pay for students to go to , through college and etcetera .
A: But here , it , you know , it 's just up to high school .
B: Yeah .
B: But see , we don't even push the fact to the high school kids that there 's other means of education out there rather than college . To go either as an apprentice , which they , they do in other countries . Just doing it , which I think would bring the education back up . You know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: why not an apprentice out to a , a company and learn from down on the bottom as a wood worker or , you know , just a technician ?
B: You can learn on the job . Which , of course , again , which would mean , again ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: our education budget will go down if this is ,
B: in a few years , I mean it 's not going to be overnight .
A: Yeah .
B: But that would come down .
A: I think the you know , that 's one reason , uh , you know , we do have the education is that what it takes for these companies to bring somebody on board . Uh ,
A: they 're not willing to , you know , to put that , you know , the training for only a certain amount .
A: So , uh , it 's , you know , as far as the technical side .
A: But , uh , even like
A: one , one of the biggest things now is like paralegals and stuff .
A: I mean they , they 're trying to get more people into that field .
A: But they ca n't just bring somebody in without even having gone to , you know , school in that area before they can work , you know , for a lawyer as a paralegal .
B: Excuse me . I see it being done
B: I know of a friend that works for my lawyer that has had no training whatsoever
B: and she 's training her .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , yeah ,
A: I , I 'm , well I , you know , I 'm assuming that it can be done . Uh ,
A: my perspective is that , you know , I 've been with a couple of big companies now .
A: And it 's like they 'd , are unwilling to put the time in .
A: You know , they want somebody , you know , when they then , when they bring them off , bring them in , that they have something , you know , a certain amount to contribute .
A: Obviously , there 's , uh , you know , there 's a lot to learn , uh , after that .
A: But , but , uh , that 's true .
A: I 'm , I 'm sure there 's a lot of , uh ,
A: you know , businesses are small , you know , small businesses that could , uh .
A: Let me change my channel ,
A: I 've got a cordless phone .
A: Let me see if that clears this up .
A: phone Is that better ?
B: Yes .
A: Okay .
B: Wow !
A: Yeah ,
A: it was a cordless phone ,
A: and all of a sudden we had a bad , uh , frequency there or something .
A: So we had some interference ,
A: so I changed that .
B: Yeah .
B: It sounded you were calling from around the world somewhere
A: Anyway , so , uh ,
B: Well ,
A: but , uh , you know , I think , uh , they , maybe they need to , uh , help promote that more . Give incentives like , uh , if they do bring somebody on , they will pay some of their costs or give tax breaks or whatever it is , you know , for them to train people , you know , stuff like that . Programs like that , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't know , you know , what kind of options they 've got .
B: Well , that 's something about what Germany 's supposed to be doing . Something similar to that right now .
B: And , uh , they have jobs out on , you know , bulletin boards so people know what is open for an apprentices in different fields .
B: But see , that again would cut some of our budget down for education but build up our education with the people . At people , per , at high school level , which I would like to see . Rather than so many kids getting out of school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They 're , they go on the unemployment list before we have turn around . Because they don't have any education .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't mean college .
B: And I 'm for college .
B: But there 's a lot of people that don't want their higher education as far as quote , quote college is concerned .
B: They 've had it .
A: Yeah .
A: I think , I just heard something the other day ,
A: it was like only , it was either sixty percent or forty percent , go to college .
A: And then out of that percentage , only so many can get their degree .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I thought that was interesting .
A: But , uh , you know , most people I knew have gone and got their degree .
A: So ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: But there 's a lot of them out there that have n't .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I you know , I , uh , was basic , in a , you know , middle , upper middle class area ,
B: That 's ,
A: and yeah ,
A: so I think , uh , that demographic area there , you know , a lot of them do go on .
A: And they go to college , etcetera .
B: Because you can get just as far as being a journeyman , carpenter or an electrician or plumber or anything else like that . Make as much money
B: and if they enjoy it more , they 'll make a happier life for themselves .
A: Yeah .
B: Question .
B: You threw that question on me about the deficit ,
B: put it on your shoe now .
B: What would you do ?
A: Well , as as far as the , you know , the deficit , that 's a whole nother , uh , my perception of the budget , you know , the government .
A: And they have so much to spend
A: and there 's not enough money to spread around .
A: But the deficit basically is that the trade surplus between the other countries , and that we have more money or you know , more money going out and too many goods coming into this country , you know .
A: And , uh , you know , part of that problem , I think , is still , you know , uh ,
A: like Japan still does not let us compete fairly in their country .
A: And , and obviously the , the demand for their goods is quite high here ,
A: so they can get their goods in here .
A: And , uh , you know , to start even that out we need to continue to , you know , at least threaten that , you know ,
A: we 're going to give them higher tariffs , etcetera to raise their prices to , you know , ours .
A: But , uh , it 's just that , uh , they 're , eh ,
A: I think you 're , you 're going to find that just because the United States , you know , there is such a demand here , the market , you know .
A: And , uh , uh , the you know , money being spent and the goods flow in and we don't sell , you know , we don't , uh , sell products abroad as much as we bring in .
A: So ,
B: Were you watching ,
B: I think , uh ,
B: one of the news stations . I could n't even tell you which one I watched . But they had on there , where the , the output from the United States was basically from smaller businesses rather than the larger ones are exporting .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Okay ,
B: what kind of puppy you got ?
A: Well , uh , I think she 's mostly German Shepherd .
A: Uh , she was , uh , uh ,
A: a person lives across the street from me , uh , brought her home from work because a coworker of hers , uh , had this dog appear on its front doorstep ,
B: Uh .
A: somebody , somebody abandoned her
A: and , she 's only about , oh , between six and eight , six to eight weeks old
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , uh , I ca n't understand why anyone would abandon this dog , though .
B: Oh .
A: She 's , I mean she 's that , this young
A: and she 's almost housebroken .
B: Wow .
A: I mean she actually asks to go out .
B: That 's great .
A: And , uh , yeah
A: I was amazed .
A: Really good temperament and very playful and affectionate , good personality .
A: I don't know ,
A: I ca n't imagine what , uh , would have been wrong with this dog ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: well I , I have a dog that God gave us too ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: she just appeared .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: my husband calls her street dog ,
B: but we 've had her now for about three years ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I just ,
B: you get so attached to them .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I had a , uh ,
A: last year I had I had another German Shepherd ,
A: now this one was purebred
A: and , uh , he , when he was about seven months old got a gastrointestinal virus and was just about on death 's door
A: but , uh , managed to get him to a veterinarian in time ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , and on huge doses of antibiotics , and he actually got over it with , seven hundred dollars in vet bills ,
B: Um .
B: Wow .
A: um , but he had actually was able to get him over that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then he was gaining weight again , was just getting healthy ,
A: and , uh , he put on about fifteen to twenty pounds after the thing
A: and then he got hit by a Cadillac .
B: Oh no .
A: So , I could n't believe it .
A: That was , that was really hard .
B: Oh , gee .
A: And that was even harder for ,
A: I was on a business trip at the time
A: and the dog was being house sit , or dog sit , whatever , by some friends of mine down the street ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so they just felt absolutely awful .
B: Oh , I bet .
A: And I felt , felt probably worse for them than , than for me
A: because , oh gosh they , the , uh , this fellow 's wife who was , uh , watching the dog , she , I think she loved that dog more than I did
A: and , uh . She was really attached to it ,
B: Oh gosh .
A: but , uh , it 's unfortunate ,
A: but now , I 've got another one ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: How long has it been since the first one ?
A: Uh , see , he , it , it was just over a year .
B: Uh , yeah ,
A: Uh , it was in March of last year .
A: So , uh , yeah ,
A: it 'd been , did n't , did n't have one for a whole year .
B: Yeah .
B: Well I had , I had a German Shepherd before this one
B: and when she died it just , it just absolutely destroyed me .
B: I mean I was just , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: I could n't even talk about it for months
B: and so I decided well that 's it ,
B: I 'm not going to do this anymore
A: Right .
B: And then God gave me this dog ,
B: so
A: My dad 's like that ,
A: he , uh , he had a beagle that he loved
A: and , uh , when that beagle passed away , uh , he did n't want , he was n't going to have another dog ,
A: there 's no way ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: no
A: how , and then , uh , the , he the beagle died in I guess about October
A: and by Christmas time we went down to the pound and got him , uh , I or , I Humane Society and got , uh , got another one , a stray .
B: Yeah .
A: And she , she turned out to be a great dog
A: and we had her for six years until she just passed away recently
A: and again dad went through the whole thing ,
A: but , mom went an ,
B: Okay ,
B: yeah .
B: Well you just do ,
A: Yeah .
B: you ca n't help
B: it 's like , it 's like a kid .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
A: Well hopefully this one here , Cocoa will live a full life
B: Yeah ,
B: well when , uh ,
B: my , my doggie , uh , that we have now , uh , she 's , she 's mostly Golden Retriever .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The vet called her , uh , a golden mix
A: Yeah .
B: like who knows , you know .
A: Right .
B: But she 's , uh , she 's that sort of strawberry blonde reddish color , you know .
A: Oh .
B: And , uh , and her nose is that pink , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: she does n't have a brown nose ,
B: and her she 's sort of unicolor , you know , eyes are the same color and everything ,
A: Yeah .
B: so . I named her Rosebud ,
B: and , uh , a friend of mine said , she , that she
B: this friend of mine grew up on a farm and said that she had , uh , a pet cow named Rosebud
B: and she said there 's a lot of longevity in that name ,
B: said my cow lived seventeen years
A: That 's not too bad .
A: Golly the Golden Retrievers are good dogs too ,
A: they 're kind of like , get that permanent smile to them ,
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
A: they 're always , always happy .
A: I don't think I 've ever seen them not look happy .
B: And she 's so easy going and so sociable ,
A: Yeah .
B: You know , she loves everybody .
B: And little kids can just , you know , maul all over her ,
A: Right .
B: and she just , you know , thinks it 's great .
A: This , this friend of mine has , well
A: it 's the same guy that was watching , uh , my German Shepherd when he got hit ,
A: but , uh , went fishing with him on Friday and took ,
A: he 's got a full , a pure bred Golden Retriever
A: and then I had , uh , the puppy , a little tiny puppy
A: and we went and took the two dogs up fishing .
A: And this ,
A: they just , they had a ball romping around ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , you ca n't get a Golden Retriever near water without it jumping in .
B: Getting in ,
B: yeah .
A: And , uh , this Golden Retriever jumped in the , the , really fast moving , uh , river current ,
A: and , uh .
B: Oh , no .
A: Well no ,
A: actually he had no trouble at all .
A: He first jumped in
A: and I ,
A: he 's , he 's just about a year old himself and never had really ,
A: I don't think he 'd swum before .
B: Really .
A: But he jumped in , in the , the river .
B: Did puppy go to ?
A: Well the puppy jumped in the , into some of the pools but not into the ,
A: I was careful to keep her away from the , the fast moving water ,
B: Oh , that 's good ,
B: yeah .
A: 'cause if she fell in then I 'd of been , had to go in after her .
A: And up here the water 's probably about forty degrees right now .
B: Ugh ,
B: ugh .
A: And I would not have been fun trying to retrieve her ,
A: but , uh , this dog , Dennis jumped in and got this look on his face like what do I do now , as he 's floating down the river then finally discovered that he could swim and , uh , actually paddled up against the current and , uh , made it back to the shore and climbed up
A: and then , he , he jumped in again ,
A: and he was swimming for quite a bit , all afternoon .
A: He loved it .
B: Yeah ,
A: Cocoa did n't think too much of it , though .
A: She jumped in and then started screaming and made me pull her back out .
A: I pulled her out and , uh , then had to wrap her up in a sweatshirt because she was shivering so bad ,
B: Yeah .
A: and so , but , uh , she got over it ,
A: so .
B: Well the German Shepherd that I had before ,
B: we , we had a little pool ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , she was , she did not want any part of swimming
B: but she liked to , to get in the pool on the first step .
B: She 'd just get on the first step and lay down . You know in the summertime when it 's really , really hot .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And she 'd just lay there on that step and just , you know , cool off
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've , I live right across the street from a , a big lake here , um ,
A: it 's on Oneida lake
A: and I 'm wondering if , uh , if she 'll want to go out there and go swimming next year .
A: I mean , I 've got ,
A: the yard 's all fenced in
A: so she does n't run loose ,
A: but , uh , she could go in sometime when , if I 'm watching her ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so .
B: Yeah
B: Well the one that we had just did n't want any part of that .
A: Oh really .
B: Yeah ,
B: and she ,
B: oh baths .
B: Oh gee , she hated baths worse than anything .
B: It was , it was just really a fight to , you know , get her clean .
A: Yeah .
B: Have you seen , uh , CANINE . The movie , oh ,
A: No ,
A: no .
B: you 've got to see it . Especially since you have a German ,
B: it is so cute .
A: Oh really .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , uh , an part of the , the movie is where he 's trying to clean this dog up
B: and it 's , it 's just hysterical .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: my my dog , last German Shepherd , it was a real chore trying to give him a bath too .
A: And that was the thing I could n't figure out
A: because he would go in the lake ,
A: it was n't like he did n't
B: Uh-huh .
A: normally , I mean he did n't seem to have a problem with getting wet ,
A: but if you wanted to get him wet , forget it .
B: Yeah ,
B: well that 's how Cleo , you know ,
B: she 'd lay on her step ,
A: Yeah .
B: but that was , that was the only time she wanted to get wet
B: and she did n't want you getting her wet
A: Right ,
A: right ,
A: obstinate ,
A: obstinate .
B: Yeah ,
B: but you really need to see that movie .
B: I , I we bought the movie
B: and I I don't know how many times I 've seen it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it came on T V the other night
B: and I was watching it again ,
B: and my husband heard me laughing
B: and he said I ca n't believe that you 're still getting such a kick out of that movie
A: I 'll have to check it out .
A: I saw the , the , uh , previews for it and all
A: and it did look like it 'd be a good movie ,
A: but ,
B: It is great .
A: uh , really have n't had a whole lot of time to get out to see the movies lately .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I got to do more , more fun things .
B: Well we always wait until we can rent them , you know
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Well I 'm , uh , I 'm a second lieutenant in the Air Force
A: and so I travel a lot .
B: Oh really .
A: And yeah ,
A: I 'm a engineer at , uh at the laboratory , Rolm Laboratory , Griffis Air Force Base , up here ,
A: so .
B: Oh .
A: That 's how I got into , uh , into the switchboard project and all that ,
A: so .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it 's nice having a dog here , uh ,
A: the ,
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: there 's just ,
A: uh ,
A: what 's the , what 's the word I 'm looking for , uh , lots of affection , no unconditional affection from the , from the dog .
B: Right ,
B: that 's it .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Really ,
B: not critical at all .
A: No ,
A: no .
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're really wonderful .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it 's been nice talking to you ,
A: we seem to be degenerating here ,
A: so
A: Well , uh , I don't have strong feelings about changes to be made in the , uh , jury system , do you ?
B: Uh , not at all .
B: In fact , I 'm graduating from college in about a week
B: and this past semester I 've taken two criminal justice classes and have discussed a lot on trials .
A: Uh , well then you must know a lot more about this than I do
B: Uh , I think , I think , uh , the system right now , you know , should , you know , is fine .
B: I think it should be by a jury .
B: I don't think the judge should have , I mean
B: he 's just there kind of like the referee
A: Uh-huh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I don't , I don't even think that it should be unanimous either . Uh ,
A: Well , what about the idea that one is only guilty , uh , when proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt ?
A: I thought that was the point of , uh , a unanimous jury was the idea that if everyone agrees then there should n't be any reasonable doubt .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: But , if there are some people who don't agree uh , then there must be , it seems to be there must be at least a reasonable doubt for some people .
B: Exactly .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I don't know .
B: I , uh ,
B: you , you rarely hear , you hear , of course there 's cases where someone has been put in , in , in , uh , prison , uh , falsely accused
B: but , uh , more than likely the people that are on the , the jury know what they 're doing .
B: Uh , I mean you ,
A: Really ?
A: Have you served on a jury ?
B: Never .
A: I never have either ,
A: but my friends , my few friends who have , uh , say just the opposite
A: They say they 're , uh , remarkably incompetent . And , uh , don't know what they 're doing and say one thing in the courtroom and then as soon as they get in the back room they just start letting all their prejudices hang out and to , to air , and all that .
B: Huh . Well , you would think that they would get that in the , uh ,
B: when the prosecution and defense are choosing the jury you would think that those would come out
B: and I , I know they automatically ,
B: when you go through , uh , when you 're chosen is , you 're automatically like a , a , a professor in criminal justice or something like that ,
B: that you 're automatically ,
B: no
B: they don't want you on the jury .
A: Right ,
A: , they don't want anyone with anyone with particular experience or knowledge of the legal system .
B: Exactly .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: exactly .
B: Uh ,
A: And they tend ,
A: and since anyone can get out of it who basically says they don't want to do it ,
A: I mean , you know , it 's , it 's anyone can get out of jury just about ,
A: and , uh , so , it , it 's , uh , it 's not really my peers that ,
A: if I were let 's say I were arrested falsely or not and put up for a jury I would n't feel that , uh , I would be being tried by a jury of my peers .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'd be , I mean I 'd be tried by a jury of you know , people who had nothing else to do and were n't very knowledgeable about certain sorts of things ,
A: and , uh , I don't know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I get a little bit nervous about it ,
A: and , uh ,
B: I 've , I 've never I 've never even been called to jury duty .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I was called once ,
A: but I was out of the country ,
A: and apparently I , apparently they thought I served
A: so I did n't , I did n't make any noise about it
A: I came back
A: and they said the record showed I served ,
A: but I was out of the country at the time ,
A: so I 'm pretty sure I did n't .
A: Uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: I , uh , I don't know ,
B: I think the , I guess there 's a lot of problems with the legal system
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I I , I don't know ,
A: I definitely feel like we need to keep it at least unanimous
A: because , uh , you know , there 's the classic sort of TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD kind of story where you get , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , it seems to me that if you could just have a simple majority or something you could pretty much you know , browbeat the jury , a majority , in the , of the , a majority of the jury ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's hard to say .
A: Uh , so , it 's , it 's , uh , you know , saying , well , look we don't like the way he looks
A: and , let 's , uh , let 's throw the rascal in jail and stuff .
B: Right .
A: And you also get a lot of , uh , juries are extremely , uh ,
A: and from what I hear ,
A: I , I have , I have some friends who do expert witness testimony
A: and they say that , uh , juries are extremely vulnerable to , uh , sort of emotional pitches , you know ,
A: the prosecutor will want to , oh , I don't know show the , show the mugging victim , you know , show what the nice person he was and what a family life , and basically get the jury to be very sympathetic with the victim ,
A: and , uh , or , or , uh , if it 's a corporation , that was , uh , you know , harming some individual or something like that , they get very much , well , you know ,
A: it 's just a big faceless corporation .
A: Let 's , let 's make them pay as much as possible . Things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , not ,
A: I , I mean , I 'm ,
A: the problem is I ca n't guarantee that a judge would be necessarily be much better than a jury ,
A: but I 'd be real nervous having a jury not at least fully agree on what the settlements would be , things like that .
B: I , uh , I I , I don't think the judge should just make the decision alone .
A: Yeah .
B: Least with the jury you have twelve people , you know that are going to decide , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , how about having a jury and a judge work together on it somehow ?
A: I wonder if that 's possible ?
A: I guess the judge 's time is worth too much , though .
B: judge
A: They pay that judge , they pay those jury members very little money compared to that judge
B: Right ,
B: exactly
A: He makes more money in an hour than all twelve of them put together .
B: Probably ,
B: yeah
B: Yeah .
B: But , uh , no ,
B: it 's , it 's sad , though , that , uh , that the people , though , that
B: you , you , somebody 's life is in twelve people 's hands
B: and sometimes those twelve people could care less .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And , uh , or they fool the , the defense in thinking that they 're , you know ,
B: because when they go through those processes they kind of pick out who they want .
A: Oh , of course .
A: It 's , it 's political maneuvering .
A: The , the one side is looking for someone whose face they think will , you know , want to hang everyone ,
A: and the other one is going to look for someone very sympathetic .
A: They 're not looking for someone who 's going to be the most reasoned or sensible or rational juror . * whose who 's
A: Neither side wants that .
A: They want to find a juror that 's going to , uh , be most persuadable by their arguments , you know .
B: Exactly .
A: Uh , I wish it were a little bit harder to not serve on juries actually .
A: I mean , I know , it , it , it 's tricky
A: because I know , you know , an awful lot of intelligent people who just , well
A: I 'm too busy to serve on a jury ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I 'll tell them that
A: and they wo n't , or just , you know , just answer one of the questions the wrong way because you can do that , you know ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Well ,
A: they just say do you believe in such and such .
A: Uh ,
B: I guess it 's just that maybe people are , you know , upset at court , you know .
B: If it was , if it was a , a family member of theirs , though that was innocent
B: and , then they 'd want to be on that jury .
A: Right .
A: Course , they 'd be , they would be barred ,
A: but
B: But , uh , if everyone would take it , I think if everyone took it seriously
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: well it sounds like we both need to get out there and serve on a jury .
B: Yeah .
A: I hope we 're called up before too long .
B: I would love to be called ,
B: I 'm ready to go
B: They just have n't called me up yet
A: They will , they will eventually .
A: Okay ,
A: well it was nice talking with you .
B: It was nice talking to you .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: All right .
B: Have you ever been drug tested ?
A: Um , that 's a good question .
A: Um , I had a job I had to go get a blood test for .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um ,
A: and , and they did a full blood screen on me ,
A: but they did n't call that a drug test .
A: So
A: I think they checked for drugs .
A: They just don't tell you they did .
B: Yeah .
B: I had , I 've had , uh , two or three drug tests that I had to get before I could start working at a job uh , different jobs .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I had one at T I and then one at another engineering company .
B: And , really , I mean , I don't mind them .
B: I don't do drugs anyway .
B: I guess if I did , maybe I would
B: but , um , I don't know .
B: I know a girl that , she 's a nurse ,
B: and they get drug tested randomly .
B: I 've , never been randomly drug tested .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But that would probably bother me to wake up one day and find out halfway through the day that you 're going to be drug tested and you did n't know about it .
A: Yeah
A: Well , I guess it depends on if you got something to worry about
B: Yeah .
B: I guess so .
B: deeply while saying the first I guess I guess so
B: Do you think that it 's right ?
A: Well , I , I , I come from kind of a biased opinion because I 'm a , a therapist and a drug and alcohol counselor .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I 've done employee assistant work
A: and I , I know the kind of cost businesses go through in terms of accidents , on the job that are specifically drug and alcohol related ,
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: and it 's like in the billions of dollars every year . Um ,
A: and the only way that they can prevent that is , is , you know , making sure that the employees are drug and alcohol free .
B: That 's true .
A: And , you know , the , the problem in the work place is that , that people are ,
A: like if your boss is your drinking buddy or whatever , I mean , you can come to , come to work drunk and get in an accident
A: and he 'll cover up for you
A: and , nobody knows about it ,
B: Right .
A: but you know , ends up costing the company lots and lots of money .
B: That 's true .
A: So ,
B: I believe , it 's right , especially for certain jobs .
A: you know ,
B: I think anyone in a , in a public job like bus drivers , and cab drivers , and police officers , and things like that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think they should be randomly drug tested .
A: Yeah .
B: I believe , full force in that .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know that I believe every secretary in every company needs to be .
A: True .
B: You know , secretaries are n't , are n't really going to cost the company that much money if they fall face forward in their typewriter or something .
B: So , I don't know .
B: I , I 'm kind of biased , too , because I don't do drugs
B: and , so , I really don't care one way or another if anybody wants to pull me up tomorrow and test me . Because I have nothing to worry about .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I guess that 's kind of biased .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , there ,
A: it 's , I , I think one of the problems with it is it affects a lot of other folks on the job if somebody else is impaired .
B: Yeah .
B: It does .
A: Because , generally you know it .
A: Uh , you find out one way or another if somebody 's got a problem on the job .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
A: And if , even if , like you say , even if it 's just the secretary ,
A: if her work or abilities start affecting her co-workers then it , it 's still a problem .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
A: So ,
B: But , what do you do about , the occasional user that may have gone to a party three days before
B: and , you know , it 's , it 's been the whole weekend since they 've done anything
B: and they happen to be tested Monday morning
B: and they could be fired for that ?
B: You know , that , that 's kind of unfair , also .
A: Well , yeah .
A: I guess it comes with the turf .
B: Yeah .
B: I guess so .
B: I guess if you 're going to do it you need to suffer the consequences
A: Yeah .
A: Man .
A: And , in terms of drugs , they 're illegal .
A: So you 're , you 're breaking the law anyway .
B: That 's true .
B: That 's true .
A: Probably the , the biggest problem with those is they don't do a real good job of , of assessing for alcohol .
B: That 's true .
A: And that 's probably the biggest problem there is
B: Yeah .
B: I think so , more than drugs
B: And I know a lot of companies that will put you in an alcohol rehabilitation before they would put you in a drug rehab .
A: Yeah .
B: They would pay for an alcohol
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they don't always pay for drug rehabilitation .
A: Well , I guess that 's one of the positive things that have come out of it , some of the employee assistance program .
A: If you do test positive for something they will give you an opportunity to go get your life straight rather than to lose your job . * you 're your
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
A: And I ,
B: I , think that 's fair .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think the the company benefits in the long run .
B: Yeah
B: That 's true
B: That 's about all I have , to say on it
A: What , what kind of testing do they do when you went ?
B: Uh , it 's a urine test .
A: Urine screen .
B: And , they , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
B: it was really very official .
B: You have to go in a room solely by yourself , sign papers that say you were totally alone , sign papers that say this is yours ,
B: and , and you have to seal the bottle yourself and label it yourself and , all of that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So that they 're sure that you have n't borrowed anybody 's , I guess , or something .
A: Well , that happens .
B: Yeah .
B: I know ,
B: I it 's hard to believe ,
A: It happens a lot .
B: but I guess it does
A: There , there are people that pay other people to to help them out .
B: I know .
B: I 'm amazed , at the things people , will do .
A: Yeah .
B: It is amazing .
B: I guess there are people that do that .
B: And they are , those are expensive tests .
B: I 'm , glad I never had to pay for one .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: It depends really on how , how strong a test it is .
A: They 've got different degrees , as far as , as how far back they can check .
B: Yeah .
B: I guess so .
A: They got some unusual things besides blood and urine tests .
A: They 've some companies that are doing , uh , hair tests .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
A: Well , that ,
A: they 'll pull out one of your hairs
A: and they can apparently test , um , back a certain period of time . Because some of the , the residue ends up in your hair follicles , you know ,
B: How weird .
B: I did n't know that .
A: it 's kind of ,
B: Oh , that 's weird .
A: Hair follicles , I guess , are just dead protein
A: and they ,
B: Yeah .
A: And it , it 's apparently almost like a , a calendar .
A: They , they 've got it pretty precise now .
A: They can go back and look at , in terms of growth in a , in a hair , when you used and , and that type of thing .
B: That 's wild .
A: So
B: It 's amazing the things they can find out from different things on your body .
A: Yeah
A: So , I guess if they perfect that is not quite as cumbersome as having to go fill a bottle or give blood or something like that .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true
B: That 's true .
B: I 'm glad I never had to do it by giving blood .
B: I ca n't stand the thought of giving blood .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I ca n't even do it for Wadley , even though it 's a good cause
A: Yeah .
B: Well , I enjoyed talking to you .
A: Well , I did , too .
B: Thank you .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: So tell me about CHINA CRY .
B: Okay ,
B: CHINA CRY was basically the , the true story written by this , this lady who had , uh , was a native , a native Chinese , uh , uh , who was raised by Christian parents .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And her , her time frame was prior to the nineteen forty-nine revolution .
A: I see .
B: Although she , herself , had never really accepted Jesus or gone through any of the other , uh , Christian , uh , portions of , of the faith , repentance , baptisms , et cetera , et cetera . She had always felt a very strong , uh , leaning in this direction .
B: And whenever the cultural revolution of nineteen forty-nine occurred and most churches were either banned or their , all the clergy and so forth were killed or , or imprisoned or , and the property confiscated , she was safe because she had , you know , not officially joined the , the Christian movement .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So anyway , she , as she grew up towards maturity , her parents , well ,
B: her dad was a doctor
B: and , and he was rather well , you know , rather well to do in the old regime
B: and the , the the the communist Chinese did n't like this at all .
B: You know , the bourgeoisie was , was , was definitely out of , uh , style , then .
A: Right .
B: Everybody was back to a commonality of one .
B: And so they kept picking at him , picking at his , at her mother and , uh , finally , uh , started picking on her . And getting her to , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they were starting to , uh , accuse her of , of , of , uh , crimes and atrocities before the , the revolution and , and had her write her own story over and over and over .
B: Uh , and the , uh , the major point of the movie was that , that she had , uh , married this , this Chinese fellow and was with child when they started this mass court .
B: Now , I think I 'm leaving out a portion .
B: She she went through college and graduated very high up in her class and had , uh , gotten a job as , as an instructor
B: and they had her teaching , or were starting to have her teach history for the soldiers . When the , they decided that , that she needed to start recanting of all of her pre , uh , regime crimes as it were .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Being a child , you know .
B: So , they kept on and on at , at her ,
B: and in the meantime , she and her husband , uh , were were expecting a child , their own child .
B: And , uh , the , the people kept harassing her over , you know , over a period of months
B: and finally they , uh , carried her , uh , out into the courtyard to , to , either really to shoot her or to go through the motions of , of shooting her , uh , with by firing , or , you know , executing her by firing squad .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , the Lord just said no ,
B: this is not going to happen even though this lady has not really , you know ,
B: she 's , she 's one of mine ,
B: she is not going to die
B: and , uh , the , the soldiers were blinded when they shot .
A: Huh .
B: And she , her life was spared .
B: And this , this frightened the , the , uh , the commandant
B: and so he called this kind of stuff off and just put her in the labor camp .
A: Huh .
B: Well , uh , and , course , here 's this , this woman who is heavy with child dragging rocks around .
A: Huh .
B: Well she , she put in for going , going to , uh ,
B: and her husband had escaped to Hong Kong , uh ,
B: and then she put in to go see him .
B: And over time she , uh , uh ,
B: finally , through her perseverance and writing enough letters to enough different people embarrassed enough of the , the middle , uh , bureaucracy that they finally let her go .
A: Huh .
B: And , of course , she had to walk .
B: You know , they , they stripped her of everything , practically besides the , the clothes on her back .
B: And , uh , so she , so she went across the border to her husband and another , and other child that they 'd already had uh , to freedom .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh .
B: And they knew that she was n't going to come back ,
B: but yeah , she did , years later when the , uh , liberalization , you know , in real life liberalization of China happened ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , she was not persecuted or anything else like that .
A: Huh . Interesting story .
B: Yes ,
B: it was .
B: Uh , very moving , too .
A: I , uh , I don't even remember seeing that advertised
A: and it was probably here and gone fairly quickly .
B: Well , it was within , oh , ninety days .
A: Oh . That recent .
B: Yeah .
B: No ,
B: I mean it 's , it was , it was advertised over a period of about ninety days .
A: Oh , I see what you mean .
B: But it was n't ,
B: uh , they did n't have it in , uh , too awfully many movie houses ,
B: but it was , it was , in the ,
B: it had large , uh , uh , uh , press release .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , uh , I guess what I , what I saw most recently and luckily I saw it only a week ago so I 'd remember remember it well was , uh , sort of light by comparison .
B: Okay .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , my husband and I had this great desire to go see a comedy
A: and , and , uh , we ended up going to see GREEN CARD .
B: GREEN CARD ?
A: GREEN CARD .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , he chose it
A: and , uh , it 's got this wonderful French actor who 's ,
A: it was his , like , his ,
A: and he 's been a star in France and a wonderful actor who we 've enjoyed for years ,
A: but he 's never made an American film .
A: This was his American film debut
B: Oh , I see ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and he speaks very broken English .
A: And basically he played , uh , a Frenchman who married an American girl , uh , in a marriage of convenience so that he could get his green card , which is what an alien needs to work in this country .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And , uh , because she could claim she was married , she could get , uh , an apartment or a condominium in a very exclusive building in New York that had a garden , an , an , an outside garden , which is very unusual there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So she was a horticulturist ,
A: and that was sort of her dream .
B: Oh , I see ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Of course , you know , they got married
A: and they never saw each other again .
A: Except , except fate through them together * through threw
A: and the Immigration and Naturalization Service , uh , started investigating .
A: So they had to get back together and get their stories straight ,
A: and , and she was a very svelte , sophisticated urban New Yorker
B: Oh .
A: and he was a , a poor Frenchman who had grown up on the , on the streets and sort of pulled himself up by his bootstraps and claimed to be a composer ,
A: but there was no proof whatsoever that he really was .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He 'd been working in a restaurant when they met .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , they had to learn all about each other basically in a , in a weekend .
B: Just then .
A: And , uh , it was ,
A: you knew what was going to happen , of course . That they would fall in love .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , they fell into like , at any rate
A: and and when they went to the query or inquisition or whatever , uh , they did perfectly
B: Right ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and then he said something , because his English was so poor on , for the most part ,
A: he , he was so proud of himself for giving all the correct answers that , that on the last one he said , oh , I never remember that answer
A: and that clued the investigator that he had memorized a series of answers .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh ,
B: Okay .
A: Okay
B: Well , did you go to college ?
A: Yes ,
A: I did .
B: And where did you go ?
A: I went to a small liberal arts college in Virginia .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , it was Sweeper College of about seven hundred and fifty students .
A: I had gone to a small school growing up , uh ,
A: and a lot of my friends went to University of Michigan
A: but my parents were retiring in South Carolina when I graduated and , uh , were looking for a southern school and , uh , also U of M seemed overwhelming in size
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , what about you ?
B: I went to the University of Minnesota .
A: Oh , so you 're from the Midwest , too .
B: I am ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Where do you live now ?
A: Uh , I live in Texas now .
A: Where are you ?
B: Well , I 'm in Texas .
B: I 'm in Austin .
A: Oh , uh , my brother 's in Austin .
A: Uh , he lives Lakeway .
A: He , uh , had moved , uh ,
A: we 're in Plano .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And ,
B: I 'm familiar with Plano .
B: I visited once or twice .
A: Oh , Austin is so pretty .
A: I really like it
B: Oh , I love it .
B: I love it .
B: I really do .
A: And your daughter is going to be a sophomore .
B: That 's correct .
B: I have two daughters ,
B: but my oldest will be , will be a sophomore .
A: Is , uh , because you live in Austin , is she thinking about the University of Texas ?
B: She has her heart set on U T .
B: And , uh , you know , having gone to the University of Minnesota , I know what a big university is like .
B: And , uh , one thing that I did this summer , which I thought might benefit both my daughters is , my youngest daughter got involved in band ,
B: and Baylor has a band camp .
A: Oh .
B: So she went for a week ,
B: and it was overnight ,
B: and they lived in the dorms .
B: And I thought this would expose both of them to what it 's , you know , like on a a smaller college campus .
B: And , uh , my oldest one just was n't impressed at all with the idea of a small school .
B: So , uh , I , I , I still think the exposure was good .
A: Yes .
B: The reason I ask if you went to college is I thought , well , you know ,
B: what were your selection criteria .
B: Did you base it on what you wanted to major in or what you would feel comfortable with or what you could afford
B: or , you know , there 's all of these areas to look at in making the decision .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Those , and those were several , uh , that we did consider .
A: Uh , my parents , uh , certainly did n't push but wanted me to look in the south
A: and because I had been in a small school , they suggested that I probably , I ,
A: when I say small , my graduating class had eighteen in it .
B: Oh , wow .
A: And so they suggested that I might want a smaller school because I was used to a lot of one-on-one uh , or small group situations .
B: Oh , definitely .
A: And I did pick it because at the time I was interested in majoring in biology
A: and I also wanted to spend one year studying in Europe .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I had had an A F S student from Germany live with us our senior year
B: Oh , how exciting .
A: and we just thought that would be a wonderful thing
A: and I ended up majoring in French .
A: One of the reasons I picked the school was because they had a strong science department .
A: They also had a strong language department
A: and I 'd always loved working with children .
A: Uh , and I found that I could n't fit everything in ,
A: but because I had had a fair amount of French going in I was able to do my year 's study in France and able to take a lot of the other courses that interested me .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and so that was some of ,
B: Oh , that was , That worked out very well for you .
A: but
A: several of the things you mentioned were the things that , uh , our son has talked a lot about Texas A and M .
A: He , but he thinks he wants to be a writer
A: and I don't think that ,
B: Well , then he should come to U T .
A: Yes
A: Uh , and really his , his graduating class will probably be in the neighborhood of eight hundred and fifty to a thousand .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and so he 's used to a bigger size
B: Large classes .
A: and because my brother is there , uh , he would have family , close by .
A: So there , there are advantages . Uh ,
A: but I also ,
A: because I had so many friends who did go from our small school to University of Michigan , which was so large
A: and they really felt , uh , like they were numbers .
B: Oh , I went from a large high school to a large university
B: and I definitely felt like I was a number .
A: You still ,
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , I mean , it is a different feeling .
B: But that was , that was my only option .
B: I , I mean , I just really could n't look at anything else .
B: That was the one and only thing I could really afford other than a you know , a junior college , which I did n't want to do .
B: So that 's how , you know , my decision was made .
B: But , uh ,
A: Well , that 's certainly ,
A: uh , especially today with the cost of college .
A: I mean that is a , a major , uh , consideration
A: and I do feel fortunate that Texas has so many good schools .
A: And even though Baylor , uh ,
B: Yes .
A: and when you mentioned that , we , we have friends who have children there who just love it .
A: And for a private school it is not as expensive as most are
A: and it is a smaller size
A: and , uh , I do feel like there are a lot of options .
A: It 's , it 's ,
A: but I had been hoping some schools I know give , uh , oh ,
A: even this year , Jay had an aptitude test , uh ,
B: What , what does ,
B: he hopes to be a writer .
A: Yes ,
A: he thinks that 's what he 'd like to do ,
A: but he 's really strong in math and science , too ,
A: and we keep encouraging him to keep an open mind .
B: Huh .
A: Does your daughter know what she 'd like to do ?
B: Oh , she , she has , uh , you know , interests that are just , you know , going in all directions .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , what she talks about a lot is theater which I think is
B: okay Bethany , let 's be real
B: Uh , she really is , is pretty unfocussed at this point .
B: And , I don't know ,
B: she 's taken a lot of French ,
B: and she may end up doing something with that .
B: And I am a single mom ,
B: so I 've been ,
B: and I made the mistake of dropping out of college to get married .
B: So I 'm trying to have my children not make the same mistake .
B: And I 'm , you know , showing them if you 're strong in math and science , kiddos , this is one area where women can make some decent money . You know .
A: Yes .
B: I mean , I 'm kind of really putting the practical application , you know , and , and saying , yet , do something that you enjoy .
A: Uh-huh .
B: By all means , go get that piece of paper , you know .
B: Do you just have one son ?
A: Yes .
B: I see .
B: Well , it sounds like he 's got some really , you know , good strong ideas of what he wants to do .
A: Well , he , but he has even ,
A: now that he 's in high school , uh ,
A: and , of course , there 's , there is still time ,
A: but he 's beginning to feel that , as much as he enjoys writing , he wonders if he can make a living at it .
A: You know , it 's , the , it 's ,
A: Okay ,
A: I guess we 're supposed to discuss the , uh , school system .
A: That should n't be too much trouble for the two of us . Right ?
B: No .
B: As many years as we 've been involved in one .
B: I really feel fortunate in that there , even though there are problems ,
B: they 're not a lot of problems where I teach .
A: Right .
B: But from talking to people in other districts there are some major problems , uh , with dropouts .
B: Uh , when I was in Minnesota last summer there was a teacher who said that , uh , on a given day she did n't know how many of her students would show up
A: Uh-huh
B: and sometimes they did n't even show up for class
B: and she taught in high school in inner city , uh , Minneapolis .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , they just did n't come to school .
A: That 's really sad is n't it ?
B: And I can not imagine being able to do much of anything when they don't even come to school .
A: Right .
A: Well just recently in the paper here , were articles about students , uh , working . High school students that work and the percentage of hours that they work and how that affects their grades .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But then the follow-up the next day was ,
A: I was kind of glad to see ,
A: because it , it said that , you know ,
A: yes
A: but for those students who are determined to do well anyway , that , you know , handling a job was very possible . You know , and that it seemed to have more to do with other factors .
B: I think so too .
A: You know like , what are their plans after high school , you know .
A: And what 's their home situation .
A: You know that ,
B: The home is the key .
A: Right . Right .
B: I think really is because if the home , does not place a high priority on education
B: and , uh , the main goal is making money now
B: and it may be a survival thing for the family , which you can understand .
A: Right .
A: Sure .
B: So , uh ,
A: But there can still be an attitude of
B: Right .
A: you know , this is a stopgap measure because we need it right now ,
A: but , but that the most important thing is still , you know getting your education .
B: Your education .
A: Well when they meant , said the , the topic , you know , of what 's wrong with the public schools , my , my first impulse was it is n't really what 's wrong with the public , public schools .
A: It 's what 's wrong with families
B: That 's right .
B: It 's what 's wrong with families
B: and if , if children come to school , yes , insecure and their biggest concern is survival both at home ,
A: Right .
B: they don't know what to expect at home .
B: They don't feel secure there ,
B: they don't know what 's going to happen just out front of their apartment complex .
A: Right .
B: For example that child that was shot .
A: Right .
B: Uh , how can they concentrate on schooling ?
B: I agree with you ,
A: Right .
B: I think that 's the main problem .
A: Yeah .
B: And schools now are supposed to solve social problems , uh , mental and emotional problems as well as educate the kids and try to provide them with some security .
A: Huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And that 's overwhelming .
A: Well we 've got , uh , you know at our school we have over a thousand elementary kids
A: and last year was the first year that we ever had more than one counselor .
A: And that 's just really not enough .
B: No .
B: It is n't .
A: And I was talking to somebody that teaches in a middle school
A: and they said , oh , but we need more in the middle school because that 's when kids are , you know , at a tougher and rougher age and all that .
A: But , you know , part of my feeling is that if you solve , help them to work through their problems while they 're littler , then they wo n't have as many problems up there .
B: True .
B: I think they , there has to be at least a counselor
B: and we just recently had a counselor at elementary .
B: We did n't even have counselors in elementary .
A: Really .
B: We have always , though , had three at middle schools because we had about a thousand kids
B: and they divided them up between three counselors
B: but for a good while every year they 'd have a different counselor
B: and they decided that did n't work .
A: Yeah .
B: So they started , uh , dividing the kids up so that a counselor stays with her group of counselees through you know , through all three years of middle school .
A: Uh-huh .
A: They they do that here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I think that would give them more security in going to the counselor .
A: Uh-huh .
B: If they have a rapport with their counselor .
B: Now if they don't , I hope they have the flexibility to be able to change a child that really is in need of counseling help if they absolutely refuse to work with them .
A: yeah .
B: And occasionally that happens .
A: Right .
B: But , it is frightening Because , uh , education is the key to our future
A: Yes ,
A: it certainly is .
B: and , uh , if we have children who are not getting their education , for one reason or another , then what are we going to do with them ?
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right
B: What 's going to happen to them ?
B: Are they going to be able to , uh , work at other kind of menial jobs
B: or are they going to be the thieves and the people in prison .
A: Yeah .
B: And our prisons are filling up faster then we can build them .
A: Right .
B: That 's no good .
A: I 'm on that , um , campus strategic planning committee for my school .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , one of the , uh , you know , oh ,
A: they have all these different names for things , strategies and all these different things .
A: But , anyway , one of the key things was that that we believed that the public education is the best economic value .
A: Then I think they decided to strike economic .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Anyway , you know , the point was , what happens when public education fails ?
A: You know will then people go to private schools ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , well , what kind of a situation do they get there
A: and what are , you know ,
A: and what kind of state are we in if , if most people are going to private schools .
B: Well I think , uh , one thing that we 'll see is that we wo n't be educating everybody .
A: Right .
B: There will be a lot of people who will not get even a menial education like in other countries of the world where they don't try to educate everyone .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's one of the things that we do .
B: We try to educate everyone .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: We 're the only country in the world that does .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And let everyone have an opportunity to reach higher education if they 're willing , you know , to work and have , uh , some ability .
A: Uh-huh
A: Yeah .
B: They can do that .
A: and one of the Plano school district 's , you know , goals is that they will graduate every child that , uh , that is here in the ninth grade ,
A: I believe it 's something like that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's worded .
A: And , uh , I don't know
B: Well you know if we can keep them in school .
A: Right .
B: Uh-huh
A: That 's so important ,
B: then that , that helps a lot .
B: I think the gang violence is scaring everyone to death too .
A: Oh gosh .
A: Well that new movie , That new movie out ,
B: It 's scary to me .
A: I , um ,
A: really , really a frightening situation .
B: I , We are .
A: I guess we 're both lucky . To be in situations and schools where we don't see that .
A: My folks talk about it a lot in Illinois .
A: My mother was is was teacher for years and years
A: and , uh , they live in Peoria , Illinois ,
A: and they 're talking a lot about the , you know , the school situation there , too . * their should be they 're
A: So , well , shall we wrap it up ?
B: Uh , I would imagine that we 've talked the amount of time necessary .
A: I think we have to .
B: Okay .
A: So I 'll see you when we see you .
B: Alright .
B: We were in , uh , Austin yesterday .
A: Uh-huh .
A: The reason that I was n't at church
A: and we went to hear , uh , James wind ensemble concert
B: Oh .
A: they left this morning for , uh , England .
B: Oh , how exciting .
A: Is n't that wonderful ?
B: Oh , that is wonderful .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What an experience .
A: And , uh , the university ...
A: Okay .
B: Hi , Nancy .
B: Well , do you do a lot of dining out ?
A: No , um ,
A: we don't although we enjoy it .
A: Um , we do it more when we have company come .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , what about you ?
B: Well , we do some dining out .
B: Um , I , I do a lot of cooking
B: so , um , mostly like when we go out , you know , it 's my husband and I ,
B: I , we don't go out too often as a family , um , unless it 's like a fast-food kind of thing .
B: But , um , but we do enjoy dining out .
B: One of our favorite places here in , in the Dallas area is Atlantic Cafe .
B: I don't know if you , have you ever been there ?
A: I 've heard of that
A: but I have n't been there .
A: Um , where , about is that ?
B: Um , well actually there 's the Atlantic Cafe and Cafe Pacific , and , uh ,
A: Oh , okay .
A: I , I 've been to Cafe Pacific .
B: Have you ?
B: now that 's down in , uh , Highland Park .
A: Right .
B: It 's Highland Park Village .
B: Did you like it ?
A: Yes .
A: Uh
B: Oh , I love it
A: Before we moved to , the area , my brother , uh , lived in Dallas for a number of years
A: and we came up one time when my father was visiting
A: and we all ate there
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , oh , their seafood was wonderful .
B: Oh , it is , it 's fabulous .
B: It really is a great place .
A: Now where is the Atlantic Cafe ?
B: Atlantic Cafe is down on , I believe it 's on McKinney .
A: Oh , okay .
B: Um , and originally the two , the , the guy who owns the Cafe Pacific and the guy who owns the Atlantic Cafe , were partners in the Atlantic Cafe .
B: And then they , they separated
B: and the guy started Cafe Pacific .
B: And , I loved them both .
B: I really do .
B: I think they 're wonderful .
B: That 's our favorite .
B: You know what we 'd really like , if , if we just have a , a casual evening is Houston 's .
B: Have you been there ?
A: No , um ,
A: but I 've heard that 's really good , too ,
A: and ,
B: It 's wonderful .
B: The only thing is you have to wait .
B: You have , you have to expect to wait at least an hour .
A: Oh .
B: So you have to go knowing you 're going to be sitting there there for an hour waiting to get in .
B: And , as long as you know that it 's okay .
B: But they have , I think , one , just about the best prime rib um , anywhere in the area .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , okay .
B: I love it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , my husband really likes their ribs .
B: So it 's hysterical .
B: We go in
B: and we sit there for an hour waiting to get in
B: and then we get there
B: and we don't even look at the menu .
A: You know right away what you want
B: I know right away what we , what we want .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , we really enjoy prime rib , too ,
A: and , uh , actually the , the Steak And Ale out here , uh , we 've gone to , uh ,
A: my in-laws also enjoy prime rib , when they 've had some of their specials on Sunday , Monday , or Tuesday night
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , the time we went the prime rib was really good .
B: Was it ?
B: Really ?
B: I 've I 've , I 've been there for like , you know , lunch
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , I 've never been there for dinner .
B: And , it was good ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
B: Oh , that 's great .
B: That 's , great .
B: Another nice place for , for prime rib is Baby Doe 's
A: Oh , I 've heard about that , too
B: Maxwell 's nice ,
B: have you been there ?
A: but no .
A: We 've , uh , I guess we eat out even less than I realize
B: And I did n't think we ate out very often
B: See !
B: Baby Doe 's is nice .
A: Oh
B: And , one place I 'd never been that I would really like to go to , uh , is Lawry 's .
B: I 've heard that 's real good , Lawry 's Prime Rib ?
A: Yeah .
A: Yes ,
A: I 'd , I had heard that , too . Um ,
B: I 've , I 've never been there
B: but I 've heard it 's real good .
A: Have you been to the little , uh , not for prime rib but the Cafe De France , um , right here on Central Expressway ? * slash error Oh , okay . * slash error should be bk
B: Yes .
B: Yes ,
B: actually they have one in Richardson that I 've been to .
B: Uh , they have real nice lunches .
B: Have you , have you been there for lunch ?
B: Or ,
A: Yes , uh
B: Yeah .
A: primarily lunch , well , and breakfast sometimes
A: but , uh , during the week they often have , a , a limited menu choice but , uh , very reasonable complete dinners for six ninety-nine that included the soup or salad entrees and accompaniments and dessert
B: Really ?
B: Really ?
A: and , uh , the ,
A: my husband and I like veal , uh a lot
B: Uh-huh .
A: and their veal dishes have been good .
A: We 've tried different ones when they 've had them as one of the
B: The specials .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Have you ever been to Biffin 's ?
B: I keep hearing about it .
B: I keep hearing the advertisements of it
A: I ,
A: yes ,
A: no ,
B: and , and they keep saying , you know , oh , it 's wonderful , it 's wonderful .
B: I have not been over there
B: and I was thinking , you know , it 's supposed to be a family place over near Plano Super Bowl .
A: Right .
A: And ,
B: And , uh , I 've , I 've not been there .
A: I have n't either , uh ,
A: one place ,
A: and I 've only been there for lunch ,
A: but , uh , I went with a friend ,
A: and we met her husband , um , down on Greenville ,
A: down near the Highway Twelve area , is Gershwin 's ,
B: I 've been there .
A: Oh , I , we just
B: That was nice
A: It was
A: and we had the , uh , we both enjoy mushroom soup
A: and Linda had told me they had the best mushroom soup
A: and they did .
A: It was wonderful
A: but , uh , and we just had soup and salad so we could make room for the dessert which was a chocolate sack .
A: I don't know if you tried
A: but or
B: Oh
B: I 've heard of it .
B: Where , where it 's made ,
B: it 's like , it 's like a ,
B: it 's all chocolate , like made like a paper bag
A: Yes ! and whip cream
B: and it 's filled with what , whip cream and , and strawberries and something ?
B: Yeah .
A: and it had strawberries , kiwis , and raspberries in a raspberry , uh , puree
B: Oh .
A: and , and we shared one , the three of us
B: Oh .
A: and it was plenty because it was very rich
A: but , uh I wished I 'd had a camera .
B: Oh .
A: It was beautiful
B: Oh , I bet it was .
B: I bet it was .
A: Uh
B: The last time we went to Cafe Pacific , it was Father 's Day ,
B: and we took another friend with us
A: Oh .
B: and , uh , for dessert we thought we had just stuffed ourselves
B: And so we had , they had , uh , like a berry assortment .
B: It was , it was raspberries and blueberries and , and strawberries on a plate with like a custard on the bottom .
A: Oh .
B: And , you know , they did , like the raspberry puree , just kind of like in a , in a decoration on the ,
B: you know , how they do the plates real fancy with the decorations and then piled the berries and shaved chocolate on top of it
A: Yes .
A: Yeah
A: Oh .
B: and it was outstanding .
A: It sounds wonderful .
B: It was really , really relatively simple
B: but , oh , it was good .
B: It was really good .
A: Well , that 's , uh , one of the things that I do enjoy when you get a good restaurant .
A: Uh , I love fresh berries .
A: And , their , their fruits are always exceptional .
A: I don't , I 'm , know
A: they must have a special source for getting them because even at the Farmer 's Market , uh , you ca n't find them like that
B: You ca n't find them .
B: Yeah .
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: You know , I 'm originally from Connecticut
B: and , uh , I was home a few years ago
B: and my sister and brother-in-law were going to take us out for dinner
B: and , uh , I was really amazed , you know ,
B: the , the restaurants up there were kind of quaint .
B: You know , they were real , real pretty
B: but they lacked , the service
B: and they lacked the the , just the , I don't know .
B: The restaurants down here seem like they have , uh ,
B: I guess there 's so much competition that they , really have to be good .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , I thought I would really miss that .
A: I would , too ,
A: because , well , because we don't go out very often .
A: When we do go out , um , in a way it 's like a little mini vacation I guess ,
A: and , uh , it is , it 's a whole experience .
A: Of course you want the food to be good
A: but the atmosphere and service I think , are important , uh too .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And , you know , in order to survive in this area I think they have to be good .
A: Yeah .
B: Because the ones that are n't so good don't , just don't make it .
A: Um , that reminded me of a place for lunch that 's a little off the beaten track
A: but it is wonderful .
A: It 's called Cafe Max
A: and it 's at Plano Road and Campbell .
A: They have the most wonderful salads .
A: They do what they call a salad sampler which easily could feed two or three .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Well , my favorite type of music is classical music ,
A: and , uh , I , I enjoy orchestral classical music
A: and I enjoy classical guitar and classical piano , you know ,
A: and that 's , those are , that 's my favorite type .
B: Well ,
A: Uh , probably the favorite instrument would be , uh , the violin .
B: Oh , well my favorite , well ,
B: I , I don't really have a favorite ,
B: I , I like everything basically .
B: Um , I guess if I had to pick , it would be like pop , I would think ,
B: but I like everything .
B: So , it 's kind of hard to choose sometimes .
A: Yeah , you know .
A: I guess I enjoy , I enjoy jazz , listening to jazz sometime although I don't feel like I have a good , good understanding of it , or a good , a good feel for maybe what 's good jazz and what 's not ,
A: but , but , um , I enjoy it
A: and , uh , sometimes I enjoy listening to , uh , fiddle music .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We were in Colorado recently
A: and heard this , these , uh , well , we heard this fiddler
A: and we bought his , we bought his tape
A: and it 's kind of fun to listen to the fiddle pans .
B: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: I grew up next door to , uh , the Richardson Symphony Orchestra leader
B: so ,
A: Oh , Chris Xeros .
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , you lucky thing .
B: So , we used to go and listen to them all the time
B: and , my parents still do .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I grew up with a lot of his music , and , and what not .
B: Plus my parents are , well ,
B: especially my dad , likes a lot of classical music
B: and he introduced my brother and I both , to a lot of it .
B: So ,
A: Oh , gosh ,
A: Chris Xeros
A: You grew up with his children , too , then ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , gosh .
B: Sure did .
A: Gosh ,
A: small world , huh ?
B: Yeah .
B: We all went to high school together
B: and , uh , and we 're still in contact with each other .
A: Oh .
B: We all go back to parents ' houses on the weekends , and what not
B: so ,
A: Oh gosh .
A: Well actually , I used to play in the Richardson Symphony ,
A: I played violin in the orchestra for several years you know ,
B: Oh really ?
A: yeah
A: So ,
B: It is a small world is n't it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: small world .
A: So , I , uh , I know Chris
B: Yeah ,
B: he 's a pretty nice guy .
A: Most of the time
B: Yeah ,
B: well I never I had to work for him
B: and I never would want to work for him .
B: So
A: No ,
A: no .
A: Well life just took different turns here
A: so , uh , it just did n't work out to do that now .
A: So , he 's , he 's about ready to retire , another year
A: and he ,
B: Yeah ,
B: he sure is ,
B: he just became a grandfather .
A: Yeah ,
A: I heard that .
A: It 's , it 's daughter , it 's his daughter that ,
B: Uh , uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: they just had the baby 's christening
B: so ,
A: Oh .
B: It was really nice so
A: Was it a boy or a girl ?
B: He 's a little boy
A: Yeah .
A: What did they name him ?
B: I ca n't ,
B: it , it 's a
B: oh gosh ,
B: it 's like Elijah , or something like that .
A: Oh .
B: I keep forgetting , what , what she named him .
A: Oh .
B: His middle name is Chris , or Christopher for for her daddy ,
A: Of course .
B: but I think it 's Elijah
A: Oh .
B: It starts with an E .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: I ca n't remember
A: Oh , so you 've heard the Richardson Symphony ?
B: Yes .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: we 've heard them and , liked , liked it real well , of course
A: Do you have a favorite instrument ?
B: Um , actually one of my favorite instruments is a harpsichord .
A: Yes .
B: I really like those ,
B: in fact , I had a harpsichord played at my wedding .
A: Oh , did you ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: Which was real nice .
B: I got married , uh , during the Christmas season
B: and we played , uh , old fashioned Christmas carols instead of normal wedding marches and what not ,
B: and it was real nice ,
B: I liked that a lot .
A: Oh .
B: I liked the sound of the harpsichord .
A: And it played by itself ?
B: No ,
B: somebody played it
A: Well , I mean , but you did n't have oboe or something with it ?
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: no .
B: Just by itself ,
B: just by itself .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: It was real nice .
A: Well , that 's really , yeah that 's , I bet that was nice .
B: Yeah .
B: It went well ,
B: it was a change , you know , from your traditional , normal , you know , stuff , and since it was Christmas time and , and , uh , we had the church decorated with Christmas hollies and poinsettias and , you know , stuff like that
B: and so , we did the harpsichord with old-time traditional Christmas carols ,
A: Oh .
B: Not , not , you know , the bouncy , you know sing along kind but some of the old , older ones that
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: some , I don't even , I recognize the , the melodies , and whatnot ,
B: but I did n't recognize the name .
A: Right .
B: So , it was real nice .
A: Well actually , I play , I play the violin in , in a string quartet that often plays at weddings .
B: Um .
A: So , um , I always think it 's a nice break from the traditional organ or piano .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , it makes , it makes it nice .
A: It makes , you know , you can say classy
A: or it makes an elegant wedding to have something else .
B: It does .
B: It really does
B: and it has such a different sound to it , anyway .
B: It 's almost ,
B: I don't know the way it vibrates ,
B: it 's kind of haunting , you know , on , on some of the notes
B: It , it 's ,
B: I , I like it .
A: Oh .
B: I don't know how else to explain .
B: But , we 've got friends that are in the music business that go around Dallas ,
B: they 're , uh , called Odessa .
B: It 's a husband and wife team that we 've known for years
B: and , uh , we try to make contact with them periodically to see what 's going on and stuff , too ,
B: so we 've had a lot of stuff , you know , friends and , and things to do with music that constant ,
B: plus my husband 's real big into music , too ,
B: so . He does n't play anything ,
B: but , he just likes to listen .
A: Yeah .
B: And my dad and
B: my kids are now well ,
B: my oldest is getting to the point where he likes certain types of music and favorite songs and when they come on we have to turn the radio up full blast
B: and ,
A: Oh . Now does , does the school in , in your , in your city ,
A: does it , does it offer , like band , or some of the instruments ?
B: Yeah ,
B: well , my , my oldest is only nine .
A: Okay .
B: So he has n't really gotten into , um , that yet .
B: They have choir that they go to , you know , music class that they go to
A: Right .
B: but , um , he 's not old enough yet to get into the band yet .
A: Right .
B: So ,
A: Right .
B: I think that starts in sixth grade .
A: Probably . Oh .
B: So ,
A: Gosh .
B: but I don't know .
B: He , he 's , he , the only thing he 's shown interest in wanting to play is the drums
B: cause his , my brother plays ,
B: and , um , I don't , I don't know if he 's really serious about it yet or not you know ,
B: it 's just one of those things I 'm just going to wait and see if he 's interested in something , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Right ,
A: you got a little ways to go , too
A: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: just a little bit
A: Hey , oh .
A: Well , my , well my oldest is eight
A: and , and she 's , we 've , started her on piano
A: so , uh ,
B: Uh .
A: But , that 's been , it 's been fun ,
A: I mean it 's a lot of work to see that she 's prepared
A: but it 's been fun ,
A: it 's been fun ,
A: I feel like I 've learned a lot about the piano .
A: I 've learned a lot about playing the piano .
B: Really ?
A: And , uh , it kind of makes me listen a little closer to , to the piano when I hear it at other places , or when I , you know , see some , see and hear someone playing .
A: I sort of watch their technique , too , and , and see if it corresponds up to what she 's learning .
B: Yeah .
A: So , it 's been fun .
B: I don't know if any of mine will be interested in it
B: or ...
A: Is , uh , kind of fun .
A: It 's best done when you have leisure time
A: and I had more of that in my childhood days than I have now
A: And I grew up in an area that , uh , was just a few feet from a rather large lake , and a few more miles from that was a even larger lake
A: and we had a variety of boats at our disposal Uh ,
A: I worked for a camp for a number of years .
A: My father was on staff there ,
A: and we had every kind of things from canoes to paddle boats , sailboats , speedboats ,
A: you name it , they had it
A: and we did a lot of watering , water sports .
A: But I think , uh , the thing I liked the best was , uh , we spent about a summer
A: couple of guys , uh , restored an old wooden boat that was built back in the mid-thirties and got a new canvas sail for it and had a real big old foot center board that went down in the middle to keep you upright when the waves ,
A: or the wind came from the side
A: and we got that thing in the water and had a real good time with it .
A: If you ever got it dumped over , though , it was a mess to get back up .
A: It was n't like the newer ones that have nice chambers that keep it afloat or keep it , uh , upright again .
A: This one you had to work with .
A: You get out of the water again and get it upright .
A: And , uh , sailing was , was kind of nice to learn the maneuvers you had to make to work your way down a lake or work back up against the , the wind , as it were , tacking back and forth
A: and , uh , more than once we 'd get out there on a really stormy day
A: and , uh , the storm or the wind was due to the front blowing
A: and you paddle your way back in and hope it does n't start raining on you right away .
A: And that did n't always work .
A: We oftentimes got wet ,
A: But , uh , it 's , it 's a nice , nice hobby to have .
A: Nowadays I don't think I could afford the boat or the time , nor do we live that close to a lake anymore ,
A: so things change , I guess .
A: What are your memories of boating ,
A: or current ,
B: Uh , about the only memories that I have of boating , uh ,
B: my husband 's family had a , a motor boat , uh , when we got engaged
B: and they took us out on the lake several times .
B: And , uh , I really did enjoy that .
B: I , I don't know that I ever learned to drive it or anything ,
B: but , uh , we did some water skiing , of course , and , and , uh , driving around the lake in the boat and , and just the basic safety rules and things I found real interesting . Uh , you know ,
B: they , they just did n't patrol you like they did with the automobile or whatever .
B: The , the laws were there
B: and if you did n't obey them , uh you know , there were a lot of accidents , I guess .
A: Right .
A: That 's true .
B: But , uh , I found the motor boating was real fun .
A: Yeah ,
A: I remember learning how to ski , oh ,
A: I guess I was seven or eight years old
A: and the lake that we learned on was the smaller of the two that we had access to
A: and it was maybe fifteen , twenty acres
A: and it was , uh it had a lot of , uh , turtles in it .
A: And I got all ready to go
A: and I was down in the water and , and set to go
A: and , uh , and just as that boat took off , a turtle bit me in the middle of the back .
B: Oh
A: It did n't hurt too much ,
A: but it bit enough to where I let go .
A: And the boat went off without me
A: and I reached back there and pushed him away and got out of the water a , a while
A: and , and , uh , it did n't even leave a mark .
A: It was just a little nibble
A: and so I told everybody what happened
A: and they go , oh , yeah , sure , you know .
A: And so I get back down in there
A: and , and I 'll be if he did n't do it again .
A: This time a little earlier and , and I had let go before then and , before they took off this time and , and swatted him away .
A: So I moved over a , a few feet in the water and got out of his little realm where he was living underneath the dock and , uh , managed to get up .
A: Did n't go very far ,
A: but I got up .
A: And it , it was a nice , uh , nice long skiing career ,
A: but now I 've gotten to where skiing is just kind of wears me out more than it does thrill me .
A: I 've , I 've , uh , done about all I dare do on skis . You know , skiing on one and jumping around here and there
A: and I , I , I know how you can get injured doing much more than that
A: and I just ca n't risk it right now being a head of the family and the breadwinner and all that .
A: Just , uh , ca n't take the risk I did as a dumb teenager , I guess
A: So life just changes a little bit in that respect
A: I 'd kind of like , someday , to maybe end up on a pair of skis that , that does n't have a , uh , well ,
A: what they call trick skis .
A: They 'll allow you to ski backwards .
A: I have n't managed to get a hold on that , uh , craft yet ,
A: but , uh ,
B: That sounds like a real challenge .
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it would be kind of nice .
A: I had n't quite figured out ,
A: I don't have anybody to teach me either .
A: That 's another little thing .
A: You need somebody to kind of tell you what to do ,
A: but , just from what I 've seen , you just kind of work your way up to it and turn around real quick you know . Grab the rope behind you and then just let go real quick and let it whip you around .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , I don't know ,
A: maybe someday I 'll I 'll get back to that as , after the kids are up and grown and the monies are there to get away for times on end , weekend or something .
B: Well , my son ,
A: Where is your favorite place to go ?
B: Well , we have n't traveled outside the United States that much .
B: Uh , we usually take family type vacations .
B: We 're looking forward to one in October to Disneyworld in Florida .
A: Oh , that 's great .
B: We have a nine year old .
A: Have you ever been there ?
B: When , when both of my kids were much younger .
B: And this time we 're going to be going with just one daughter
B: and she 's nine ,
B: so it ought to just be a ball .
A: Oh , that 's a perfect age for Disneyworld .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think so , too .
A: Oh , that 's great .
A: Yeah ,
A: so we 've been there a number of times
A: and , uh , we 're going next year .
A: We have a business trip every fall .
A: Well , we go on a lot of business trips .
A: I , I don't work .
B: Oh , wonderful .
B: So you travel a lot .
A: Well , we do .
A: We
A: my husband travels a couple times a month
A: and in the position he 's in , they don't care if I go along .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it 's great .
A: I just kind of join up when it 's something interesting
A: and uh , Disneyworld is the one for a week next year
B: Sure .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it will be at this time of the year
A: and this year we 're leaving , uh , uh , matter of fact we 're leaving next Saturday for New Orleans .
B: Oh , that will be fun , too .
A: Have , have you ever been there ?
B: Yes .
B: We went years ago .
B: We have n't been lately
B: and I know they 've changed it a lot and upgraded everything ,
B: but we used to have a lot of fun there .
A: Well , you know , we went there once .
A: In fact , we had been in Dallas
A: and we were on our way home
A: and we were driving
A: and we said let 's go to New Orleans .
A: So when he said , well , this year , you know , I have a week there on a , a project
A: he 's going to be ,
A: and then I said , well , I 'll going along ,
A: I hope it 's swimming season
A: because it was n't a tremendous thing , amount of things to do . That I wanted to do there .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: if you don't like the night life and the antique shopping , there is n't much there ,
B: but , that can be fun .
A: It , well , and that 's probably ,
A: we do like the night life , to an extent
A: and they do have a Mardi Gras night planned .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I 'm kind of anxious for that ,
A: but , uh , yours to Disneyworld sounds a little bit better .
A: Did you know that next week there 's several T V shows coming from there in celebration of their anniversary .
B: No ,
B: I know this is a real good time to go , because they are having so many activities and special shows .
A: Well , and with a daughter , nine , it is just ,
A: she 's old enough to really grasp the meaning behind ,
B: Yes .
B: Be excited about all of it .
A: Uh , so , well , if you 're working , then you 're probably on a limited amount of time per year that you can go .
B: Well , not really ,
B: we 're doing the same thing . Tying it in with my husband 's business trip
B: and I just save vacation for things like that . And , uh , just travel whenever we can .
A: Oh , that 's ,
A: Well , I really , I think travel
A: when I heard my topic today , I thought , okay that 's my that 's my favorite
B: How easy
B: Right .
A: And really at our point of life our children are grown
A: and , uh , it has just worked out really well with this , uh , position he 's in . Because I can go at a spur of the moment or what have you
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it depends where he 's going whether or not I decide to go along
B: Sure .
A: but I do , do like to travel
A: and it 's , uh ,
A: I don't mind the pool life at all during the day .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I like to sight see
A: and I love to shop .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it 's
B: So that 's perfect .
B: What more could you ask for ?
A: That 's right ,
A: but it ,
B: And then got to pick and choose the places .
A: Well , and one of my very favorite is Las Vegas .
B: Oh .
A: Uh , that
A: I would have to say we both end up going to Las Vegas , uh , probably once every maybe year and a half .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And presently we have quite a few frequent flyer miles
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so I 've just requested that they send us two of our coach tickets
A: because we have a lot of flying with Continental
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they 're recommending that you use those because they don't know the future of Continental .
B: Right ,
B: it 's kind of shaky .
A: And I said now that we have all the miles ,
A: we better start using them .
B: That 's true .
A: Uh ,
B: It really is .
A: So we are thinking that we might go to Las Vegas during the winter this year sometime for just kind of a quick trip .
A: Uh , when we normally go that way , we like to go to California at the same time , because we really don't get out there as often as you could probably from Texas .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Our last big trip , we drove through New Mexico and Colorado and went to the Grand Canyon and , and , uh , back through Silverton and Durango
B: and , oh , it was fun .
B: It was so relaxing and a really neat part of the country
B: and the kids were old enough to really enjoy it .
B: Our ,
A: I think that 's a good trip .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And really , for the children to learn as well for a family vacation that would be excellent .
B: Right .
A: Now we did , what we sometimes do since we are in Ohio
A: and it takes a while just to even get to the , what I would call the more picturesque part of the country ,
A: we will fly to something like ,
A: once we flew to Colorado to Denver
A: and then we rented a car for two weeks
A: and we went through the northern route and through Utah and as far west as Las Vegas
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then we returned through , uh , New Mexico that you just mentioned .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it was oh , it was just great .
B: Oh , there 's too much to see really .
A: Oh , I , I think that 's , that 's the way to ,
A: Uh , I work at T I
A: and we have , uh , of course , started drug testing , uh , random drug testing here
A: and , uh , I have n't gotten called yet ,
A: but , uh , I feel that it 's probably it 's pretty good if , if they feel like there is a vast majority of the people at the company doing drugs .
B: Do they feel that way ?
A: Uh , I think that they thought that there was a lot of drug usage here at T I ,
A: but I think our latest statistic said something like ninety-nine point nine eight percent were , uh , testing negative on all the on , on all the testing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I , I think it 's a good idea just because I 'm opposed to to the drugs .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think it can cause a lot of problems even though they think they can handle it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's , uh ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I don't really liken it to alcohol
B: but , yet that can be carried to an extreme , too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I think it 's a good idea
B: and I think just the idea that you know that you may be tested might keep you off of them or get you off of them because you 're ,
A: Right .
B: I don't know that their job would be at risk ,
B: because I think they may put them into some sort of a program to get them off of drugs .
A: Right .
B: I would think that ,
B: is that how they do it at T I maybe .
B: That ,
A: Right ,
A: I
A: at T I , if you get called in and you test positive for drugs , then you 're put on a program
A: and , uh , you know , you go through the program
A: and then you 're called like six months after you complete the program
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if you test positive , then you 're terminated .
B: Well , I guess I , I draw a hard line
B: but , you know , I would , I 'm , I 'm in favor of , of that type of thing . That , uh , you , you have people out there that are responsible for certain things
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you expect them to do their job
B: and it , it is possible that , you know , that they ca n't do as good a job , uh , as they might do .
A: That 's right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , and , of course they can also cause injury to other people .
B: Uh-huh .
A: If they 're , if they 're not , uh , you know , fully functional mentally while they 're doing their job . They could cause you know , serious injury to another people .
B: Right ,
B: and you never know
B: they could just go off the deep end on , on a , on something uh , that whatever they 're taking at the time
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and it would be , uh , you know , out of the question .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Also , I guess you can , you know , get the wrong kind of stuff and kill yourself just by having a wrong mix of or watered down or or whatever , all kinds .
A: That 's right .
A: Oh yeah .
B: I sub in the schools
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I 've , you know , had a ,
B: they they talk a lot about drugs there
A: So ,
A: Right .
B: and I think it 's good that they 're trying to start some programs down in the elementary schools .
A: Right .
B: But , you know , I think they can test all they want for drugs you know ,
B: and if they need to do that as a condition for employment
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I know many of them are doing it .
B: I know my son has had to do it for both Sam 's and Wal-Mart
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I don't know how many others are doing that
B: and , and I think that 's good because so many of the kids that are on them are sort of bums that they need to get their life straightened up at an early age
A: Oh , yes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
B: and , uh , I don't know ,
B: it 's just a problem that no one is sure just how to handle I think .
A: Uh-huh .
A: You know , I think personally I 'm for it .
A: There 's several reason why I , I could think of right now why we should n't have it such as drug testing ,
A: they say , runs approximately a thousand dollars a person every time you do it .
B: Really ?
A: And ,
B: It 's that high ?
A: Yes .
A: And , oh , yeah ,
A: it 's very expensive .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh ,
B: I did n't realize it was that expensive .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It 's not like a normal urinalysis
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's very expensive to run them .
A: And , uh , I did n't get a raise this year ,
A: because , nobody in our company got a raise .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , yet they spend all the money on drug testing
B: Just lucky to have jobs .
A: and if they were n't spending all the money on drug testing , people could have got a raise .
A: So , see , there , you know , there 's different ,
A: I don't think that that 's , that , I think that 's more of a personal view of mine other than a , a yes , sir , we should have drug testing because there 's really a problem
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I know that .
A: But then , I have other views to it .
B: I just , I did n't think it was that expensive because my son was in probably a week and a half period
A: Uh-huh .
B: and Sam 's and Wal-Mart are , are owned by the same people
A: Uh-huh .
B: he took one for , for , uh , Wal-Mart for job hiring
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then Sam 's called him
B: and , and he took another one
A: Right .
B: and I , you know , I don't know why they both made him do that since it was so close together .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I can see if
B: because , you know , if it 's a thousand dollars , that 's a thousand dollars they wasted .
A: Theirs might not run a thousand dollars . * Their 's Theirs
A: Our ,
A: from what I understanding here at T I , they run close to a thousand dollars an employee .
B: Well , maybe they run ,
B: I don't know , you know ,
B: that 's just guessing it .
B: Maybe they run a lot of other tests ,
B: or maybe it 's under a health type program that it it , it would catch a lot of things .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I just ca n't imagine them screening all these employees , paying a thousand dollars to get them .
A: But , no
A: for all the , the
A: Oh , it 's ,
A: So have you done any painting projects lately ?
B: Yeah ,
B: this is a great topic for me , because I just did my first two painting projects ever .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Was not , not a big deal
A: What kind of painting was it ?
B: two little deals ,
B: The first one , um ,
B: I helped someone repaint an apartment ,
B: and it was very easy .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: it , was it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and I 've never painted
B: I always thought it would be ,
B: so , you know , you 'd have to hire someone if you needed to paint inside your house or something
A: Yeah ,
B: but I know I can do it .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: And the second one was I bought some toys at a , um , at a craft fair .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They 're unfinished wooden book ends and stuff for a little girl for Christmas ,
B: and so I decided to paint them ,
B: and that was n't as easy as painting the apartment
A: Oh , well , what kind of paint did you use for the , um , bookends ?
B: Well , it 's , uh , it , that 's half the problem right there is that it was n't , it was a oil base ,
B: so I had to get ,
B: and when I painted them , I did n't realize that we did n't have any turpentine or paint thinner or anything in the house .
B: So I had it , had it all over my hands .
B: At first I did n't realize , you know ,
B: I had never painted anything ,
B: so I did n't realize that I needed that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , I kind of knew , in the back of my mind ,
A: So you ca n't use oil on wood ?
B: Well , no ,
B: you can use it on wood ,
B: but I just had it all over my hands ,
B: and I went to wash the brushes out , and , uh , wash my hands ,
B: and you ca n't wash it off with water .
B: You have to get the , uh , a solution
B: and ,
A: Oh , so you had to go around with paint all over you , temporarily , anyway .
B: Yeah ,
B: I had to drive to the store
B: yeah ,
B: I had to drive to the store with paper towels all over my hands to go buy some paint thinner , and and everything like that ,
A: Oh ,
B: and then , um , downstairs in the apartment , I just we just used a latex base ,
B: and so you can drip it on , you know
B: if you dripped it on something , as long as you wiped it up , it was real easy to clean .
A: Oh , is , is that what you usually use in the house , is latex ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and it , it just like
A: Um .
B: the same with the toys ,
B: it 's just important to look for one that does n't have lead in it , you know ,
B: it says Safe for Children , and all that .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I heard about that .
A: I guess a friend of mine had a , uh , well ,
A: she , she just started up a day care center ,
A: and uh , the , one of the real strict , uh , restrictions , was the fact that she had to have a special kind of paint that was fire proof and lead free and all that other good stuff
B: Yeah .
A: so , uh , she had that done .
A: But , uh , that you keep some , um , farm equipment in
B: Have you painted anything recently .
B: Wow , was it huge ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , what I had to do is just coat this bare wood with a sealer ,
A: and , uh , I had this big five gallon jug ,
A: and it was like paint thinner .
A: I mean I , you know , it looked just like , it was the viscosity of paint thinner
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh , you just took a roller and put it on there ,
A: and , uh , if you saw that the wood was getting wet , you know , that was , that was all you needed .
A: So .
B: Wow .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was ,
A: it used all of it .
A: I guess it was about three hundred yards worth .
A: So . Well , I guess it worked out .
A: It was pretty easy , actually .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think though , um , we 're lucky that we did n't have to do any detail work , because I don't know if I could , you know ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I don't know ,
B: must be difficult ,
A: Well what about the trim in your house ?
A: Did you have to do that ?
B: No ,
B: it was it was really easy ,
B: I just , like , what ,
B: we had a couple of different size brushes you know , real easy ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I went around the trim ,
B: and if it ,
B: and there was wall paper ,
B: like I was do , just doing just the trim outs that , around the doors and windows
B: and there was wall paper
B: and if we got it on the wall paper a little bit , we just wipe it right away before it dried ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it came right off
A: Oh , yeah ,
B: so there was no major mistakes ,
B: there was ,
A: Did you have , uh , one coat or two ?
B: Uh , two , actually
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , and it ,
B: there was , um ,
B: you know , around the windows , if you got it on the glass , we let it dry and scraped it after that
B: but that ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that would be really time , uh , a time saver .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: if you just , you know
B: we did n't tape anything ,
B: we were n't that careful ,
B: but it was n't , you know ,
B: I don't know , it 's , it 's funny ,
B: it 's like , if you just go slow , you don't get , or at least I did n't get that many mistakes
A: Uh-huh .
B: I did n't make that many mistakes ,
A: Oh , me , I would have had to have taped the whole thing , and then brushed around the edges ,
A: and , and then I 'd have probably rolled it on .
A: I 'd , it would have taken me forever .
B: Why ?
B: Just because you 'd be afraid to do it , or have you done it before .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , the first time it 'd probably would have taken me forever ,
A: so
B: Well , it was n't ,
B: if it was my own I would have ,
B: but my friend said , oh just go ahead , you just go ahead , it 's easy .
B: I said , Okay , it 's your place ,
A: Well , how long did it take you all ?
B: Well , a couple of week ends
B: we would go down two or three hours on the weekends ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and ,
A: So there was two of you all ?
B: No ,
B: there was , they were doing all sorts of repairs ,
B: and there was , I was just painting because I don't know how to do anything else
A: Well , that 's easy enough .
B: So , there 's a whole bunch of people .
A: Um .
B: So now I feel like if I ever buy a house , I can probably paint , if nothing else .
A: I think I could probably do it uh , as long as the hardware store told me what to buy , then I could do it .
B: Yeah .
B: But you know , I went in to a hardware store to get paint for those toys ,
B: and the guy said , Oh , get this , it 's a nice shiny gloss , which was true ,
B: but I did n't realize what , you know , pain it is to clean the brushes and everything , if you don't have latex
B: I don't if
B: it 's worth the shine ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , how did you like that topic ?
B: Uh , I don't know ,
B: I 've got mixed feelings about the topic .
A: Do you ?
A: I don't .
B: No .
B: Okay .
A: No ,
A: I 'm pretty opinionated about that and many other things as you well know .
A: I agree with it .
A: I think , uh , I think a company should be able to test at , any , any employee any time they see fit .
B: Well ,
A: I just , I just don't think there 's a place in our environment , you know in the work force for drugs , or alcohol either .
B: Well , I don't believe in drugs or alcohol ,
B: but if you 'll remember when the teachers had to take the T CAT they were talking about drug testing us
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we were laughing that we 'd have to go to that examination to prove we could read and write with a specimen of urine
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we found it belittling .
A: You did ?
B: Yeah ,
A: Uh-huh . Well , I can sort of understand that , uh ,
A: but not being a teacher , as you are , you know , I , I was not quite as sympathetic as , you know , as I probably would have been if , if Kay were a teacher or something .
B: That 's true .
A: But , uh ,
B: But then , you know , at the same token , I 'm not against
B: because I look at airline pilots bus drivers you know , people that really have other peoples ' lives in their hands truck drivers
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: it 's supposed to be a huge problem with truck drivers using drugs and alcohol ,
A: Uh , that 's right
A: and I think it is a big problem with them using drugs from what you read , you know ,
B: And ,
A: but , uh ,
B: You know , in those areas I really , you know , do believe that maybe we should clean up our , you know house .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think so too ,
A: I , I agree with it .
A: Uh , I know Kay 's company , you know ,
A: they started it couple of years ago ,
A: and so many of the people , even the professional people were , boy , they were so against them doing that , you know ,
A: and I thought , Jeez , to me it 's quite simple ,
A: uh , you either need a job or you don't .
A: The , the job is what provides all of your needs ,
A: and , uh , if they say , Hey , you ca n't do this work , I 'd say , Hey , I agree , I don't , I wo n't do that .
A: And I think most of them have agreed to that now , although they did n't like it at first .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it 's just like anything else , a new concept , you know ,
B: as I said , if I have to go to a testing area with my urine specimen I was insulted ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it is ,
A: I can see where you would think ,
A: Yeah ,
B: But at the same token , in education we ca n't do drug , random drug testing on kids
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true ,
B: you know , I mean , their rights are protected .
A: You bet .
A: Oh , gosh , they , they would really raise a stink if that was to happen .
B: What
B: well , but why , if you 're going to do teachers or professionals , why not do the kids , when we see them and they 're , you know , under the influence .
A: Right ,
A: yes ,
A: I agree with that .
A: I , I , I would n't be opposed to it at all ,
A: it 's just our bleeding heart liberals that would fight it tooth and nail , you know
B: That 's true .
A: but , uh , well , Lynn , I 've enjoyed talking with you .
A: I don't know how long we 're supposed to carry on a conversation , do you ?
B: It 's three minutes ,
B: and the clicker comes in when it 's time to ,
A: Oh , well , we 'd better keep talking because I 've not heard it have we .
B: Yeah .
A: Have you heard it ?
B: No .
A: Anyway , we both sort of agree on it , don't we about random testing .
B: Well do we agree , or unless it 's not me
A: Well , listen ,
B: You know , here we go again , I mean
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: yeah , you know
A: If you agree that , uh ,
B: I believe that truck drivers and people that have ,
B: even though teachers have other kids lives in their hands , and if they come in stoned or they come in drunk
A: Yeah .
B: and there was an incident in my children 's high school , where a teacher stayed drunk ,
A: Is that right ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: You just don't think of that happening with teachers
B: And he ,
A: I really don't ,
A: when I think of drug testing , I 'm thinking of the , you know , outside of education .
B: Uh , well , no ,
B: you know , we are as susceptible a society as anybody else
A: Sure sure ,
A: I know that ,
A: but , uh you don't think of that first hand , normally .
B: and , uh
B: Yeah ,
B: well , did you hear on the news where the teacher of the year was up for child molestation .
A: Is n't that , is n't that mind boggling ,
B: It was on the news tonight .
A: goodness ,
A: it , it is , it 's mind you know , well , you know ,
A: I agree with you ,
A: I know teachers are just like everybody else , same problems the same , uh , good qualities as anybody else .
B: Yeah .
B: Then , I think , you know , if if it came , push came to shove , I 'd probably be drug tested you know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: because it does , you know ,
A: You , you think the benefit would be greater than the ,
B: Yeah ,
B: because , you know , as I say , I 'm sitting there fussing and fussing ,
B: and yet , I know of , you know , one teacher who was an alcoholic in school as well as , you know , I presume out ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: And that was in your children 's high school ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Is n't that amazing ,
B: And , you know , my children brought it to my attention .
B: I never was there to see it .
A: If it , if it 's if it was true there , I 'm sure it 's true with just about probably to some degree every school there is
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , because they represent a pretty good ,
B: And that 's not giving a good example to students .
A: No ,
A: certainly not ,
A: certainly not ,
A: they don't need that example
A: but ,
B: Okay ,
B: I missed a part of it .
B: We 're to talk about what , lawns and gardens ?
A: Lawn and garden work and what you enjoy and what kind of work you do .
A: I 'm , I 'm a putterer .
A: I chose that topic because I really like gardening as far as flowers and shrubs and just keeping a pretty yard .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I , well ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's very strange that I got this call because my wife just called me .
B: I was just in the shower after finishing mowing the lawn and , you know , mowing the lawn and removing some old petunias out of the garden ,
A: Oh .
B: this type of thing is working right in to start planting fall , fall bulbs .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh .
A: We 've had a late fall
A: it seems like , the weather ,
A: in fact today it 's really warm ,
A: and so many of the summer flowers are still pretty enough that you hate to pull them up ,
A: but you know you need to pretty soon .
B: Well , that 's the way this was .
B: The , the petunias were really great .
B: Our mums are , are beautiful ,
A: Oh .
B: Uh , I don't know if we , I don't think we 've had a frost up here .
B: I 've been , I was down in for a week ,
B: so I don't know what happened last week
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , but , uh , it seems like it 's , I don't know if it 's late .
B: I 'm sort of waiting for Indian Summer
B: so I can get a lot of stuff down out here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I , I enjoy it .
B: We came here , we just moved into this , well , we moved in in November and put all , all the landscaping in this , this year .
B: We came from nine years in a condo , uh ,
B: and working in that condo , you did n't have to do anything you know , unless you really wanted to ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so .
A: So now you have the chance to really create and , and spread out .
B: Right .
B: You know , I ca n't ,
B: this is my third , third house I think , I 've owned , um ,
B: but , uh , it 's interesting , you know ,
B: the only problem is that I do quite a bit of traveling ,
B: and it sort of gets away from me if you 're not with it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , but , uh , I , I enjoy most of it ,
B: and about this time of year there is , it starts getting a little old ,
B: and I start looking forward to , you know , having other things to do with my .
A: The grass not growing so fast
B: Well , it is , it is for me
B: because I 've been doing a lot of fertilizing .
B: We had a terrible summer ,
B: we had a drought
A: Oh .
B: and , uh , took a lot of watering and a lot of fertilizing ,
B: and now it 's really growing
B: and I 'm trying to establish a good root , root growth you know , for the winter .
A: Um
A: ours seems to have slowed down here .
A: We 're not having to mow every week religiously
B: Really .
A: but we 're still fighting bugs , and ready to change some of the , the summer flowers out
B: Uh .
A: I still have caladiums that are pretty , which is a surprise this late in the year .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um .
A: But like today , it 's eighty-five degrees
B: Oh , yeah
A: it 's really strange ,
B: yeah ,
B: I hear that from , my brother-in-law lives in Plano ,
A: But that 'll change real quick
B: Yeah
B: Well , he always
A: We 'll wish we 'd planted bulbs and pansies already .
B: he waits until it gets about seventeen below up here
B: and then he calls us ,
A: Oh , my gosh .
B: yeah
B: it 's seventy degrees here in the sunshine .
B: So
A: Well , Texas has gotten to where it 's a real problem as far as plants , because our summers are so terribly hot
B: .
A: and we have ice storms every year .
A: And there just are n't that many plants and shrubs that can take both of those extremes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Some of the things that used to be hardy are getting to where they don't make it through the two swings .
B: Yeah ,
B: that is ,
B: I was , you know , I was like conditioned to it
A: Uh-huh .
B: they , they have to be hardened to it
B: that 's , that 's strange with me .
B: You know , you think , Dallas , you know , almost semitropical , you would n't have that kind of , that kind of problem ,
B: but ,
A: Well , for the most part we don't ,
A: but we have usually just a pocket of really bad hot and really bad cold .
A: Well , the summers have gotten where they 're a lot hotter
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the , the ice storms really are stressful on all the , the plants that we have around .
A: We 've noticed that crepe myrtles don't do as well as they used to and , uh , pittosporum
B: Really ,
B: oh do they .
A: that used to be the kind of things we could plant all the time
B: Uh-huh .
A: you , you really take a chance with them freezing ,
B: I love ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I love the , uh , the landscaping ,
B: like I say , my brother-in-law . I get to Carrollton quite a bit .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I go there on business ,
B: and I really enjoy getting around and seeing the different areas with different gardens ,
B: and Texas is ,
B: Dallas is very nice .
B: I really enjoy it there . The landscaping , the homes , the architecture , the whole thing very enjoyable gardens ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my wife and I ,
A: Except for the lack of trees , out where we are It was all cotton fields ,
B: Well .
A: and when we get to other parts of the country where the trees are so beautiful , we really miss it .
B: Yeah ,
B: that we have , you know
A: Uh-huh .
B: Ohio 's a very pretty state .
B: We moved , in seventy-six we moved to Chicago ,
B: we lived there for five years ,
B: and I remember the first time I took my wife there on a house hunt ,
B: uh , we were coming in
B: and before the plane landed she looked out the window
B: and she said , she said , there 's no trees down there .
B: this is Illinois ,
B: you 're not .
B: And , when we got out to the area where we decided we were going to live and buy a house , there were no trees because the farmers had cleared all the land
A: Um .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and now all of a sudden it was being developed ,
B: and the first thing I did was planted all kinds of trees ,
A: Very good .
A: Uh , discussion or on child care .
B: Do you have any children ?
A: Uh , they 're all grown up .
B: Oh
B: I work in a day-care center
B: and .
A: Oh , well , you know all about it then .
B: Yes ,
B: I enjoy it a lot .
A: It 's been quite a few years .
A: I have grandchildren but , uh , have n't really been into selecting child care for them ,
A: so .
B: Oh .
A: And it 's been quite a few years since I 've had to think about that .
B: Do they go to a day-care center
B: or do they stay at ,
A: No .
A: Uh , my daughter that has three stays home with her children ,
B: Oh , that 's nice .
A: and one of my daughters has one
A: but an aunt keeps the baby .
B: Oh , that 's nice .
A: But I would , I would not really know how to go about selecting one nowadays ,
A: but I would imagine it 's very hard .
B: I , I think so .
B: I think it 's hard to find a good day care .
B: I have worked in at some other ones that were not very good in my opinion .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But this one that I 'm in now is , is very good .
B: And one of the key things is how many adults are there in ratio to the children .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And like in Pennsylvania for babies , that 's what I work with , there has to be a one to four ratio at the most . No more than four babies per care giver .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But we keep it down to like two to one .
A: Oh , well , that 's good .
B: Yeah ,
B: that makes it a little easier to deal with .
A: I 've always thought , you know , it would be really tough .
A: What if you had a fire or something with babies ?
B: Oh , I know .
B: We ,
A: You would have to be able to have enough ,
A: you know , you 'd have to be able to get them all out .
B: What we do is we have these cribs in the back room where they sleep that are , um , low to the ground
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 're reenforced real strong
B: and they 'll sit four babies .
B: We would just lie them in there
B: and they roll real well and maneuver .
A: Oh , well , that 's , that 's a ,
B: That will get them out .
A: I had n't thought about that .
A: But I was thinking , oh , my gosh , if they had very many babies , they could n't possibly get them all out .
B: No
A: But you could put them in one of these cribs and then roll the crib out I guess .
B: Right .
A: Oh
B: Right .
A: well , that 's neat .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's certainly something we hope never happens .
A: Well , do most of your day-care workers really care about the children ,
A: or is it just a job for them ?
B: Most really care , in this center , really care .
B: Uh , most everyone has a college degree in like early childhood education .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And really there 's only like eight children per room
B: and then there 's like two or three , mostly three care givers in each room .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that enables them to spend more time with the children .
B: Sometimes I feel like all I 'm doing is changing diapers , giving bottles , and putting babies down for a nap .
B: So , it 's nice to be able to play with them and really get to know them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's easy to get attached to them too .
A: Yeah .
A: How old a group , how old are the children go with this center where you work ?
B: Um , in my room they go from eight weeks to nine months .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And throughout the center it goes up to like age twelve .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I have the real , real young ones in my room .
A: You 've got the little bitty ones .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Those are the , probably the the best group to have .
B: They 're , you know , they 're wonderful .
B: They don't complain too much
A: And they 're fun .
B: Yes .
B: They are a lot of fun .
A: Babies are fun ,
A: and they 're not quite big enough to be getting into everything yet ,
A: so .
B: Not quite .
B: It 's a ,
B: when they start to crawl they try to climb up on things
B: and
A: Uh-huh .
B: you have to be real careful all the , everything is baby proof .
B: You know , all the doors have latches and stuff so they ca n't get into anything
B: but they try .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you think there 's very many really good day-care centers around your area ?
B: But , yeah ,
B: In my area
B: because I live in a college town in Penn State University
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I ,
B: there is a lot of , a lot of college educated people and stuff that are in the centers that really seem to have an idea of what 's going on .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , in general though I 've , I 've been really disappointed with a lot of other centers I 've worked at , and it , all and all
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's not my choice for when , when I have children
B: but , but some people don't have a choice .
A: Sometimes it 's a have to .
B: Yes .
A: I hear a lot of the girls I work with , uh , constantly , oh ,
A: I wish I could find someplace I really felt good about . You know ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Most of them don't really feel that it 's a great place to leave their kids .
B: That is sad .
A: And it 's really bad , you know .
A: One of the girls she was leaving hers at where she felt like was a really good place ,
A: and then they called her one afternoon and said , well , we thought we 'd better call and tell you before you got over here .
A: Lacy fell asleep on the bus after our field trip today ,
A: and we just now found her .
B: What ?
A: They had left her on the bus closed up all afternoon .
B: Oh , my God .
A: And so immediately she says , well , I ca n't have any confidence in them anymore ,
A: if they 'll take a group of kids to the zoo or somewhere and then come back and not even count them and realize they 're one short .
B: Oh .
A: But one of the teachers happened to walk by and see her pounding on the window trying to get out of the bus .
B: Oh , my God .
A: And this was four hours later , you know .
B: Oh , that poor child .
A: And , uh , so , you know ,
A: what do you do ?
B: That 's awful .
A: So she has switched to a different center now
A: and , uh ,
B: Well , I ,
A: Okay ,
A: well , just to let you know , I have , uh , two , uh , children of my own .
A: I 've got two boys , uh , one four year old and one two years old ,
A: so I 'm just starting out .
B: Oh , yes
B: I have two boys who are twenty-eight and twenty-four and a daughter who is twelve .
A: Wow
A: Wow ,
A: that 's quite a spread
B: Yes .
B: Same husband , everything .
A: That 's great .
B: Uh but ,
A: Well , I guess , uh , in one of the things that , that I like to do with my boys when , uh , when I get home is , I like to try and spend a lot of time with them .
A: You know , they 're not very old ,
A: so they could n't do a whole lot , yet .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But they like to , uh , spend time with me .
A: We just , oh , just do various things , nothing really .
A: They like to be outside as much as possible .
B: If it 's not raining .
A: Right , uh ,
A: but , you know , the weather 's trying to turn now
A: so ,
B: Are , are you down here in Texas ?
A: Yes ,
A: I I 'm , I 'm in , uh , Dallas .
B: Oh .
B: Okay ,
B: yeah .
B: You know what I meant with rain , huh
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: Oh .
A: Right .
B: Okay , uh
B: what ,
A: Yeah ,
A: what , well ,
A: one of the things I 've noticed is , one of the trends I 've , I 've noticed is that , uh , it 's always too easy to just plop your kids down in front of the T V and let them watch movies or , or play video games or something .
B: Yeah ,
B: I I have ,
B: can you hold on just a
A: Sure .
B: I have to answer a business phone
A: Sure .
B: I hate to do it on this call .
A: That 's okay .
B: Good morning , A R E , this is Arlene Lister another
B: It was just a recorded message , on our business phone anyway .
B: I 'm sorry ,
B: keep going .
A: No ,
A: it 's okay .
A: Uh , so that was the thing that I , I noticed that , I know a lot of people , lot of friends that we have , they have a tendency to do the same thing .
A: And one of the things we try to do is we try to avoid doing that as much as possible . Although it really is very easy to do that type of thing . Just plop them down in front of the T V and let them be , uh , entertained that way .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , seeing as you 've got some older children , I , I 'm wondering , how did you handle that , when they were growing up ?
B: Yeah .
B: Well , there , there was not nearly as much of it .
B: In fact , I , I think things were , were quite a bit different .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , when my , my big kids were , were little , uh , you know , all the mothers were home .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , the , the kids got up in the morning and ate breakfast and poked around
B: and then when they felt like it , they went out to play , you know when they were , were little like that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , I , I think it 's gotten , uh , very different .
B: When my second one was little , they were coming out with SESAME STREET which he started watching
A: Right .
B: and , other than that , I mean , there was basically , there was not educational T V
B: or uh , you know , you got some cartoons
A: Um .
B: and that was it ,
B: but they , they were never that interested in it anyway .
B: They 'd rather , I mean , they 'd take their trucks out in the backyard you know go out and play and stuff .
A: Right .
B: But , we always did , uh , oh , just , you know , to the park for walks and to the zoo and museum .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We did a lot of stuff like that with , uh , with our kids .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , course , when they got bigger , uh , they were both quite into sports
B: and , and you know , so whatever , you know , they would do , we 'd go along with
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , uh , a girl is very different
B: We have
B: a girl would like you to spend time with her going shopping
A: Right
B: So , they 're very , very different ,
B: but , uh ,
B: kind of the same thing , our , you know ,
B: she now ,
B: lot of time spent with her ,
B: she 's so busy
B: is , uh you know , going to , you know ,
A: Uh-huh
B: like last night was a band concert
A: Uh-huh .
B: and she plays on her school volleyball team and , uh , stuff like that .
B: But , uh , we , we still , uh , oh , like to pack up , you know , just go someplace for the day or , uh , you know , just stuff like that .
A: Right .
B: One of our older kids now is going to graduate school down at College Station
A: Oh , that 's nice .
B: so that 's , uh ,
B: we go down there fairly often , you know , for a weekend for , you know , family get-togethers and stuff like that .
A: That 's great .
B: Uh ,
A: That 's great .
A: I know we 'd , I 'd like to get into do more camping and outings and things .
A: And I think we probably will soon as the boys get a little bit older .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , you know , for right now , they don't , you know ,
A: just getting out in the front , and just being outside is good for them
A: because they like just being outside .
B: Oh , yes .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think , our kids just always dearly loved that , you know , play bounce the ball , or just , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: course , when our big ones were little , we lived up north , you know
A: Uh-huh .
B: and this time of the year it , it , the fun thing was to go out and swoosh around in the leaves you know .
A: Right .
B: So , You know , so it 's , it 's very different
A: That 's true ,
A: you don't see many leaves around Dallas .
B: and , and , uh , you know , we also , come winter time we 'd stick them on sleds .
B: And uh , we had a pond across the street
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and from little on , you know ,
B: I 'm ,
B: it 's , it 's so different down here where you go take lessons to learn to ice skate or something .
B: You know , when our kids were little you , you got them a pair of skates
A: Well what kind of car , uh , are you thinking of buying next ?
B: Uh , more than likely , it 's going to be a Chrysler .
A: You like the Chrysler products , do you ?
B: Uh , Chrysler LeBaron ,
B: yeah .
B: It wo n't be a Ford .
B: I 've got a Ford Mustang now ,
B: and I hate it .
A: Do you really ?
B: Yeah .
A: What year is it ?
B: It 's a eighty-eight .
A: And why don't you like the Mustang ?
B: It 's , um ,
B: I 've had one problem with it after the other .
A: I 'll be darned .
B: The the paints peeling off of it , or find them road dead .
A: Well , you know the old sayings about Fords , what they stand for .
A: There you go .
A: Well , uh .
B: That , uh ,
B: I , uh ,
B: it 's ,
B: my electrical system shorted out like two or three times ,
B: and it 's been torn up since April ,
B: and I , and luckily , everything was under warranty ,
B: so it 's only costing like a hundred and forty dollars to get it fixed .
B: It would have been like two thousand
A: Well , we 've always , uh , we 've always had Oldsmobiles , and , uh , been very , uh , happy with Oldsmobiles ,
A: but , uh , my wife thought she wanted to get a Ford Mustang
A: and then she kind of changed her mind and thinks her next car ought to be one of those , uh , Mitsubishi Eclipses .
A: She She likes , uh , likes those .
B: Those , those are nice cars .
A: She has a sister that lives in , uh , Phoenix that has one and , uh , really , uh , enjoys it .
A: Well , what , uh , what things do you consider when you buy a car ?
B: Um , the gas mileage for one thing ,
B: and I 've , I 've , I 've always had like stick shift .
B: I want to , the next car I get I want it to be automatic .
A: I see .
B: I , uh , I , I hate driving anyway ,
B: and then , and changing gears at stop lights and stuff is really getting on my nerves now .
A: Yeah ,
A: especially when you 're in high traffic areas and have to mess with that all the time .
B: Yeah .
B: And , you know , when you work nine to five , or eight to five , and you 're in rush hour traffic to and from work , unfortunately .
A: That makes it very frustrating .
B: And I look ,
B: and one of the things with Chrysler right now is , is their , the warranties that they have ,
B: and I , I feel like their ,
B: everybody I 've talked to that owns one , has , has , has been real pleased with it ,
B: and I like the , the driver 's air bag ,
B: I like that .
A: Now this is a LeBaron ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: well all Chrysler products has it in there ,
B: but LeBaron would be the next car I get ,
B: yeah .
A: I sure like the , uh , convertible , those rag top LeBarons ,
A: they really look sporty .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I like , I like that too , huh ,
B: but , uh , I , I could n't afford the insurance on one of those
A: Well , uh , we always ,
A: this last Oldsmobile we bought , uh , it 's an eighty-seven ,
A: but we bought it in eighty-eight , you know , right at the end of the year when they were trying to get rid of them
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , we found that , uh , we found a real good interest rate ,
A: you know , when they 're trying to get rid of those cars at the end of the year like that , they really come down on their prices
A: and , uh , uh , you know , we looked around at used cars ,
A: and we really could n't , uh , afford the payments on a used car ,
A: because , uh , if you go to the bank and try to get a loan , they want to charge twelve , thirteen percent , you know ,
A: and we ended up , I think , with like a four and a half percent interest rate on a brand new car , and the payments .
B: Well , that 's what I 'm paying on mine now .
B: I had to get like a first time ,
B: my dad 's always cosigned on , on my , my loans , or whatever ,
B: and this is one , when I bought ,
B: I got my Mustang this time was by myself , because I got on my own , or whatever ,
B: and , um , I had said ,
B: they , they said it had to be like a first time buyer 's car or whatever ,
B: and they 're charging me unreasonable interest ,
B: but I 've got eight more payments
B: and it 's paid for .
A: Well , that 's great .
B: But I got it when , I got it when the eighty-eights first came out ,
B: it 's a , it 's , it 's a good car , I mean , I got in eighty-seven , I guess , in like November or something like that ,
B: and .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , when our kids were younger we really wanted a two door .
A: Our first car was an Oldsmobile back in seventy-seven .
A: It was a two door Cutlass Supreme ,
A: and , uh , it just happened that when we looked for our , our new car , they had a thing going with Oldsmobile
A: and if you 'd buy a , a new Oldsmobile they 'd give you four hundred rebate , because it was their seventy-fifth anniversary .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I
A: yeah
A: seventy-fifth anniversary .
A: So in addition to everything else we got off the car , all we had to do is show them our , uh , papers on our first car ,
A: and they gave us another four hundred dollars off on it .
A: So we , we got a four door this time ,
A: and I sort of went more for the , uh , the comfort factor ,
A: and , uh , I liked the smaller cars ,
A: but I 'm a bigger person ,
A: and I , I really like comfort , you know , driving along the road and stuff .
B: Well , that 's another big factor of mine .
B: Next , next car I get 's going to be a four door too . Something with some room .
A: Yeah .
B: Because I , uh , my Mustang is , is , is two door with bucket seats ,
B: and you buy groceries and stuff like that .
A: And if you try to take anybody , you know , go to the show or go out for supper , and you go as a foursome ,
B: Okay ,
B: what do you feel are some of the main problems ?
A: Well , I 'm in a , I 'm in an urban area .
A: I 'm in Dallas .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And we 're finding that crime is going up very quickly and has become a major problem , uh , even a more major problem .
A: Uh , in Dallas , some of the major problems , uh ,
A: drugs seems to be related to quite a bit of the crime we have now .
A: There is a lot of theft , a lot of assault dealing with , uh , people trying to get money for drugs .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I think that 's a national problem , though .
B: It , it , it 's pretty bad here , too .
A: It 's not unique ,
B: We 've had a lot of murders drug related and stuff . In Durham , which is right next to Raleigh .
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , now , we 're pretty close to the golden triangle , are n't you ?
B: Yeah ,
B: that , that
B: Durham , Raleigh , and Chapel Hill is the triangle .
A: Right ,
A: research triangle and all of that .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , I 'm sure you have a lot of students there , uh , and a lot of researchers
A: so you , you may have a , you know , perhaps a little better economic climate ,
A: but , in all your cities now , it seems like there is a , a crowd that 's really effected by this bill .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's really , it 's ,
B: and I 've seen in more in Durham than I have in Raleigh or , or or Chapel Hill .
A: Really ?
B: Chapel Hill is kind of a , a ritzy city or whatever .
B: I mean , it 's kind of ,
B: I 'm , I 'm sure there is problems with it ,
B: but it has a pretty low crime rate . Compare , compared to , to , Durham has probably got the worst .
B: They 've had like forty-eight murders since the beginning of the year .
A: Really ?
B: And over half of it has been drug related .
A: Um . Well , here , uh , I 'm not sure how many Dallas has had .
A: I 've , uh ,
A: Houston is averaging about two a week or three or four ,
A: I , I don't know .
A: A , a number every week .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , Dallas is having quite a few .
A: Seems like most of ours are occurring in late at night or , or , like I say , drug related .
A: Uh , I guess the other thing was that are causing a lot of the crime now is the decrease in values .
A: Seems like a , a lot of people don't hold human life quite as high as perhaps they used to .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , I ,
B: Well , that ,
B: and the , and the economy is so bad
B: and , And so many people have been laid off and stuff .
A: The economy is lousy
B: They 've done special stories on the news , local news here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We had a lot of bank robberies and different , lot of break ins and stuff .
B: I know , like a week or so ago ,
B: I live in a , in a town house , which is , you know ,
B: it 's a pretty nice neighborhood
B: and this lady was going to work ,
B: she came home and everything in her house was total gone , light fixtures , everything .
B: And nobody thought any different ,
B: they just thought she was moving .
B: It was a moving man pulled right up to her house , broke in and stole everything she owned
A: Boy that really , that really takes someone who is bold to do that .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's pretty bad
A: Well , now , do you find that security is very good in , in a , in a town home ?
B: Uh , I would say so for the majority in , in our , in my little section of the neighborhood because there is always somebody at home
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we all know one another
B: and , and , on our one little section of the street we all know one another and know that we 're not moving and different things like that .
A: Well , that ,
B: It 's ,
B: I , I 'm , I 'm probably the , one of the youngest people that live over here .
A: I see .
B: Most people are , are , retired
B: or , or , or , you know , they 're , they 're in their forties or , or whatever .
B: So and I 'm in my twenties ,
B: so I , I 'm , I 'm out more than they are ,
B: but they 're at home at night ,
A: Yeah .
B: so I really don't worry about anything .
A: Well , I think you hit on one point there is you know each other .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm , I 'm in a neighborhood where we try to keep up with everything .
A: Uh , I am , oh , about three blocks off a major road and , uh , a couple of blocks off another road that kind of runs ,
A: I guess you would say the neighborhood road , it runs between the high school and the , the commercial districts
A: and , uh , I 'm over the northeast part of Dallas .
A: It 's a , in a nice neighborhood .
A: The houses here , uh , before the recession were running two hundred thousand or so
A: and , course , everything 's down ten to twenty percent now .
B: Yeah ,
B: see , that 's the same thing here .
A: But we have , uh ,
A: one , one thing that effects us is we have apartments that are probably about a half mile away
A: and now the economy is bad ,
A: they have trouble keeping those full
A: so they 've dropped the , uh ,
A: they 're not nearly as selective as they used to be .
B: Yeah .
A: And , course , that 's kind of like a cancer in an apartment complex .
A: You start letting that happen and they go down
A: and then before you know it you have drugs and a lot of other things
A: so , uh , I 'm sure that aggravates it also .
B: Yeah .
A: But , unemployment now in Dallas , or in Texas is up around six point ,
A: I guess we 're supposed to talk about what 's being done about recycling .
B: Yes .
A: Well , lots , right ?
B: Right
A: Finally .
B: Really ,
B: what , what do you do , now ?
A: Well , we have saved our newspapers for years and years because the , uh , Boy Scouts our boys have been involved in have , uh , had a huge recycling bin , over at Resurrection Lutheran Church
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , so we 've done that for quite some time ,
A: but since the price of paper has gone down
A: like it 's about a fifth of what it used to be
B: Oh , really ?
A: so the Boy Scout troop quit doing it when the City took it over .
B: Okay .
A: So now we just put ours out for the City of Plano .
A: Do you live in Plano ?
B: Yes ,
B: I do .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I 'm so glad when they brought out those recycling bins .
A: Right .
B: Have you had yours now ?
A: Yes .
B: Yeah .
A: Although just , just about a week ago some of my volunteer mothers that , uh , work in the library for me said they had n't gotten theirs .
B: Oh , that 's why I asked you .
A: Yeah .
B: and not everyone got theirs right away .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: And I , I was so relieved because I 've been making a real concerted effort , make , you know , recycling the aluminum and the newspapers and even got into plastic because Wal-Mart collected it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: yeah ,
A: we used to take ours there .
B: And , uh
B: my garage was just getting overwhelmed .
A: I know .
B: And , of course , I did n't go weekly ,
B: so it became quite a big thing ,
A: Right .
B: and , uh ,
A: Right ,
A: I 'm really glad they do it .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: I do news , mostly newspapers and , uh , plastic two liter diet Coke bottles And aluminum cans some ,
B: Yes ,
B: yeah .
A: but I don't use as many of those .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess the ones that are hard to convince yourself to do are the ones that you have to really , that are really dirty that you have to wash out
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I found out after washing out many a peanut butter jar that they 're not a recycling number one or two .
A: Uh , ha .
B: Uh , ha ,
A: Wasting all your time and effort and , Putting it in there .
B: Thinking I was safe in buying those jars as far as the environment was concerned .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: But , uh , you know , but it , it 's not that hard now that I 've got this system under control .
A: Got your routine down .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , I guess there are some places , uh , in the north , in particular that , uh , have a real definite way of encouraging you to recycle
A: because they charge you , let 's see , they charge you for your garbage pick up by the weight .
B: Uh , uh-huh .
A: So if you recycle things , of course , then you don't have all that weight in there .
B: Yeah ,
B: I do find that I don't have as much to throw away because all the bulky things are , are being tossed in with the recycling .
A: Right .
A: That 's right .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I don't know what they could do more of exactly around here right now other than , uh ,
B: what are some of the things they don't recycle .
B: Oh , one thing I thought about the other day were batteries ,
B: just everyday regular batteries . Supposedly , you know , leak and , and contaminate the landfills
A: Um .
A: Right .
B: and , yet , what am I going to do when I have a couple double A batteries to toss out .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: And they don't take ,
A: Probably going to throw them in your trash
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's what happens
B: because ,
A: Well , there are places that take car batteries ,
A: but I wonder if they would take ,
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , not that it would
A: kind of a pain to , you know , drive over somewhere special just for that , for two little tiny batteries
A: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: but I think the city one could possibly look into that or something .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: Uh , if they 've got these bins for all the other little items ,
B: I 'm sure if people will have batteries , uh , you know , quite often to , to toss out .
A: Right ,
A: that 's true .
A: Uh , when I was home those few days around Thanksgiving and the , uh , the truck came by , well , we all ran out to watch it because , you know , we 'd never really seen it pick up our stuff
B: Uh-huh .
A: and one thing I thought was interesting was that the driver had something on his belt that he , uh , scanned across the little bar code on our bin as soon as he took the stuff
B: Oh .
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: and he just pulled this thing kind of out of his pocket and just , you know , scanned it ,
A: so I don't know why , what that was reading it for
B: Huh .
A: but , uh
B: Registering our garbage
A: they must be trying to keep track of , you know , who is doing it , or what , I guess .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know .
A: Another ,
B: Would n't it be nice if you could get a credit back at the end of the year
A: Ooh , for those who are really cooperating .
B: Yeah .
A: Now , that would encourage it .
B: Well , except I know it would just not be cost effective .
B: They 've already got all this money out on hiring , uh , getting the trucks and hiring people to work them .
B: I 'm sure they could n't afford that .
A: Sure .
B: But
A: Sure .
B: uh ,
A: But the garbage , uh ,
A: now there is just one garbage man that comes on the truck instead of two .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: So that 's interesting .
A: Uh , also , slightly off the subject , but our , our big green garbage thing got stolen .
B: Oh , it did ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Gosh .
A: And we we called the City
A: and , uh , they , they brought us a new one
A: and they did not charge us .
A: And they said that between three and four hundred have been stolen .
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: Is n't that sad ? You know .
B: It is sad .
A: And just ,
B: You know ,
B: they paid for those things anyway .
A: Oh , and they must be , Yeah , really expensive .
B: Or , our taxes do .
A: I mean , of course , we were hoping we were n't , we were n't going to have to pay for it , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , I mean , what would somebody do with them .
A: Arlington , Texas
A: now since I got somebody from Arlington , Virginia one day
B: Is that right ?
A: Yeah .
B: Well , I never thought about that ,
B: but there is an Arlington ,
B: like I had a call the other day from Birmingham , Michigan you know ,
A: Oh
B: and I was thinking yeah , and I was thinking
A: Birmingham .
B: the only Birmingham I could think of was Alabama .
A: Right .
A: It 's funny how many names have been used , uh , all over the country .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , tell me what kind of books have you read ?
A: Well , to tell you the truth , I 've been going to college for the last four years
A: so mainly , text books .
B: I was going to say , not fun kind , right ?
A: No , um ,
A: but , I , I really tend to like biographies a lot , not necessarily always heavy ones
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , you know , sometimes
A: I just read one about Grace Kelley .
A: I love to read about real people .
A: To me , half the time it 's more fascinating than some of these made up stories
B: Yeah ,
B: it is ,
B: because you know that 's it 's really and truly a true thing .
A: Yeah ,
A: it happened .
B: You know , I read one about Bob Hope that I liked .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: that was real good .
B: I 'm like you ,
B: if it 's not a heavy biography , you know I enjoy it .
A: Right .
A: I used to like to read about royalty a lot .
A: I , when I was younger I read about every king and queen that lived , I think , in Europe .
A: That was my thing for a while .
B: I was trying to think , uh ,
B: I read a , uh , a novel that used the names of like Princess Di and Prince Phillip coming over here to be entertained and all ,
B: and there was a murder .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was some time ago .
B: Seems like it was THE SPY WENT DANCING , or something like that .
A: Oh , it sounds like fun .
B: It was a lot of fun because they used these real names , you know .
A: Wonder if it was by one of those famous writers , you know
A: Margaret Truman Daniels writes a lot those .
B: Yeah ,
B: in fact I believe it was
B: because ,
A: Really ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: I believe .
A: Sounds like something she would write .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it was by her , now that you mention it , because someone had given it to me ,
B: and I thought , well , this will be great ,
B: and it was .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've heard that she 's done you know , her books are really interesting ,
A: and they always sell well .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh ,
B: Well , when you use real people like that , I think royalty , especially , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: brings it to life .
A: I know , uh , the some of the British people laugh at us because we 're so enthralled with their royalty .
B: Yeah ,
B: but you know , that 's like them being enthralled with our football and so forth , you know .
A: I know ,
A: our movie stars .
B: Our movie stars ,
B: because it 's totally different concept to us .
A: Oh , right .
B: I have n't , I have n't had a chance to read a lot lately either .
B: I have read , uh , mostly novels .
B: I went to visit my daughter in Florida
A: Um .
B: and I took a novel with me , uh , and read it at Thanksgiving time ,
B: and , uh , it was , uh , one of those generation novels , you know
A: Oh , yes .
B: starts out when they 're small and continues through generations
A: Oh , I always like those .
B: and I like that .
A: Have you ever read anything by Susan Howatch ?
B: Yes ,
B: I have .
A: Is n't she fabulous ?
B: Oh , she is wonderful .
A: Oh , once you
A: I don't like to get one of her books
A: because , I , I just live to read .
A: I 'll , I 'll skip everything just to get back to the book
B: I stayed up one night , I think until two in the morning finishing one of hers because I I could not put it down .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: She 's just a ,
A: I don't know ,
A: does she , how often does she come out with them .
A: I probably have missed the last few since I 've been back in school .
B: Well , no ,
B: it seems like she does n't write as often as , oh , well , like Danielle Steele and those silly things .
B: She writes the same thing .
A: Well , she can , she can turn them out overnight , I swear .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and they 're the same silly things ,
B: I mean , if you 've read one , I mean it 's , It , it 's practically the same thing over and over , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've never read a whole one of hers , I don't think .
A: And think how rich she is .
B: Yeah ,
B: would n't I , you know ,
B: I 'm criticizing her ,
B: and would n't I like to have her money
A: Oh , yeah .
B: because they go from hardback to paperback
B: and she has millions of them .
A: And then make movies out of some of them .
B: Uh-huh .
B: You know , mini series and so forth ,
B: and it seems to me like Susan Howatch does not write as often .
B: I have not seen as many of hers .
A: Well , hers are so involved ,
A: and they 're so such a higher intellectual level , because she quotes a lot , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think she does a lot of research , too .
A: I do too ,
A: so she could n't possibly turn them out like some of these popular writers ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: but oh , her books are just incredible .
A: I don't think they 've ever made a movie , do you ?
B: No ,
B: I don't think so ,
B: and I 've often wondered why , have n't you ?
A: Yes
B: You know , I ,
A: well , no , uh ,
A: I really just thought about it now
A: but there 's just ,
B: Yeah .
A: Maybe it 's because they take so much in .
A: I don't know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Maybe they 're just too involved for the average person to go and sit through them , you know .
A: They 're so big
B: Uh-huh .
A: they 're such , you know ,
A: it would be like another GONE WITH THE WIND , I guess another three hour movie
B: Yeah .
B: And maybe that turns people off ,
B: but look at GONE WITH THE WIND , you know .
A: Oh , I know .
A: It 's about one of my favorite movies .
B: Uh , have you , uh , gotten into SCARLETT yet ?
A: No ,
A: it had such a bad press ,
A: I was n't too .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's exactly what I was going to say .
B: I was amazed ,
B: because I ,
B: in the beginning when it was on , you know , on route coming out I heard mixed publicity kind of good and bad ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: and then when it came out , all I heard was just , oh , how bad it was , that I did n't even want to get it .
A: Me , either .
A: Do you know anyone that 's read it ?
B: Huh-uh .
A: No ,
A: I have n't heard of anybody that 's read it , either .
B: No .
A: I think it was on the best-seller list , though for a while .
B: Well it would n't surprise me ,
A: Are you there ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: now tell me your favorite team .
B: Uh , baseball ?
A: Yes .
B: Well , I 've been kind of been intrigued with the Rangers , uh , more so with , uh , uh , their management than anything else .
B: I , I don't follow baseball that , that closely ,
B: but , uh , you know , since I live here so close to Arlington , uh , that 's the team that I 've been kind of following .
A: Okay .
A: I think it 's a little bit late in the season for them to assign us
A: where do you think they 're headed ,
A: so we 'll have to talk about the future with the Rangers .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: What are your thinkings on what they can do , what they 'll be able to do ?
B: Well , I think that , uh , you know , with , uh , so much controversy over Ruben Sierra not signing and asking us for so much money , it 's , um , you know , I think
B: I 'm not real sure about
B: do you know anything about Ruben Sierra 's , uh ,
A: Well , I heard tonight on the news that he is willing to come down . on his ,
B: Yeah
B: that , he was willing to come down a little bit and ,
A: Yes .
A: And the Rangers go up a little bit ,
A: uh-huh .
B: but a little bit from three , you know , from thirty million dollars or thirty-five
B: that 's a lot of money .
A: I think the entire baseball ,
A: yeah ,
A: they 're the ones that probably are paying the highest .
B: Yeah ,
B: they are .
A: And I think this is absolutely ridiculous .
B: Uh-huh .
A: No .
B: And I really think , I really think that , uh , that they ought to ,
B: I 'm not real sure that they should pay him that much money .
B: I think they should , uh , uh , pay him what his salary is going to be , uh , and let him ,
B: because he 's got one more year before he turns into a free agent .
A: That 's right .
B: And then , uh , who knows ,
B: if he produces next year , they may have to end up paying him anyway ,
B: but if he does n't , then his market value will go down
B: and they can pick him up for , for a lot less than , than they would , uh , if they paid him the you know , the six million dollars a year this year .
A: .
A: What I saw on the news today , that
A: Buechele was back just to visit .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm awful sorry he 's not still .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: but you know , what , he ,
B: that was a great deal for him .
A: Oh , I 'm sure it was .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was a great deal for him
B: and , and , uh , he just signed on , uh ,
B: I think it was like a five year deal with , uh Pittsburgh .
A: Pittsburgh .
A: Yeah .
B: So , you know , he 's real happy there .
B: As far as the Rangers are concerned , I think , I think they need some , definitely need some pitching .
A: Yes , sir .
B: Uh , and so I , you know I ,
A: Well , what do you think of Howse , who is the coach for the pitchers ?
B: The pitching coach ?
A: Yes .
B: Well , you know , I was just looking at the news tonight ,
B: and they showed a , a , a black guy that was was helping out , uh , His assistant .
A: His assistant .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I think that 's a , a great addition .
B: I mean , he seemed to know what he was doing
B: and , and , uh ,
A: I really wish they could see fit to get rid of Howse .
B: Oh , you don't like Howse , huh ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I really don't .
A: And I 'm not going to stand up , you know on my , soapbox and say that ,
A: but I 'm , not fond of Howse
A: and I 'm not fond of Grieves .
B: Oh , Tom Grieve ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I 'm , I 'm not sure that , um , that they 're ready to get rid of , of , uh , Tom Grieve yet ,
B: but Howse might be a different , uh , situation ,
B: and I think you 're probably right , that they , that they need some , you know , some changes in , uh , pitching coach , maybe
B: and , um ,
A: Well , I 'm just gullible enough that I think Bobby Valentine is , um , uh , doing all right
A: and I 'm sure ,
B: You do , huh ?
A: Well
B: That 's contrary to , uh , popular belief , you know
A: Oh , I know ,
A: I know so ,
A: but I would like so much for these Rangers to get their act together and give , um , oh , uh , Nolan Ryan the support he needs .
B: Oh , I know
B: You know , it 's too bad that , uh , it has to be a forty-two year old guy to , to lead the , uh , the Rangers , you know .
A: I understand .
B: They need to have some , some young guys that can take the lead
B: and , and ,
B: uh , Yeah .
A: Well , I just oh , I have so many mixed emotions about all this .
A: But I think with their new stadium , they should go and let ,
A: Okay .
B: Well , if you 're from Iowa , you must be very artsy crafty .
B: Everyone I 've ever known from the Midwest can do everything with their hands .
A: Oh , well , actually I 'm from California
A: and before then I was from Utah .
A: So .
B: I did n't know anyone ever moved from California to Iowa ?
A: Well , I grew up in California ,
A: and then I went to school in Utah ,
A: and I got married there
A: and we stayed there for a while ,
A: and then , now we 're in Iowa
B: I 'm teasing , only because I 'm from Indiana .
A: Oh , really .
B: I really like , I like the Midwest .
A: Oh .
B: But I married a Texan ,
B: and they have a way of dragging you back home .
B: Anyway , we 're supposed to be talking about crafts .
B: Do you , um , do you have any hobbies that , that you do things with your hands like knitting or ,
A: Um .
A: Well , I crochet ,
A: and I do water color ,
A: and I , um , sew
A: and I do fabric painting .
B: Oh , you do a lot then .
B: Do you do needlepoint also and cross stitching ?
A: Um , I 've done some cross stitching .
A: I have n't tried any needlepoint yet .
A: How about you ?
B: Um , actually I , I 'm pretty untalented
A: Oh , right .
B: I used to do a lot of knitting and crocheting , um ,
B: but I , I don't know ,
B: somehow I don't have the time anymore .
B: But I have all these friends that wherever you go , they , they sit down and the next thing you know , they pull out of their , uh , bags some , their most recent , uh , needle craft
A: Oh , really .
B: and in December everyone was doing stockings , you know these gorgeous , detailed minute , tiny stitch stockings .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , gosh .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: well those take a lot of time .
B: Yes .
A: I only can do things that are pretty fast , because we just , um , got our baby last year ,
A: and I just don't have the patience to just , you know , do something .
B: Is this your first baby ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Have you crocheted or knitted any baby clothes or baby blankets ?
A: Um , I crocheted an afghan for our bed .
A: That 's the only thing ,
A: and , and I did a quilt ,
A: let 's see , I 've done a quilt for our baby
A: and I 've done a quilt for our bed ,
A: but I mean ,
B: Did you embroidery the pattern and then quilt it yourself ,
B: or how did you make a quilt ?
A: Um .
A: Um , our baby 's quilt , it was a pre , like the design ,
A: I just went around the design in the quilt .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I did n't piece it or anything like that
A: but , uh ,
B: But you actually hand quilted it yourself ?
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and ,
B: Did , did you need a loom ,
B: or were you
B: was it small enough that you could just hold it ?
A: Um , I put it on the frame , the quilting frame .
A: Have you , are you familiar with that ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: okay
B: But , um , my , again , my mother back in Indiana ,
B: we had a quilting frame in our basement ,
B: and she would , she would quilt whole quilts by herself .
A: Oh , my God .
B: Um , yes ,
B: which ,
B: I was always amazed .
B: I have one of them . Um ,
B: but , uh , you know , to have the quilting frame and then to actually do that , it 's a tremendous amount of work .
A: Well , I have n't done tons of them
A: But , um , I used to do more before , um , before I had , before we got our baby ,
A: but .
B: Oh , you think , children ,
B: you can , um , use crafts to make wonderful things for children .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think when babies ,
B: I think afghans and , and the crocheted little sweaters , and , are , are wonderful .
B: And , and they 'll wear them
A: Yes ,
A: exactly .
B: Once they get old enough to talk then they no longer will wear them
A: Well , one thing that I like about this fabric painting thing is I can just make a T shirt and put a little ruffle around it and then , um , cut out a little pattern from the material , from some material , like flowers or something , and make , um , a design or , you know , a little arrangement or something on the shirt and , you know , fuse it on with Heat and Bond , or whatever and then paint around it .
A: And I usually sew , sew around the flower , whatever first ,
A: and then I paint around it
A: so you ca n't see the stitching as much .
A: Does , does that make sense to you ?
A: So .
B: Oh , yes ,
B: I think it 's very clever .
B: It 's , uh , funny that you said .
B: For Christmas , my daughter and I received matching sweat shirts that a friend had made for us . A beautiful Christmas design ,
A: Oh .
B: and they were matching
B: and they were lovely ,
B: but when I washed them , although I took the precaution of turning them inside out I really did n't do anything else . And truly , everything fell off , or most of it .
A: Oh , sure .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , really .
B: So I had , I went and bought just some cloth glue and glued it all back
B: and I bought the paint and redid most of the edges
A: Oh .
B: and , and it was salvageable
B: and I ,
B: but it 's ,
B: so I 'm familiar with that ,
B: but I think you 're very clever to , um , sew around the edges .
B: I think gluing alone , certainly if you wash it any amount of time , it tends to kind of come loose at the edges .
A: Well .
A: Yeah ,
A: someone told me that , that it , that they had done it both ways ,
A: and I 've always , after hearing that , I always sewed it on , even , even with the , uh , a loose zigzag even helps
A: And , um ,
A: Okay .
A: So how do you just figure ,
B: Well , you know , it depends upon our weather here . You know ,
B: today was a beautiful day
B: it was like , uh , uh , summer day .
B: It was seventy degrees
B: so so I dressed in , uh , uh , a light weight skirt ,
A: Wow .
B: it 's a , uh , ultra suede skirt and a blouse with a sweater , cardigan over it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because I had some appointments at the office today , some interviews
B: and so I had to dress up anyway
B: and then I wore heels , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But when it rains a lot , which is has been doing here a lot lately , uh , very often , you know , wear , uh , pants and boots you know .
A: Oh .
B: So how do you dress ?
A: Well , um , I 'm going to talk about when I was working as a teacher and when I was working at now .
B: Okay .
A: Um , when I was a teacher , um , in Utah , I would generally wear , um , dresses and heels and things like that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and even when it , um , rained and snowed I just braved it
A: and I wore heels anyway
B: Yeah .
A: And ,
B: I , I can see ,
B: I , I 've been a teacher so has my daughter
B: and I know that we very often wore heels despite the fact that , it was tiring .
A: I know ,
A: it might kill you to go up and walk up to the door
B: That 's right .
A: but you 're going to look nice for the kids
B: That 's right
B: and it always makes you feel like you 're a bigger person than the kids , right ?
A: Oh , oh , yeah .
A: Well , I need all the height I can get
B: Yeah ,
B: I do too .
B: So to be taller than some of the boys in the bigger grades , uh , older grades , I had to wear heels .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: we too . Um ,
A: if it was it looked really dangerous then I would wear boots
A: but then I would change , um , into heels , as soon as I got to my desk .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , um ,
B: Of course , we wear , uh , an unlined boots , you know ,
B: it has a heel on it .
B: They 're the kind of boots that I wear to work
B: and we wear them , you know ,
B: they 're a leather boot that you wear
B: and as I said they have a regular heel on them , high heel .
A: Oh .
B: And they wear them , we wear them a lot with shirts and things .
B: Uh , it 's kind of a ,
B: I ca n't say constant down here in Texas that you wear these boots .
B: They 're not a cowboy boot ,
B: but they 're just a real pretty boot ,
B: but they keep your feet nice and toasty from the rain .
A: Oh .
B: As I have a private high school that I run here and so when I 'm interviewing a parent , of course I feel like I need to wear heels you know , and look like I 'm a business person . You know , because the children will tease about where 's your motorcycle , if you wear boots too often , you know .
A: Sure .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Huh . Well , um ,
B: Of course , you probably wear coats a lot .
A: Yeah , um ,
A: the first two years I was in a room where they did n't heat it
A: So I did ,
B: Oh , my goodness
B: so then you had to .
A: Yeah ,
A: and then the third year we , um , got heating
A: so it was nice
B: Yes .
B: Then things improved , right ?
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: But of course , here we wear a light weight jacket a lot you know , you know ,
A: Oh , that 's nice .
B: and , uh , that 's very seldom
B: we , it depends upon our winter .
B: We have a few days you might wear a coat , winter coat , you know ,
B: but most of the time you can wear a sweater
B: and we just don't wear coats much .
B: We often laugh about even when it turns chilly .
B: We 're wearing something lightweight or no jacket because we 're so used to running around like that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh . Nice .
A: Well
B: It 's really different .
B: Let 's put it that way .
B: Are you not teaching anymore ?
A: Uh , no ,
A: we , we moved to Iowa
A: and , um , I 'm working at a day care right now .
B: I see .
A: And so the way I dress is really different because I 'm working in the nursery room with kids from six months to like twenty months .
B: Oh , so you don't wear heels anymore I 'll bet .
A: Yeah ,
A: I wear , uh , tennis shoes , and jeans and things that , you know , are sort of , um ,
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
B: More practical .
A: not ,
A: yes ,
A: it does n't matter if I have to wash it a hundred times or something .
B: When you were teaching , did you ever have , uh , uh , a blue jean day or anything like that ?
A: Yeah ,
A: but I never wore jeans because , um , I thought that was too casual
B: Yeah , well ,
A: For ,
B: I know that some of the schools they have , uh , country western day or something like that one , you know , or tacky day ,
B: and I always thought it was kind of out of , got out of hand when the teachers looked real tacky too .
A: Yeah ,
A: really .
B: It 's all right for the students ,
B: they look tacky a lot
B: but I did n't think teachers should , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's how I feel too .
B: Yeah .
B: Do you like , uh , uh , Iowa ?
A: Um , oh , it , there 's some good things about it
A: but I 've seen . A lot of things I 'm not used to yet , um ,
B: Where did you live before ?
A: Um , we lived in Utah before
A: and , and I grew up in California .
B: Oh , well , that 's quite a change from California to Utah ,
A: Well , uh , what is your favorite kind of music ?
B: Well , I have to say my favorite type of music would probably be , uh , classical music .
A: Oh , same here .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah .
B: What type of music do you like in the classical area ,
B: or what era do you , era do you like the most ?
A: Oh , well , I guess I like a wide range . Uh , everything from , uh , from Baroque through at least some modern music .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And my wife and I these days are especially into opera .
A: We 've been sort of opera fans for a few years now .
B: Um , do you go to the operas that they sing English or go to the ones that they sing other languages ?
A: Well , we , uh , generally ,
A: the places we 've gone they sing in the original languages .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Like the Dallas opera here normally does , I guess .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I , I have n't gotten into that too much because , I , uh , if I don't know the story line and , um , I don't speak the language , then I have difficult time , comprehending what 's going on .
A: Well , one thing that 's helped us a lot is that , uh , you , you know , you can buy a lot of these operas now on video uh , video tape
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so we have quite a collection of those ,
A: and you watch them at home ,
A: and they have subtitles ,
A: so you , you figure out what 's going on after a while ,
A: and then you can enjoy it in the , uh , theater .
B: Oh .
A: But , you know , the , uh , Dallas opera now has , uh , super titles on , on all their performances I think .
B: What is that ?
A: Well , they , they give an , uh , an English translation on a , on a screen up above the stage .
B: Oh , I did n't know that .
A: Yeah .
B: That can help people like me .
A: In fact , they even do that for operas sung , sung in English , because it is hard to understand the words sometimes .
B: Well , I can understand that .
B: So , I 'd say , Vivaldi is probably my favorite , uh , composer .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I really like Vivaldi .
A: Uh , he 's , uh , definitely one of the , one of the top of that era .
B: Yeah .
B: I like Baroque music ,
B: I like full body music , uh , with the , um , um , with brass and winds , woodwinds , instruments , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Course I like , uh , also string instruments ,
B: and I have two string instruments in my house . Uh , instrument players ,
B: both my sons play string instruments .
B: One plays the cello
B: and the other one plays the viola .
A: Oh
B: So , I get to go to at least four or five concerts a year
A: Uh-huh .
A: How , how old are they ?
B: One is thirteen and one is eleven .
A: So they 're doing this in school , or what ?
B: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yes .
A: Well , you 've got half a string quartet there .
B: Yeah .
B: We 're on our way .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh , um , I try to enjoy all of it .
A: Well , since you seem to like , uh , Italian music , have you ever , uh , gotten into Gabrielli or anybody there in that era , the , uh , period right before , actually before Vivaldi , I guess ?
B: Um , a little bit ,
B: but , um , a lot of the , um , music I don't know about , uh , as far as the titles ,
B: and I have to listen to it , and and figure out , what I 'm listening to .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I do belong to a Musical Heritage Society .
A: Oh , yes ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Do you belong to that ?
A: No ,
A: I don't ,
A: but I think I know what it is .
A: Is n't that a , uh , uh , see ,
A: ca n't you get records through that or something , recordings ?
B: You can get recordings .
B: Uh , they know have them on compact disc or or , uh , or cassettes or L P
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , they do their , they do a lot of original recordings themselves .
A: Yes ,
A: yeah ,
A: I think , uh .
B: But they also , uh , they also , uh , go to the different composers , or the different , I guess ,
B: what do you call them the guys that orchestrate the the conductors .
A: Uh .
A: Uh , yes ,
A: right
B: Yeah .
B: They go to conductors , uh ,
B: and , and they actually have them perform the music ,
B: and they record it .
A: So , they 're actually commissioned performances .
B: Sure .
B: A lot of them are .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Or they will find out when they 're performing ,
B: and they will , uh , record the music at that time .
B: And so , uh , it is , uh , uh , high quality grade music ,
B: and , of course , now they 're getting , they also have a jazz section ,
B: and they also have a , uh , more contemporary and American uh , composer section .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I had heard good things about the , uh , Music Heritage Society ,
A: but if I get involved in one of those things , I end up spending all my money on on music .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , you can control it .
A: I almost , uh , almost , uh , bankrupted myself out of college as a freshman when I got into the Columbia Record Club many years ago .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: my roommate signed me up .
A: He got a bonus record ,
A: and I got a lot of bills
B: I see .
A: So we have to watch that .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: Uh , do you play any instrument yourself ?
B: Yes ,
B: I , I play guitar and , and early years played saxophone .
A: How do you feel about the Viet Nam war ?
B: Huh , well , um , you know , I guess it 's pretty deep feelings , uh ,
B: I just , uh , went back and rented , uh , the movie , what is it , GOOD MORNING VIET NAM
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I saw that as well .
B: Got that , uh , uh , some insight there , to , to kind of help me put together the feelings .
B: I really appreciated the , the whole , uh , English class where the , uh , the , uh , fellow just would n't do it , you know ,
B: the guy 's gouging , gouging your eyes out ,
B: what are you going to do ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , what for him to finish me off
B: And , uh , it , it was , uh , good to remember the , uh , that , that kind of Asian philosophy that , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , were you ever in Viet Nam
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: I was kind of an in-between , uh , finally drew a high draft number ,
B: and you ?
A: Um , I was much too young ,
A: I was born in sixty-seven ,
A: so .
B: Oh
A: Um , you know , both my , well , both my brothers were , um , draft age ,
A: but neither of them wound up going over , which , I think they were very happy for .
B: Well , I , personally , uh , you know , uh , I just went in limbo .
B: I had a passport and was ready to go or um , out of the country or join special forces , either one .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , I just did n't know .
B: So , uh .
A: Well , um , so well do you , do you feel that it was worth what we did over there ?
B: Um , yeah ,
B: just a second .
A: Okay .
B: Okay .
B: Sure ,
B: now . Well , Mark , um , what was that again ?
A: Um , do you think , I mean , do you think , our the investment in lives and money was worth it ?
B: No ,
B: not , not really .
A: I totally agree with that . Um .
B: Um .
A: What , what effects do you think it 's had on our country ?
B: Downside . Um , uh , well ,
B: the says we should , uh , go into the grief that , that 's there
B: and , you know , presidents have always avoided that as a country .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's pretty serious , really , you know ,
B: lot of things that are n't being addressed .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I think you know , that 's pretty typical that , of the entire , entire involvement over that , you know , that nothing was really addressed ,
A: it it was n't , you know , it was never
A: we , we announced that we were going to war ,
A: it was such a gradual and subtle , you know um , you know increasement of , of force that .
B: Yeah .
B: Gulf of Tonkin , uh , resolution
B: and was it a dolphin or a torpedo .
B: You remember that ?
A: I vaguely remember we , um , we had a , we had a , um , spy ship torpedoed or something .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: only only it was foggy
B: and finally President Johnson said , well , they 're were n't really sure whether it was a dolphin or a torpedo .
A: Oh
B: Is n't that something ?
A: Uh-huh . Um ,
A: so , um , do , do , do you think that like , uh , um , for example like in , in this past war , in the Persian Gulf war that , uh , that you see , it seemed to me that , that Bush was going , going to extraordinary lengths to , um , you know , prepare the country for war .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Hey Mark I 've got to go , um .
A: Yeah .
A: Okay .
B: We 'll see you .
B: I guess our five minutes are up according to me .
B: Are they to you ?
A: Uh , I was n't really keeping count .
A: But I guess ,
A: good-bye .
B: Yeah ,
B: okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Bye .
A: Okay .
A: So , uh , Mike , what are your opinions on , uh , trial by jury ?
B: Well I work for an insurance company
B: so I see a lot of , uh , verdicts that are pretty crazily decided . Um , by juries particularly ,
B: and I know in England the judges set all of the awards .
B: You know juries will decide the guilt or innocence ,
B: but then they leave the awards up to more learned people .
B: And I think maybe that avoids some of these totally ridiculous , you know , like millions and millions of dollars
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: That , that seems to make sense
A: but leave it up to the more experienced person who knows how it fits into the , uh , kind of the rate for different .
B: Oh , exactly .
B: Each individual jury really does n't have any perception of what , um , the going , you know , if you will the going , uh , award should be for a certain type of case , you know , within some kind of range .
A: Uh-huh .
B: When you get one way out like that
B: but then really does n't wind up penalizing the person that they went after .
B: Who it really penalizes is their insurance company which then translates into higher rates for all of us . If they get some of those mega awards against them .
A: Right .
B: You know , they 're not going to sit there and lose money .
B: If they are losing money , then they 're going to raise rates .
A: Right .
A: they
B: So it all comes filtering down to us all individually .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , granted some people need to be compensated if they have really been wronged , you know .
A: Well , how do you feel about setting , like , well , for example , a car type accident where , uh , or some incident where someone loses a limb .
A: Do you think the jury should have a dollar figure for losing an arm , a dollar figure for losing different body parts ?
B: I don't know .
B: You know some of the health insurance is written that way . You know , that , uh , if you buy an accident and death or dismemberment policy , you know , it pre specified in the policy so much
B: but I don't know that you can necessarily put a , a value on somebody 's limb , uh , arbitrarily that is always going to fit in all cases .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think maybe you look at , uh , the age of the person and their station in life and , and , uh , how much longer they have of work years that they would have to put up , you know , with , with that .
B: I mean maybe you don't award an eighty-five year old guy the same thing that you would award a twenty-one year old .
A: Huh .
B: I , I think it has to be some kind of common sense applied there .
B: And there may be where the judiciary is a little more learned about that type of thing because they can be schooled in that kind of thing ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that can be part of continuing education , maybe for judges
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know .
A: Right .
B: You know , to get into the economics of things , uh ,
B: because if they wheel somebody into a courtroom and the jury 's heart goes out to that person and they do one of these mega awards , it really , you know , ultimately is not penalizing the person that they 're trying for get away .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's true .
B: If it 's a company , you know that they 're insured . Unless the award is so staggering that it goes all beyond their layers of insurance which is another pet peeve of mine when they do award punitive damages ,
A: Huh .
B: I think those should be uninsurable .
B: I think those should have to be paid by the corporation itself that , that did the damage .
A: Oh , out of
A: As opposed to the insurance paying the bills ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , we 're , Who , who
B: For , for honest mistakes where they 've done something and , and something happens .
B: One of their employees causes damage or something .
B: Sure . That 's what they buy insurance for .
A: do they get , they get insured , they get insured from other insurance companies
A: or how does that work ?
B: Well , I was just talking about any company .
B: Uh , let 's just say a lumber manufacturing company
A: Oh , okay ,
A: your talking about
B: and , uh , somebody is on the premises
A: Sure .
B: and one of the employees actually is driving by with a forklift
B: and he pushes the wrong button
B: and he drops a load of lumber on somebody
B: and it injures , them .
A: Okay .
A: Well ,
B: Sure .
B: Insurance should pay for that .
A: But in some instances you 're going to put companies out of business by taking that stance , if they have to take it out of their own retained earnings .
B: Well I 'm not talking about any loss .
B: I was talking about only losses that are judged for a punitive damage which is another category of , the juries are awarding damages these days based on the person 's actual injuries and what they are due .
B: And then they are awarding a second amount as punishment to the company which is a usually a lot less .
B: But it 's an , an amount they 're , designed to sting them a little for their , negligence . For gross wanton negligence in a claim .
A: That ,
A: For , oh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: And unfortunately the the ,
B: lately the courts have been deciding that those could be paid for by insurance too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So again , it never really penalizes , the company doing the wrong .
A: Right .
A: That will ,
B: They can go right on doing the same old thing they always used to .
A: Huh .
B: And if , if they know some practice is wrong , you know ,
B: I 'm not talking about your isolated occurrences ,
B: I 'm talking more about the , you know , the thing that they know ,
B: maybe they 're willfully manufacturing something that they know is hurting people out there
B: and they continue to do it even after they become aware of that .
A: Sure .
A: Okay .
B: Then I think they ought to have to pay something out of their own pocket .
A: Go ahead
B: Oh , okay
B: Yeah ,
B: the , uh , subject is child care and how to determine child care ,
B: and that 's , uh , an interesting one for me to talk about since I have no children ,
B: but I did run a child care facility for a while .
A: Um .
B: And , uh , have some ,
A: Well , you should , you should have some opinions on that , then .
B: I do have some thoughts on that ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh , it 's , uh , an interesting experience to be a surrogate parent for , or parent for a lot of people there ,
B: and , uh , it 's also very interesting in terms of how people choose the child care facilities
A: Well , I guess if I were going to choose , I mean , my first consideration would be safety .
B: Right .
A: My second consideration would be , uh , uh , health .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , I guess my third consideration would be , uh , warm , environment , warm personal environment .
B: Well , right .
B: Uh , in Texas , we have to meet certain state standards in order to operate on a , at an institutional level and at a , like a small home level
B: so you meet the standards ,
B: but then after that there 's , there 's a lot more .
B: I think it 's important as the safety and health and that kind of stuff , is qualification of people who work there , and in hiring people who would work at the , uh , day care , the child care facility was very difficult to find qualified people , uh , in terms of , not just , just
B: because somebody has a child or , uh , likes children does n't really mean that they 're qualified to give the child the kind of supervision and training that that , uh ,
A: Oh , absolutely
A: As a matter of fact , I believe that the safety and , and health , uh , issues , uh , depend in a very direct way on the people who are working with the children .
B: Exactly .
B: And that was the most difficult thing of all , to find the , the right people , the qualified people .
A: And it 's the most difficult of all for a parent , judge , uh because a person can be very nice and warm and loving ,
B: Oh ,
A: but if he 's a space cadet and does n't watch the children , and be aware of what the safety hazards are ,
B: Oh , exactly .
B: And the other thing that 's difficult in , uh , it 's a too small setting , like a day care center is to find the right program of enrichment for the child , because you don't want to just warehouse the child ,
B: and I did n't want to run an institution where that was the case , where all we were doing were warehousing because the first four , five years or so important
B: and you have to have the right kind of enrichment
B: and that , that includes , uh , an atmosphere in which the child is safe and , and he 's watched and his physical needs are cared for ,
B: but also his , uh , developmental needs are cared for , too .
A: Maybe the right thing to do is to , uh , when a couple has a child , then they should both take , you say the first four or five years are the most important , and I think I would agree with that , they both take four or five years off and devote to parenting .
B: That would be lovely .
A: Get rid of all these child care centers , at least for young kids below the age of six .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then uh , and then , of course , to make up for that , uh , the , uh , parents would have to work in their later years longer , you know ,
A: in other words , they probably would not work , may not , may end up not working at all in the twenties . Uh ,
B: Well , that 's an interesting thought because ,
A: But then they have to work from age thirty or , or forty to age seventy or eighty or ninety .
B: That would be okay
B: That would , that would help on the other end , too , in , in terms of not warehousing people and letting people be productive for as long as they can be .
A: Right ,
A: well , you know , the , uh , uh , the world is changing uh , from from , uh , industrial , uh , base to , uh , information base
A: and so what that means is you don't have to be physically powerful to work .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's exactly right .
A: All you have to do is have a sharp mind ,
A: and I believe that , uh , mental acuity is easy to sustain , maintain , if you just simply continue to exercise your mind .
B: Oh .
A: So I think a person could work , uh , into the seventies , eighties , even nineties for that matter ,
A: if they did n't have to do a lot of physical , uh , labor , they could maintain , uh ,
A: Your turn .
B: Okay .
B: Uh , I don't think they should abolish it
B: I think , I think if they put it into force more often , they would n't have as many problems as they 've got .
A: But not for petty theft ?
B: Right .
B: No ,
B: no .
B: For major things like premeditated murder . Mass murders . Uh , you know , that type of thing .
B: I don't think it should just be used loosely .
A: Well , it should be used as a deterrent do you think ?
B: Well ,
A: Or should it be used , uh ,
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
B: To prevent these people from ever getting out on the street . By , you know , some technicality .
B: And they go down the line ten years
B: and then on some little technicality they get out and on the streets again doing the same they did before .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , you know , that 's about the only thing .
B: Like for petty , for theft and , and stuff like that or manslaughter , you know ,
B: I don't think they should do that .
A: Well , you know , there 's this old , uh , Jewish , is it , saying about an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth .
B: Oh , well , I guess , if I , if it was someone in my family , I 'd probably feel that way .
B: You know , I 've never had anybody in my immediate family , uh , murdered
B: and so I really would n't know .
B: But , but I feel like if I did , I probably would feel that way .
A: Well , one of the things I was thinking about is , uh , you know , from society 's point of view , if you put a value on each person , what you want to do is to maximize the end game value .
A: So if you have someone that , that destroys that value uh , then what you want to take steps to , uh , minimize the loss .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Of course , you have to also put value on the criminal .
B: Right .
A: So if you terminate him , that 's a loss of value .
B: Well , that 's true
A: So , you know , if you weight everyone equally , then you have to say , well the likelihood of not terminating him ,
A: if you don't terminate him , the likelihood is expected value of loss of life is greater than one person .
A: In other words , you 'd have to , you 'd have to murder more than one other person uh , in order to justify taking his life .
B: Besides him .
B: Okay .
A: Another way you could do it is weight this value by , uh , the value to society of the people . Uh , which is pretty delicate thing to do .
A: But one way of doing it is , uh , by income .
A: So if this guy does n't make a great deal of money , which is often times the case , then then he 's obviously not worth very much
B: His life is n't worth very much then
A: and so , uh , the likelihood that , you know , maybe expected , expected murders by him is , is , uh , integrated over the income of the people , uh , that he murders is maybe , you know , a loss of , who knows , eight hundred thousand dollars .
A: Uh , but if he only , uh , integrated , you know , integrated income over the expected remainder of his life of is , uh , small , less than eight hundred thousand dollars , then you terminate him
A: Of course , one of the things that happens if you use that algorithm , is you find that it 's more easy , it 's easier to , uh , to , uh , terminate older people than younger people since the integration of their income over the rest of their lives is going to be less . Which means , well
B: Right .
A: I suppose you could say , well that has something to do with potential for rehabilitation .
B: Potential .
B: I mean that 's , that 's the key right there . Potential .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Now , are they , are they rehabilitative or , or not .
A: Now that 's all fine and well and , and , uh , good philosophical .
A: But if you 're involved yourself , personally
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , I know I have a friend whose , uh , son was murdered , uh , on the night before his sixteenth birthday .
A: And let me tell you , uh , I , I knew them personally , uh , not intimately , but quite well
A: and , uh , you 're talking about real trauma . I mean trauma that extends beyond the counting of bodies .
B: I can imagine .
A: The father , you know ,
A: of course , a parent losing a teenage child is about as bad as it could possibly get , I think , in terms of psychological impact .
B: Yes .
A: Uh , and ,
B: Was he murdered ?
B: Did they find who killed him ?
A: Oh , yes .
A: They found him
A: and he is on trial for capital murder .
B: So it has n't been a long time ago .
B: Just recently .
A: Uh , well , actually he has , I , I 'm sorry . He was convicted , uh ,
A: and , of course , now , you know , and you go through two or three hundred years of appeals process
A: but
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: That appeals process , I mean , it 's what , you know , really , you know , just drags out and out and out .
B: My brother-in-law here in Texas , his , by marriage , my sister 's , uh , husband , his sister was murdered down here by a guy in , in , well actually in Houston
B: and , uh , he ,
B: Okay .
B: Go ahead .
A: Uh , well , you know , uh , I think public service is a worthy thing
A: and as a matter of fact there are a lot of programs , uh , such as Peace Corps that promote that .
B: Uh-huh
A: Probably the most popular one but , uh , one that is not typically recognized as such is the Boy Scouts .
B: Huh
A: Uh , I know that because my son is a , a scout now and , uh , is thinking about his Eagle
A: and , uh , in order to get Eagle , you have to have merit badges in , uh , citizenship in the community citizenship in the nation , citizenship in the world
B: Right .
A: and you have to do a public service project . Uh , in which leadership is the key element .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , uh , I think the question is posed somewhat strangely because , uh , it 's talking about a requirement for public service
B: Uh-huh
A: and , of course , the Peace Corps , the Boy Scouts is a , is a voluntary activity .
B: Right .
A: Uh ,
B: I , I think that might be talking , referring to , uh , something , kind of , uh , alternative to the draft , you know .
B: Either you have , uh , military service or some sort of alternative , nonmilitary service for a few years .
A: Right ,
A: of course , uh , uh , military service falls under the category , uh , of a public service .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: And , so , uh , one of the things that would fulfill the , at least the nominal , uh , qualifications set forth in the charge is military service or draft .
B: Huh . Right ,
B: right .
A: Uh ,
A: but I agree with you , that probably is not what was comprehended .
A: There are other things such as civil service uh , which many people , uh , are lifelong employees of
B: Well ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: but I suspect that was not what they had in mind either .
A: More of a voluntary kind of thing
B: Yeah .
A: or , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: for , for years there has been an idea batted around of having some sort of alternative , uh , public service for , uh , young people to go into , uh , after high school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , kind of in lieu of the draft for , for people who don't , uh , who , you know , are conscientious objectors or don't otherwise want to be in the military , you know .
B: Say , okay ,
B: well you can go into the military
B: or you can do this other thing for one or two years to kind of serve the community and , and learn about things .
B: And it 's interesting because I , I 'm not a particular fan of the military
B: but I have seen a lot of people , a lot of young guys go in that don't have really a clue as to what they want to do with their lives and are n't terribly disciplined , you know , even just personal discipline about what they want to do
B: and they come out
B: and they , they at least have , now they have at least some marginally marketable skills and more discipline .
B: And they have , uh , you know , in , in some cases they have a greater self-esteem because they can say , they can see that , you know , if I do something or submit my own will to the will of the sargent or whatever , at least for a short period of time , I can accomplish a lot
B: and it , it 's a good lesson for a lot of young men to learn . That they don't need to be , you know , cowboys .
B: They don't need to be out there and , uh , you know , constantly flaunting their ego to get things accomplished .
B: And , you know , for some , for some young men , that 's good .
B: For me , it would have been lousy idea , uh , because I , I did have the personal discipline .
A: Why ?
B: And I went to college for four years and got out , you know ,
A: Why is that ?
B: so . But , uh , you know , for some people that 's good .
B: I , I don't particular like the fact that it 's the military , you know ,
B: and the whole point of the military is to kill people essentially . As , as an instrument of U S policy .
A: Oh , no ,
A: no ,
A: no .
A: It 's to defend the nation against external evils .
B: Well , that 's one view
B: And , and , you know , and that , that 's another debate .
B: But , uh , it 's , uh ,
A: Well , it depends on whether you , whether we figure that we have that we have a defense oriented military or an aggressive , aggression oriented military .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: right
B: and , well , it 's , it , it seems pretty aggressive oriented ,
B: I mean , you , you look at the last military action which was in the Persian Gulf and was n't anywhere near the United States
B: and it was , uh , you know , it was definitely a projection of U S power on the other side of the globe ,
B: so , at , at any rate , this is getting off the topic
B: but
B: my , my point was that there is , for people who don't want to do the military service , there , it would be neat if there were an alternative that could instill the same sort of personal discipline and sense of purpose and , uh , sense of community that the Boy Scouts ,
A: Actually , I 've been involved in electronics a long time . Uh , in computers
A: and I have really resisted the impulse to get one for the home . Uh , up until , I guess , maybe about a year and a half ago ,
B: Oh yeah .
A: I got one for my son . A , a Macintosh uh , L C .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's a real easy to use color , uh , computer
A: and I got a very nice printer that goes along with it
A: and he uses it for his school work .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I 've , I 'm currently in school
B: so I , I 've had an I B M clone , I guess , for a couple of years now , which I 've been trying , continually upgrading I guess .
B: And , uh , I 've found , I 've found that I pretty much become addicted to it
B: and I ca n't really ,
B: I 've found that most of homework assignments really require some sort of computer , uh , simulation or analysis ,
B: so
A: Huh .
B: it , it 's very essential for me .
B: Schools have them ,
B: uh , but lot of times so difficult to get on them at school .
B: It 's very easy , it 's much more convenient to have one at home .
A: Where you going to school ?
B: At Georgia Tech .
A: I see .
B: Yeah ,
B: so .
A: In engineering ?
B: Yes , actually .
A: So that explains all the , uh , computer assignments .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , uh ,
A: Well , do you use your P C for things other than explicit computer work ?
B: Um , sure .
B: I have some games , of course , which I play on there
B: and , uh , uh , I have a program which allows me to access a , uh , weather data bank
B: so I can , like , check up on the weather around the country or whatever which is a hobby .
B: So , it provides other means other than just strict , uh , you know , computations and so on ,
B: so . Have you , do you have a computer for yourself at home ?
A: No .
A: No ,
A: I just have one for my son
A: and I really sort of have the feeling that word processing is a big market for home computing .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: At at work , uh , I 'm a technologist , uh ,
A: and I , in the past , have done a great deal of , of , uh , system development just through , uh , software development programming .
A: Uh , but now I find myself using the computer ,
A: even the computer at work is primarily a , uh , word processing system and a communication system .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Do you use Email and like that ?
A: Yes .
A: Emil is , probably pulls down a third of all my time .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's ,
B: I , I , uh , I have modem night computer
B: so I can log into the the , uh , network at Georgia Tech and access my account through there , which is , which can be useful .
B: But , uh , yeah
B: that 's , that and word processing is
B: while I tend to ,
B: I mean , obviously , I do most of my , almost all of my report writing on , on my computer , uh , whether it 's term papers or even some smaller homework assignments .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's , it 's really become , I don't know , really become my mainstay I guess .
B: I ca n't even remember ,
B: actually I don't think I 've ever used a typewriter in , in my life to do a , a to do a report . Because my family , when I was growing up , we got a basic computer . T R S Eighty when they first came out .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I even used that to do my first reports when I was in junior high ,
B: so
A: Huh . Well I 'm a old-timer .
A: I did my Master 's thesis on , uh , a typewriter .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Uh , I rented an I B M Selectric .
B: Oh .
A: And it was a pretty big deal .
B: Yeah .
B: It must have been tough .
B: It 's a little bit strange for me .
B: I , I did my Master 's thesis , uh , last year
B: and I did that on a computer
B: and it seems like ,
B: I just ca n't imagine how people did it before .
B: It must have been just so much , so much work
A: Yeah .
A: It , uh , well , you know , it 's just , it was just a completely different world then .
B: Yeah .
B: So , uh , so you used your son 's Macintosh then ?
B: Do you , do you find it , do you like that kind of computer ?
A: I like it ,
A: yeah .
A: I like it from a distance really .
A: I , I see the packages on it , uh , that are available
A: and it 's nice .
A: I really don't use it myself .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I , when I come home from work , I , I like to stay far away from computers and electronic things
B: Yeah .
B: Huh .
A: Uh , so I let my son do it
A: and , Uh , of course , you know , there 's , uh , there 's an intellectual evolution taking place where ,
B: Yeah .
A: it 's sort of a joke
A: but it 's really true ,
A: the old-timers , even the people who are technologists don't know how to operate these electronic things like V C R and whatnot
A: and the kids , they just take to it like candy .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , if , if , if the interface is there so that it 's like fun to use and the challenge
A: Regarding , uh , taxes . I , you know ,
A: taxes are really a necessary evil and , in a civilized society .
A: But really , people get upset at taxes because you , it 's more efficient to do things yourself .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , and so as , as a result , uh , you know , it 's , it 's a trade-off , you know , for the common good , you know . For , for the benefit of others , you know .
A: How much of your resource should you dedicate to , uh , making things work for others ?
A: Have you , uh , you know , ever thought , you know , just how much of that money should , should go to other people that really don't deserve it ?
B: Uh , well yeah
B: I know it 's , it 's a lot , you know that , uh , that I feel like , you know , just like you said , that , there 's just so much that you can do yourself . That you take care of your own self that you don't need the money for
B: but they 're giving it to other people that don't really need it either ,
B: but yet they accept it .
A: Well , the thing of it is , if I wanted to just , uh , you know , permanently become a book reader , I guess I could just , uh , you know , uh , go on public assistance , uh , you know look for , uh , look for people to , uh , take care of me .
B: Like so many people do .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , probably a good woman ,
A: right ?
B: Right
A: Just , you know , just , just con somebody to take care of me .
A: And then you don't have to be on the tax roll .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , but taxes are , are very difficult kind of thing
A: and everybody really hates it .
A: It was very timely .
A: I , I , I always over pay my , my deductions
A: so I wind up with my , getting money back on my , uh , from my , uh , withholding .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , you know , that , that 's always a smile .
A: But , of course , you know , I 've , I 've paid it in
A: and I should calculate it better .
B: Right
B: You are you in business for yourself ?
A: No .
A: I , I , I work for the F B I .
A: So I , I 'm a federal employee .
B: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: Guess I don't sound like it huh ?
B: Uh , well , I
B: no
B: I think that people that work for the government are just as against taxes as , as everybody else , you know . Unless you work for Internal Revenue
A: Yeah ,
A: I belong .
A: Oh I , I 've got all four feet in the trough , you know , being a federal employee .
B: Yeah .
A: And , and so , but , but I can understand that , uh , that , you know , the , uh , who gets benefits .
A: Like every , every time there is a , a bond issue you know , I vote no on every one of them .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: I 'm , I ,
A: but there ,
A: this is , this is , tax not tax revolt country .
A: I mean there 's too many ,
A: every one of us , most of us have our , have all four feet in the trough , you know . Plus our snout , right up to our ears .
B: Yeah .
A: So , you know , it 's not exactly that kind of a place that , that you want to , you know , get into a tax revolt situation .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , uh , the , uh , the local taxes here , I , I ,
A: in this particular area , uh , you know , I 've , uh , I think I pay about , uh , oh thirty-five hundred for , for taxes on my four bedroom house , you know . And which is a lot of money .
B: Right .
A: and , uh , and so as , as people get older and older , uh , you know , they think about retirement and that sort of thing
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and they , they 're building old people 's homes , uh , you know , at tax expense .
A: Well I think , you know , the old people ought to just bail out of here and go where it 's cheaper .
A: At thirty-three hundred dollars or thirty-five hundred dollars I 'm paying in taxes ,
A: why I , I could go down to Bulverde and probably rent a , rent a house for that ,
A: right ?
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
A: You know . In , in , instead , it 's , it 's the taxes here
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: Course I don't know whether I want to go to Bulverde or not , you know or Seguin or someplace like that .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , there 's certainly lots of inexpensive places where the services are poorer .
A: And , and I think really the only place you can really reduce the amount of taxes you pay is to move to an area where the services are poorer .
A: If you 're not going to use them , then you want to be in , in environment .
A: That 's a strategy I think that the people have to , have to take . Is , is how to be able to , to lessen their cost of living . You know ,
A: I 'm , I 'm five or six years before I 'm eligible to retire
A: and , and I 'm saying well , you know , I really ca n't stay here , uh , as a retiree .
B: After you retire ,
B: yeah .
A: It 's too expensive .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm going to have go out and , you know , in , you know , East Fork someplace . And , and , do my thing , you know .
B: Right .
B: My parents are in the same situation , you know .
B: They , their home is paid for
B: but still their taxes are so high , that , you know , my father does n't feel like he can retire because they could n't pay their taxes .
B: And they have no children in school or , you know , anything now .
B: They don't use any of those services that a lot of the taxes go towards .
A: Right .
A: They , they redecorated in nineteen seventy-five , you know .
B: Uh , yeah .
A: And they 're not doing it again , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: So . Well , it 's certainly , uh , uh ,
A: you must be a T I employee .
B: You must be what ?
A: You must be a T I employee ?
B: No ,
B: I 'm not
A: You 're not a T I ,
A: who do you work for ?
B: I , I don't work .
B: I 'm a student .
B: I go to school .
B: I 'm in nursing school
A: You , you 're ,
A: Okay .
A: Uh , generally I get , uh , you know , most of my news , uh , in the , you know , weekly magazines like TIME , NEWSWEEK and , and , uh , U S NEWS AND WORLD REPORT . With , with occasional smatterings of , of , uh , you know , THE WALL STREET JOURNAL and , of course , the local paper .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , my , my only complaint is I really don't enough time to , to look at the articles every day and , and go through a paper , you know , exhaust the details .
A: So that 's why I concentrate on weekly magazines .
B: Do you think that the weekly magazines provide you with as much detail information as you 'd like ?
A: Well , yes .
A: I , I , well , I , I don't think I have the time to really become a student in every article .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and so I , I , I like the weekly magazines , uh , because it gives me , you know , the high points of what 's going on .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , but many times , uh , you know , the , the local , uh , the local news kind of suffers , you know .
A: But here I am , you know , cheek by jowl with our nation 's capital
A: and ,
B: Oh , that 's right .
B: You 're very close actually .
B: It 's almost a , uh , bedroom community for the capital .
A: Yeah .
A: Yes .
A: exactly .
A: Well , when , when the capital gang always talk about the people inside the beltway , I 'm saying to myself , hey guys , I 'm inside the beltway
A: But , uh , it turns out that , uh , that , that the C N N is , I think , is great . And for , for things like hurricanes and fast breaking events
B: Uh-huh .
A: but generally , they 're , they 're , they 're more sound bitish , you know , kind of thing
A: and , and I don't really , uh , you know , I don't really feel as though I 've a gotten sufficient , uh , you know , dose of news that way .
B: Yeah .
B: A lot of my information comes from several sources .
B: Probably pretty high up on the list is National Public Radio . Uh , which I like .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: Uh , I , I think it 's fairly objective
B: and I always like the letters that they read which tend to accuse them of being too liberal and too conservative .
B: And while there 's an inherent , uh , filtering process going on just by the letters they choose to read , uh , I always figure it 's a good thing when any given group is being accused by each side of , uh , favoring the other side .
B: That 's , that 's potential indication of balance .
B: And , generally , I really do believe they are pretty balanced .
B: Uh , I also read TIME magazine
B: and we get one of the daily newspapers around here where we go through various sections of the , uh , various , uh , of the articles and the front section
B: and , uh ,
A: Well the MERCURY and the , and the , and the CHRONICLE are the only things that are really , can stand up there .
B: Oh .
B: Oh , you
B: did you use to live around here ?
A: Uh , Redwood City .
A: I use to work at Anteks .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: okay .
B: I know exactly where that is .
A: Anteks , Amdahl and places like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: we , we get the MERCURY which I generally think is actually a pretty good newspaper
A: Yeah .
B: the newspaper I really been impressed with it when I 've read it at times , at , well the LOS ANGELES TIMES . Which I 've found to be a , uh a very good quality uh , newspaper
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I like a lot of the articles there .
B: the other thing when you said , we don't have cable T V , so but the other thing that you referred to that always sounds really interesting to me is , is called C SPAN .
A: Yes .
A: I , I 've , I enjoy ,
A: see they have , uh , we have two , the , both C SPANS here .
A: But , but really , the , on the public T V , you know , MACNEIL LEHRER is one , is an hour 's program that I always ,
B: Both ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: if , if I watch any news program , it will be MACNEIL LEHRER . And , and occasionally C SPAN .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I like a , I saw the , uh , the , uh , the , the tapes that were , that were run of Marion Berry 's drug bust
A: was , the whole thing was , was run on that
A: and and , and also , they have the , uh , the , uh , uh , PARLIAMENT 'S QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD .
B: Oh , I never say that . * listen : should `` say '' be `` saw '' ?
B: That would have been interesting .
A: It ,
B: Yeah .
B: I , I think that 's always fascinating .
B: I wish , I wish we had something .
A: when , when it first , uh , you know , when it first tuned in on that I , you know ,
A: it 's one that 's ,
A: I think it was , somebody was just scarcely just , just ripping the hell out of another person .
A: And I ,
A: and everybody was , you know , making noise in the background .
B: But it 's usually the Prime Minister ,
B: right ?
A: Here 's this dude in a wig
B: Thatcher ,
B: Major .
A: and I said to myself , it 's another Monty Python that I did n't know about
A: And then , and then up jumps Margaret Thatcher off her green bench
A: and I said oh , it 's Parliament
B: Which could be another of Monty Python .
A: Yeah .
A: So I , I thought to myself , I ca n't wait .
A: I 'm going over to , to Britain in mid , you know , in mid-May .
A: I , I , I 'm going to , uh , you know , you know , approach my , uh , you know ,
A: this is how I discovered , you know , the the Prime Minister 's , you know , question and answer period , you know .
B: I , I have seen that
B: and , uh , a , aside from the level of wit which is much higher than , generally , in American politics , uh , which I really enjoy . I really like the fact that they have a chance to ask hard , real questions I think .
B: And it 's unlike the fairly controlled , uh , press conferences that Presidents of the United States have here where they , they always seem ,
A: Yeah .
B: Okay , uh ,
B: my favorite show is MASTERPIECE THEATRE
B: and it has been for a long time
B: but I feel almost ashamed to say that to anybody now because I have never met anybody who likes it .
B: Do you by any chance ?
A: Oh , yes .
B: You do !
A: Yes ,
A: very much .
B: Well , would n't you know
A: As a matter of fact , I prefer public television .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I have , particularly enjoy the English comedies , and the English mysteries .
B: Yeah ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I watch mysteries too .
B: Is that what you 're referring to ?
A: Yes .
B: Okay ,
B: yeah .
B: That is good .
B: I like , uh ,
B: do you read ?
A: Vociferously .
B: Okay ,
B: well that 's the reason why I like both of those programs is because they 're kind of based on books .
A: Yes .
B: And , the plots are more , um , challenging , you know , than the sitcoms of regular T V .
A: Well , unfortunately for us at least here in the United States , we , the only access we have to that of course is public television .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm , I 'm not a great television watcher in any respect
A: but , uh , the watching ,
A: what I do watch is , uh , usually news and whatever is on public television .
A: Any kind of ,
A: I also uh , am very fond of great performances , in that regard .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
B: Me too .
A: But , uh
B: Did you stay up late and catch this RED DWARF ?
A: No
B: Oh , that was a scream .
A: no ,
A: no
A: as a matter of fact , uh , Turner Broadcasting , has been uh , broadcasting all of the James Bond movies , every night this week ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: Really .
A: so I have concentrated on watching James Bond movies , this week
B: I used to like him too ,
B: he was my hero .
B: In fact , I like Sean Connery to this day .
A: Well , they 're showing uh , LIVE AND LET DIE at this moment ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , it is the first appearance of Roger Moore as double oh seven .
B: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: Oh , he can never cut it
A: No ,
A: no
A: that 's true .
A: I was just thinking that today , he did , well , in some of the later movies he looks very effeminate , in his early movies .
B: Yeah ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: he does .
A: Whereas , uh , Sean Connery has maintained the , uh , how would you , uh , ruddy look ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
B: I liked his accent too .
B: And , he can even be in movies that are not , uh , uh , sexually oriented ,
B: and he still comes off great .
A: Well , you know he was , when was it , last year or year before last , he was voted the sexiest actor in movies , or something .
B: He is .
B: Yeah ,
B: he had my vote double
A: I mean the man is sixty-two years old .
B: I don't care
A: But , uh , but otherwise you know we ,
A: uh , with P B S and so forth .
A: And I , I particularly enjoy , I don't know whether you 've had a chance to watch it on P B S but uh , the series , uh , YES MINISTER ?
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , what 's that about ?
A: That was about a , the Interior Minister ,
A: it was a comedy ,
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: the Interior Minister of , in England , with the permanent secretary , and bureaucracy and all that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Right ,
B: I , I 've seen it several times .
B: It 's a scream ,
B: but I have to go to bed ,
B: I have to get up and , and work the next morning .
B: I wish they 'd put those ,
B: that 's why I say , did you stay up late to watch this RED DWARF .
B: It came on after DOCTOR WHO , on Saturday nights , here at least .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it should ,
B: of course I
B: really it was ,
B: I don't think they should show it during prime time ,
B: but still , it was funny .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
A: Well I , I , I 'm not much of a television watcher .
A: I , I read as I said , and , uh , quite a bit .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I read about two or three novels a week , in addition to all the technical stuff .
B: Yeah .
A: What , what do you do ?
A: What kind of work do you do ?
B: I 'm a Payroll Clerk .
B: Just an accounting clerk .
A: At T I ?
B: No , uh ,
B: I have a friend who works for T I
B: and I work for a tire service , here in ,
A: Oh , I see .
B: I 'm from Dallas .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well the last two people who have called , both worked for T I
A: and I just wondered .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it could be T I I think , probably are participating more than anybody else ,
B: but I needed the money .
B: This is five bucks here .
A: I think that 's something we all
B: Yeah ,
B: really .
B: Do you work for T I ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I work for G T E. In Maryland ,
B: Really ?
A: yes .
B: How did you hear ,
B: oh we 're not even supposed to be talking about this though , are we ?
A: I guess not .
A: How did I hear about it ?
A: Well I work , you know ,
A: they are gathering a data base for voice processing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , that 's my field of work also .
B: Oh !
A: So I , I know the people at T I who are doing this
A: and I heard about it ,
A: so I called them and asked if I could participate . And , uh , You know send in the forms et cetera and uh so forth .
B: Oh .
B: Right .
A: We could go back to television shows .
B: Well , you know , speaking of public TV , have you caught any of this series on the Bible ?
A: Yes ,
A: I have .
B: I 've heard that it 's really against the , well I mean that it 's coming out with the idea that the Bible 's not true .
A: Well , no .
A: That 's , uh ,
A: you could interpret it that way .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I , I think what they are trying to say , is that there is a great deal of historical truth ,
A: but the interpretation that actually got into the writing of the Bible itself is probably uh , after the what , uh , was is it the King James Version when the committee did it , wrote the translation , that so much was lost in the translation , particularly since most of the translations were in Greek .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , for example . In Greek there are seven different words for love .
B: Right .
A: Okay ,
A: so you can have ,
A: there 's one word for love of your brother , one word for love of your wife , one word for , you know , uh , love of your father , and that sort of thing .
A: So , in , as to those types of interpretations , uh , really made a difference in how one might interpret the Bible now , and what it 's at .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So that 's , you know ,
A: you can look at it as though they are saying it 's not true ,
A: but there 's too much historical fact involved just from the uh , the histories that are , were developed around that time , that are available . To deny that , at least the majority of it is true .
B: Yeah .
A: So , you know , it depends on how you look at it .
B: Yeah .
A: You can look at it , you know ,
A: if you want to say that it 's proven that it is n't true , then you can very much look at it that way .
B: I guess if you 're looking for that , you 're ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , Well , you can interpret that the , what the T V show , in the same way that you can interpret the Bible .
B: that , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: So ,
B: Really .
A: But , uh , as , as far as that goes , I , we at least agree on what we enjoy .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
A: But , uh , I don't know if there is , there is a time limit on this , so , uh .
B: Yeah .
B: Surely we 've made it .
A: I think so too .
A: Let 's just ,
A: it 's been very pleasant talking to you ,
B: It was very nice talking to you .
A: and have a good evening .
B: You too .
A: Good night !
B: Bye-bye .
A: Uh , Robert what do you , uh , think , what substances do you think are the most , uh , likely causes of air pollution ?
B: Um , gee ,
B: I don't , I mean ,
B: I , I guess it 's the stuff that comes out of automobile exhaust , you know ,
B: they say in the paper nitrous oxides and ozone and all that .
A: Right .
B: So , I believe them
B: but I 'm not a chemist .
A: Do you , uh , do you think that those are bigger contributors than things like acid rain and some of the pollutants that come from , uh , industrial areas , factories and so on ?
B: I don't really know , um ,
B: I grew up in Los Angeles and have felt like I was victimized by air pollution .
A: I was going to say ,
A: and , and you , so you understand smog
B: I understand it very well
B: and in fact I was a private pilot there ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I can remember very etched , etched clearly in my mind , uh , flying and coming up above the smog layer at about three thousand feet and looking back down and , and really being unbelieving at , what looked like a , uh ,
A: Wow .
B: it just looked liked peanut butter .
A: My word .
B: Thick and brown and so on .
A: And that was , a few years ago ?
B: This was quite a few years ago .
B: This was in the nineteen sixties .
A: I , I wonder if it 's any better now . Because they , uh , California has such strict rules , um , about emissions and so on .
B: People say that it is somewhat better .
B: Right .
A: Um , I , I don't know if you heard about the , uh , recent legislation in , uh , Colorado , uh , against a power company , uh , that 's actually on Indian land , I believe ,
A: but , uh , it has been ruled against , uh , regarding air pollution because they think that it 's causing terrible smog over the Grand Canyon . And , um , particularly in the winter months .
B: Um .
A: So they ,
A: it was , uh , a landmark case because it 's unusual to , um ,
A: I can ,
A: they , they were talking about shutting it down , or if it did n't comply and so on .
B: So did it burn coal ?
A: I don't know that ,
A: the information is one of those wire services kind of news , pieces of news , you know ,
A: so it 's hard ,
A: I never did see the full story ,
A: so I don't know .
B: Yeah .
A: But they said that , that it really caused so much smog over , uh , the Grand Canyon in the winter months that they could n't do the , uh , piloting , uh , you know , the helicopter trips and that sort of thing . Which would be horrible , because the , there 's nothing ,
B: Um .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean that 's such a spectacle .
A: It would be a shame to ruin it .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , what do you think individuals could do , or society could do to alleviate this problem .
B: Uh , I don't , uh , I don't know whether we could do a whole lot as individuals . Uh , maybe just take good care of our cars , and make sure we keep our pollution devices clean and all that sort of thing . Um ,
A: Right .
B: apart from that , I , I don't know what we can do as individuals .
B: What do you think we can do ?
A: Uh-huh ,
A: you think , it 's more , more to society .
A: Well I guess I kind of agree there .
A: I , uh ,
A: on an individual basis there is n't a lot we can do about a lot of things
A: but if we are concerned about it then we certainly can , uh , force , uh , government , uh , that we elect to deal more seriously with it .
B: Yeah .
A: And I do think that we have a responsibility there .
A: I must admit I 'm not always real politically active
A: but I do think that , um , Congress has backed down much too much on some of the air pollution standards .
B: Yeah .
A: And it 's brought the ,
A: they , uh , really listen to
A: the , the , uh , lobbyist and , uh , the car manufacturing companies have , uh , you know , have really pushed ,
A: they ,
A: all those restrictions are really too hard ,
A: we ca n't , we ca n't quite make that go
A: and they don't
A: and then we still live with air pollution .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , so I suspect that that 's one thing that , that as individuals , we can do , make our voices known , perhaps to our legislators .
A: But , um , as a society , I think we can do more
A: and that 's probably how we ought to do it . Uh , being individually responsible as , uh , in order to be group responsible .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess I 'm , I 'm to the point where I 'm cynical enough that I really don't believe anything will happen unless , unless there 's something economically justifiable about it .
A: Right .
B: And in the case of air pollution , it simply might turn out at some point down the road , to be so costly to have to live with air pollution in terms of health problems , and everything else that we 'll spend the money that 's necessary to , uh , to get rid of the source of it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I suspect that the that there 's going to have to be a lot of pressure , uh , come to bear on the companies that deal with it
A: and probably the only way that can happen is for , um , governments to realize that they have to pay if companies don't .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I don't know how long that , that will take .
B: People also have to realize they ca n't have their cake and eat it .
B: So , if you don't want to burn coal for power , how about nuclear energy .
A: Sure .
B: Well we don't want that either .
A: Exactly ,
A: yeah ,
A: right .
B: How about investing in the sun .
B: Well nobody wants to pay twenty-five cents a kilowatt hour , I don't think .
A: Right .
B: Uh , I probably would n't mind if it really came down to it .
A: Well it 's just the same thing with the car , uh , uh , the gasoline ,
A: now is a wonderful time to smack a fifty cent a gallon tax on gasoline , so that we don't , uh , run into the kind of problems we recently had
B: Oh yes ,
B: yes ,
B: yes .
A: and yet the government is not going to do that because people are too dependent
A: and they don't want , they don't want to pay for it .
A: So instead , we spend billions of dollars going to war .
B: Yes .
A: Uh , you know ,
A: however , it might have had other causes .
A: Certainly oil was a big factor .
B: Oh certainly ,
B: yes .
A: Um , and I think that 's probably going to happen with , with such things as air pollution , when we , when we get serious about cleaning , about our motors in our automobiles then , uh , then maybe , you know , we 'll have a little bit of help . Um , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: do you have any air pollution in your area ?
B: There 's not really a lot here in Raleigh .
B: Uh , once in a while we 'll get some , uh ,
B: I think it kind of washes down from , uh , from your area Linda
A: Oh no .
B: That 's what they , that 's what they ,
A: You 're talking about from , from the , uh , the middle , middle states , that , that have more factories and so on .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's what they say
B: but it 's it 's not , it 's not very usual
B: and certainly we don't have the eye stinging variety that you get in the big cities .
A: Yeah ,
A: we really don't have that either .
A: Although I think I can tell a difference in , I lived in this area for about twenty-five years and I think I can tell a difference in the comfort level , uh , particularly in the summer . Uh , you know , when it gets hot , and you have , the , that kind of a pressure from the pockets of air , uh , usually they say caused by exhaust .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: It seems to me that I 'm more uncomfortable
A: and , you know , my eyes sting more and so on and so on .
A: So I suspect that it 's , it 's an ever growing problem .
B: Yeah .
A: Well I suspect that we 've probably covered everything that we need to here .
B: Right ,
B: I think , we 've given them about seven minutes according to my watch
A: It was nice talking to you .
B: and I enjoyed the conversation .
A: So did I .
A: Bye , bye .
B: Bye .
A: Okay ,
A: well , my favorite , probably , all time T V show is STAR TREK .
A: And I would it like that ,
A: I , I like the adventure of it . And the idea that , that we would survive long enough to get to that point and be able to do these fantastic things in space .
B: Uh-huh
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then I like the ,
A: they have a new one now .
A: The STAR TREK THE NEXT GENERATION . Which it 's an all new cast , but kind of the same idea , going out to new places and , and doing new things and finding out about different people ,
B: Right
A: and I 've , I 've always liked that show probably the very best .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think I 've actually seen a number of STAR TREKS , one way or another over the years . Uh , although I never watched it regularly .
B: I 'm certainly acquainted with the character the characters .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then I 've seen some of the STAR TREK movies .
A: Yeah ,
A: those ,
A: the movies are good too .
A: And I , I guess all , most of the shows I like are , are kind of along the same line because they 're all adventure
B: Uh-huh .
A: When I , when I started thinking about this , that those are some of my favorite shows , MCGYVER , because it 's , it 's only one person there , more than , uh , you know , instead of a cast of people ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but he 's always going out and inventing new things out of scrap , and grabbing what he can and , you know , pieces of baling wire and , and a few tires and all of a sudden he 's got a hang glider
A: and
B: I don't think I , I 've even heard of that show .
A: You have n't ?
B: It 's called MCGYVER ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: And what is , what is he ?
A: He 's like a semigovernment type agent . Who goes out then to , uh , works for the Phoenix Foundation , supposedly .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , his big thing is that he can take pieces of , little bits and pieces of string and baling wire and turn them into fantastic different things .
A: He took a car battery and some wire and two washers one time and made a welder .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So he , he does all kinds of strange things like that .
B: Oh , great .
B: Boeing ought to hire him and give him a junkyard , and see if he could build a Seven Forty-Seven out of it .
A: Yeah .
A: See what we can come up with .
A: Do you like the , uh , news shows , TWENTY TWENTY , SIXTY MINUTES , those kind of things ?
B: Well , uh , I used to watch SIXTY MINUTES as a matter of fact ,
B: and uh , and I used to like the show very much .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , unfortunately I find getting rid of your T V set , you do throw out some , some of the baby , with the bath water .
A: Some of the little things ,
A: yeah .
B: And uh , I just decided I had to do that . I think , in part because it was easy for me to become addicted to it ,
B: I mean I could just sit mindlessly in front of a T V set for hours .
A: Uh .
B: And I just realized , I was sort of like an alcoholic ,
B: if I did n't get the booze out of the house , I was going to drink .
A: Oh .
B: So .
A: I guess I have n't ever had any trouble with that .
A: I have more or less , I have my favorite shows
A: and I usually make time in my day or my week , you know , to watch those .
B: Yeah .
A: But , for the most part , I try , I have small kids and I try and keep it on just a minimum amount of time , really when they 're up .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Because they 're ,
A: I guess that , that , that falls ,
A: and one of my other favorite shows is SESAME STREET because of the kids .
A: I like that real well .
B: Right ,
B: well , when my kids were little , I did have a T V set
B: and I did watch a lot of SESAME STREET and a lot of ELECTRIC COMPANY , as well .
A: I don't think they have that on anymore .
B: Well that would be a shame .
A: I have n't seen the ELECTRIC COMPANY in a long time .
A: I , I remember it when I was younger of , you know , catching it on P B S ,
A: but , uh , I don't think they show ,
A: it must be in ,
A: maybe it 's in ,
A: if it was in repeats ,
A: but they 're not making new ones .
B: Huh .
A: I have n't seen it in a long time .
A: But SESAME STREET is still really good .
B: Yeah .
B: How about MISTER ROGERS ,
B: is he still around ?
A: Yes .
A: Yeah .
A: They still show MISTER ROGERS .
A: I don't think he 's making new ones ,
A: but they repeat all the old ones .
B: I see .
B: I see .
A: So that 's still a real good show too .
A: I ,
A: that one tends to come on earlier in the day than I want to turn the T V on
B: Uh-huh .
A: SESAME STREET comes on from like nine to ten , which is a good time
A: and everybody is up and had breakfast and dressed and ready to go ,
A: so it 's
A: the timing of , of it is good , besides the what 's on .
B: Right .
B: I figure your children are preschool ?
A: Yes ,
A: I have two little ones .
B: Yeah .
A: So they like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I seem to remember those shows being on in the afternoon .
A: They come on both .
A: They come on like from nine to ten and then from , uh , five to six .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: okay .
A: They just repeat over again . Which is also ,
B: Okay .
A: that 's another thing that 's good about it ,
A: when it comes on right in the dinner hour . I can feel like I can let them sit in front of the T V and watch ,
A: and they 're watching something worthwhile , while I can make dinner and do things I need to do without them under foot .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: little , with little kids the T V set really is a , I mean
B: I used it as a pacifier .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm not sure it was that great for my children ,
B: but they turned out okay ,
B: so .
A: Uh , it did n't hurt them any .
B: Yeah .
A: Some shows are good for ,
A: I think some shows , some ,
A: STAR TREK , I ,
A: for the imagination of it all .
A: The idea , I , I think that 's one of the things I like about STAR TREK .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And is , is the ,
A: even in for kids watching some of it can be a little violent sometimes and stuff .
A: I don't let my little ones watch it ,
A: but the imagination of , look what we can do , you know , in the future , this is , perhaps , this will be possible . That kind of thing .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: well , I think we 've covered most of my favorite T V shows .
B: Well , I 'm trying to think if I ever even had a favorite one at one time , uh .
A: Let 's see , how about , uh , MAN FROM UNCLE ?
B: I do seem to
B: is that the one where they , uh , he always got this , this tape recording that self-destructed ?
A: That 's MISSION IMPOSSIBLE .
B: Uh , MISSION ,
B: that 's right ,
B: MISSION IMPOSSIBLE .
B: Yeah ,
B: I used to watch that .
B: In fact , I can still remember a couple of those .
B: They were ,
B: I thought those were very good .
A: Yeah ,
A: they always have ,
A: I 've , I 've seen some of them on repeats .
B: Yeah .
A: That uh ,
A: they always had a good plot .
B: Huh .
A: It kind of kept you guessing on , on , uh , what was going to happen next
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: You ,
A: How they 're going get out of their latest scrape .
B: Yeah ,
B: I do remember that .
B: And , uh , I remember as a kid my parents watching the ED SULLIVAN Show .
B: That was really the big deal in our household , was the ED SULLIVAN SHOW .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: every Saturday night ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I I guess it was a Saturday night ,
B: and I went to see the movie THE DOORS a couple of days ago ,
B: and they had this scene , uh , that portraying THE DOORS ' appearance on the ED SULLIVAN SHOW .
A: Huh .
B: They even had somebody portraying Ed Sullivan ,
B: and it was very , very funny .
B: I think it was the funniest part of the , of that movie .
A: Um .
B: Well , I don't know ,
B: was there any ,
B: I remember the MILTON BERLE SHOW even ,
B: I was , I was ,
A: I 'm not old enough to recall that one
B: well I guess , I have to admit that I am
A: My T V viewing started sort of mid-sixties ,
A: so .
B: I see .
A: My folks did n't , my folks ,
A: I 'm not even sure if we had one when I was really little .
A: That may be why ,
A: they probably did n't have a T V until I got to be , you know , grade school or so .
B: Yeah .
A: And the shows that I like now , they would n't let me watch .
A: I had to catch them all on repeats .
A: Like STAR TREK , they thought that was much too violent for small children .
A: So
B: Huh .
A: I , I , I ended up watching a lot of these things on , you know , repeats in the afternoons or something .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's , that 's interesting .
B: Uh , I think it 's interesting that parents think that their small children learn violence from TV ,
B: people were just as violent before T V was invented , maybe even more so .
A: Yeah .
B: But I guess that 's , that 's a different topic
B: is n't it ?
A: Probably so
A: Well , I think that 's about , uh , that 's about covered it for me ,
A: so I think I 'll say good-bye
A: and we 'll talk another time perhaps
B: Yeah .
B: Well , it was nice talking to you .
B: Tell me , tell me where you 're calling from .
A: I 'm calling from Garland , Texas .
B: Garland , Texas .
A: Uh-huh .
B: All right .
B: I 'm in
A: Where are you from ?
B: I 'm in Raleigh , North Carolina .
A: Oh , my goodness .
A: I did n't know they did it long distance .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think they 're doing it , trying to do it , or I hope they 're trying to do it all over the country , because they need to collect all kinds of different different dialects .
A: Yes .
A: Well , it was nice talking to you
B: Same here .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Uh , the last movie that I saw ,
A: I , I don't go to that many
A: so I 'll just have to talk about the ones that I went to see ,
A: but , uh , it was AWAKENINGS with , uh , Robin Williams and , uh , Peter DeNiro .
B: Okay .
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Have you seen it .
B: No
B: unfortunately I have n't ,
B: I heard it 's really good ,
B: but .
A: It is .
A: I just have to take my hat off to Peter DeNiro .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He is one of the best actors I 've ever seen .
A: It 's ,
A: there 's a point where ,
A: the , uh , the show is about these , uh , catatonic type people that ,
A: this doctor discovers a drug that brings them back to the , the living , more or less ,
A: but it wears off .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And the way it wears off is he goes through all these spastic , you know , uh ,
A: it starts off with like a tic ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then it gets to where he ca n't , you know , control his movements at all .
A: And it was just so realistic .
A: The way , you know , you have to just keep reminding yourself that he 's an actor .
B: Uh-huh .
B: What does , uh ,
B: is
B: Robby , Robin Williams , does he have a funny part in it ?
A: No ,
A: it was very serious , very
B: Oh how does he do serious .
A: He 's good ,
A: he 's , he 's talented ,
A: boy , he is .
B: I 've only seen him in funny stuff
B: and so .
A: I know ,
A: me too .
A: But , uh , well , what was that show , um , uh ,
A: I want to say Garfield
A: but that was n't it .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , GARP , THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP .
A: Yeah ,
A: THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP .
A: He was n't always funny in that show , was he .
B: I did n't read , see the , the movie ,
B: I read the book
B: but I ,
A: I did too .
A: That 's why I was thinking it could n't be just a totally funny part
B: Yeah ,
B: in fact , it got some pretty serious deep parts in it
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: Yeah .
A: Well what have you seen ?
B: I think the last movie that we went out to see was DANCES WITH WOLVES .
A: Oh , I saw it .
B: Good ,
B: we 've both seen one
B: Did you cry through it ?
A: Yes ,
A: the whole way
B: It was telling a friend , I , I said , I only cried twice ,
B: but each was about half an hour long ,
B: so .
A: Where did you cry .
B: Um , let 's see ,
B: when I , each time that I thought that the Indians were going to get killed , I cried .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I cried the first time when the , um , the wagon man got killed , when they attacked him .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: And , uh , I think from there on , all the way through the movie .
B: Let 's see what else did it . Um , what other parts .
B: I ca n't remember any of the other parts right off now .
A: I cried when the horse got killed and when the wolf got killed
B: I don't remember when the horse got killed .
A: Oh ,
A: when he was riding back to the settlement and they shot his horse out from under him .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And then he , uh , the next day he looked out there and saw those buzzards , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that horse has been such a pal to him , when he was alone .
B: Yeah .
A: You can tell I 'm an animal lover ,
A: you can hear my dog
B: Unfortunately we don't have any animals ,
B: so , uh .
A: Yeah .
A: It was a beautiful story ,
A: it really was .
B: It ,
B: there was a lot of pretty scenery , too , in that movie .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: What did you think about the buffalo scenes .
A: Oh , I thought it was awful , and so graphic ,
B: That was ,
B: Yeah .
A: I mean I had n't even imagined it , you know .
A: I think we all heard the story of the slaughter of the buffalo .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I had a friend who had fixed some , uh , chili , buffalo chili and , about a week before went to see the movie .
B: Oh , oh .
A: Of course they raise them now , you know , to eat .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's not ,
A: But she , we were both feeling so guilty about enjoying this chili after seeing that .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well at least you know that it was n't same situation that the buffalo died in .
A: No
A: it was n't
B: Um , I thought the scenes when the buffalos running , though , were beautiful ,
B: like that was great .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And there were so many of them .
B: I did n't know that , that many buffaloes alive , much less in one place .
A: Yeah ,
A: really .
B: So that was pretty .
A: And to think about how it just changed the whole landscape , you know , you could follow this , this beaten down path ,
B: Yeah .
A: and it sounded like thunder and earthquakes and that sort of thing .
B: I wonder how they kept up with them , though ,
B: it seemed like the buffaloes were moving so fast .
A: I know .
B: I guess they graze , though ,
B: that would n't be a problem .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Uh , have you seen any of the behind the scenes , uh , of , of that movie .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: It was ,
A: they tried to keep it , you know , as very close to real .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean like Kevin Costner did all of his own scenes
A: and , uh , they had to teach a wolf how to , to howl .
B: Oh .
A: That 's the , part they had trouble finding was wolves
B: I guess they 're just not domesticated ,
B: or , or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: what ,
A: they just don't howl that much anymore .
A: I could bring them in with my dogs and set a siren off
A: and that 's all they 'd have to do
A: Yeah .
B: Well that 's funny .
A: Well , I think we 've made it .
B: Oh is that five minutes ,
B: is that ,
A: I don't know ,
A: is it five or three .
B: Okay , oh ,
B: I 'm not sure .
A: I 'm not either .
B: Okay ,
B: well I think we 're , we 're , we 've done okay , though .
A: Okay ,
A: me too .
B: Well thank you for calling .
A: Well thank you .
B: And I hope you enjoy some more good movies
A: Yeah ,
A: you too .
B: Bye , bye .
A: Bye , bye .
A: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: I was trying to get my children quiet for a minute .
B: Okay . Yes ,
A: a deep Well , credit cards , boy , that 's an easy topic ,
A: is n't it
B: it is
B: It 's one we all hold dear and near , I 'm sure .
A: Oh , yes ,
A: yes .
A: I guess I 've had some good experience and some bad experience with them .
B: Yeah ,
B: most of mine 's been pretty good , although I 'm , I guess I 'm like a lot of other people , now ,
B: I 'm trying to , to pay off my credit cards
B: and , and , uh , I 've done pretty good at it .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh
A: Well , I do fairly good until I go in the store and I see something I want You know not need , want .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: there is a big difference
A: There 's a big difference there .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But most of mine that I use is strictly gasoline .
B: Yeah ,
B: oh yeah ,
B: I , I do that ,
B: I do that ,
B: but the rest , like I said , the rest of them I 've been trying to , to pay off and , uh , get back on a cash basis , except for gas .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's too easy to , to run into the gas station .
A: Oh , it sure is especially when you work out of town and everything , that way
B: And , .
B: Uh-huh .
A: At least that 's for me .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So .
A: But yeah ,
A: I 've , I 've talked to some who 's really had some bad experience
A: and kind of knock on wood I have n't yet , not bad .
B: Yeah ,
B: well that 's ,
A: You know , I just , I 'm just shocked at the end of the month , to see what damage I have did ,
A: but I try to keep it pretty reasonable .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Well , I 've been pretty lucky in that respect .
B: I don't charge , like I say , I 've , I been trying to , to not charge except for emergencies .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , so , but I have n't really had any bad problems with credit cards .
B: There 's , you know ,
B: they have , uh , wonderful features ,
B: they 're there when you need them . You know , like in emergencies , or whatever .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: And then they have bad drawbacks , too . I mean high interest ,
B: Yeah .
B: It 's , it 's awfully easy .
A: it 's like paying twice .
B: That 's true ,
B: that 's true ,
A: Yes ,
A: so , .
B: I try to ,
B: I did switch to one , uh , sponsored by the credit union , though . That seems to be a pretty low interest . Yeah , compared to some of the other ones .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: And you don't have an annual fee there ,
B: and that helps .
A: Oh , yes .
A: Uh , we used to have , you know , like several ,
A: but right now , we 're just more or less at American Express , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and that way we can go ahead and pay it off when it comes in .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's one way to do it , because that , that forces you to pay for it instead of saying , well , I 'll just pay on it this month
A: Yeah .
A: Pay fifteen ,
A: yeah .
B: and
A: Yes ,
A: I know ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And when you pay fifteen dollars a month it sure takes a long time .
B: Takes a long time ,
B: that 's right .
A: It sure does .
B: And now without the benefits of being able to deduct interest off , off your income tax that 's , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Of course it 's been going down for a number of years ,
B: but this is the last year you can take anything .
B: So .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: So .
A: Well , I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: Well , I 've enjoyed talking to you .
A: And maybe we 'll get to talk again .
B: Okay .
A: Okay ,
A: bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: well , I can tell you pretty much my two favorite shows
B: Okay .
A: and they kind of are in different spectrums , I think . Um ,
A: one of them is QUANTUM LEAP
B: Okay .
A: and the other one is NIGHT COURT .
A: And I think , I think they 're real different , I mean ,
A: I don't think they have anything in common ,
A: um , QUANTUM , LEAP has , I mean QUANTUM LEAP is kind of a comedy in its own way , I guess ,
A: but , uh , mostly it 's , it 's kind of science fiction ,
A: and , it 's , um , it 's adventure and things like that
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then NIGHT COURT is just pure , you know , weird fun , you know ,
A: just , it 's , it 's nothing serious about it at all .
A: So , I don't know why the two of them happen , to be my two favorite shows ,
A: but they , that 's the way it is ,
A: so .
B: It 's funny that those are my two , my husband 's two favorite shows , too ,
B: and I enjoy both , watching both of them ,
B: but I used to did n't like NIGHT COURT
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I ,
B: and the only reason I think I like it now is because I 've seen it so much
B: and I 'm involved with the characters ,
B: but , I used to think , um , Dan Fielding was just too , too vulgar and too crude for me .
A: He is
B: And I told my husband , that 's the whole point ,
B: but
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's right ,
A: I mean ,
B: I , I just ,
B: it 's ,
B: I find him degrading at times .
B: I guess that is the point ,
B: but sometimes it just ,
A: Well , they , they really have changed him though .
A: If , If you 've watched it this season , um , he 's becoming , I mean , he still is in his own way degrading and everything ,
A: but , uh , he 's involved in that charity ,
A: and , uh , it 's taking up so much of his time and so much of his thought , that he really has ,
A: in fact , there was one show that he even turned down a date with some , you know , beautiful woman just because the idea that he was , his mind was on the ozone layer and , you know , global warming and all this other kind of stuff .
B: Oh .
A: And he , you know , was too depressed , you know , to ,
A: so that was part of , I guess , his character building or whatever ,
A: but ,
B: I think it adds a , probably adds a little bit of depth to his character .
B: I have n't watched , um
A: Which of course he needed
B: yeah ,
B: I think so ,
B: which in QUANTUM LEAP you get
B: even though the person is involved in so many other people 's lives , you still see a , a real person in those situations .
B: He gets , um , he 's doing amazing things
A: Uh-huh .
B: but he 's doing them within the bounds of what a normal person would do
A: Right ,
A: right ,
A: that 's a good point ,
B: and I think that 's ,
B: I like that .
A: So what do you , what do you consider your favorite shows ?
B: Um , I think my favorite show is HUNTER .
A: Okay .
B: And , I , I like the old series better when , um Dede was in there .
A: Dede ,
B: Yeah
A: Yeah ,
A: I agree .
B: and , um , so , uh , uh , and then the blond that they took out , the one that got killed
A: Yeah ,
A: I ca n't remember what her name is ,
A: but is ,
B: yeah ,
B: I did n't enjoy her .
B: I , I ,
B: she was too much of a opposite of Dede ,
B: and I think that 's what they try to do ,
B: but I think we wanted to see Dede there or somebody like her .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , but , see I read an article about , in T V GUIDE about , uh , about HUNTER , and about his , you know , latest , you know , his three girls , whatever you want to call them
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they say that , uh , that there was that there was like a conflict between her and him , uh , that they never really could get her into , uh , any character that they could use .
A: I mean , you know , uh
B: The second lady ?
A: yeah ,
A: the second one the blond
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
A: you know , if you think about it , they did n't really interact hardly at all
B: They did n't .
A: I mean , they were never partners .
B: Yeah ,
B: she would go her way ,
B: and he would do his ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I think that 's what I did n't like .
A: And , and , and even , even at the beginning Dede and , and Hunter would decide that one of them would go do this , while the other one would do , would go this ,
A: but , uh , it seemed like it was almost two different organizations you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: like Hunter was the boss ,
A: and this other girl was not ,
A: and , you know , you kind of , you 're wondering , you know , well when did this happen ?
B: Right .
A: So , yeah ,
A: I , I kind of agree with that .
B: And I like the new lady better ,
B: but I 'd just as soon that they did n't have the romance there .
B: I 'd just as soon have the , the police story without all the romance .
A: Well , I 'm afraid that 's what they , they really wanted to do , um ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I think most shows were doing that ,
B: and then they went away from it
A: Uh-huh .
B: and now they 're starting to go back to it ,
B: and maybe that 's what the public wants ,
B: I don't know ,
B: but I just , I like the , the cut and dry solve the mystery ,
B: and that 's what I always enjoyed about it .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , see , there was that spark between Dede and Hunter for a while
B: Yeah .
A: but they , they like started it ,
A: and then they 'd pull it back ,
A: and they 'd start it and pull it back .
A: And that really made it a very interesting , uh , show to where you never really knew which , which one was going to show up . You know , whether it was going to , where they 're going to be real close or whether they 're just going to be partners , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , that , that I kind of thought was good ,
A: but , um , you know , it 's , I guess , you know ,
A: you always kind of sit there
A: and you see these two people together ,
A: and you always wonder , why they don't , you know , get together or whatever .
B: Yeah .
A: And so I guess that 's what they decide to do
B: Just go ahead and quit the wondering
A: Yeah .
B: and , and ,
A: But it 's , it 's always been a formula , uh , for T V that the minute that two people , that the two main stars get married , that the show ends up , you know , dying .
B: Yeah .
A: A , a , good example of this , and , you know , this is
A: maybe it 's not a good example .
A: I 've been watching Nickelodeon all last week , because they had what they called MAXIMUM SMART .
A: They had GET SMART for , uh , ten hours a day , from seven o'clock at night , until six or until five o'clock the next morning . All the GET SMART episodes you could ever see .
B: Oh .
A: Well , the , the last day , all they did was the last season , to where the two of them got married
B: Uh-huh .
A: and that was , I mean , that was the killer ,
A: the series died right after that , because ,
B: I did n't , I was going to say , I did n't ever watch MOONLIGHTING ,
A: well go ahead .
B: but I heard that 's what killed it
A: Uh-huh ,
A: same thing .
B: that , uh , interplay died when they got married ,
B: and so the show died .
A: Yeah ,
A: the ,
A: it seems like you can do so much more of the subtle hints and the subtle little plays on things before they , they , before they get married you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: the minute they get married , everything 's supposed to be cut and dried
A: and and , well , of course , another one of their mistakes , I think , is they have a tendency to change characters , or to change the characters ' , uh , uh , personalities well , especially after they get married .
B: Right .
B: Halfway through ,
B: Yeah .
A: Um , couple of examples would be , um , well , like I said , this one about Max or Get Well Smart , the female character , Barbara Feldon
B: Uh-huh .
A: she had been at the beginning the , the intelligent one , the , the one who always solved the things and , and figured out and kept Max from getting real messed up .
A: Well , in short , whenever they got married , she got dingy .
B: Oh .
A: You know , why would they do that ?
B: Yeah .
A: It made no sense .
B: I , I 'm guess it 's falling back into our traditional stereotype which a lot of shows
A: Unfortunately , that 's probably true .
B: yeah ,
B: which kind of ,
B: like in the big soap opera shows , which I don't enjoy because of that ,
B: but ,
A: Well , do you you watch , um , what is that show , WHO 'S THE BOSS ?
A: That 's , uh , that 's on Tuesday nights I think .
B: I 've seen it before ,
B: but I don't watch it regularly .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I I hardly ever watch it ,
B: Usually Tuesday nights I 'm out ,
B: so .
A: but , as , as I 've seen it , they 've , they 've done sort of the same thing to where they 've , they started to let them get together ,
A: and then they pulled them apart
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I think they 're thinking about that exact thing , about the idea that if the show lets them , uh , get together , then you lose part of what the show 's all about .
B: but I 've never actually seen the place itself , you , know .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's pretty , set far back , off the road .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: It
A: and that 's something I like , too ,
B: Yeah .
A: because a lot of those places are like , you know the one over here on seventy-eight , Skaggs .
B: Definitely .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That little Kinder Care , whatever it is ?
B: Yeah .
A: You know , it 's right there on ,
A: which this is on a highway , too .
A: But it 's set back , enough to ,
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: There 's a difference .
A: I 'm scared , I would be scared to death my child might accidentally get out ,
A: or or , if that seems like a real accessible place to where you could , you know , go , in and get one .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yep .
B: That 's right .
B: Or , you know , or a car accident .
A: Yeah .
A: And , that was one of the places I had checked out .
B: Yeah .
A: And it was , it , it was brand new when I checked it out
A: and , of course , it was beautiful and , clean and smelled wonderful in there ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , you know , I , that ,
A: I did n't base everything on that .
B: No ,
B: because that all wears off .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's exactly right .
A: You get some kids in there
A: and it 's , over quick .
B: Yep .
A: But , um , I 've been real pleased , knock on wood .
A: I 'm scared to death her going to public school .
B: Really ?
A: I don't know ,
A: I ,
A: I do know why because you know , drugs and , everything else
B: I would be , too .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: and , they talk about how soon they start that
B: Yeah .
A: and that scares me .
B: I know .
B: It is scary .
A: I mean , you 're just with them ,
B: Do they teach them in school right now where she 's at about drugs ?
A: Yeah .
A: They 've , um , they 've had police officers come in and talk to them about it .
B: Good .
A: But , of course , they still have no concept of , what in the world drugs are , you , know
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: but ,
B: And what to do when they 're faced with it .
A: Right .
A: But I just think of her , you know ,
A: next year she 's going to be five , six years old in kindergarten , in same school with , you know , uh , I guess ten year olds .
A: Is n't that , six , sixth , sixth grade , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: and that 's a big gap .
B: It is .
A: And that 's , uh , that , I can honestly see the peer pressure there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that , just , terrifies me to death . And stuff ,
B: Oh , I can , see it , too .
A: those kids getting snatched
A: and I 'm , I 'm probably a little too over protective
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , Well , nowadays you have to be .
B: Nothing wrong with that
B: Yes .
B: You do .
A: If ,
B: I don't , I don't think there 's anything wrong with that .
A: So , I at first thought , you know , when I did n't have kids ,
A: I was going , God , how can you be so protective beginning with You , know
B: Uh-huh
A: but , it 's easy now
B: Uh-huh .
B: Now you understand
A: Yeah .
A: Definitely .
B: That 's what I 'm thinking what your mom and dad always used to say , when you have kids of your own , you 'll understand
A: That 's exactly right
A: and I do .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But anyway .
A: Well , are you ever , are you , are you , are you married
B: Yes .
A: Are y'all planning on having kids ?
A: Or ,
A: Well , that 's good .
B: Yeah .
A: Because they 're really neat .
A: It 's just .
B: Do you live in Plano or work in Plano , or both ?
A: Both .
B: Both ,
B: are you a T I
A: Yes .
B: Are you at work right now ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: So am I .
B: In building , which building ?
A: Well , are you Summit or are you , uh , Spring Creek ?
B: I 'm , I 'm , I 'm Spring Creek .
A: Oh this is fun .
A: What building are you in ?
B: I 'm building , uh , one .
A: Oh , I 'm building two .
A: At least we found something different
A: That 's ,
A: I 've never had a call ,
B: Not like that .
B: Neither have I .
A: No ,
A: is n't that funny ?
A: I usually get some place ,
A: I got a woman in New Jersey the last time I called , I think .
B: Right .
B: That 's funny .
A: That is funny .
A: So ,
B: So how 's the how 's the weather in building two ?
A: The weather in building two is cold
A: it 's been cold .
A: It 's been cold in the building .
A: Outside the building it 's not bad .
A: Typical T I , or T I ,
A: listen I got me doing it .
A: Typical Texas Spring .
A: Are you a native to Texas ?
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: I 'm , I 'm a transplant .
A: From ?
B: From California .
A: So what do you think of the Texas weather ?
B: Not as nice as California
A: How long have you been here ?
B: Oh , five years now .
A: Oh , okay .
B: I 've been here long pretty long .
B: So .
A: You , you , you know about August then .
B: Yes ,
B: oh , I 've been through five of those
A: Okay ,
A: there 's no surprises left .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: A lot of people try to leave the state for a couple of weeks in August , for , you know ,
B: if they 're going to go out of state for vacation that 's the time to go .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Good idea .
A: Real good idea .
B: Yeah ,
B: we went up to Wyoming this last , uh , Summer during that time .
B: And it was like you know , eighty degrees up there .
B: It was beautiful .
B: Nice to get out of Texas for a while .
A: We went to Alaska .
B: Well , that 's , that 's the even , even farther away .
A: That is really nice .
A: It is so cool , you wear a jacket , you know .
B: Even in the Summer time , huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: or keep one handy . Because it 's , it rains a lot in Alaska .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Is that right ?
A: Uh , it ,
A: they call it their liquid gold .
B: Um .
A: But it , you know ,
A: you get sunshine ,
A: and it 's lovely ,
A: and then it rains just enough to keep everything nice and moist and very green . And blooming .
B: Green .
B: Um .
A: Oh my goodness , it 's pretty .
B: Right .
A: Well , Texas is n't bad .
B: No ,
B: no .
A: Not in the Spring .
B: Right .
B: I have to think every year to try to remember what it was , what 's it supposed to like this time of year .
A: Spring is nice .
B: Yeah .
B: Because March we usually get a lot of rain , in March , you know .
B: It 'll seem the news , the Harold Taft , you know , on the local news .
A: Right .
B: March we typically get a lot of rain ,
B: and we 've had this many inches ,
B: and , you know , we 're right on target , you know ,
B: and just seem like we were getting a lot of rain in March ,
B: but I
A: Oh , we always we always do though .
B: it 's hard to remember twelve months ago what it was like .
B: Yeah
A: uh , it ,
B: I wish , I just wish it would n't come all at once
A: That 's right ,
A: and then we get all that heat .
A: Right .
B: Well , it 's just that , you know ,
B: when it rains , it rains .
B: In California you get these nice , lovely rains , you know , nothing really you know , like downpours like you have here .
B: The other day we had some hail , the biggest hail I 've ever seen in Texas .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: I live in Garland .
A: Oh , you got into that bad stuff .
B: Yeah .
B: We got hail the size of marbles .
B: I mean , just so noisy hitting the house
B: and the glass on the windows .
B: It did n't break anything ,
B: but we went out there afterwards
B: and there 's ice balls the size of marbles all over our lawn .
A: Is n't that strange .
B: I know , I ,
B: you pick them up , you know ,
B: and they 're perfectly round .
B: And I go , gee , how did they form , you know , so perfect like that .
A: I think that 's one of the strange , strange things ,
A: and you very seldom see it though .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: I 've seen hail , you know ,
B: but usually the size , you know , of , uh , tiny , tiny pebbles .
B: You know , really small , you know .
B: But this was , uh , really large .
A: So it had come , it 's a drop of water that had come through quite a few rain clouds apparently .
A: Is that correct ?
B: Uh , I don't know how hail is formed to tell you the truth .
A: I think , I think that 's ,
B: You don't think it 's cold enough , you know to ,
A: It 's not on the ground ,
A: but in the clouds it is .
B: Right ,
B: must be .
B: I guess ,
B: and then , I think , you know , all that falling would warm it up and melt it ,
B: but maybe that 's what rounds it , I don't know . But , tumbling .
A: I was dumb .
A: I was in , um , Florida for a week on business .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I had called back to the house .
A: I stayed the weekend ,
A: and I called back to the house .
A: My housekeeper was baby-sitting my cats and dogs , pitched said something to the effect of , now we 've made the national news , don't get upset , and don't worry ,
A: it 's in Garland where all the bad weather is .
A: I said , Okay , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I watched the news ,
A: and I thought , ha ha , that 's Garland , that 's not Plano ,
A: I don't have anything to worry about .
A: I was on the plane heading back to Dallas before it dawned on me , stupid , you own property in Garland
A: Felt so dumb .
B: Um .
A: Finally I got home and found out my property was okay .
B: Yeah .
A: There was no problem with it .
A: But I guess you just tend to think of , of where your house is you know , and nothing else .
B: Right .
B: Right ,
B: and close to that , what 's called Duck Creek that runs through part of Garland , that 's the part that always seems to get hardest hit when there 's , there 's the hard rain .
A: Oh , oh , I see .
B: The creek overflows
B: and a lot of houses , a lot of houses around that creek seem to , to get flooded
A: Oh , okay .
B: the streets and stuff around that area , get a lot of flooding .
A: The house , that house , that I bought is close to a Firewheel golf course .
B: Okay .
A: Just going to be blocks off of that new highway one ninety that 's going through .
B: Right .
B: That 's where I live , close to that .
A: Oh really .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , uh , not quite ,
B: I don't live in that Firewheel division .
B: But I live close by there in north , far north Garland .
A: Is that a nice area ?
B: Yeah
B: they 're supposed to ,
B: it 's getting built up , you know , with more new , new shopping centers and things . You know ,
B: it 's a fairly new area .
B: Yeah
B: and , uh , and they 're supposed to be building a mall somewhere close by , by the next , by ninety-three or ninety-four or something ,
B: a brand new mall not too far away from that area ,
A: Well ,
B: so .
A: The house that the house that I bought was really , really nice .
B: It 'd be nice .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: in the Firewheel Estates there , whatever .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Really , really nice home , very pretty . Uh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: But you 're not living there right now .
A: No ,
A: I 'm going to lease it .
B: Oh , I see .
A: It 's , it 's investment property .
B: I see .
A: But it is really , it 's a very nice place .
A: Uh , I , I would cheerfully live there .
A: Of course it 's not my home ,
A: and I 've lived in my home in , well , almost ten years ,
A: and , you know , I 've got everything just exactly like I want it .
B: Right .
A: But if I were to live some place else , it certainly meets my standards .
A: It 's a nice house .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's a nice area .
B: Is it on the golf course ?
A: No ,
A: it 's not ,
A: it 's off the golf course ,
A: and I 'll be honest with you ,
A: I 'm going to have to get a map to figure out exactly where is the golf course versus where my house is .
B: Is that right .
A: But it 's in the estates that adjoin it .
B: Yeah ,
B: right ,
B: right .
B: Well that 's a nice area .
A: Yes ,
A: it is .
B: That really is a nice area .
B: When they get that highway finished , you can hop on that and get anywhere you need to go fairly quick .
A: Yeah ,
A: that one nine that one ninety is just going to be the the outermost loop around .
B: Right ,
B: another belt line , just , uh , farther out .
A: Right ,
A: just continue to do that .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: right .
A: Where are you from in California ?
B: Southern California .
A: San Diego ?
B: I 've lived in San Diego for six years when I was a younger , and L A area ,
B: and my parents live in Anaheim right now .
B: Lived up north of Los Angeles in Thousand Oaks area , where the Cowboys have their training camp , or used to anyway .
A: I 've been through all of that .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , there is an area beyond Thousand Oaks , north of Los Angeles that is really an eerie , strange looking area with boulders ,
A: I
A: they 're not really hills ,
A: they 're more like just huge boulders with very little vegetation .
B: Huh .
B: I 'm not familiar with what ,
B: is it along the coast or or inland .
A: Uh . Well , you know , it may be a little bit more inland .
A: That is one of the strangest areas I have ever seen .
B: Um .
A: Uh , I had to go up to T I on business a couple years ago
B: Out there ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we went up that coastline ,
A: and I was just amazed how unusual that looks .
B: Huh .
A: Here , hang on just a second ,
A: I 've got a Los Angeles map .
A: Let me just quick
B: Yeah ,
A: valley .
A: Yes
B: Okay ,
B: I know where that is .
A: beyond Thousand Oaks .
B: I know where Valley is ,
B: I 've been out there before ,
B: sure .
A: You don't think that 's strange looking .
B: I did n't notice anything strange , I guess about it .
A: Oh , okay
A: maybe , maybe I 'm used to Texas .
B: Maybe Texas the way ,
A: The elevation is extremely high .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's got curving roads on it ,
A: but , but the ,
A: it 's just a strange landscape ,
A: there 's very little vegetation .
B: Huh .
B: I did n't , I don't remember seeing that part of it .
B: I know Valley ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's just a suburb of L A .
A: Right .
A: It 's a ,
B: And they 've built some new highways out to that area , and things , lately .
B: People can get in and out of L A easier .
A: Maybe it 's a place I went to ,
A: it was far extreme , thought we 'd never find the place .
B: Huh .
A: It was interesting . Because we went out the Ventura highway to Thousand Oaks and on up through that way .
B: Yeah ,
B: sounds interesting .
B: Right .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: I , I know exactly that area .
B: It 's a nice area out there .
B: I love Thousand Oaks .
B: Uh , Texas , I don't know ,
B: thing , things ,
B: you just have less a variety , I guess .
B: I think , I don't think it 's quite as green , you know .
B: It 's green with all the trees and things out here
B: but it 's just ,
A: Oh , it 's green sometime .
B: Yeah ,
B: but it 's just , you know ,
B: I don't know .
A: Well , it does n't stay green , you know
B: Right .
A: the really ,
A: and in all honesty ,
A: I know this sounds like a Texas story ,
A: all honesty , you have n't seen the hottest of summers if you 've only been here five years .
A: We have n't had a really bad one ,
B: Yeah
B: I missed that one of eighty or eighty-two or eighty-one that had the heat wave .
A: Oh .
A: It may be eighty-two , because we bought our house in eighty-one
A: and we built a pool in eighty-two ,
A: Okay
B: Okay
A: Um , well , I 'm not ,
A: I mean , I read a lot ,
A: but I don't , I don't read a whole ,
A: I mean , uh , eh , eh , eh , I , I , I , I tend to read like only out of a couple , you know , groups .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Uh , and I 'm , a , uh , I 'm a big baseball fan ,
A: so I tend to read a lot of the baseball books
A: and ,
B: I 'm a big baseball fan too .
A: Oh , okay .
A: And , uh , I read a lot of science fiction .
B: well , I like ,
B: I teach school ,
B: and so during the school year , I just don't have time to read .
B: And I , you know , I would love to , to be able to read more because I , I enjoy it so much .
B: But with correcting papers and , and I , two kids of my own , I just don't have time .
B: But in the summer , I try to read a lot .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and , of course , being a woman , I like romance novels and stuff like that a whole lot .
B: I just ,
B: I really enjoy that because it 's kind of a , a getaway type thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I , I read a lot of that .
B: But I also love sports .
B: And , uh , uh , I , I don't have time to read in ,
B: but I do read SPORTS ILLUSTRATED during the , the year because my son gets that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , but , uh , I don't read a lot of nonfiction ,
B: and I really should because there 's so many self-improvement books out right now that would , would be , benefit me greatly ,
B: but I just don't .
A: Uh-huh
A: Yeah ,
A: I , um , I don't really , I probably should .
A: I don't really read the self-improvement books or things like that .
A: I , uh , um , I 'll get like , uh , books on history and stuff like that that look interesting .
A: And I , uh , of course , I don't ever get around to reading them
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: You know , I got , uh , um ,
A: I I belong to Quality Paperback Book Club .
B: Oh , do you ?
A: And I 'll get , get stuff out of that .
A: Like I got BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM , you know , like a couple of years ago .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I started reading , and got about sixty pages into it
A: and it 's like eight hundred pages
B: Oh , my word .
A: And it was like , uh , I want to read something else for a while
B: Yeah .
B: It 's ,
B: some of those books are real tough to get into ,
B: but after you get into them , they 're really good .
A: Yeah .
B: But it 's just tough to get through that first two hundred pages or so .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , especially , you know , well ,
A: BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM starts off , you know , in the eighteen forties , you know . And it 's like ,
B: Yeah .
A: wait , the war was n't until the you know .
A: It 's like , okay ,
A: and I realize these things , you know .
A: These things take awhile like to move up ,
A: but it 's , you know , it 's hard sometimes .
B: It 's right ,
B: that 's right .
B: I find though , that if , when I find an author ,
B: uh , and you don't read a lot of fiction , you said .
B: But when I find ,
A: I read a lot of science fiction .
B: Do you ?
A: Yeah .
B: When I find an author I really like , I try to read everything they write . Because you , you get used to their style and you really enjoy it .
A: Yeah .
A: That , and
A: I , I do the same thing .
A: I ,
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , there 's one science fiction writer named , uh , Allen Dean Foster .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 've heard of him .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: yeah .
A: He , um ,
A: I must have like fifty or sixty books by him
B: Is that right ?
A: I mean , I have , you know , I have everything he 's ever well , almost everything he 's ever done .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , you know , I , I know that when I , you know , when I get his book I 'm , I 'm usually going to enjoy it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Um , so it 's really , you know ,
A: it 's , it 's fun to , to do that . Uh ,
B: Is n't it amazing that somebody can write that many books about science fiction ?
B: I think that 's unbelievable .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , he does a lot of like , um , uh , movie adaptations and things like that .
B: Oh , does he really ?
A: Yeah .
A: And , uh , his adaptations are usually really good .
B: Oh
A: Um , it 's , it 's funny he , um ,
A: the , the novelization of STAR WARS was
A: you know , it , it was out in the , uh , in the stores as being by George Lucas .
A: But it turns out that , uh , Foster actually , uh , ghost wrote it for him .
B: Is that right ?
A: which , you know ,
A: when I read it , I should have realized that because , I mean , it had Foster 's style written all over it
B: Is that right ?
A: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I , I 've never read anything of his ,
B: but I 've heard about him .
B: But would n't you think he would ,
B: does he get some royalties from that , hopefully ?
A: Oh , I 'm sure he does
B: Well , I would think he would
A: I 'd hope so .
A: Well , I mean he 's doing all right , probably
B: Oh , I 'm sure he is ,
B: I 'm sure he is .
B: But sometimes the more you get the more you want too ,
B: so ,
A: Yeah .
A: That 's true .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , yeah .
A: You , you 're a baseball fan ,
A: you 're , you 're aware of that kind of thing
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Oh , right ,
B: right ,
B: right .
B: I , in fact , I 'm a sports fan , period .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We ,
B: I mean , that 's why I like to read SPORTS ILLUSTRATED so much
B: because there 's everything in it .
A: Yeah .
A: I had a , uh , had a subscription to that last year ,
A: but I 'm , uh , I 'm mostly a baseball fan .
A: So I 'm , I 'm not , as you know ,
B: Oh .
A: the other stuff is interesting
A: but , um , I was mostly interested in the baseball stuff .
B: So you 're probably , uh , a Baltimore fan , right , an Oriole fan ?
A: Uh , actually I 'm a Red Sox fan more than anything .
B: Is that right ?
A: Yeah .
B: Boston ?
B: Oh , well , that 's good too .
A: Um , but , uh , I , I , I do like the Orioles also .
B: I 'm , I 'm sure you do .
B: Well I 'm a Ranger fan simply because I live here .
A: Yeah
B: But I , I was , uh ,
B: I 'm not from here .
B: I 'm originally from Ohio ,
B: so I 've always followed the Tigers . Because , you know , I was , I was born and raised in Toledo .
A: Toledo .
B: Yeah .
A: I was in Toledo last summer .
A: Went to a , uh , to a Mud Hens double header
B: Oh , I love the Mud Hens
B: They 're great .
B: I love the name
B: and , there was a really big article on the Mud Hens in SPORTS ILLUSTRATED last year .
A: Yeah .
A: I saved that issue , actually .
B: Did you ?
A: Um , that 's when I had the subscription .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was a lot of fun .
B: Yeah .
B: I
B: I really enjoy that team .
B: I , we used to go there all the time .
B: I used to live in Iowa too ,
B: and they have the Iowa Oaks .
B: And we used to go , go to their games all the time .
B: And ,
A: They don't exist anymore ,
A: I don't , think .
B: I know , I know they don't .
A: At least not by that name .
A: There 's the Iowa Cubs ,
A: but I don't know if they play , in the same location .
B: Oh , they must , they must have changed then . Because it used , well
B: I have n't lived there for
B: I 've been here for like twelve years now ,
B: so . And I have n't been back to Des Moines in a long time .
B: But we used to always go to their games ,
A: Um .
B: and it was kind of fun .
B: It 's almost , uh , more fun than going to a major league game .
B: I don't know ,
B: I just really enjoy the , farm teams .
A: I ,
A: minor league , baseball , I think is a lot more fun than , major league baseball .
B: Yes ,
B: it is .
B: It 's not quite so serious , you know .
A: And it 's a lot cheaper
B: That 's for sure ,
B: that 's , for sure .
A: Yeah .
A: There 's , um , there 's a city just west of of , uh Baltimore , called Frederick .
A: It 's about forty miles west .
B: Is that right ?
A: And they have a minor league team .
A: And I go out there almost as much as the Orioles
A: and , um ,
B: Is that right ?
A: I ,
A: it 's just a lot of fun .
A: I mean , it 's free parking
A: and three you know , four bucks now to get in .
A: And , you know , the hot dogs are a dollar
A: and , and it 's just great .
B: Well , how , like how much is an Oriole game ?
A: Oriole game ?
A: If you park in the lot across the street from the stadium , it 's four bucks .
A: The ticket , the the cheapest ticket you can normally get is like six fifty to seven fifty .
B: Oh , gosh .
B: See , it 's higher than the Rangers .
A: Yeah .
A: And , um , hot dogs like start at a dollar fifty
B: Oh , yeah .
B: the food here is outrageous .
B: But , uh , you can get a good seat for , uh , well
B: it used to be three dollars .
B: But I think it 's gone up to four dollars this year .
A: Oh , that 's nice .
B: But , you know , it 's in the bleachers , way out in the , you know , in center field ,
B: but it 's still nice .
A: Yeah .
B: You still can see well .
B: And , uh , we usually sit there unless somebody gives us tickets , you know , box seats or something , then we usually sit out there .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well how much are the box seats there ?
A: Do you know offhand ?
B: Box seats run from , oh , like eight dollars to twelve dollars .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's , um , that 's a little steeper .
A: I think the , uh , most expensive seats in Memorial are eleven bucks .
A: But we 're getting a new stadium next year
A: so ,
B: Oh , so it 'll go up .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 'll go up .
A: And , if it opens
A: It 's , uh , something we 're really irritated about around here .
A: Or some people are really irritated about .
A: They 're , they 're building this new they built the new stadium downtown .
A: And they 're saying how there 's going to be a lot more parking for the stadium .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I park for free up at , at Memorial Stadium because I know where I can do it for free
B: Oh , oh .
A: And , um , I 'm not going to be able to do that downtown
B: Uh , that 's , yeah , that 's a bummer .
A: Yeah .
A: We ,
B: Well , see , baseball here though is the cheapest game in town . Because the Cowboys ,
B: it 's it 's outrageous to go to the Cowboy game .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the Mavericks are
B: it 's high too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So baseball 's cheap , compared to other games .
A: Were n't you guys , supposed to get a stadium in downtown Dallas ?
B: Well , that did n't go over , now .
A: Oh , it it did n't , go through .
B: They , they , they decided , you know , George Bush , who , who 's the main owner of the Rangers , decided that , uh , they 'd stay in Arlington .
B: So Arlington 's going to build a stadium , a bigger one .
A: Oh , okay .
B: So we 're going to , they 're going to stay there . Which is fine , because Arlington 's got a lot of things to offer .
B: And , and that was their main , main money making , you know , deal for the city .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it would have devastated them if they would have taken it away .
A: Yeah .
B: Because everything ,
B: there 's Six Flags right by the stadium , there 's a Wet 'n Wild
B: and , and it , you know , that 's ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: all the tourists come there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and they ,
B: it would have been devastated ,
B: they would have collapsed .
B: So I 'm kind of glad they 're staying there . Because it 's right in the middle of Fort Worth-Dallas ,
B: and , you know ,
A: Yeah .
A: That 's , that 's what I 'd always heard ,
A: I 've , uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: We , you know , we , I like it there .
B: And I think Dallas has enough to offer that they don't have to hog everything
B: So , I 'm glad that they 're staying in Arlington .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's takes us maybe , uh , well , thirty-five to forty minutes to get there from Plano , which is not too bad at all .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's about what it takes me to get to Memorial .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , it 's it actually funny that , um , I live just outside of Baltimore .
B: So ,
A: And it takes me almost the same amount of time to go to Frederick , but as it does to go to the , the ballpark in in , uh , Baltimore . Because , um , to go out to Frederick , I just jump on the Interstate
B: Is that right ?
A: and ,
A: because I live just south of the Interstate .
B: Uh-huh .
A: hop on the Interstate ,
A: and the stadium 's right off the Interstate
B: Oh , gosh .
A: So , it 's like I drive west
A: and I 'm there .
A: And , you know , and then to go into Baltimore , I mean , it well , it 's fewer miles ,
A: but I 've got to go , stop and go traffic and everything .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Do you read , um ,
A: I guess you read SPORTS ILLUSTRATED
A: but you don't read many sports books
A: or ,
B: Well , not really .
B: Now my son does ,
B: I have , I have a son that just turned sixteen ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he reads everything he gets , he gets his , get his hands on .
B: He 's reading a Dick Vitelle book right now because he 's a real big Dick Vitelle fan .
B: He 's a basketball fan because he , he plays for the high school he goes to
B: and uh , just loves Dick Vitelle , which not many people do .
B: So , but he 's reading it ,
B: and he 's
B: and he says , He 's so interesting , Mom .
B: You just ca n't believe all the things he 's done .
B: And he 's really enjoying that .
B: And I ,
B: and he said , Mom , you need to read it after I get finished .
B: So maybe I will .
A: There was , uh , I understand there was a really good basketball book called , uh , A SEASON ON THE BRINK .
B: I never heard that one .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm not sure .
A: I don't know .
A: I 'm trying to think of the guy 's name .
A: It was like John Feinstein or something like that wrote it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I just heard about it the other night .
B: Huh .
A: Uh , I was listening to something on the radio about , uh , you know , a talk show about sports books ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they , and they mentioned that one .
B: I 'll have to tell my son about that .
B: I 'm sure he 'd like it .
A: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I was thinking about ,
A: there was a , I saw a book kicking around on the history of the A B A , which ,
B: Oh , that would be good
A: Yeah .
A: I get in to , even when I don't like the sport so much , I get interested in the history of sports franchises or
A: Okay .
B: All right .
B: Uh , do you have any friends that have children ?
A: I do have friends that have children ,
A: yes .
B: And what do they say about finding adequate child care ?
A: They ,
B: I think that may be the key word .
A: I think that 's correct .
A: They 're , uh , relatively nonexistent from , uh , from what I hear from my friends .
A: It seems like , uh , even when they have consulted day care centers that are quote unquote reputable , that are sort of like a chain , if I can use that word uh , still you have to deal with the people that , you know , happen to be operating it locally
B: Right .
A: and , uh , it 's just a matter of , of trust , you know ,
A: I think they feel that these people are , um , under qualified basically and underpaid ,
A: and I think that sort of goes hand in hand
A: so it 's , it 's difficult for them .
B: Well , we certainly found that to be true .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Uh , indeed we 've ,
B: our children are now eleven and nine .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And we moved away from institutionalized child care if we can call those chain kind of things , like that . Uh , by that name . And found that , uh , more creative avenues were the right answer for us .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Uh , at one point in time we 've had au pairs , by trading services with them ,
A: Huh-uh .
A: Huh-uh .
B: and that worked for a while ,
B: but they were really , adequate ones were really tough to find .
A: I 'm sure that 's true .
B: It takes that mixture of a very mature college student , who wants to do something and yet is willing to give the time , and the interest to the children .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: I do have a friend that , uh , uh ,
A: she and her roommate became live-in care givers
A: and they loved it .
A: They had stayed with this family from the time these children were small , you know , four or five years old , up until they were well into grade school .
A: And , uh , she was paid very well because they , the parents trusted them
A: and they , you know , had done such a good job .
A: So , um , I can see where someone , you know , in a position like that , in a live-in capacity , would definitely be the way to go if you 're , you 're lucky enough to have the financial to be able to do that .
B: Well , that 's true ,
A: Yeah .
B: and that 's something that we 're struggling with now .
A: Yeah .
A: I think it 's just a matter of priorities .
A: It 's , uh , you know , it 's a terrible thing to say when your speaking of children in that way ,
A: but you still have to be realistic , as well , I think .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Much as other cultures disagree , our lives don't revolve around our children .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: And that 's , that 's , that 's bad to have to admit , too ,
A: but , uh , you know , it 's just , there 's so much pressure when you 're talking about two people that work outside the home
A: and , and I think that is one reason why I continue to be without children .
A: I ,
A: it 's just such a responsibility and , and when I 've had friends that have said ,
A: when you hear people say , it , it alters your life forever , please take heed well ,
A: I realize that 's true
A: so it 's , uh , such a responsibility .
B: Well , it certainly is . Uh ,
B: if I can the other side of the coin for a moment .
A: Huh-uh .
B: It is such an honor and a thrill , to be a parent , that most of the time , it 's worth it .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Yeah
A: Most of the time
B: Well , I just have to be honest about it .
B: It 's not always , worth it .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , sure .
A: Sure .
A: Sure .
A: Sure .
B: There are those times when I think , gee , if I did n't have children I could be out playing bridge or golf .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: But , you know , it 's funny .
A: I did , I had a friend that said , you know , before we always said we don't want children because we ca n't go off on the spur of the moment or this or that and the other
A: and she got older
A: and she said , but you know , we never do those things anyway .
A: So why why am I waiting , you know ,
A: it 's , it 's just the way your attitude changes
A: and you mature I suppose .
A: But the thing about the child care I , you know , I have friends that struggle financially and , and they both do have to work .
A: It 's a matter not necessarily , uh , that she might want to stay home or he , as well ,
A: but , you know , they need the money .
A: And , uh , when I seen some of my friends that have taken that six week old baby , you know , to someone else , it 's just , I can imagine how emotional it must be . And , and , you know , multiplied by the fact that you don't really trust the person or you 're uncomfortable with the situation , as far as child care , um ,
A: it 's just a scary thing .
B: Well , we were lucky when our children were that age ,
B: and having lived in a community for a while and we knew the person to whom we were entrusting our children .
A: Huh-uh .
A: That 's a big plus .
B: And felt that , that , and feeling of safety .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: And were leaving them small children .
A: Huh-uh .
B: But , we also learned something from that experience as our children got older .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's that care givers are not omniscient
A: Huh-uh .
B: they are not all things to all people or all children .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: The ones that are good with babies tend not to be good with toddlers .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Huh-uh .
A: I think it takes a ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I think your patient level must , needs to increase as the child gets older
A: I think that might be part of the problem with some people . You know ,
A: taking care of a baby , I know , is not an easy thing ,
A: but when you have them in , their , their little feet are moving
A: and you have to chase them down constantly .
A: I 'm sure that 's a whole new ball game .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have a nine year old that I would trade happily for a baby .
A: Oh , really .
A: Well , you sound like your pretty well passed the worst of it as far as worrying about ,
A: since they 're both in school , you don't have to worry about a full-time person to take care of them . fading in and
B: Oh , you don't know what happens after they get in school .
A: That 's something altogether different , uh .
B: Oh , yes .
B: Now we have , uh , one takes piano lessons , somewhere on one afternoon
A: Huh-uh .
B: and the other one , of course ca n't do the same thing .
A: Oh , of course not .
B: It has to be somewhere else
B: and no
B: it 's not adequate to sit and wait .
A: You ca n't do that .
A: No .
B: No .
A: No .
A: No .
B: That just ,
B: that will not do .
A: That 's out of the question ,
A: I 'm sure .
B: Of course .
B: But , we are helping , you know .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: We are being cooperative ,
B: what 's wrong with you ?
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: You don't understand this .
A: Huh-uh .
B: That 's just the way their minds work .
B: And it 's almost everyday .
A: That 's amazing .
A: It 's amazing that people actually ,
A: the stamina that you must , you know , draw from yourself to deal with it .
A: It must be interesting .
A: I guess you find out that you 're a much stronger person than you thought , maybe .
B: Well , I 've been finding out that I really am a nice person .
B: hit for many years .
B: because I did n't need it .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And now , I need it .
A: Now it 's just a reservoir that you tend to regularly , I 'm sure .
B: Yeah .
B: And it stays low a lot
A: Well , are your children now ,
A: do you feel comfortable , um , with them coming home after school until you and your wife get home
A: or ,
B: Absolutely not .
A: No .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , one of them I would , I would leave unsupervised any time , any place , any where .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Uh , the other one I would n't leave unsupervised two minutes .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's just a difference in kids , I suppose .
B: That 's true .
A: Yeah .
B: What ,
B: one leads the other ?
A: Huh-uh ,
A: yeah .
B: And , uh ,
A: and it 's , it 's the one that 's going downhill ,
A: is it , is it the one that needs , needs more supervision that has a bad influence on the older or more mature one ?
B: Of course .
A: Yeah
A: How unfortunate
B: You don't think , you don't think that good prevails .
A: Well , I , I , I 'm living in a dream world ,
A: what do I know .
A: As I said , I don't have kids
A: and I 'm an only child
A: so I 've never been around children .
A: So , uh , I 'm sort of at a loss where that 's concerned .
A: But I do hear my friends talk about it .
B: We , we 're having such fun ,
B: my wife and I were both only children .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And we just could n't wait to have two children so they would be such friends .
A: Yeah
B: Wrong .
A: That 's like World War Three every minute
A: I don't know
A: I , I , I have to admit , I was selfish as a child .
A: I did n't want a brother or sister .
A: And now that I 'm older , of course , it 's different .
A: You know , I think about , uh , would n't it be nice ,
A: but , uh , anyway .
B: Just make good friends .
A: Yeah , oh ,
A: I have wonderful friends .
A: That 's true
A: my best friend is one child of ten .
A: And so they just sort of , you know , adopted me as their eleventh child
A: so that worked out pretty well .
A: She never had to worry about taking anybody to child care because there was always somebody there older to deal with them ,
A: so I guess , that 's an alternative .
A: If you could just , um , have a whole bunch
B: Have enough .
A: By the time the youngest ones are there , you 'll have older one to take care of them .
B: That 's true .
A: I don't know .
A: When you see all these horror stories on television about child care
A: and , gosh ,
A: I just ,
A: I was seeing something on the television earlier about a little girl that 's been telling her mother these terrible stories
A: and of course people are denying it .
A: And , uh , it 's just frightening .
A: It really is .
B: Well , what , what 's frightening is a parent to see things that , that you don't really don't understand .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And then you don't really know what happened .
A: Yeah .
B: We gave up on one baby sitter because we came home one night and found pieces of , um , ribbon , you know , hair ribbon tied in a chair . Where obviously she had , had ,
A: Huh-uh .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Do you have any pets now ?
B: Oh , I sure do ,
B: I have a cat and a dog named Joey .
A: Joey ,
A: the dog is Joey ?
B: Uh-huh ,
A: The cat is ,
B: he 's the little boy Pomeranian .
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: And we just got a new addition to the family , so to speak ,
B: we also have a fish .
A: Oh , my
B: It 's a mud dog .
A: I beg your pardon .
B: It 's a mud dog .
B: It 's , uh , a cross between a catfish and , uh , I don't know what , a salamander .
A: Oh .
A: Well did you all catch it ,
A: or , uh ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: we have a cat , Stripper .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , the mud dog .
A: No ,
A: did ,
A: no
A: did you catch the fish ?
B: Uh , we had a friend give it to us .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and it 's all alone in that aquarium .
B: Yeah ,
B: we 'd like to get him a friend
B: but um , uh , we have n't found one yet .
B: So how about you ,
B: do you have any pets ?
A: Well at the present time I have two dogs .
B: Oh really ,
B: what kind ?
A: An English setter , you know ,
A: that 's the white dog with the feathers
A: and it has , uh , yellow spots on it which they call , I think , uh , liver spots .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that 's a male .
A: And I have a wonderful female lab , black lab .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: how long have you had them .
A: Quite a long time , uh , probably five or six years
A: and unfortunately the black lab that 's a female , it , it 's , it 's the most wonderful animal we 've ever had ,
A: an ,
A: when she was about three years old we noticed that she was having uh , problems limping and so forth
A: and , she has hip dysplasia .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh no .
A: And it 's in that breed .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But now I think there are tests that can be conducted , uh , to tell whether or not the puppies have the , have it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I think ,
A: I don't know ,
A: apparently they 've been so in , well I don't know inbred , or what ,
A: but ,
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: Well
A: I 'm not sure that 's the situation ,
A: but , it , um ,
A: for those dogs that are registered
A: and if , if you should have one , uh , that also has hip dysplasia you can not breed it , uh .
B: Huh ,
B: I had no idea ,
B: I had n't , did n't even know that .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: but she 's wonderful .
B: Um , our dog , Joey , has , uh , a back problem .
A: Um , like
A: what are the what are the symptoms ?
B: Uh , he , he 's got a bad back
B: but he 's seven , uh ,
B: I guess he 's almost eight years old .
B: Um , he just , uh ,
B: he does n't ,
B: he , uh , he rolls
B: he does n't like to roll over .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um ,
B: you just ,
B: when you touch him a certain way on the back ,
A: Yes .
B: but otherwise , he can jump , uh , you know , just as long as he does n't bend a certain way .
A: Um . Well , uh , I have had just wonderful luck with this lab , uh ,
A: when
A: uh , let 's see , winter before last we would bring her in , and , uh , when it was cold .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And she would n't ,
A: I , you know ,
A: the next morning you want to take them out ,
A: and she would n't ,
A: I could n't get her up without picking her up and which it was pretty hard to do at eighty pounds .
B: I bet .
A: Um , until ,
A: if I allowed her to not get up on her own , it 'd be two o'clock in the afternoon .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Anyway , I , uh , met my son 's , uh , college roommate , is a vet
A: and he said , um , let 's give her some race horse shots .
A: And you know in ,
A: I 'm , I 'm kind of glad to be able to tell people about this , but you , because you all the time , you know , run into people with problems .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Anyway , that 's when we lived in Oklahoma ,
A: and , uh , so he gave this dog a series of ,
A: it 's ,
A: they give it to race horses , uh , to get rid of , uh cartilage ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's called .
A: Anyway , it 's a series of six shots , once a week ,
A: and then I noticed after two shots she was ,
B: Do you have to give those ?
A: Well I could have ,
A: but I ca n't give a shot .
B: Oh , I
B: believe me , I understand .
A: I took her from Enid , Oklahoma to Oklahoma City every week for six weeks .
B: Uh .
A: And , uh , after the , the second shot she was significantly better .
A: Then I did n't notice any improvement till the , after the sixth one .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And ever since ,
A: and he said , uh , a booster , uh , every year or two , I mean , maybe every six months or , or something like that
B: Uh-huh .
A: and when I notice in the winter , when it 's worse , you know , it 's cold weather and so forth then I have , uh , gotten a booster for her .
A: But not many people in this part of the country know anything about .
B: Um .
A: I 've had to get it from Oklahoma .
A: They 've heard about it
A: but they 've really never used it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I 've never heard anything about it either .
A: So dogs that get down in the hips ,
A: like I think German Shepherds do it , and probably large dogs .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , it 's just wonderful .
B: Does he get ,
B: is he an inside dog also ,
A: Uh .
B: or does he just run out in the backyard ?
B: Is he fenced in ?
A: Um , um , well we 're living now in an area where we , we , we 're in the woods
A: and we take walks .
A: I just don't let them , uh , uh , go away from me ,
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: but we take walks through the woods twice a day .
B: Oh , that 's nice .
A: And , uh , I can over do it on her .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: But anyway , at least she can go
A: and she 's not limping along and all that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Tell me about your cat .
B: Oh , Stripper , well he started out being a little orphan ,
B: and we , we took him in
B: and , uh , he 's about two years old now
B: and he loves his treats ,
B: uh , both , uh , Joey and , uh , Stripper get treats
B: And , uh , let 's see ,
A: And is , um , Stripper an inside cat , or outside ?
B: Oh , well he 's outside
B: and , uh , he 's got a way to get in ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: he 's got free access of a window we like to keep open .
A: Yes .
B: So , he gets to go in and out whenever he wants to .
A: Well of course .
A: That 's nice ,
A: they , they ,
B: Joey , on the other hand is a little different .
B: He has to go out whenever , uh , we ask him
B: and when he , when we ask him , he , uh , he barks .
B: He 'll either bark for food , or he 'll bark to go out
B: and he 'll tell you which one he wants .
B: He 's been through obedience school .
A: Well he just can ,
A: well he has been trained
A: and you 've you 've kept it up , have n't you .
B: Oh , definitely .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is wonderful ,
A: I , I have some neighbors across the field ,
A: and , um , they
A: when we first moved here , uh , when the dogs and I did n't
A: we have a very nice kennel and everything
A: but , but since I , I did n't want to ,
A: I , I just wanted to let them be able to be free for a while .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I kept watch and never let them get away ,
A: but now every couple weeks , they one would slip away
A: and my neighbor said to me , oh , I noticed those dogs , dogs are so well trained ,
A: anytime they hear your voice , they come .
A: So that made me very proud
B: Oh , yeah
A: Well , have we been talking five minutes ?
B: I 'm not for sure .
A: I 'm not either ,
A: but ,
B: I think maybe we have ,
B: but ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well , um , so it sounds like you keep your pets for pleasure .
B: Oh , definitely .
B: Have you ever done this before ?
A: Yes .
B: Oh , okay , um ,
B: I have n't ever called .
B: I 've put in the paper work , I just never made the call .
A: Oh really ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: so I did n't know if they stop you when the time is up
B: or ,
A: No ,
A: they don't ,
A: no .
A: I , I glanced at the clock when , um , we started
A: and I think it 's been probably about five and a half minutes or something .
A: But one day I was talking to a lady about gardening
A: and I 'm , I love gardening
A: and she did too ,
A: an , and , after , after about twelve minutes or something , the recording came on and said that was the end of the tape
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , well , at least you know you did your part .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: but it 's been so much fun too , uh , talk .
B: How did you get into this .
A: Well , my best friend in Virginia 's daughter , is a part of this project in Texas .
B: Oh , I see .
A: And so she knew that I had the time and would be , would enjoy it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: that 's true .
A: Um , so .
B: I mean , I ,
A: But I have a hard time getting anybody , because I guess ,
A: do you work .
B: Um , yes
B: I do .
A: Yeah ,
A: and probably just got home .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , um , during the day , I
A: I
A: and I understand also they want men .
B: Right ,
B: I was going to tell you the same thing .
B: They 're really looking for a lot more men to participate .
A: Yeah ,
A: my husband does .
B: Does he .
B: Yeah ,
B: I need to ,
A: Yes .
B: I 've got some applications ,
B: I need to hand them out .
B: But , uh , this is a great project , that they 're working on
B: and it 's really going to lead the way , uh , for a lot of um , applications and , and development in the voice area .
A: Yes ,
A: I think so too ,
A: and I have n't helped them out on the on men particularly ,
A: but my husband had been in fact , he 's been , probably has made a few more calls than I have because I tend to not make them around dinner time ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I try to , you know , make them do , during the day ,
A: but nobody 's home .
B: Well this is the perfect time for me .
A: Well good .
B: Well maybe I 'll get you next time .
A: Yeah
A: it so much fun to talk to you .
B: All right ,
B: have a good one .
A: You too ,
A: bye .
B: Bye .
A: Okay ,
A: well , I , I , I guess if I was having a dinner party I , depending on the number of people , I might cook a , like a brisket or a roast or a , maybe a chicken dish
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , I guess I usually plan probably a lettuce salad and a , a potato dish ,
A: and we usually serve fresh fruit and , uh , then make a dessert .
B: Oh , that sounds good .
A: So that makes ,
B: Uh , we 're not , uh , real wealthy at the moment .
B: Last time I had people over for dinner we had lasagna ,
B: and I used my mother 's recipe ,
B: I really like it .
B: It 's got , um ,
B: you cook the noodles and make , and brown hamburger and put tomato sauce in with it
B: and , I 'm not sure she even puts ,
B: must be some Italian spices in there .
B: I ca n't remember .
B: But , um , for the cheese part , you mix , uh , sour cream , and cream cheese and cottage cheese and , uh , layer all that .
A: Well , that sounds good .
B: It 's good .
A: That sounds good .
B: And , then , uh , uh , tossed salad and , and , um , someone in the Oh ,
B: my goodness , Diane , get down from there .
B: to And , uh , let 's see ,
B: what else did I serve with that .
A: Bread , do you have bread to go with it ?
B: Corn ,
B: yeah ,
B: I made French bread with that one too .
A: Gosh .
B: I have a recipe that 's pretty good for that
B: So .
A: Oh , well , lasagna 's always wonderful for large crowds .
B: Yeah .
A: I 've heard , you know , I 've heard a lot of people say , it , the short cut on the cooking for lasagna ,
A: they , they 've told me that they go to Sam 's and buy a great big pan of lasagna .
B: I 've heard that Sam 's has a really good lasagna
A: So .
B: in fact I think I had it at a , at a party once .
A: Did you ?
B: It was good .
A: Well , I , I know people that have , have served it
A: and they say , gosh , if you have company coming when you don't want to be always in the kitchen , it 's easy ,
B: Easy
A: and she said it 's , they said it 's good .
B: Yeah .
A: So , that , that 's always sounds good to me , um ,
B: Yeah .
A: I feel like , I feel like I 'm in the kitchen cooking a lot .
B: Oh , I know .
A: I cook , guess I cook a , seems like I cook a lot of dinners , oh , not always for company , just for , just for family .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: So , feels like I 'm often in the kitchen .
B: Not my favorite place , but . A necessity
A: But a time consuming place .
A: Yeah ,
A: right ,
A: right ,
A: so .
B: Let 's see ,
B: what else do we like to have for ,
B: trying to think what else I like to serve .
B: My mother likes to serve taco grandes .
B: Have you ever had , that ?
A: I don't know ,
A: what that is .
A: No
A: I don't know what that is .
B: You take a flour tortilla
B: and you fry it like a taco shell
A: Okay .
A: Right .
B: and you , uh ,
B: for all the inside parts you brown hamburger and put some , um , tomato sauce in it ,
B: and , and I like to just add picante sauce to get the Mexican flavor
B: so you don't have to mess with spices and stuff .
A: Right .
B: And , then , um , let 's see ,
B: and then , and you heat up refried beans ,
B: and you cut up tomatoes and lettuce and grated cheese ,
B: and what you do to make it , you take the shell and you spread the beans on first ,
B: then you put the meat ,
B: then you put the grated cheese ,
B: and then you put , um ,
B: let 's see , what 's next ,
B: then , and I , I usually put the cut up tomatoes next and then the , um , lettuce ,
A: Right .
B: and you can put , uh , like guacamole and someone in the
B: Katy , I 'm on the phone .
B: Well , get a towel or go change .
B: I 'm on the phone .
B: to Um , oh a little sour cream is good and , and chopped olives ,
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Do you like to make your own guacamole ?
B: Uh , yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: we , we don't make it very often , I guess ,
A: but , uh ,
B: No ,
B: I don't very often .
B: Usually when we get avocados my kids just like to eat them plain
A: Oh do they ?
B: so . Yeah .
A: Gosh ,
B: I just cut slices off
B: and . I like an avocado sandwich , too .
A: Gosh ,
A: Oh , that 's good ,
A: that 's good ,
A: or it 's always good on top of something in the sandwich .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Oh , well , we made , I made guacamole that I would take to a pool party across the street the other day ,
A: and , and everyone there said they never made guacamole salad .
B: off What you want .
B: to where do they get it ?
A: Well , I don't know ,
A: I guess they don't have it at home ,
B: I ca n't imagine it would stay fresh long enough to ,
B: I guess they just buy it at a restaurant when they eat it at a restaurant maybe .
A: They must , they just said they never had it at home .
A: So I , I was concerned that , I thought , oh , taking this , you know , taking this as a dip , I thought , gosh , you know , sometimes when we have it at home it , it turns dark on the top so quickly ,
B: Yeah .
A: so I just ,
B: It helps if you , I helps if you leave the pit in it .
A: Oh , does that help ?
B: Yeah ,
B: if you leave the pit in the bowl with the thing , especially while you 're waiting before you serve it .
A: Okay ,
A: well ,
B: That 's supposed to help keep the , um , keep it from turning brown so quick .
A: Well , I 'll have to remember that .
A: Well , I just , I , that day I just took extra lemon and just squeezed across the top
A: and it really stayed longer than I ever thought it would ,
B: Oh .
A: so .
B: Oh , that 's good .
A: I thought maybe that was the trick .
B: That probably helps , too .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: so . Oh , well . I guess we bought a lot of ,
A: we 've been buying turkey lately , instead of beef ,
A: so
B: Do you want it ?
A: even though , you know ,
B: Oh , yeah
B: we have too ,
A: the ground turkey , it 's , the meat is softer
A: and I ,
A: everybody seems to like it .
B: Do you want scrambled ?
A: So . Sometimes it seems to be cheaper , too ,
A: so we often buy it
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah
A: we buy it ,
B: if you get it on sale ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: so we bought that
A: or we bought the , the filets , and then the chicken , or turkey nuggets ,
A: and I don't think anybody in my house knows the difference , unless you tell them .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
A: Or in ,
B: I don't think mine know either .
B: In fact , we 've been getting lunch meat that 's turkey , too .
B: It costs less than the other ,
B: I don't know ,
B: there 's supposed to be something more healthy about it
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Poultry instead of the beef and pork ,
B: yeah
A: right ,
A: right .
A: Well , I guess that 's probably all we need to do for tonight .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I ca n't think of any other specific things I like to serve . Um ,
A: I always like dessert
B: One salad that we always like , my sister-in-law always brings to family dinners , is a ,
B: I don't know what you call it .
B: Uh , you mix , um , cottage cheese and a package of jello and a thing of , uh , like Cool Whip
A: Right ,
A: right
B: that 's good and quick and easy ,
A: that 's always good ,
A: Probably , probably the only family recipe that we , we make and it 's really for special occasions is cheese cake ,
A: and we take a recipe from my grandmother , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's probably fairly typical , cream cheese and egg and sugar , and the insides of a ,
A: Well , this is the season for vacations .
A: And , uh , I guess for places I like to go , I enjoy going to the beach and having , having outdoor , being outdoors somewhere .
A: Someplace that 's very different than Texas .
B: Right .
A: And I ,
A: as far as , maybe , maybe as the summer heat comes along I would sort of like going somewhere where it 's not so hot . And being able to be outside , enjoy outside activities ,
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: Enjoy going places where ,
A: I enjoy playing tennis ,
A: so I like to have a tennis court there ,
A: or , or if it 's at the beach , the beach is great .
A: A pool is great .
A: And , I ,
B: Where , where do you usually go ?
A: Oh , well , let 's see ,
A: we have plans this year to drive up to the , uh , to Colorado .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , we will be going to Estes Park , and Colorado Springs ,
A: so .
B: Uh-huh .
A: One year we went to the southwest corner of Colorado , into Durango and north of the area there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I ,
A: boy that 's a nice , a nice place to visit .
A: It 's really nice at ,
A: there 's a nice , nice train ride that goes up to the city of Silverton where they used to do a lot of silver mining .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , and then actually , north , north of that is another town and , a smaller , on a smaller scale , I guess , than Silverton .
A: But , I , and then there 's lots and lots of real , of mountains that are covered with , uh , boulders .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I guess people Jeep through that area
A: and we did not have a chance to do that .
A: But , I sure would like to go back there and do that again .
B: Right .
B: We are , uh , we have not had a vacation in several years ,
B: so , be our first chance in awhile , uh ,
B: we are going to go to , uh , Destin , Florida , which is a very nice beach area , if you are not familiar with it .
A: I have not been ,
A: but I have heard it 's wonderful .
B: Oh , it 's , it 's gorgeous .
B: Uh , we used to go quite a bit , uh , before I moved out here .
B: We were closer and , uh , used to go almost every summer , uh , and , rent a condo there on the beach .
B: Uh , there 's quite a few , uh , there 's a lot of development of , of condominiums there on the beach front .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , so they have , uh , they are very , very large condos .
B: And , they have quite a few rooms , and , uh , so we , we will usually rent one for about a week or so .
B: And ,
A: Right ,
A: and the , beach is nice ,
B: go down .
B: Oh .
A: the beach is really nice , is n't it .
B: Yes ,
B: it 's , uh , it 's beautiful white sand and very clear blue green water , and a , lot of nice waves usually , uh ,
A: Oh .
A: Sea shells .
B: enough , enough to make it .
B: I am sorry .
A: Sea shells .
B: Uh , there 's not as many sea shells along there , uh ,
B: that 's the only thing that they really do not ,
B: they have some , but not , not so much .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , if you go further down , uh , you will usually find some , but not right in there .
B: Uh , I do not know why it is ,
B: but , uh , it just ,
B: it seems not , it seems not to have as many there , right there .
B: But , uh , we , we enjoy it , uh ,
B: it 's ,
B: the place where we stay is , we usually stay at the same place every year ,
B: and they are , like I say right on the beach .
B: So ,
A: Oh , where do you stay ?
A: My husband always wants to go to Destin ,
A: we just have not gone that direction yet .
B: It 's a place called Jetty East , uh , J E T T Y E A S T ,
B: and it 's , uh , called that because it 's at the very end of , uh , a jetty there , which is , uh , sort of at the end of this little , little point
A: Okay .
B: and , uh , it 's a , at the very end ,
B: it 's the last set of condominiums there ,
B: and it 's , uh , it 's very nice . Uh ,
B: it 's not very expensive , uh ,
B: you can ,
B: I think we are going to go with another couple and their kids .
B: And , uh , they have a , we have a , uh , I think it 's three bedroom or two bedroom , uh , condominium , which will sleep , I do not know , quite a few about , six or eight . And , uh , cause it 's got , you know , pull out couches and all that ,
A: Right .
B: and , uh , I think it 's going to cost us , per couple , about three hundred dollars for the week .
A: Oh . That 's nice .
B: Yeah ,
B: it really is ,
B: because , uh , the , uh , you know , it has got its own kitchen , full size , kitchen and everything .
A: Great .
B: And , this one , I think has two baths ,
B: and it 's ,
B: the one we got is on the , on the beach side .
B: So ,
A: Oh , nice .
B: We have got a beautiful view and balcony ,
B: and , uh , just ,
B: you know , it 's really a nice stay . Uh ,
B: in fact , we stayed there on our honeymoon ,
B: we , I had won a trip to the Bahamas , but did not get to take it on our honeymoon time ,
B: so we instead went there , uh , and loved it just as much as , as if we had gone to the Bahamas .
B: We , in fact , we stayed an extra day or so , because we liked
A: Oh .
B: the , uh , the particular uh , uh , uh , suite we had gotten was very nice
B: and , so we decided to stay .
A: Great .
A: Oh .
B: But , uh , it 's a pretty nice place ,
B: you will need to try to go and , stay there sometime .
A: Well , we have just we have just ,
B: It 's a little far from here ,
B: but , uh ,
A: Are you driving ?
B: Yeah ,
B: we are .
B: We are ,
B: it will take , uh , a day and a half to get there , probably .
A: Oh .
B: So .
A: Well , we are ,
A: the neighborhood that we live , they are switching to an alternate calendar this year ,
A: so it ,
A: starting , well , starting at the end of July , we will have two vacation weeks in October and two vacation weeks in March .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So that will be an interesting turn on vacations for our family .
A: So , I ,
B: Uh , what does , what does that mean , alternate ?
A: Well , it 's ,
A: what it truly is supposed to mean is nine weeks of school , three weeks of vacation , nine weeks of school , three weeks of vacation .
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , in , and in the summer would be more like a two month , two month break .
B: Right .
A: So , and they hope to boost the , they hope to boost the learning of the children . Just the retention of the material for them .
B: I see .
A: So , uh ,
B: Kind of scattering the vacation out , throughout the year .
A: Yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: yeah .
A: So , it 's
A: so , anyway , so maybe , maybe within a year , we will see how that falls
B: Right .
A: We will head for , we will head for Florida , maybe in somewhat of an off season , instead of summer .
B: Right .
A: So , uh .
B: Okay .
A: Well , that 's probably all we need to do today .
B: Okay .
A: Alright .
B: So long .
A: Thanks a lot .
B: Bye-bye .
A: All right
A: and , and your occupation is teaching ?
B: I 'm a , I 'm a substitute teacher .
A: Substitute teacher .
B: Is , is this Pat I 'm talking to now ?
A: Yes ,
A: it is , it is .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm a substitute teacher , in , I believe , the same school system we both work in .
A: Right .
A: Well , I was just trying to make an introduction , here
B: Oh , okay .
A: But , oh , and , and I have n't told you I 'm going to be at a different school this year , now .
B: Oh .
A: I 've just gotten a , another job at an elementary library at Barron .
B: Well , I bet you 're , you 're , you may dress differently , then , for that .
A: Right .
A: I ,
A: well , not really .
A: I 've got the , every day I 've got to , uh , read to kindergartners ,
A: so I 'm going to be down on the floor with them .
A: I 've got about forty kindergartners I 'm going to be doing , working with every day for , uh , you know , a half hour .
A: So I 'll be , I 'll probably be wearing slacks as often as I do because I 'm , I 'm , if I 'm going to be down on the floor messing with them , I 'm not going to wear nylons and , you know nice nylons and dresses .
B: Well , What I wear sometimes depends on , on how cold I think the school might be or what room I might be in since I 'm a sub , and have different rooms to go to . And always carry a sweater .
A: Right .
A: Well , of course , you 've been at Clark enough that you know it 's always cold
B: Yes .
A: But , you don't know , uh , I guess at some of the other schools you go to unless you 've been there .
B: No ,
B: you try to layer , so you can add or , or or take off .
A: Subtract .
A: Right .
B: And it 's , it 's interesting to notice when you go to different schools that some are a little more fancier than others and have a very casual , uh ,
A: I , I think some of the dress codes are different at different schools .
A: That 's one of things , one of the things I ask about , you know , whether , whether she would allow slacks
A: and she said she does n't have a problem with that ,
A: she just did n't like sloppy dressing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and I said , well , you know , that was okay .
A: And I 'm ,
A: basically , I just , you know , I wear slacks year round except every , about once a week I try to wear a skirt .
A: And , and in the winter , you know , I just add a , maybe wear longer sleeve shirts than I do in the summer . And add a heavier jacket or , you know , wear jackets more in the winter than I do in the summer .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's about ,
A: I don't , I don't really work in a profession that requires that I wear a business suit and , you know , look really ,
B: Right ,
B: and , well , for me sometimes , they even have dress up days
B: or they , you know , have , have spirit week that , that you wear your different outfits
A: Yeah
B: and you have to have the color for that particular school if you , if you choose to participate in spirit week .
A: Right .
B: And one might be a hat day where you have to come up with some sort of hat .
A: And you never know that , though sometimes when you 're going in , do you ?
B: No ,
B: but because I sort of stick to several schools , uh , I 'm usually aware that there might be a spirit week going on and , and might , might remember to do it .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: And then many schools on a particular day during , uh , I guess football season , maybe all year long , they wear the school colors for , uh , game day which ,
A: Right .
A: On what , Thursday .
B: Right ,
B: it might be Thursday for the high schools
B: and it may be Friday for the senior high schools .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: So that would kind of give you a , a clue , I guess
A: and , and sometimes you get the long term stuff
A: so you 're aware ahead of time of what 's going on .
B: Yeah .
A: That ,
A: so that 's ,
A: and I don't know , you know ,
A: I , I think about , well , the dress code they have for the kids , you know .
A: Are
A: they put one on the parents , or the teachers and say they have to , the men have to wear ties
A: and there can be no blue jeans worn
A: and , because some of the teachers I know wear , uh , dress up jeans , not sloppy looking jeans but tapered jeans that they 've had dry cleaned so they have got the crease
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , you know , they 'll wear it with a nice top .
A: And , and , uh , I don't know that that looks that bad .
A: But , if you 're going to tell the kids they have to dress up , I guess you can tell the teachers that , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it ,
B: I see that the ,
B: I think the elementary school teachers , or maybe even the middle school teachers dress a little fancier than , than some of the high school teachers , I think .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But it , I think it varies , it , it just so much .
B: Anything , anything can go .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And you can see in some of the departments in some of the schools , like history at Clark , they 're all pretty fancy .
B: But they 're just sort of into clothes ,
B: and then there 's other departments that are n't .
A: Right .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: And they 'll just wear your common , ordinary , you know , whatever you might might say ,
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's a couple teachers up there that , that do dress up more than others .
B: Right .
A: Right .
B: And so you try to maybe follow those if you know you 're going there ,
B: you don't want to dress too tacky because you 're going to be in the same room with them .
A: Right .
A: Well , and you always ,
A: course , it 's a standing joke , you know , when the , when the men come in in a , a tie and a suit coat , you say , you know , what , have you got a job interview today
A: or , there , there 's , There 's usually , yeah , there 's usually something going on that , that , uh , and would , would , uh , cause that to happen
B: Or you 're going to be observed .
B: Yeah .
A: and I , I don't know how a coach would feel if , that teaches health or you know , English , or whatever that they had to wear a tie .
A: I ,
A: some of those male coaches , that might really ,
B: Right .
B: They go around in their little coaching shorts or parachute pants .
A: Right ,
A: and a T-shirt .
A: Right .
A: That I did n't ever understand .
A: I mean we 've got coaches that teach health for five periods and then have athletics sixth period
A: so
B: Yeah ,
B: well at Vines , the coaches don't do that .
A: Whether ,
B: They , they dress pretty good , I would say
B: and then they go to their coaching
B: and they , they put their shorts on there .
A: Change then .
A: Well , see , that 's what I would think .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's what I would think .
B: But , they , they don't look , you know , they don't wear their sweat pants or , or anything .
B: They 're , they dress like any other teacher would in in a classroom situation , not in P E .
A: Right .
A: Course , we had , had one coach , one period he 'd teach P E and the next period Health and then a period of P E
B: Those I can understand .
A: and , and that 's hard .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , so he just left warm-ups on ,
A: but , but , uh , no ,
A: I think , really probably , they could , they could , uh , really ,
A: and I don't know if , if they put , make uniforms the thing for the kids ,
A: I guess the teachers will have to follow suit with a dark skirt and a white top
A: and ,
B: I don't think we 'll ever get to that .
A: You don't think so .
B: No ,
B: I don't think .
B: I think we 're going the opposite direction .
B: It 's the parochial schools that I guess many
B: they 've had uniforms for years ,
B: I don't really know if they still do .
A: Well , some of them , yes they do
A: and , and it 's not at some of the private schools ,
B: It certainly makes it easier to dress .
A: but even there 's a couple public schools in Dallas where , where the kids wear uniforms and the teachers , you know , dress in accordance with that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , it 's certainly cheaper and easier in the long run , I think , that you don't have to be concerned about your wardrobe .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well I , I think it would make a difference at school .
A: I , I don't think we should be spending time saying somebody 's wearing torn clothing or wearing too shorts , too short
A: or they 've got the really short skirt and the black nylons and the high , you know ,
A: I mean it 's a lot of trouble to , to take care of that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , of course , the kids say , then why bother , just let me wear what I want .
A: And , and yet we ca n't to that either .
A: I 'd like to see them go to , to not necessarily a uniform , but saying that they 've got to wear a button down shirt . You know ,
A: that would , that would alleviate any T-shirts with sayings on them .
A: But if they could wear a button-down shirt and a pair of dark slacks and they could buy them anywhere they wanted
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: but I doubt that that would come that that will come about .
A: And then the girls ,
B: Just
A: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I ,
A: I don't ,
A: no ,
A: not in Plano .
B: No
B: not ,
A: They may get
B: Yeah .
A: but they said in the Dallas schools that that helps their educational process there .
B: Well , I think it does .
B: It , it takes their minds off of , of trying to compete .
A: Highland Park 's thinking about going that route .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it ,
A: and then I think that 's going to push teachers to dress a lot more professionally than they do .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I don't think a lot of teachers are very professional
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I agree with you on ,
A: Hi ,
A: good morning .
B: Good morning .
A: Do you have recycling in Sachse ?
B: Yes ,
B: we do .
B: We 've got , uh , a pickup twice a week that they come out
A: Do ,
B: and , they have their own special bin that they hand it out to everybody
B: and they take it .
A: Oh really ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it 's twice a week ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Really ?
A: We have , recently started , uh , a bin program here in Plano where , uh ,
A: used to be we , we put all of our trash in green bags and the trash men came out twice a week and picked up .
A: And now they have , uh , these large green containers
A: and you have to put your trash that you don't recycle in there .
A: And then they have n't started curbside recycling yet ,
A: but they 're , but they 're planning on doing it very soon .
A: Apparently the trucks that they had , um , lined up , they needed the parts for , Saudi Arabia
B: Oh .
A: And so that put off the program for a while .
A: But , uh , do you recycle ?
B: Um , my kids do
A: Do they ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Put it that way .
B: They , they 've been recycling cans for extra money .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So that 's , that 's been their summer money
B: and they 're fixing to go to Disneyland .
B: So ,
A: Oh , well
B: So ,
A: that 's great .
B: Yeah .
A: Well that 's the way we started too .
A: My daughter was going , to Camp Goddard , um , which is through the Plano school system , you know in the fall couple of years ago
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she had to earn money for it
A: and she was too young to baby-sit .
A: So , that 's how she started .
A: She started recycling cans
A: and from there we now recycle glass and newspapers and , uh , aluminum cans and plastics .
B: Really ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh
B: Is , is that the same way as with the aluminum cans where you go
B: and they , weigh it or whatever
B: and ,
A: No ,
A: the only thing we get paid for are the aluminum cans .
B: Um .
A: Um , the rest of it we just do because my husband has become hooked on recycling .
A: And so , you know , we don't get paid for that
A: but that 's okay .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , it 's , it 's not that much of a bother really .
A: You just have to rinse out your bottles or whatever
A: and we use a lot of , two liter bottles . Um , and like milk cartons and things like that .
A: It 's amazing how much plastic you generate .
B: Yeah ,
B: I was amazed at how many cans that we got
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: because when the kids first went down , I said , that , you know that 's great
B: and I was thinking , you know maybe I 'd help supplement it , you know when they turned them in
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it 's amazing how many cans you go through . And how fast they accumulate .
A: Yeah
A: it really is .
A: Well all that stuff
A: and how much , how much we have reduced our waste . You know , that we , we 're generating a week .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I know our neighbors , when we first went to this bin program said , oh , there 's no way , you know we 're going to have to have pickup twice a week .
A: They were real upset
A: but they were n't , they were only picking up once a week .
A: And we said to them , if you recycle , you 'll , you know , you 'll go two weeks without having to put out the green container .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , it 's , it 's really amazing .
A: The other thing he does , that my husband a real stickler about is we don't collect our grass clippings .
B: Really .
A: No .
A: He , he got a little mulcher thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's just a little attachment for the lawn mower
A: and we mow once a week .
A: You know , no , no more often then that .
A: And then the clippings just get mulched up and then just lay on the , on , on , the , uh , the lawn .
A: And it 's amazing ,
A: it 's amazing .
A: We don't collect any of that
A: and that , that has cut down a lot in what we throw out .
B: Yeah ,
B: we don't we don't catch it either , mainly because my husband rarely has time to mow the yard .
B: So , if it mows , gets mowed , I do it normally .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I ca n't mow the yard with the grass catch on it .
B: It 's too heavy .
A: Yeah .
B: So I just I just mow it and leave it .
A: Yeah .
B: It just soaks in .
A: Sure it does .
A: Sure it does .
A: It really does
A: and it ,
A: actually they say that you 're wasting fertilizer if you 're not , uh , if you 're catching your grass clippings .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That , that 's that much fertilizer you have to use because it does fertilize the lawn .
A: It 's amazing .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , I like it better doing it .
B: Well one ,
B: it cuts down on my mow time anyway
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's true .
B: and you zip through it quicker .
A: That 's true .
A: That 's true .
A: Well , I , I really think you 're going to get hooked on plastics and paper before you know it .
B: we probably will .
A: It 's , it 's really not that much trouble .
A: We keep a large plastic , uh , just a , you know , a garbage bag in the garage .
B: Yeah .
A: And as soon as we use something , you know , we crush it up and put it out there
A: and then , you know , every few weeks we have recycling , a recycling center like near Wal-Mart .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 're , they have the containers that you can just go over there and drop it in
A: and it 's really no trouble .
A: And , uh , I feel like at least we 're doing something .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , , um , I read a book one time or a a magazine article
A: and they said something about how you don't realize even just your small contribution , it seems like a small contribution
A: but it 's not .
A: If everyone were to recycle just their newspapers , they would save thousands and thousands of trees a day . A day , just from not throwing out your newspapers .
B: Really .
A: And , uh , when you read that you think , well gee , maybe it is a big deal , you know .
B: What , what makes me sick is , is when they show the dump sites you know , and , and , how big they are .
A: Uh-huh
A: Uh-huh .
B: Or like in New York , the barges that that go up and down the , the river
A: Yes .
A: Yeah .
B: and they don't have any place to put it
B: and it just floats in the ,
B: it 's like ugh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: And that 's , and that 's really not necessary .
B: No .
A: It really is n't
A: if everybody would do just a little bit it would make a big difference .
A: It would make a huge impact .
A: So , I 'm excited about the recycling program in Plano
A: I , I , ca n't wait for them to get it started . Um , because it 'll be that much easier for us ,
A: you know , like I said , now we have to take it over to , to Wal-Mart .
A: It would be real nice if they just came by and just picked up .
B: Yeah .
B: It , it 's it 's convenient out here for them to do it .
A: Um
A: Now what , what do they pick up ?
A: It 's just ,
B: They pick up the , the plastic , the glass , and the newspaper .
A: Oh they do ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And do you have to sort that ?
B: And they will do the
A: Or do you just put it all in .
B: No ,
B: you just put it in the one bin
B: and , and I guess they do the sorting .
B: But , um , they 'll do the aluminum cans too
B: but we don't give them those
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: The kids keep those
B: So ,
A: So you 're doing that now ?
A: You 're doing the newspapers and the glass ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well we don't , we don't take the newspaper to begin with . When , neither one of us are home to read it .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So we don't have the newspapers but the , the plastic and the glass
B: At first , when it first started , it , it , it was hard . You know , because you 're just used to throwing things .
A: Uh-huh .
A: My husband would , come home and go through the trash and say , you threw this away
B: Uh !
A: He would get , he would get all upset
A: and I 'd say ,
A: it 's just such an automatic reaction .
A: And now we think before we throw anything away .
B: It is .
A: I mean , it 's really funny .
A: We , we really ,
A: once you get into the habit of it , it 's okay ,
A: it 's just , it 's just making it a habit that 's hard
B: Oh , I know .
B: Well the kids have even got to the point where they , if they see anybody going in the trash can with a can , you know , they , they 're , oh , no , don't do that
B: and they go to the sink , they rinse them out , and they put them upside down , they let them drain
B: and and then , uh , after a couple of days they take them all outside
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , I put them in a big bag anyway
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then they dump the bag out
B: and then they crush them .
B: So that 's their activity thing . To go out there and crush .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's fun .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
B: So ,
A: yeah .
A: Oh , that 's a lot of fun .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's a lot of fun .
A: Well , that 's great .
A: Well I 'm to hear you 're , doing that .
A: I ,
A: my sister was here recently from Connecticut
A: and they have a deposit on all their bottles and cans .
B: Oh really ?
A: Okay . Um ,
B: Where do you live ?
A: In Plano .
B: In Plano ?
A: Yes .
A: Where do you live ?
B: In Dallas .
A: Oh , okay
B: Uh , the air pollution is n't too bad in our area .
B: So , we 're very fortunate but I know in some areas , it 's really , it , it really is bad .
A: Huh
A: Um , I was trying to think , uh ,
A: something we were watching the other day
A: and they were doing an overview of Los Angeles , uh , from an area that was up higher
A: and you literally could see the band of smog .
A: That , uh ,
A: I 've never been out there ,
A: but , it was , it was quite evident that , it was a real brown area
B: I have n't either .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and ,
B: Well , I think it would be terrible to live in an area like that
B: and , unfortunately , I think there are a lot of areas that are , that , that bad .
A: Yeah .
B: Particularly in the areas where there are industries , uh , where they are burning a lot of coal , and oil up , more up north , I guess , uh ,
A: Yes .
A: Yeah
B: I think it 's a bigger problem . With the car pollution , anti-pollution devices ,
B: I think , uh , air is n't as bad it once was , from the cars , because we certainly have plenty of cars in our area .
A: Yes .
A: Well , I know , uh , that 's been the concern in Europe .
A: They had n't ,
A: uh , we have friends in Germany and , uh , have family that live near the Black Forest area
A: and large areas of the forest are being hurt from the cars because when we , uh , switched to the unleaded gas and , and had the emission control advice , uh , devices required on the cars , uh ,
A: that 's something that Europe did n't do right away
A: and now they 're doing that
A: and I guess it started in the last few years because they have found that in that particular part of the country , that 's the only pollution that 's been there .
A: It 's not an area that is industry
A: but they were losing a lot of , uh , trees and a lot of ,
B: From acid rain ?
A: Um , I guess . From , from something that the car was , uh , was giving ,
B: I think it gives off , uh , in the emissions , it gives off gases which combine up in the atmosphere , uh , and form a , a weak acid .
A: Yes ,
A: and ,
B: It just makes the rain fall on the acid side
B: and after a period of time , I think that accumulates in , uh , trees because they take it up through their roots , as well as it landing on the leaves , on surfaces ,
B: like you 've seen what it 's done to buildings even where it 's really bad .
A: Yes .
A: Yeah .
B: What 's interesting , several years ago , I took a course , uh , on , uh , well ,
B: it was actually , it was put on by the power companies and , about the various sources of energy and how much pollution there was ,
B: and there was n't from various kinds of , of energy .
B: And , uh , at that point in time , one person that was a speaker brought up the topic of acid rain
B: and it was kind of pooh-poohed , you know .
B: Oh , you 're making a mountain out of a molehill , kind of thing .
B: And it 's turned out that , that 's been very true , what he was forecasting about the accumulation of , of the pollutants in the air and the acid rain and what it would do to foliage .
B: So , it 's kind of interesting the change in perspective from when I took that course .
B: Now , a lot of people are really afraid of nuclear .
B: Uh , I 'm not afraid of nuclear , having had that course because of how the nuclear that , uh , they use is not bomb quality ,
B: and , we 're so strict with all our controls in the United States . The chances of , of an accident are slight ,
B: and , it does n't pollute the air at all .
B: It 's safer to be around a nuclear plant then it is to be around a coal plant .
B: Many more deaths have occurred in and dealing with coal plants then ever around nuclear plants .
B: It 's kind of funny because people are just petrified , at least some are , at the thought of nuclear .
A: Yes .
B: So , I don't know .
B: In Europe there 's a lot of dependency on nuclear power
B: and they recycle the fuel
B: and then instead of , of ,
B: some people are really afraid to recycle the fuel because they 're afraid it could become , uh , bomb quality .
B: But , that 's the only sensible thing to do , is recycle and reuse the fuel and not store it down in the ground . As far as I 'm concerned , where it could eventually , perhaps , there 's some problem , uh , pollute the groundwater .
B: So , I don't know what the answer is .
B: The best answer , of course , would be solar or , uh , fusion , or something clean
A: Yes .
B: Well , we 've got a problem on the line , don't we .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I get that sometimes , um ,
A: my line gets some static .
A: I don't know why .
B: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , solar , of course , would be the clean , the cleanest .
A: Well , I know it 's , um ,
A: we did have a solar water heater when we lived in Houston
A: and , uh , oddly enough I thought our part of the country was ideal .
B: I ca n't hear you at all for all this static .
A: Oh . I don't know what to ,
A: usually it 's the other phone I have trouble with .
A: It must just , be on the line .
A: Can you hear me ?
B: Now I can again .
A: Okay .
A: I don't know what , uh , I , I don't know what the problem is
A: but , uh , when we lived in Houston we had a solar water heater
A: and we had thought this part of the country would be ideal for solar homes and solar energy
A: and we have enough clouds that , uh , there are other areas that would be better suited .
A: That surprised me because I think , we have a tremendous amount of , um , sunny days .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and it ,
A: yes ,
A: it can be used
A: and it can help
A: but , uh , that was a problem that they were still working on .
A: But ,
B: Oh yeah .
B: It , it 's still got a long way to go .
A: Well I ,
B: It 's just , you know , a possible solution in the future , I think , maybe to help in some ways .
A: Yes .
B: It may not in all ways .
B: Maybe they 'll come up with fusion . You know , be able to control it .
B: I don't know how long that 'll take ,
B: but , one of these days ,
B: because that 's perfectly clean .
A: Yes .
B: It 's just we ca n't control it .
B: Right now it takes more energy to cause fusion to occur then you get out ,
B: so , it is n't , not at all ,
B: and you ca n't control it unless you gotten a huge electromagnetic field ,
B: so that 's not going to work . At least not now .
B: But , uh , who knows what the future will hold . Uh , as far as energy goes ,
B: I , I think , with solving some of the energy , future energy problems , we 'll probably solve some of the pollution problems as well .
A: Uh , I hope so
B: I do to .
B: I like to be optimistic ,
B: I don't like to be pessimistic about these things .
A: Well , I do think , um ,
A: I mean , you 've already mentioned several things , I think , uh , just the change in attitude and the fact that more people are aware there is a problem and more people are interested in , uh ,
B: We have one earth , to live on
A: Yes
B: and we got to take care of it .
A: Yes .
A: Well , and , and for the future generations , too . Uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 've noticed students are , are much more , you know , young , young people are much more receptive to ideas about the environment and protecting the earth .
A: Yes .
B: And so , if we can raise it , uh , you know , generations with those concerns , we 'll solve a lot of our problems .
B: I 'm afraid ,
B: I know I was part of the me generation where they did n't , so many of them did n't , people did n't care .
B: You know ,
B: it 's whatever , you know ,
B: recycle , well , if it 's a problem , forget that .
B: Uh , not throw the trash out the car window
B: and leave it in the car and then throw it away ?
B: How horrible , you know .
B: Now , I 've always done those kinds of things because I just did n't like messes ,
B: and fade ...
B: So , how do you feel about capital punishment ?
A: Well , it 's ,
A: I am pretty much against it
B: Really ?
A: Yeah .
A: How about you ?
B: Oh , I 'm pretty much for it .
A: Oh , good
A: we can have a debate .
B: We 'll have some interesting discussion , I guess .
A: Well , like , um , I don't know ,
A: I think that I ,
A: one of the reasons that I 'm against it is that , uh , um , I 'm afraid of someone losing their life , for um , wrongly ,
B: Wrongfully .
B: Yeah .
A: Right
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , another reason ,
A: one of the arguments , that really , I really actually have been kind of ambivalent about it , but one of the arguments that really , uh , made me feel kind of strongly against it , is that , uh , you know , someone said to me once , well , imagine if the person you love most in the world , like your mother or something , if someone killed her , would n't you want to see them killed for the punishment ?
A: But then I thought about it
A: and I thought , well , the loss that I would feel at losing my mother someone else would feel that about that person no matter how rotten they were , somebody loves them
B: Yeah ,
B: it would never be equal ,
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: How about you ?
B: Well , I guess , you know , I , I guess I can see it from several different perspectives ,
B: but , you know when I hear about things like , you know , what they 've , what they 've been reporting about in Milwaukee , you know I , I , to me I don't see any way of rehabilitating the guy .
B: You know , maybe there is , I don't know .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: But , you know , and , you know , he 's never going to be , to me , a functioning part of society .
B: He 's already been either paroled , or whatever , for child molestation .
A: Uh-hum .
B: I mean , I don't know ,
B: I just , I really have a hard time with that because he really sounds like a real sicko .
B: And , you know , for the things he 's done ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I guess it 's either , you know , put him in jail for the rest of his life , you know , or or capital punishment I guess . You know
A: Right .
A: Well you know that 's true , because um a lot of um these conversations I 've had on this program this these telephone conversations have revolved around um criminal you know justice .
B: Oh , really .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Or whatever
A: and most of the time I hear myself saying well you know we don't have enough room left in the jails
A: and people crime is still climbing
A: and we need to have different punishments you know .
B: Right .
A: but I just am scared of capital punishment , I guess .
B: I I mean you know there there is always that chance
B: but you know I guess to some people it 'd almost be better to die to them than to spend life in prison or whatever I don't I mean I don't know
B: but uh , you know , but that would be a situation where if somebody you know was gon na be , you know
B: you you you really throw a lot on the courts , hopefully that they wo n't do that you know for any for any situation really .
B: But , uh , you know , when I , you find somebody just like that situation , I mean , it was disgusting when I read about it today .
B: And , and when you find someone like that , that you know is guilty , he confessed already to killing eleven I , I 'd , you know , I guess I have a hard time feeling merciful toward him ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and
A: Right .
A: Especially when it 's so far removed .
A: If it 's no one that I know then you have to think about the taxpayers paying the shelter and feed and clothe them for the rest of their life .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: And trying to rehabilitate him , too ,
B: and , you know ,
A: Letting him out again
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
B: And , uh , you know , nobody wants that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , everybody would be just as scared to death , you know .
B: We , we 've had a real problem here in Texas with , uh , prison overcrowding
B: and they 've been releasing people left and right
B: and , you know , they 've committed murders and rapes and everything else ,
B: and , you know , you just think , you know , where 's the justice here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , you know , they 're not even having to serve out what they should be serving .
A: That 's true .
A: You know , I just recently moved to Massachusetts .
A: I 'm not sure what their policy is on capital punishment
A: and that was one of the questions
A: but , uh , I do know that they are notorious for paroling people .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: when they 're , when ,
A: and then having them reconvicted for violent crimes .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: And , I guess , they said , you know , do you think it should be restricted ?
A: I guess , if it were , if , if ,
A: because a lot of states do still practice capital punishment
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess violent crimes would be the crimes where I can see it making the most sense .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , violent crimes with no , uh , with just malicious intent .
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , you know , that 's exactly , I mean , I 'm , I 'm not saying I , I think capital murder or capital punishment is the perfect solution in every case , you know , especially because there are some cases when you just don't know
B: and I , I think there 's a , a shadow of a doubt , you know , like with this , this guy in , in Milwaukee .
B: I mean , it ,
B: he pretty much confessed to it .
B: I mean , they , you know ,
B: just everything , I mean , cannibalism and everything else , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: Hang ?
B: Because , I mean , that 's just awful .
A: And what is he going to do prison to the other people
B: Right .
B: Well , I have a I have a hunch that , you know , the other prisoners are n't going to be too happy with him anyway . Either ,
B: I mean , you know they ,
B: I don't know ,
B: from , from what I hear about jail life is not any way to live .
A: Right .
B: But , uh , I don't know . It 's just ,
A: Well , I was , I saw on a human interest story , or whatever today , there was a woman who was just being paroled and trying to make it back ,
A: she was off drugs and everything ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but she said , uh , you know , in prison you can get anything .
A: You can any drugs you want .
A: There 's ,
A: it , it 's just like being outside .
A: You know , people find ways around .
B: Really .
A: And there 's a power structure that you have bow to
A: and , and , it really is n't , for some people who have been there for over , and over , and over , it really is n't , uh , as bad .
A: I mean , there 's ,
A: it 's not that bad of a life as it should be for the punishment aspect .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But the society is turned against punishment and more towards rehabilitation
A: and maybe that 's why , one of the reasons why crime has gone up , because it 's not so scary anymore .
B: Yeah .
B: That ,
B: Yeah .
B: Well , you know , especially like repeat offenders .
B: It , it just appalls me that they can be out , you know , they even get a ten year sentence and be out in , in two , or three , or four years .
B: You know , that 's , that 's scary because , you know , I 'm not sure , I think we 're paroling them without even knowing if they 're , you know , going to be committing any more violent acts or not .
A: Right .
A: And what they 're going to be doing when they get out
B: Right .
B: And , it , it 's , it 's really scary
B: I you know ,
B: I , I don't know what the perfect solution to that is
B: but I know that especially with violent crimes where , you know , you 're nearly a hundred percent convinced that they 're guilty and without much repentance or anything else , you know , then , I don't know , I , I guess , I , I just really don't see much use for this guy in Milwaukee , you know .
B: For instance , I mean , that 's just ,
B: I could see capital punishment in a case like that . And , you know , for , for other people , too , that do things , like that .
B: But , uh , when ,
B: uh , my wife and I are both participating in this survey
B: and she picked up the phone
B: and when she heard the topic , she said , capital punishment ,
B: so she was , uh ,
A: Handed it to you ?
B: Yeah ,
B: well luckily it was for me . Because they want , they coordinate the times so it can , only be one or the other .
A: Oh , oh , I see .
B: So , she tried to enter her number
B: and it would n't work
B: so she said , whew , it 's for you .
B: So , but , uh , you know , I don't know ,
B: I , I struggle with it ,
B: but I , I really think that in , in terms of like this , I 'd , I think that it , it might not be such a bad thing . Because , I don't know that anybody , I don't know that anybody would feel good , you know , like if you let someone like that loose in your community .
B: You know , I , I , I 'm
B: you 'd have to be scared to death
A: Well , maybe if they could , uh ,
A: if they had more money or more , more resources to work more on rehabilitation ,
A: I mean , deep down I think every , every human
A: Okay ,
A: do you subscribe to magazines yourself ?
B: I don't , uh , subscribe to any magazines at home , because we get so many at work that , uh , I need to read that , uh , I just don't take any at home .
A: Oh , I see .
A: I get , uh , MCCALL 'S .
A: Of course , anything that appeals to the homemaker since that 's my main line of interest .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then once in a while I 'll pick up a WORKING WOMAN or something and realize why I don't want to go back to work What I enjoy about staying home .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , I read magazines mainly because they 're fast
A: and if I want to relax while I watch T V ,
A: of course , I 'm one of those that does two things at once ,
A: and , uh , I read GOOD HOUSEKEEPING and BETTER HOMES and MCCALL 'S .
A: And I like them because they 're kind of short and to the subject .
B: Right .
B: I I used to take MCCALL 'S and GOOD HOUSEKEEPING and , uh , several magazines like that a few years ago at , at , at home .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And then you stopped them all .
B: But , yeah ,
B: the subscriptions ran out
B: and I never renewed them .
B: And I found that I really did n't have time at home since I work , to read them .
A: I find that , uh , about two years is probably my max on subscribing to one in particular
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then I kind of get turned off by it . Other than GOOD HOUSEKEEPING .
B: Uh-huh .
A: GOOD HOUSEKEEPING is the one that kind of sets around for when , uh , when I 'm really have time and I really want to read something , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't get into books too often because I have so many things that I stay occupied with uh , on a general basis ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we travel a lot
A: so I enjoy reading parts on travel in the various you know , different ones .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And I get into , uh , newspapers ,
A: so I guess that kind of tells you what kind of person I am .
A: I 'm , read it fast and put it down
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
B: When , when I had my magazines at home , I would find that I kind of skimmed through them and looked at the pictures , you know ,
B: and if something caught my eye , then I might read something ,
A: Right .
B: but otherwise than that , you know , they were , uh , you know , not too useful to me . You know
A: Well , That 's what I do .
B: I got some good recipes from them sometimes ,
B: but
A: You clip recipes
A: and you save them forever
A: and you never really use them .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: And then every so often you weed through them
A: and you think , where did I ever put that recipe .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , that 's mainly my , uh , whole idea on you know , short subject , uh , reading and things like this .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I subscribe , like I said , to a few
A: and once in a while I buy that new magazine called FIRST on the newsstands or something like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I kind of stay with my own subject matter what , uh , pertains to my daily life at the present time .
B: Right .
B: Well , since I work with computers during my work , I have to keep up on all the new computer equipment and software and everything .
B: And I have to read the magazines , you know , such as BYTE , and COMPUTER WORLD and MAC WORLD and all of these , uh , magazines such as that ,
B: so I really , you know , just ,
B: I can see that it will be a very long time , probably , before I subscribe to any magazines at home .
A: Right .
A: Well , sometimes , if , you know , if you 're in transportation , in public transportation I know that people will read them on something like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: But I think ,
A: and the idea is to , is and good ,
A: I can just dump them at the other end
A: and I don't have to carry them back with me .
B: That 's right .
A: I do that when we travel .
A: I always have my head with a magazine somewhere as we drive or wherever we ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: no matter what it is , air travel or anything and I ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: If I , if I go on an airplane ride or something , I 'll stop in and pick up a , you know , a COSMOPOLITAN or something to read on the airplane .
A: Right ,
A: although now ,
B: But , uh , you know , that 's basically just about
B: I 'll buy a crossword puzzle magazine every now and then
A: That 's when you really have time .
A: Now see your computer ones ,
A: I got into computer work somewhat , uh ,
A: we have our own computer system at home
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I tried , uh , reading the magazines hoping I would get more from it
A: and it was just above my head without having someone there to give me the advice as I went along .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It was , you know , kind of a little bit more than what I needed ,
A: so I never did get into them .
A: I when I bought the computer , all of a sudden I was receiving them , for some unknown reason , through the mail .
A: I think they all thought , well , we have a live one She 'll subscribe
B: Uh-huh .
A: But they were wrong .
A: I never got into them .
A: But , but , Okay ?
B: Right .
A: All right , I guess we might as well end our conversation at this point .
B: Okay .
A: It was nice talking with you .
B: It was nice to talk with you , too .
A: Okay .
B: Thank you .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Bye , now .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Do you have any hobbies ?
B: Yes ,
B: I do .
A: What are yours ?
B: China painting and ceramics .
A: Ooh , how great .
B: I enjoy it .
B: Uh-huh
A: Oh , uh , ceramic painting .
B: I enjoy the china more .
A: The china more .
B: And now that I have my eyes , corrected to the point that I can see the delicate part of china painting , I do enjoy it .
A: How did you ever get into that ?
A: That sounds so interesting .
B: My husband kept begging me ,
B: and he 's been dead now for twenty years ,
B: so you understand that this was a long time ago .
B: But he finally brought me the china , the book , the brushes and he said I have made arrangements for your lessons .
A: How
A: I ,
B: And I said I 'll do it for three months
B: and if I don't like it , that 's it .
B: Well , I painted an awful lot until his death , which was several years .
B: And it has just been the most relaxing , enjoyable self-satisfying thing I 've had .
B: I ,
A: Now , do you do it just for yourself ,
A: or do you do it to give as gifts ,
A: or do you actually sell it ?
B: I have sold quite a bit .
B: I give a lot to our two daughters that are grown and have their home
B: and then I just have the rest of my house with lot of hand painting in it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , that sounds
A: now , do you work outside of the home ?
B: I have just retired .
A: You 've just retired .
B: Yes .
A: Oh , oh , what a great hobby
B: No ,
B: it 's not ,
A: I ,
B: It 's a great hobby ,
B: but don't retire
A: don't retire .
B: Oh ,
A: Well , see , I don't ,
A: I never , uh , returned to work for the
A: I have stayed home for about the last nine years .
B: Oh , have , well ,
A: We 've transferred around ,
A: and our last area was in a rural section right on the lake , uh , on Lake Erie .
A: So the lake life appealed to me ,
A: and my husband 's working
A: and he left it up to me if I worked or not .
B: Wow .
A: So , in my spare time , I love to sew .
A: There are n't too many people around anymore that really enjoy sewing ,
A: but I do make all my own clothes
A: and we recently purchased a new home ,
A: so I enjoy doing my , uh , toppers for my window applications and things like that .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: But , uh , just when I thought I really enjoyed my hobby , yours sounds great
B: Well , my sister is the seamstress of the two of us .
B: And , but she does n't china paint
B: so we both have our expertise side .
A: That is excellent .
B: What part of Ohio are you in ?
A: We 're in the I 'm in the suburb of Cleveland
A: and I 'm about , uh , fifteen miles , probably , from downtown Cleveland , something like that .
A: And Cleveland is located right on Lake Erie
A: and prior to this , we were fifty miles west from here .
A: So we were right on the lake .
A: And Cleveland is n't all as bad as what you 've heard
B: Oh , what 's that ,
A: And you do find people , uh , into the crafts and the things that , uh , various things for spare time ,
A: but , I have never heard and I have actually never run into anyone into the china painting
A: and I 'm just intrigued with it .
B: If you ever start , be sure and start with a large piece that you can , I mean a large flat plate .
B: Um , that way you can get the feel of ,
B: you 're not cramped on these smaller objects .
A: Right ,
A: where you 're getting into the delicate work .
B: That 's right .
A: Now , do you , where did you first get your lessons from ?
B: In Abilene , Texas .
A: Through a , uh , an adult ed , or strictly a china type ,
B: She just taught china painting .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: and ,
A: Oh , how marvelous .
B: Then , then we had so much fun there ,
B: I had a friend from Albany , which is about thirty-six miles away ,
B: and we would meet every Thursday morning at our instructor 's home , because she did our firing for us ,
B: and she would help us
B: and we bought lots of equipment from her , supplies
B: and it was just such a delightful time .
B: And then after I ,
A: Oh , and it 's so nice ,
B: Beg pardon ?
A: It must be so nice for you , now that you 're retired .
B: I have been a little bit negligent about it because I was so tired when I had to go to work after my husband 's death .
B: So I have put it aside for a little while ,
B: but I 'm , I have just found me an instructor to get started again ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Oh , is n't that great .
A: And you 'll probably really , uh , regain your enthusiasm for it once you get into a , a class again .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Of course , I just have one beautiful with peonies , uh , umbrella stand ,
B: and I have two daughters
B: and they 're both ,
A: Uh , what what is your practice as far as budgeting ?
A: Do you manage the money ?
B: Well , I , we talk about it ,
B: but I 'm usually the one that sits down and puts the pencil to the paper and , and tries to somehow make the ends meet , which , uh ,
A: Oh , I see .
A: That 's how kind of I am , too .
A: Are you married ?
B: Um , yes .
A: You are .
B: Yes .
A: I think the women for the most part end up managing the money .
A: My husband always says he earns it , and I have to spend only what he earns
A: It ,
B: I don't mind the spending ,
B: it 's just that trying to , trying to get what you need out of , out of what you have .
B: That seems to be our challenge .
A: Well , I don't work outside of the home ,
A: and he always threatens that when I spend more than , what 's coming in , I have to go back to work
B: I see .
A: so I , I manage it
B: Well , I 'm , I 'm at home also ,
B: so , it does get rather interesting trying to survive on one salary , uh ,
A: Now , do you actually follow a budget ?
B: Well , we pretty well do .
B: Um , several years we did n't ,
B: and we found that we just were n't making the most of what we had ,
B: and so we , we , um , set aside a certain amount each week that goes for things that have to be paid for , you know ,
B: just our bills .
B: And then what 's left we divvy up .
B: We try to save a little bit , although we 're not always successful ,
B: and then the rest of it just goes for normal weekly needs .
A: Well , that 's pretty much the way we do , um , or we did in the past ,
A: I would say . Uh ,
A: at this point our children are grown ,
A: and so I really don't have the obligations there any more that we have to balance to you know , get things together for them ,
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: and I really just keep very good records ,
A: and most of our expenses are fairly the same every month with the exception of utilities and things like that ,
A: and I try to keep my MasterCards and things paid currently
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , I don't always succeed at that .
A: I usually keep one with a low interest rate ,
A: and I put things on there that I think I 'm not going to get to
B: Right .
A: and then I have another one ,
A: but for the most part , our mortgage and our utilities at this point , we 're in a new home , and , uh , they take a pretty big chunk compared to what they used to
B: Yeah .
A: so I 'm still getting used to that ,
A: but we make sure that we just do not buy unless we really can see how we 're going to pay for it ahead
B: Right .
A: and we do not buy us , new cars .
A: Uh , do you get into car ,
B: Well , we had new cars , um , always until about four years ago ,
B: my husband , um , owned his own company and it went under ,
B: and so we could no longer afford that monthly payment ,
B: and now it just seems just such a large amount of money to spend that , that we do have a used car ,
B: well , he has a company car also ,
B: but for our personal car we have a used car .
B: Um , do you think that it 's wiser to buy used ?
A: We do for us very much so .
A: In fact , we are in a position that most of our friends why , wonder why we just don't go to a new car , you know , whatever ,
A: and I said look , you guys are all into car payments ,
B: Right .
A: we have n't had car payments for so many years ,
A: I love it this way ,
A: and recently we just created the laugh among everyone because we had a car that we really liked
A: and it has eighty-two thousand miles on it
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we were , kept saying , would n't it be great if we could find another one just like it .
A: Believe it or not , we did , we found one , one newer
B: Oh , no ,
A: the worst part is , it 's the same color
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so everybody 's saying , you 're kidding , you have two cars the same ,
A: and I said , you know how when you have a bad one , you say , never again
B: That 's right
A: I said , well , we had one , and we found one with just seventeen thousand miles on it
B: Wow .
A: and it 's an eighty-five ,
A: and so I said , Hey , this was a cinch ,
A: we paid for the car ,
A: and we still know now that we have this car to put all the miles on .
B: Right .
A: This is for all the long running back and forth on , you know interstate driving and things ,
A: and we intend to replace our other one with a much newer car in the next couple of years , or next year probably .
B: Do you , um , buy from dealers or from individuals ?
A: Generally from dealers ,
A: and uh , it depends , because I don't like to sell what we 're trading in to an individual uh , unless we , we have done that when we had a really good one that we wanted to sell
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: you know , we were going up to a larger one ,
A: but we have found that by trading in and going through a dealer , and we always make a deal .
A: I mean , we have walked out of more dealerships saying , don't bring us the manager , and all of that unless you want to bring him right away .
A: You 're going to get one shot at us
B: Yeah .
A: we will , you know ,
A: and they say , Well , you 're kidding , you know .
A: I
A: no ,
A: this is the price we 're going to give you out the door .
A: We don't want to hear about taxes ,
A: Okay ,
A: I guess our topic is , um , advice about going to college .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Do you have children of your own ?
B: Oh , no ,
B: I don't have any children ,
B: but I 'm still going to college .
A: Oh , are you ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: What school are you going to ?
B: N C State .
A: Oh . Are you enjoying it ?
B: Um , well , it 's a lot of work
A: Are you working on your , um Bachelor 's degree ?
B: My Bachelor 's .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And what field of study are you in ?
B: Um , it 's actually in computer science
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I have a special interest in Voice I O .
A: Oh , well , that 's neat .
A: Are you from North Carolina ?
B: No ,
B: I 'm actually from Amarillo , Texas , originally .
A: Oh , are you really ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh . Well , what took you to North Carolina ?
B: Oh , um , the service .
A: Oh , I see .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , that was one of the things I was thinking about in school , um ,
A: I went to Texas Tech out in Lubbock and , uh , I had a friend , my roommate went to Tech also ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but she was from New Mexico
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she had to pay out of state tuition
B: Ooh .
A: and I think that would have , uh , played a real big part of my decision
B: It would have played a major part in mine .
A: yeah , because , um , she was
A: of course back then it was so much cheaper than it is now .
A: It was like four dollars a semester hour
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so I was going to school for , you know , just a few hundred dollars a semester ,
A: and she was paying forty dollars an hour
B: Golly ,
A: so she paid ten times as much because she was out of state .
B: Yeah ,
B: luckily I 've paid in state tuition the whole time .
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: Yeah ,
A: so I think that would be one thing I would definitely consider try to find a school within the state that , um , I liked well enough to attend .
B: Uh-huh , um ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: The second thing is some colleges only offer the , uh , liberal arts and , uh , whereas like State , they offer engineering courses
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: so depending on what your major is , or medical , you might want to some , um , attend somewhere like Tech
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: and , um , aside from the , uh ,
B: well some schools may even give you financial aid , where another one wo n't .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true ,
A: that was something else I had , was , I had government aid , of course ,
A: but , uh , it was wonderful , because I got one of those grants that you don't have to repay
B: Oh , really .
A: and , yeah ,
A: it was so nice
B: Um .
A: it paid most of my tuition , and , um , a lot of the book costs and that kind of thing
A: so .
B: Wow , that 's great .
A: Yeah ,
A: I really ,
B: Was it a Pell grant ?
A: I 'm sorry , what did you say ?
B: What kind of grant was it ?
A: Well , it was called a B E O G , a Basic Equal Opportunity Grant
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it was from the government ,
A: and it was based , at first it was based on my parents ' income .
A: My parents had five children and really did n't make enough money to send any of us to school .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so , uh , because based on the number of children and the amount of money , uh , my father brought in , I got a small grant
B: Uh-huh .
A: but then after that , I was on my own , working and , you know , trying to go to school on my own .
A: So then I got a real big grant , because the amount of money I was making really did n't compare
B: Wow .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , it was kind of nice .
B: Um .
A: I don't know if those are still available or not ,
A: but ,
B: Uh , I 'm not quite ,
B: there 's , there 's a lot of different organizations who , uh , who do give grants ,
B: but , uh , I 'm not exactly sure which ones they are and how much , they , you know , they generally run .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: this was great ,
A: it was just based on , you know , how much your tuition costs and everything ,
A: and generally it paid everything ,
A: so I went to school about three years of my four for almost nothing ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so that was ,
B: Golly , that 's great .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was really nice .
B: Oh , another thing .
B: I 've got a , I 've got a degree from another college
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , something that might play a part is the size of the college .
A: Right .
B: Uh , the smaller schools can give you a lot , uh , a lot more specialized instruction and attention than the larger schools
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: in the larger schools you get caught up in the bureaucracy ,
B: and and they just give you a teacher 's assistants , you know
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: instead of a scholar you get a T A
A: That 's right .
B: and , uh , you don't get near the , uh , quality of education
B: and as well , the , uh , smaller schools often times don't cost as much .
A: Um , I did n't know that .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Um . Well , I guess the only comparison I had ever heard was between a , a Christian college , because I thought about attending Abilene Christian instead of Texas Tech
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and of course the price was just astronomical compared to Tech
B: Um .
A: the Christian college was so much more expensive .
A: But I guess some of the other smaller colleges might , might be a lot different .
B: Um Oh , I , at State , I think it 's just a waste of somebody 's money to go there
A: Really ?
B: it 's really a shame because of , you know , the instruction
A: Yeah .
B: um , I 'd rather go to any other college , you know , in the state ,
B: and I would definitely get my money 's worth , uh , much better than State .
A: Yeah , huh .
B: It 's kind of unfortunate , because they 've , they 've just grown so big that they just don't care about the students any more .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: you 're just a number .
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're , they 're bent on , uh , seeing how much land , how much more land they can get , and how much , uh , how much of the campus they can build up
A: Right .
B: and , uh
A: Yeah .
B: yeah ,
B: it 's really a bad situation here .
A: Oh , that 's a shame .
A: Well , I , I felt a little cheated at Tech , also .
A: Once I got into my ,
A: I , um , majored in ,
A: What , what do you feel is the , the major change that 's been going on ?
B: That 's a tough question .
B: We are now able to work full eight hours a day and still do our housework . Right
B: don't ask me .
A: I think that has been the major change , is that , women feel they need to go out and do this ,
A: they , they no longer feel it 's , uh , it 's no big deal to , to stay home and raise your family any more .
B: Well it has no credibility any more .
A: I know it ,
A: and I , I think , I think that 's really sad , because I think there 's going to be a generation of kids that are going to grow up raised by somebody else .
B: Well , I 'm a school teacher ,
B: and I 'm in charge of raising them ,
B: so I can appreciate it .
A: You don't , well
A: I 'm , I 'm still home with , with my last one ,
A: and I would n't trade , change a minute of it for anything
B: Oh , good for you ,
B: good for you .
A: But , I , I ca n't , I ca n't help but think that eventually the pendulum 's going to swing back the other way again .
B: Well , you know , it 's interesting , because when I heard the topic , I was thinking , uh ,
B: this summer Oprah had a T V show about wives that refused to go to work , and how their husbands thought they were terrible ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and one woman had four children ,
B: and her husband said she was n't pulling her own weight in the family
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: that 's ,
B: that 's frightening
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it 's sad ,
B: and , it , you know , it was almost from the audience participation it was almost a social issue , you know
A: Uh-huh .
B: people were siding with the husband , saying , You 've got to go to work , if you have these four children , you 've got to support them ,
B: and nobody would give her credit for being home and raising them .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I think too many people feel they need to live a more extravagant life-style than necessary
B: That 's true .
A: uh , you know , to ,
A: I , I don't think , you know , the kids don't benefit from the bigger house and the fancier cars , and , and , and this type of thing .
A: I think that they would from the , you know , attention or whatever
B: That 's true .
A: uh , but , it ,
A: I , uh , I , I don't know ,
A: I , I see it as a major problem
A: and I think it 's going to have to swing back the other way , because I think we 're going to have an awful lot of kids who are going to have major problems from all this .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , you know , I , as I said , I teach school
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , gosh , I 'm trying to think ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I have one woman , one mother that I know is home ,
B: but she also has ten children .
A: What , what grade do you teach ?
B: Six , seven and eight .
A: Six , seven and eight .
A: I 've got a uh ,
A: where do you live ?
A: Are you out ,
B: In Richardson .
A: In Richardson ,
A: we 're in Plano here .
B: Oh , okay .
A: I have a daughter in middle school ,
A: and , uh , I know there are n't very many ,
A: she has a few friends that have moms who are still at home ,
A: but do you see , um , you know , do you ever , do you ever see problems , you know , that you feel you know , that the kids are left alone too much ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: and ,
B: I 've got one child , um , that stays with me every day until five , because his mother does n't come home until seven ,
B: and he does n't want to be home from three thirty until seven by himself .
A: He stays at school ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And the school allows that ?
B: Well , he stays with me
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I have a tendency to work late .
B: I work until six
A: Uh-huh .
B: so he stays with me until five thirty and then goes home
A: Oh , my ,
B: and , you know , I have lots of kids , because they know I 'm there late
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm a slow mover to say the least ,
B: but , um , they 'll come in and say , Can I stay with you because I don't want to go home to an empty house .
B: And that 's frightening , because , you know , the ,
B: when I said I , I 'm , I 'm raising them , I am ,
B: because we 're talking about boy friends
B: and we 're talking about what the girl said in class ,
B: and , you know , what 's right because there 's no mother at home
A: Uh-huh .
A: No mother to talk to .
B: and , um , it makes a difference ,
B: I ,
B: and just the social values ,
A: Well , I 've just ,
A: do you , do you feel it will swing back the other way ,
A: or do you feel there 's just going to be a big push to , uh you know , for , for more , more and more day care type situations ?
B: I , I don't know .
B: I , I have a feeling we 're going to go more and more ,
B: I 've got a twenty-one year old female ,
B: and I 've got twenty-two year old male child , children ,
B: and I listen to my daughter ,
B: and she 's going to work ,
B: and she 's going to buy her house ,
B: and she 's going to get her car ,
B: and then she 's going to have her children ,
B: and then when , you know , they go on one salary , will they be able to sustain what their life-style is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they 're back to work ,
B: and , you know , I agree with you ,
B: I was raised in a generation we did n't need all those things
A: Yeah .
B: and we lived without them ,
B: we did fine ,
A: Okay .
A: I 've got a , you know ,
A: I have a real good method of starting to get the budget balancing
A: and then that 's get half of the government , rid of the half of the government payroll .
B: I think that would probably , uh , be very possible ,
B: and , and we really would n't feel it in our services
A: Not all ,
A: I , you know , I don't know if you 've ever been to Washington D C .
B: Yes ,
B: I have .
A: Uh , you , you 've seen that which was on there and the offices
A: and in light of these , uh , hearings we 've all been sitting through the last two weeks , we have very definitely decided that every department there is just overstaffed .
B: Right .
A: They really don't have enough to keep them busy to keep their noses at , in their own business of what they 're doing .
B: Right .
A: And the other thing is , uh , besides that I think , uh , two things that very definitely need looking at , one is foreign aid .
A: I have a real problem with all the foreign aid that is going to the countries that really have no use for us .
B: Right .
A: I find that a total waste and part of the defense budget .
A: Uh , again being just a voter and a taxpayer , you know , working through our congressman , I don't think there 's too much that I 'm going to be able to do about it ,
A: but I believe in taking an active part in politics ,
A: so .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I ,
B: one , one thing that really bothers me beyond , beyond cutting what they spend is that just really aggravates me when the big businesses do not end up paying taxes
B: and the , um , regular normal taxpayers are , you know paying such a large proportion of , of our personal income
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then the , uh , corporate , you know , industries just don't seem to not pay proportionally .
A: Right .
B: I think that that would , would help a lot .
B: I guess in a way it would trickle down to us in the prices of things ,
B: but I don't know . It 's just hard to , hard to take and , you know , see so much of our paycheck go out and then realize that they have all the loopholes that they can use .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , seems like some rather large chunks of money could come from , from that direction .
B: But ,
A: Yeah ,
A: they don't , they don't seem to , well ,
A: I really think the biggest problem
A: and then the Taft-Rudman Act is supposed to help that .
A: The biggest part is they have no accountability for what they 're doing .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean this nonsense that 's coming through now about , uh , uh , lowering payments on Social Security and a few other things that Bush has in mind in order to boost the economy because people have more money as it 's , gets , it 's ridiculous .
B: Yeah .
A: If they don't have that money now , bringing in less is not going to help the problem as far as the government .
B: Not , not going to help .
B: It 's never helped my , my personal situation
B: I I ca n't say it would help with theirs either
A: No .
A: Yeah ,
A: and thank God we don't operate our budget , the way they operate theirs or we 'd all be in , in dire trouble .
B: Amen .
A: But that 's , uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I don't know what we 're going to be able to do about it
A: but I guess it 's sitting around so long that it 's sort of like our mortgages .
A: I don't ever expect to pay mine off before I die
A: so I guess why should the government
A: Is n't ,
A: that 's the way they 're thinking these days anyway .
B: It seems , seems to be .
B: I , you know , I ,
B: it really does bother me when I think about , you know , leaving our children with , with this sort of , uh , a national problem that we ca n't seem to find an , an answer to it , uh ,
B: I don't know .
A: I , I don't think it ever will really .
A: I ,
A: maybe if they ever get to the point the biggest , you know , the biggest outlaid expense has always been either wars or defense .
B: Right .
A: Really .
A: If they were to take half of what they spend on that and put it on some economic , you know , intergovernmental or inter United States like programs that one really might .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I believe in paying my share ,
A: and I don't mind , uh , paying for some of these fringe benefits that people are entitled to .
A: But I just , I just sometimes feel like I 'm being used .
A: But , uh , again I don't think we 'll be able to do anything about it ,
A: so .
B: Well , that 's , that 's quite possible .
B: I guess we have to , have to keep plugging away a little bit
B: or it will just totally get even more out of control
B: but I , I don't know .
A: Yeah .
A: Bite the bullet .
A: It sounds like you have a baby there .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She 's a ,
B: we 're not feeling too well over here
B: so that ,
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , that 's a shame .
A: She 's not the one going to Washington , huh ?
B: No ,
B: no .
B: She 's ,
A: Oh
B: I don't think I could part with her .
A: Okay .
A: Okay , Geri .
A: We 've probably been on long enough .
B: Okay .
A: They did n't cut us off ,
A: but I think that will probably do it
A: so it was nice talking to you .
B: Okay ,
B: well , thanks .
A: Okey-doke .
B: Bye-bye
A: Bye-bye .
B: What 's your favorite T V show ?
A: Oh . You know , I used to like ST . ELSEWHERE .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's one of my old favorites .
A: Um , and that 's ,
A: I 'm being beeped ,
A: so I 'll just ignore it .
A: Um , and now , I , I did like THIRTY SOMETHING
B: Uh-huh .
A: oh , yes ,
A: my daughter says NINE OH TWO ONE OH .
A: We like that one .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's one of my favorites .
A: Good ,
A: and how old are you ?
B: I 'm twenty-eight .
A: Oh , so you 're little bit younger than I am ,
A: but yeah ,
A: I think if my seventeen year old , my fourteen year old , my other two children like it ,
A: I 'm over forty ,
A: and I like it .
A: I think it 's wonderful .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's a good show .
B: I like MURPHY BROWN and DESIGNING WOMEN , too .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: now see , I , we are so busy with , all of our kids are in sports ,
A: and I hardly ever watch T V ,
A: but that 's one that , that we watch .
A: And then Sunday nights we watch , uh , LIFE GOES ON .
B: Yeah ,
B: I like that ,
B: that 's , that 's a good show , too .
A: Very good .
A: Did you see the one on Sunday ?
B: Yes ,
B: it was a , uh , uh
B: I did miss that Sunday ,
B: no
B: I did n't .
A: That one kid that Becca likes he has AIDS .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's a good episode .
B: Yeah ,
B: the , the new character on there did .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: All the way to North Carolina .
A: What time is it there ?
B: Uh , it is twenty minutes to nine .
A: Oh , my gosh .
A: See , I 'm twenty minutes to six here
B: Three hours difference .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Okay .
A: What else do you like ?
B: Uh , let 's see , I like a lot of different shows .
B: Let 's see , um , I like MURDER , SHE WROTE .
B: That 's , that 's ,
A: Oh , I never , I never watched that ever in my entire life .
B: And MATLOCK is another good one I watch .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , then during daytimes I like , I like ALL MY CHILDREN .
A: A small bowl will be plenty .
A: Oh , that 's mine .
A: That 's the only one I watch whenever I , oh ,
A: a small bowl will be better because it 's pretty fattening .
A: Talk to my daughter .
A: Um , um ,
B: ALL MY CHILDREN ,
B: I 've watched that for about twelve years .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've , I 'm sure I watched it for more than that probably .
A: Twenty something .
A: I used to watch GENERAL HOSPITAL when I was a teenager because I ,
B: I quit watching GENERAL HOSPITAL when Leslie got killed .
A: Oh .
B: So that was a long time ago .
B: I used to watch it , was in high school and college when Laura 's mother got killed .
A: Right .
B: She was my favorite character on there .
B: I just ,
B: I read the reason she got , they , they killed her off was because they could n't settle a contract ,
B: and I said , well , if they 're going to do that to her , I wo n't watch it .
A: Oh , that 's great .
A: Well , I do like ALL MY CHILDREN ,
A: and I , and I like it , you know , I don't know .
A: I just ,
A: I like the people on it , I guess , you know .
B: I , I , I like it .
B: I just wish they 'd bring some of the old characters back .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , Tad 's going to come back , I bet , do you think ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm sure he will .
A: He 'll come back , show up at just the right moment .
B: I kind of wish that , uh , Nina would come back because she because the story , you know ,
A: Oh .
B: just for a brief visit or whatever , because it never has been resolved with Palmer remarrying , and everything ,
A: Yeah ,
A: like Daisy , pops in once in a while ,
A: and , I forgot about Nina and Cliff , right .
B: Yeah ,
B: Cliff 's on THE YOUNG AND THE RESTLESS now .
A: Oh , he is .
A: So he 's out for good .
B: Yeah ,
B: he 's out for good .
A: Did they marry ?
B: Uh
A: Nina and Cliff ?
B: that 's how they left the show , but not in real life .
A: Um .
B: Now she 's married to some guy in New York ,
B: and she 's happily married
B: and that 's the reason she left the show .
B: I guess she wanted a private life .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: oh , see I , I , I watch it maybe twice a month ,
A: so , I don't watch it everyday like I did when I had babies .
B: Oh , well , I , I watch .
A: Because I play lots of tennis
A: and I 'm gone a lot ,
A: so , I don't get to watch ,
B: I watch it everyday , religiously .
B: I videotape it when I have to miss it .
A: Oh , no kidding .
B: Yeah .
A: I use to be , I used to be like that
B: I 'm that way about a lot of different shows .
B: I 'm that way about MURPHY BROWN , DESIGNING WOMEN .
A: Now is n't DESIGNING WOMEN , don't they have a new chick on there instead of the , instead of what 's her name ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: there 's two new characters on there .
B: There 's , um , uh , Jan Hooks from SATURDAY NIGHT LIFE .
B: I don't know if you know her or not .
A: Huh-uh .
A: That 's a show I like .
B: And then , and then , uh , uh , the blond headed girl that used to be on NEWHART .
A: Oh , yeah , oh .
B: I don't like her on it ,
B: I never have liked her ,
B: so .
A: Well , I , I just know which one she is .
A: I don't , you know .
B: She 's taken the Suzanne 's part ,
B: and then Jan Hooks has taken Charlene 's part .
A: Charlene was Delta Burke ?
B: Charlene was Jean Smart , the blond headed .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: well , see , I never watch that one either .
A: I really don't watch a whole lot of T V , just , you know , on Sunday nights ,
A: LIFE GOES ON comes on about the time that we eat dinner ,
A: and my whole family 's home , because I don't allow the kids out on Sunday night you know , because they 've got to go to bed and go to school the next day ,
B: Yeah .
A: and so we , we sit around and eat popcorn
A: and , oh , then we watch AMERICA 'S FUNNIEST HOME VIDEOS .
A: Those are always pretty cute .
B: Well , MURDER , SHE WROTE comes on opposite of that ,
B: and so ,
A: Oh , so you don't watch that one instead of ,
B: Yeah
B: I I pick nights pretty much so on T V that I watch different networks ,
B: but BEVERLY HILLS NINE OH TWO ONE OH , I , I watch it religiously .
A: Sure .
A: Yeah ,
A: we like that real well .
B: It ,
B: be sure to watch it tomorrow night because somebody 's getting killed on it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I know .
A: The kids already know who it is ,
A: I don't know who it is , though ,
B: Who is it ?
B: Ask them
A: Let me ask Nicole .
A: to someone in Nicole .
A: What ?
A: Do you want to start ?
B: Uh , you hit , you hit , uh ,
B: it does n't matter .
B: Um , we 're discussing the capital punishment , I believe .
A: Right .
A: You are right .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I suppose I should have ,
B: Uh , which
B: I am , am pro capital punishment except that I don't like the way it 's done .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: uh , I , uh , I guess , I , I hate to see anyone die , uh
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , I guess these people that go around and , and kill children and women and everything else without any remorse , uh , I don't think they deserve to , to live and be supported by us the rest of their lives .
B: I , I agree .
B: I , I 'm ,
B: capital
B: the , the ,
B: capital punishment is necessary in , in many cases
B: but , uh , the ,
B: it 's not a deterrent , um , or our jails would not be so full .
B: There would n't be so many people in Death Row .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think it needs to be something , uh , uh , a throwback to where they did a , uh , public execution where it 's visible .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , something , you know , not gruesome
B: but , but something more where people know that it , it was a deterrent and it was equal for all people .
B: If you committed a certain crime , you were going to receive a death penalty
B: and it was going to happen to you .
A: Yeah .
B: No stays of execution .
B: No , no loopholes ,
B: no ,
A: Well , and even , even that I don't really know if that would help .
A: I think a lot of these people do it , uh , mainly because of , of T V
A: and ,
B: Notoriety .
A: the double reason they , they see it being done on T V and also the fact of , of notoriety .
A: I mean , they become well known .
A: They are almost like , like a big star .
B: yes ,
B: but , but they , they know that their chances of actually receiving the death penalty are minimal .
A: Yeah .
B: They know that they will probably be out in ten to twelve years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That they are going to write a book .
B: They are going to go on talk shows
B: they 're
B: that , that , that 's a reward uh , for a heinous crime rather than , uh , having them pay the penalty which is forfeiture of their life .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: In , in complete , uh ,
B: of any notoriety .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I , I , I think if they went according to , uh , the BIBLE where it does say , an eye for an eye , a tooth for a tooth , a life for a life ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: uh , you take a life you give yours .
B: Right .
A: Uh , uh , that 's for sure .
A: Uh , there 's exceptions to the rule
A: I mean if , if it 's an accidental taking then , uh , you look at that
A: but , you know , most of these people that down right go right and , and do it out of pure pleasure uh , I don't , uh , like to see that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess also the fact that they say it 's not a deterrent ,
A: it is a deterrent in the , in the sense that that person will never do it again
B: Well , yes ,
B: they will .
A: Not , not , not if he 's killed he ca n't , do it again .
B: It ,
B: Oh , ,
B: well , that 's correct ,
B: yes .
B: if , if he indeed receives the death penalty and it is , it is executed .
A: The death penalty .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: But , but the , the , the chances are not great that that will happen .
A: Right .
B: But there 's a greater chance that he 'll be back out on the streets in twelve years .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
A: Well , I , I guess I 'm also looking at beyond even that .
A: I , I , I guess I been thinking about it
A: and I don't have a definite opinion
A: but , uh , repeat , uh , crimes uh , maybe not the , the more mild ones but , you know , a more severe ones especially on , on armed robbery and stuff where they been taking from elderly people , and not just taking the money but beating them half to death .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's right .
A: Just for pleasure too
A: and I guess you 've got to look at something like that .
B: Yes .
A: Do they deserve to , uh , remain on this earth too ?
B: Why , you know , you could carry it to that if , uh , if they are a repeat offender
B: and , and you know that as soon as you let them out on the streets they are going to do this .
B: Unfortunately the way our system of jurisprudence is set up , um , you only receive the death penalty for capital crimes ,
A: Right .
B: and of course uh , of battery or assault or , that is not a capital crime see .
B: You , you would n't be able to under our system .
A: Right .
B: Now China and a few other countries have a little different view of that .
B: Um , you get caught with dope there and you die , period .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: There is , there is no , no appeals .
B: There is no ,
A: Well , I don't know what to do about the federal budget .
A: Um , there certainly have been ideas surfaced , uh , recently , uh , matter of fact repeatedly by many people
A: and I sort of wondered what your , what thoughts you had on that area .
B: The , the first one is we need people in there that , that understand , uh , numbers . The numbers that are being thrown around when , when we 're talking in trillions of dollars . Uh , which is an astronomical sum
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and the people that are talking this numbers have no concept of what that number means .
A: Now are you , are you talking about the elected people
A: or are you talking about others ?
B: The elected people .
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Our , our , our Senate and Congress and , and people that , that deal everyday and , and what 's going to be done with those monies um , and don't really understand what that is or how a budget even works .
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , we need to elect people that are more , uh ,
B: or ...
A: I 'm not sure how you would
A: how would you achieve that ?
A: I mean if ,
B: Well , let 's , let 's make them have a degree in economy , uh , or economics .
A: So you would trust the decision making economists ?
B: Well
A: Sometimes called the dismal science .
B: Yeah .
B: But , but people that , that know the value of a dollar that understand the value of a dollar ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: um , and
B: in , in , in
B: the , the , uh , lobbyists , needs them to be eliminated , uh , from Congress . Um ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: They don't make pragmatic decisions .
B: They make a decision based on constituency instead of a decision based on what they really believe .
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , you know , or they tack on this , uh , pork bellies and , and do things that , that are good for their area to pass something that is , that is not good for the country .
A: Right .
A: So , so you would favor a law which said there could not be lobbyists .
A: I mean right now lobbyists require to register you 'd just say , make them all .
B: Oh , I , I definitely would .
B: Yeah .
B: Get rid of them .
B: Totally . Uh ,
A: No causes that you think the lobbyists would be good for ?
B: I , I think that any company or anything that wants to contribute to a fund should be able to do that , and be registered with what they ever contribute .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But they should not have a one-on-one relationship with the people making the decisions that affect them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That , that 's a conflict of interest as far as I 'm concerned .
A: Yeah .
B: When you are talking again , uh , billions and trillions of dollars uh , you 're , you 're jeopardizing the future of the country , uh , for today .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That ,
A: So , uh , you talk about jeopardizing the future .
A: Would you be against any deficit spending ?
B: I , I think to bring it in line you are going to have to have a generation that 's going to really bite the bullet to bring it in line .
B: You ca n't ease into it .
B: It took years and years to build up the momentum that 's there now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I , I forget the figures on the interest rate
B: but it 's something like , uh , hundreds of thousands of dollars a second in interest .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Part of the problem is we don't loan from ourselves .
B: We , we buy from intimate international banking .
B: That 's why we have interest .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and I , I , I really feel that , that , that is part of the problem that we , we 've let things get so out of control that , that we don't want to put the brakes on them .
A: But what practical steps could could one take ? Um ,
B: By , by having a , a , a budget that is , is feasible , that is reasonable .
A: Well , but everybody will say that he is for that . Uh ,
A: and , and how will you , make that actually happen ?
B: Oh , of course .
B: Sure .
B: And then add on to it .
B: You take the gross national income and you say our budget is X number of percent of this gross national income .
A: Uh-huh .
B: One thing we could do is give a ten percent income tax . Across-the-board ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: everyone no matter what , pays a ten percent income tax .
A: Yep .
A: Sounds like a good idea .
B: Uh ,
A: Nothing escapes , right ?
A: No , no , deductions , nothing .
B: That 's right .
B: Right .
B: No deductions .
A: Just ten percent .
B: You pay a ten percent income tax .
A: Yep .
B: That 's what you pay
B: if you make forty million dollars , uh , then you 're going to pay four million .
A: Right .
B: if you make forty dollars , you 're going to pay four dollars .
B: And , and that 's it .
A: Yep .
A: So that , that 's it .
A: That 's I mean
A: I , I agree with that
A: that 's a good idea
A: and is it your expectation that that would raise the total revenues collected or , or lower them or what ?
B: I don't know that it would or would n't .
A: Well , what 's your favorite baseball team , Rita ?
B: Well , I suppose I 'm supposed to say the Rangers , right
B: Is that what
B: is the million dollar question here ?
A: Well , that is n't a , a true false or right or wrong test here .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , uh , you know , I would like to say the Rangers ,
B: but unfortunately they 're not .
B: I was from Illinois ,
B: and my favorite team was the White Sox .
A: Not a Cubbies fan , huh .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: my family , my dad was ,
B: but I turned out to be a White Sox fan .
A: Well , that 's all right .
B: I lived in Chicago .
A: How do you expect them to do this year ?
B: Yeah
B: they did pretty well .
A: Okay .
B: What did you think of the World Series ?
A: Well , I 'll tell you .
A: I just , uh , moved down from South Dakota in July ,
A: and , uh , in South Dakota , the Minnesota Twins are the closest professional sports team to where I was living
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so everybody was a Twins fan ,
A: and I was kind of , uh , did n't have much interest in the Twins , you know ,
A: it was , it was kind of pathetic , I mean ,
A: we only had two radio stations ,
A: and one of them broadcast every Twins game live , you know ,
A: and , and the other one was country .
B: So you did n't really have a lot of choice , did you .
A: So , that 's right .
A: There 's was Twins there , or , you know Skip Williams .
B: Or country .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , uh , and I was routing for the Twins myself because , uh , they , a couple of Ranger players that I had watched when we first moved here , uh , went to Minnesota ,
B: and we used to tease about , my son
B: and I used to have a bet going about some of the players that had moved from here to Minnesota ,
B: but it was it certainly was an exciting Series , anyway .
A: It sure was ,
A: it sure was .
B: What do you think going to happen to the Rangers ?
A: Well , I I would like to assume that they 're going to do , do better this coming year ,
B: Or can we predict ?
A: I was sure hopeful anyway .
A: When we moved down , uh , I was able to go to my first , you know baseball game , and thought , this is great , this is incredible .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I became a Rangers fan .
A: I did n't really have one in South Dakota .
A: So I adopted the Rangers ,
A: or rather they adopted me , I guess
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it was just exciting , you know ,
A: you can watch baseball on T V
A: and they hit the long ball ,
A: and it looks like wow , they really hit that ball .
A: But when you go to the ball park , it 's really not all that far you know ,
B: No .
A: and it 's so much more exciting watching a ball come at you ,
A: and .
B: Oh , is n't it though .
B: You know , but , oh , I , I think going to the ball park just really makes it . Because then you watch it on T V you feel like you 're more a part of it too .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
B: Well , I 'm a great sports enthusiast ,
B: so I love , you know , baseball teams ,
B: and they ,
B: in fact , on the news tonight , Nolan Ryan was on there .
B: He was being , he was put in the , which I never knew existed , the Restaurant Hall of Fame
A: The Restaurant
B: The Restaurant Hall of Fame inducted him tonight ,
B: and he , uh , says he 's coming back , you know , uh ,
A: Huh .
B: he does n't know how many years I mean , to pitch .
A: Right .
B: He 'll be at least one more ,
B: and he said he 's been saying one more , and it 's been two and three , might be two and three more .
B: He likes it .
A: That 's right
B: Yeah .
A: and he 's still doing great still doing excellent .
B: That 's right .
B: You know , and he said , I get a kick out of it , you know ,
B: he 's , he 's such a nice man .
A: Well , did n't he just sign a twelve year contract with the Rangers ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and he ,
B: you know when he quits at being active , he will go into , you know being a , managing and , yeah , you know , being a coach , I 'm sure .
A: Management .
A: Right .
B: But , he 's , uh , he certainly is a good example , uh , for the kids .
A: That 's right .
B: You know , you like to have someone like that you could point to say , see what a fine man , that , he is .
A: You know , some of the ,
A: like , uh , Ivan Rodriguez was n't even born when , when , uh , Nolan Ryan started pitching .
B: That 's right .
A: And it 's just incredible to think that there 's , uh , there are players who are the sons of ball players that used to play against Nolan or with Nolan , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and now their sons are .
B: Oh , he 's been a legend for so many years , you know ,
B: and I don't know ,
B: were you here , had you moved here yet when he did the exhibition at U T with his son .
B: His son pitched for U T
B: and he pitched for an exhibition game for the Rangers .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I was n't .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was a ,
B: I think it was a little early part of the summer ,
B: and uh , Nolan against .
A: Was it Nolan against , uh
A: Ryan against Ryan , huh .
B: Ryan against Ryan ,
B: yeah ,
B: his son pitched for U T
A: Well that is neat .
B: and , uh , only , uh , Ryan did n't want too much publicity on it because he did n't want his son getting too nervous about this whole thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: A game is a game , you know .
B: Well , the Rangers really , uh , knocked the socks off of them , which you would expect you know , anyway ,
A: Right .
B: but Nolan I think took himself out after a couple of innings or something , you know , of the game
B: so ,
A: Well , how do you feel about capital punishment ?
B: Well , I , I just last Friday got off a capital murder case .
A: Oh , you did ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I was on the jury . Uh ,
A: Wow .
B: Yeah
B: Which is funny because I got called last night
B: and the topic was , uh , something about juries
A: Oh , really
B: Yeah ,
B: so I am just hitting it right .
B: Uh , how do I feel about it ?
B: I , I don't know .
B: Well , I guess it is right in certain cases . Uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: well , the one I was just on , I don't ,
B: I was an alternate on the case ,
B: so I don't know what was decided .
A: Right .
B: They are probably still in deliberations on it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , what I found out ,
B: once , once I was declared an alternate and I was dismissed , we met with the judge , the two alternates did .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , he went on to tell us how they happened to catch this guy
B: and I remember hearing about it .
B: It was about a year ago .
B: Uh , he was , he was involved in another one , another capital murder the very next month
B: and he was caught just ,
B: they , they drove up ,
B: the police drove up just as he fired the gun and killed the guy .
A: Oh , wow .
B: So he was caught
B: and , uh , it 's interesting because the county I live in ,
B: I 'm not in Dallas county ,
B: I 'm , I 'm pretty far north of Dallas .
A: Okay .
B: Uh , county I live in , in the past ten years only had two capital murders .
A: Wow .
B: And last year there were six
B: and this guy is indicted on three of them .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: so you have to wonder you know .
A: Wow
A: Yeah ,
A: well , the cases like that , they should ,
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , if he 's going to be drastic , somebody has to be drastic back .
B: Yeah ,
B: although , you know , it 's not really revenge because it does n't mean anything to him .
B: You know , he , he has no concept of what he has done .
A: Really ?
B: He just , well ,
B: from what I can tell . I mean , I did n't talk to the guy or anything ,
B: but I mean , he does n't seem to have any regard for anybody 's life including his own .
A: Right .
A: Wow .
B: So , it 's , it 's kind of strange that , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: No , no remorse whatsoever , huh .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: Well , I guess in cases like that , you know , where the guy would , obviously , go out and do it again I mean , you 've got to do something .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , it 's funny because when , you know , they interview you before you go on the jury and for capital murder , I was interviewed by four attorneys for about five hours .
A: Right .
A: Wow .
B: And I ,
B: the ,
B: I was the , I think the ninety eighth person they 'd interviewed .
A: You 're kidding .
B: But , you know at the time when the guy kept saying could you ever convict someone
B: and do you think you 'd ever know beyond a doubt
B: and I said I ca n't imagine ,
B: I said if I knew beyond a doubt or if I felt beyond a doubt that he had done it , yeah ,
B: I guess I could convict him ,
B: but I ca n't imagine you ever making me that sure of something .
A: Right .
B: But they really did .
B: It was , it was really amazing .
A: Really ?
A: Well , I guess if the police came out and saw him fire the gun ,
B: Well , that was a subsequent case that we did n't know about . And those jurors don't know about .
A: Oh , really ?
B: But this particular case , I mean , they had a complete confession from the guy with a lot of things that , that the police had n't released
A: Okay .
B: so no one else would have known .
A: Oh .
B: It was , it was really pretty interesting .
A: Wow .
A: What ,
B: Educational .
A: I guess cases like that , I don't see why they would n't bring in the new evidence from the other case .
B: Well , they ca n't , they can , I think in the punishment phase but not in the guilt or innocence because he has n't been , he has n't been found guilty of it .
A: Okay .
A: Of that crime
B: Right .
A: but he was found guilty of
A: okay .
B: Right ,
B: so you know , it 's , although , it 's not going to take much to prove that .
A: That works .
A: Right .
B: So ,
A: Well , they pushing the death penalty ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: this guy is up for the death penalty .
A: Wow .
B: Uh , and in Texas there is , there is a couple of questions you have to ask , uh , in the punishment phase .
B: Uh , for example , was the guy provoked and was the response reasonable given the provocation
B: And there is a number of questions
B: and just depending on whether you say yes or no , uh , you , you can give him capital punishment
B: and if you 're up to the point where if he still qualifies for capital punishment , then you can look at mitigating circumstances .
A: Okay .
A: So ,
B: So there is a lot of outs ,
B: but the only result is , otherwise he gets life in prison .
A: Yeah ,
A: and I 'm really kind of against life in prison anyway because it costs so dog gone much .
B: Yeah
B: Right ,
B: and , and to me , I mean , you take away a person 's freedom , you 've taken away most of their life .
A: That 's true .
A: I mean , if you 're going to put him in prison for life with no chance for parole ,
B: Yeah ,
B: but ,
B: But then you have to look at reality .
B: I mean , I think , you know , normally they , they may get out
B: so ,
A: That 's true .
B: But what is it worth ?
B: I don't know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Personally I don't know which I would pick if I had a choice for myself .
A: That 's true .
A: I mean , I don't know whether I 'd stay in prison or not
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: so , you said you 're from Mississippi ?
A: Yes , ma'am .
B: And do they have the death penalty there ?
A: Yes ,
A: they do .
A: I ,
A: they 've had a , a number of cases here .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , not a whole lot ,
A: well , Jackson , I heard just the other day had their sixty-first murder this year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It was like last like year they had forty-nine
A: so that 's going up .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , yeah ,
A: they have a death penalty .
A: I hear of one every now and then .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I visited the prison up here and , at Parchman
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I 've been ,
A: I have n't ,
A: they wo n't let you on death row ,
A: but they 'll let you look down the hall .
A: You ca n't see any prisoners
A: and , and it 's kind of a weird feeling .
A: I 've been
A: they took us around on a tour , you know ,
A: and I went , got to walk in the gas chamber
B: Ooh .
A: and it is kind of a weird feeling knowing you 're sitting there saying , like , people have died here .
B: That 's right .
A: But I guess , just going up there and seeing the surroundings and stuff , the people up there ,
A: Well , uh , let 's see ,
A: what type of car do I want ?
A: Well , I 'd like to have a Corvette .
B: Oh , wow .
A: But my , uh , weekly wages don't apply for me to have that kind of car ,
A: so
B: Yeah .
A: uh , I 'm engaged to get married
A: so , I 'll more likely get a car for economic reasons .
B: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh , so , uh , to drive back and forth to work is all I 'll need a car for pretty much .
A: And we have a truck ,
A: so probably a economic size car or , uh ,
B: What kind of a car do you have now ?
A: Right now I have a eighty-seven Cavalier .
A: It 's a piece of
B: My car is really old , too ,
B: because , uh , I drive out of town a lot of the weekends
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I would like my next car to have good gas mileage .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , same here , uh ,
B: you know , a nice car , American made
B: and , uh , you know , a , a nice car , but not too expensive ,
B: because , uh , I could n't afford like a brand new like Lamborghini
B: I hardly drive ,
A: But while we 're talking ,
A: right
B: While we 're talking , my next car , I 'd like to be sporty and , you know nice ,
A: Right .
B: but , you know , it 's expensive
B: and then insurance is really high for that , too
B: so , Something with a , that 's not too sporty because of insurance , then
A: Oh , I know .
A: Right ,
A: that insurance does come into play .
A: I forgot about that .
B: Yeah .
A: What kind of insurance do you have up there
A: or is it real high up there ?
B: Uh , no
B: mine just got lowered because I just turned twenty-one
B: and , uh , I 'm not sure really how much I pay .
B: I just ,
B: my mom 's helping me out , you know , because I 'm a college , I 'm in college
B: and , uh , so I just give her the money and take her word for it
A: Right .
A: Right ,
A: I mean that insurance is high dollars .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it is ,
B: so ,
A: But ,
B: And the more expensive the car , the higher it is
B: so , Unless I win the lottery , I wo n't be driving , anything too expensive .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
A: Right .
B: I don't plan on buying a car for many , many years
B: so ,
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: I have to make this one last as long as I can .
A: What 's everybody drive up there ?
B: Uh , in Kenosha ?
A: I mean in Wisconsin , they drive them little four wheelers or four wheel drive
B: Oh , it just is ,
A: or , do you all need four wheel drives up there because of snow and everything ?
B: Yeah ,
B: we , we have a Jeep with four wheel drive because , uh , because of the snow , you mean
B: or ,
A: Right ,
A: it never snows down here ,
A: so ,
B: Well , we don't have any snow here now .
A: Really ?
B: It all melted .
B: Yeah ,
B: there is no snow at all .
A: We have n't had snow yet .
A: We usually only get like once a year or so .
B: Huh .
A: Kind of strange to you all , huh ?
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
A: Because , how ,
A: it 's like seventy degrees here right now .
B: Oh , don't tell me that
A: Yep ,
A: how , how cold is it there ?
B: Well , actually , it 's been warm ,
B: it 's in the forties .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and that 's , that 's really warm .
A: Huh .
B: Uh , and it 's supposed to rain tomorrow
B: so we ,
B: I 've only seen snow once this year .
B: And it was really bad
B: and then it all melted like within the week .
A: Really ?
B: And now there is no snow ,
B: so ,
A: Huh .
A: But , um , so what , what is your dream car ?
B: Uh , I have n't really thought about it .
B: I 'm not too big on cars .
B: I mean , I don't know the names and stuff ,
B: but if I were to go to a car lot and like look at them I would pick out one that , you know looked really nice .
A: Uh-huh .
A: What 's your favorite color ?
B: Uh , for a car ?
A: Yeah .
B: Probably blue . Like if it , you know , was just an average , middle class car .
A: Blue ?
B: But if I were to get a sports car , maybe white or red
A: Right
A: right .
B: Yeah .
A: So , what kind of car do you drive right now ?
B: Uh , it 's a Sky Hawk Buick .
A: Really ?
B: Eighty-three ,
B: I think .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , like eighty-two thousand miles .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: I 'm afraid it 's not going to last me that long
B: and I hope it does , though .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's a two door .
B: I like , I like smaller cars .
B: They 're ,
B: I find them more comfortable to drive .
A: Right ,
A: does everybody have their windows tinted up there ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: I don't see too many cars tinted .
A: Everybody has tinted down here .
B: Oh , I 'm sure ,
B: yeah .
B: I could , I could see why .
A: So , you been down here before ?
B: Yep .
A: Really ?
B: Uh ,
A: Did you like it ?
B: It was busy
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's different I bet , huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: It was nice .
B: I remember , uh , swimming on Easter day
B: and it was like really cold up here ,
B: but came back with a little tan ,
A: Right
B: so that was nice
A: It 's like , you know ,
A: everybody freaks out when it
B: Hi ,
B: well , I guess ,
B: which one have you got right now ?
B: Or ,
A: Well , I , uh ,
A: couple of them ,
A: I , at the moment , use an A S T two eighty-six
A: and I got a leading edge
A: and I got a American one and had a I B M one ,
A: but
B: My , my ,
B: just a couple .
A: What do you have
B: Uh , I 've got an Omega
B: and I 've got a , uh , generic three eighty , or four eighty-six machine .
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's very , very generic .
A: What did you do , put it together ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and , uh , upgraded it and put things in there and dibbled and dabbled
B: and now , now it 's , now it 's a fast machine
A: Well , that 's ,
A: Yeah .
B: That 's all I got to say for it .
A: Yeah .
A: What do you use it for ?
B: Huh ?
A: What do you use it for ?
B: Uh , work ,
B: uh , I 'm a contract programmer .
A: Oh , yeah ?
A: What kind of programs do you ,
B: Uh , anything
A: Okay ,
A: I mean like business programs
A: or , Man .
B: Uh , I 've done business programming , you know , scientific applications like , you know , petroleum science stuff and , Uh , uh , test equipment
B: and I did the , I , I did one that was , the demonstration of a touch , touch screen for a company that sells , uh , touch screens .
B: It was kind of fun .
A: Uh-huh ,
B: Put a little bitty portable computer in there and a plasma display . And make it look like things like , uh , you know , attack simulators and , and all sorts of little things you 'd want to put your finger on the screen for .
A: Huh .
A: Well , that 's ,
A: Well , that sounds interesting .
A: Matter of fact , uh , I guess you do , uh , you get a lot of graphics in there , I imagine , huh .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: definitely .
A: That 's where the speed helps out .
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: unfortunately the little portable P C that was plugged on the back was only a seven and a half megahertz , eighty , eighty-six .
B: It 's like slow out the
A: Yep ,
A: that will , that will , slow you up
B: Huh ?
A: Well , I , I do , uh , uh , programming for C N C turret presses and uh , cat cam system type things
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , really need a faster system .
A: Uh , I got a new line that I , I sell metal fabricating equipment , and cat cam systems , and tooling , et cetera .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh ,
B: I know a guy that upgrades , uh , for a reasonable cost .
A: Who is that ?
B: Uh , his name is T Q or something like that .
B: And my notebook is somewhere around here
B: See if I can make my telephone cord stretch far enough .
A: I 've tried to do is get this outfit to give me one
B: Uh , he 's , uh , up in ,
B: Huh ?
A: That 's how I got my other ones by selling their product for them .
A: They not only give me a demonstrator , but the hardware as well as the software .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And as they , And as they go to the next one I just keep the ,
B: Oh , that works .
A: that 's why I have so many different levels of P C around at the moment .
B: Uh , here it is .
B: A T S Computers .
A: A T S ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And where are they at ?
B: Uh , do you know where , uh , Custer is ?
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Okay ,
B: he 's , uh , uh , south of Renner on , on Custer .
B: And there is a little bitty mall that looks kind of like , or , strip kind of center .
A: In Richardson there .
B: Huh ?
A: In Richardson ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: I know where you mean .
A: There is a Mobil and all that kind of uh , on that one corner ,
A: that 's about Lookout there , I think , is n't it .
B: Right ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's just south of there .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's a little place , looks like a castle .
A: Yeah .
B: Kind of , uh , little guy in there .
B: He , he , uh , gives reasonable prices .
A: Oh .
B: Like I , I traded my , uh , three eighty-six for the four eighty-six for about six hundred .
A: Really ?
A: Well , that 's a good deal .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was pretty reasonable .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , uh , he ,
B: and he does a good job
B: and he , he , he , uh , guarantees everything he sells .
A: Uh , there is a lot ,
A: you ever go by Lucky Computer there ?
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: I used to ,
A: when I was putting shop floor computers together for guys , I 'd go and get their units and put them together and go and interface the stuff with our systems .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Have n't been doing much of that for the last year or so .
A: So I , I don't know where those guys are at these days .
A: But I , ,
B: Uh , they , they 're up there in that mall . Uh , just below Campbell . Or that strip , strip , center .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: They 're still doing business . Big business , apparently .
A: I tell you , those prices have just , unbelievably come down .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: oh , yeah ,
B: I was amazed I was able to get this four eighty-six for six hundred even with a trade in ,
B: you know , it 's like , wow
A: Yeah .
B: That works ,
B: I 'll go do that
A: I ,
B: And boy that thing screams now .
A: Yeah ,
A: I was kind of surprised how rapidly they bypassed , the three eighty-six .
A: That was n't alive for but maybe two years .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I thought was funny that they kept pushing the three eighty-six S X even though the , the price difference is about ten dollars .
A: Is that right ?
A: That 's it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it , when it comes on the manufacturing floor it 's about ten bucks .
A: I 'll be darned .
B: Yeah .
A: Huh , well ,
A: you 've done .
B: Our most recent series of projects I guess , was , inside was , uh , we remodeled a bathroom recently .
A: Well , how did it go ?
B: Well , it went pretty well , uh , other than the fact that we encountered some , uh , problems that you run across in older homes with plumbing , which one thing led to another ,
B: and eventually we ended up replacing all the pipes from the sink clear back to the main drain . Which meant you needed to take the wall out and start all over .
A: Gee , like starting over , I guess .
A: Uh .
B: It was n't one of those ,
B: it started out as a Sunday project
A: Uh-huh
B: and by , by the next Sunday it was done .
B: It was n't a one dayer .
B: Believe me .
A: Boy , that sounds like , uh ,
A: course , uh , I don't know ,
A: once you get it done , then you probably wo n't have that problem again .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's good for another thirty years .
A: Um , you 've got an older house ?
B: Yes .
A: They are built a little bit more sturdy than
B: Well , that 's the thing that surprised me , because once I got into the plumbing everything in there was copper ,
A: Right .
B: and it was all soldered .
A: Oh , is that right .
B: That 's what drove me bananas , because , you know , I 'm going to the hardware store saying give me plastic pipe and and cement to fit them together
A: Yes .
B: and nothing wanted to go ,
B: so it was like I had to go all the way back to the main drain and start all over .
A: And just start at square one .
B: Really .
A: Uh .
B: That was an all day job , just to get it plumbed .
A: Well , and then if you do it wrong
B: Fortunately , I was very fortunate , uh , in the fact that , uh , when I made the installation of the sink and everything bolted up and we turned the water on nothing leaked ,
A: Everything went all right .
B: everything worked .
B: And I just said , that 's marvelous .
B: I appreciate it .
A: That 's the type of thing you cross your fingers and are glad when that happens .
B: Well , I expected something to leak , you know left a fitting loose , or did n't use teflon tape on one of them or something like that .
A: Right .
A: Yes .
A: Right .
B: But it all came together ,
B: so I , I felt pretty fortunate about that .
A: All worked out all right , huh .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , um , well probably the last thing I did was , uh , paint and wallpaper kids room
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I learned to ,
A: I used the wrong kind of paint .
A: This was n't , must have not been a very good quality , because it just has n't stood up very well .
B: What kind of paint ?
A: It was a latex paint , paint ,
A: it was flat
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I wonder if maybe I should have used a gloss .
A: Uh , but they say you ought to use your gloss mainly in your kitchens , and things like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , and semigloss for trim work , and usually flat for walls .
A: Yeah ,
A: but I think maybe , uh ,
A: I don't know if it was just the .
B: Was it not washable paint ?
A: Well , it , it is a latex paint ,
A: but it just kind of is , is ,
A: so , you know , so it 's supposed to wash , you 're supposed to be able to wash it
B: Uh-huh .
A: but it , um , just looks dingy .
A: I don't know how else to explain it .
B: What color is it ?
A: It 's pink .
B: Pink ,
B: okay .
A: It 's kind of got , uh , oh , just kind of a worn look to it .
A: I don't know even how to say ,
A: just did n't turn out quite as nice as I would have liked
A: but ,
B: Did you , uh , require more than one can of paint ?
A: I , we put two coats on it ,
A: and it 's a small room ,
A: but I think it only took one , uh , can .
B: You did n't have to mix paint then , right .
A: No .
B: Okay .
A: We did , uh , oh ,
A: you do mix the color as far as you start with , uh , white
A: and then they add the color .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: You know what I 'm saying
A: but ,
B: Yeah .
B: But you only had one can of paint that you did the entire room with .
A: Yes .
A: Right .
A: And then I wall papered a couple of walls ,
A: and , uh .
B: How 'd that go ?
A: Well , that was the first time I 've ever wallpapered ,
A: and , uh ,
B: Kind of fun , is n't it .
A: That 's an education in itself .
B: Really .
A: But , uh , the dye lots , uh , must have been a little bit different from ,
A: first of all it takes quite a few rolls , even a small room , if you 're trying to match a design .
B: Repeating patterns is what you have to check for when you , when you buy your paper .
A: Yes .
A: That 's what I needed ,
A: and I did n't think about that .
A: I got a Mickey Mouse print is what I got .
B: Yeah .
A: And so a lot is wasted .
B: Normally it will tell you on the roll how often a pattern repeats .
A: So you know how .
A: See , I did n't even think to look for that .
B: Yeah .
A: And then the ,
A: one of them was just a different color , different color pink , is what it ended up being .
B: Um .
A: And .
B: When you did your papering did you start in the middle of the wall ?
A: No
A: I did n't .
B: Or did you start at the edge ?
A: Is that how you 're supposed to do ?
A: I started at one edge and went over ,
A: then you had to cut around the closet and cut around a window
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh ,
B: I 've had my best luck in papering when I start in the middle of a wall ,
B: and I 'll start with a plumb line . And start in the middle of the wall , and , and go from there , and go all the way around the room .
A: And start right there .
A: Do you seem to get it straighter ,
A: is that the advantage ,
A: or what 's the ,
B: Well , you , you ,
A: Do you have any children ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I have two , two boys , twelve and sixteen .
A: Twelve and sixteen .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: how about you ?
A: Well , I have three ,
A: and , uh , they 're five and three and nineteen months .
B: Oh .
A: So we kind of got different ball game
A: but , uh .
B: Right
A: What , uh ,
A: do you feel like you have any time , to spend with them ?
B: Well .
A: They 're probably at an age where they don't want to spend any time with their parents .
B: That 's true
B: You actually , of course , spend less time with them when they get older ,
B: but it 's , of course , still really important .
A: Right .
B: I have a kind of a fortunate situation , I think , right now with my sixteen year old .
B: Um , I work two nights a week at a ,
B: I 'm a librarian
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: and I work two nights a week at the Senior High School library .
B: They keep it open , you know , for kids to do their work
A: Right .
B: and he , um , and then they , the school district hires an aide , you know , to work for me .
A: Sure .
B: Well , my son is my aide .
A: Oh , well , that 's nice .
B: So , two nights a week for four hours we 're stuck together
A: You 're stuck together .
B: and there 's usually not very much business .
A: No .
B: I mean , some nights it 's just real , real quiet .
B: So .
A: I would suspect your nights would be pretty quiet for the most part .
B: So we , I have sort of a captive audience ,
B: so I really do spend probably more time with him than , than most , you know .
A: Right .
B: But , uh , of course I 'm away from my other son those hours , too .
B: But his dad 's at home pretty much that time .
A: And so that kind of gives him , uh , time with his dad , then .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: yeah .
A: Gives him a little bit of that individual time .
B: But , but it is hard , once they get that age ,
B: I mean , their friends are the most important thing there is .
A: Right ,
A: and they want to be able to spend , uh .
B: That 's right .
A: Well , I 've even noticed that with my five year old . She started kindergarten this year ,
A: and every day that she 's not at school , uh , she thinks we need to have someone over and play
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh
A: and that kind of
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's kind of hard .
A: yeah ,
A: it 's hard ,
A: I think , uh , I find myself getting my little projects going and not taking the time that I should
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm more worried about , Oh ,
A: I did n't this done ,
A: I did n't get ,
A: the kitchen needs to be cleaned
B: Uh-huh .
A: this needs to be done ,
A: and and I need to remind myself to slow down
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 'll still be there tomorrow .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: But that 's kind of hard to do , you know .
B: Yes ,
B: it is hard to do ,
B: right ,
B: yeah .
A: You don't see yourself getting .
B: Well , if you 're kind of a person that likes things , you know , organized or neat
A: Uh-huh .
B: or , you know
A: Right .
B: then I think it , it is hard .
B: It 's , um ,
B: I think one of the nice things about holidays is that , you know , it does give you the opportunity to spend more time yeah , with family .
A: Slow down a little bit .
B: We have , we often go to Illinois for Christmas ,
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: and we 're not this year ,
B: and it 's just really nice because we can do , you know , the things you want to do .
A: You can do , uh , more than than when you travel .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
A: This is the first year we 're staying home , too ,
A: and , uh , I think it 's going to be real quiet
A: but , uh , that 's an opportunity to get out the games
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
B: See , we usually do that ,
B: my , my kids even have already gotten out , um ,
B: my twelve year old got out the Legos which of course he has n't touched since last summer
A: Right .
A: Of of course .
B: but , you know , but every now and then , I mean , he 's got a lot of those technic , those hard kind ,
B: you know , and he wants to be an engineer ,
B: so he still likes all that kind of building stuff
A: Oh , yeah .
B: and , um , we have the train ,
B: and we have n't had that Lego train together for years ,
B: and , um , so he sat down ,
B: and I told him I really wanted him to build the train ,
B: and we would put it under the tree , and that I would keep it together ,
B: I would n't take it apart
A: Would n't take it apart after that .
B: yeah ,
B: and every year I 'd have the Lego train under the tree .
A: That 'd be kind of fun .
B: And , um , so he worked on that for the longest time , ever since school was out on Friday ,
B: and , um , then his sixteen year old brother started helping , too , you know .
B: you know , these are kind of things like during the normal rat race
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: those kinds of things never happen
A: No
B: but .
A: no .
A: In fact in , I think if people would learn to turn off the T V
A: and
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I think that 's a lot of the breakdown of the communication and the communication that would take place in a family ,
B: Yes ,
B: yeah .
B: Which is ,
A: usually people are not sitting in front of that .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: and there 's always a few people in the family that , when they stare at it , you know , they 're totally turned off to everything else .
B: The rest of .
A: Yes ,
A: and you ca n't communicate while you 're doing that , right ?
B: No
B: That 's right .
A: Whereas , uh , I 'm the type of person , I could not sit , well ,
A: I should n't say I could not ,
A: but be very hard for me to sit down and watch a program all the way through without doing something .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: me too .
B: Yeah ,
A: Because they talk so much ,
A: is n't that the ,
B: they talk about T V shows ,
B: and I , huh ,
B: you know , how can you watch that , you know
A: You 're kind of like , what are you talking about
A: and , uh ,
B: it 's the best show on ,
B: I don't know .
A: You feel like you 're a little bit out of it , don't you .
A: They need to have a highlight in the newspaper or something tell us what 's ,
B: Okay ,
B: all set , then .
B: Uh , what do you think about it ?
A: Uh , I think it 's a real good concept .
A: Uh , drug testing procedures would have to be refined .
B: Uh-huh .
A: From what I 've seen on the news there 's a , a pretty good size problem with poor accuracy , poor procedure in , uh , drug testing .
B: Oh , I did n't realize that .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , there have been people who have been turned down for jobs because there was a drug showed up in their , in their , uh , test ,
A: but they did n't know for sure what it was ,
A: but it was a drug ,
A: so they got turned down
A: and , uh , turns out it was a prescription . Or people getting somebody else 's blood test .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Same sort of problem that happens sometimes is these , some of these , uh , like AIDS tests and such .
B: Okay .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's right ,
B: I have heard ,
B: uh , I don't remember what they call it , sort of like a positive , negatives or some , some kind of word they use when a , uh , you get a , uh , a positive indication of drugs ,
B: but there 's not really , there were n't really any there .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , every now and then there 's an error
B: and people are really upset about that when it comes to their rights and their rights being violated .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I work here at Texas Instruments
B: so , uh , we , we do a , let me think , do we , yeah , everyone coming in .
B: I guess I did three years ago .
A: Yeah .
B: Everyone coming in , uh , goes through the drug testing procedure
B: and they talk about it as a , you know , as , as better for the country and better for the working conditions .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So if they , uh , they test for drugs .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I 'm , I ca n't even remember if we do random sampling anymore .
B: I know we did in the military ,
B: but I don't know if once your in they continue to do it ,
A: Yeah
B: but I guess you 're always on call for it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I not very long ago worked for Wal-Mart
B: Uh-huh .
A: and about a year and a half ago they instituted a , uh , a , uh , drug testing program , uh , well drug and alcohol testing program .
A: It 's , it 's not a random
B: Uh-huh .
A: through the
A: it ,
A: as each employee comes in part of the hiring procedure is a , a blood test Uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I think the big problem , though , is , is they send these off to large labs
B: Uh-huh ,
B: right .
A: and then they have thousands and thousands of samples that , uh , going through it in a day and bottles get mixed up , things like that .
B: So your big beef with it is the , uh ,
A: It 's .
B: Is , is , it 's a good idea ,
B: but like you said the drug testing procedures need to be defined a little better .
A: Yeah .
B: Make sure it 's a lot safer because a couple of people are going to be discriminated against unfairly or whatever .
B: Yeah ,
B: I I , I tend to agree with you David .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: my brother , uh , brother used to work for Wal-Mart
B: and then , I don't know if he still does or what because I don't know if Sam 's is actually part of it ,
B: but he , you know is working at Sam 's now .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: Sam 's is part of Wal-Mart .
B: Okay ,
B: yeah ,
B: then he 's been working for the company for a while , too .
B: He , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: Good company , uh ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: You all , uh , have some ,
B: he 's telling me about good profit sharing and all that ,
A: Company 's , that was a great place to work .
B: so .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's good news
A: Yeah ,
A: they got to had two or three years in with them you can start buying stock
A: and you have a , have a little taken out of your check each , each payday to put against , uh , uh , stock portfolio . Uh , not portfolio , just , you know , against Wal-Mart stock .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , you can build a pretty fair amount of stock after a while .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's what my brother was telling me .
B: That 's good , good good deal .
B: Well , uh , how long were we
B: I have n't done this in a couple months .
B: How long were we supposed to discuss for ?
A: Uh , you 're supposed to get five minutes .
B: Okay ,
B: we got a couple more minutes then , I guess
B: Uh , think what else I can say about that . Uh ,
A: Uh , do you have any idea , uh ,
A: let 's see ,
A: you were , you were tested for drugs as you got into T , as , as you got into T I ?
B: Right ,
B: uh , everyone coming in gets , goes through the drug test .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , now , uh , were you asked to wait before starting to work until the drug test came through
A: or ,
B: Uh , no ,
B: well , let me think about that .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was after , I I had already been hired . Uh ,
A: Okay
B: Yeah ,
B: you get hired , then you come in the first ,
B: I ,
B: seems to me I remember that , uh , I was hired , came in and went through some orientation
B: and I thought I ,
B: boy , I ca n't remember .
B: That would seem strange to already be working here in the first week of the drug test .
B: Maybe it was during the interview .
B: I came up a couple times for an interview ,
B: so it 's hard for me to remember where I was when all that happened .
B: But , uh , I guess , just like other companies , other friends I 've been hearing about that have been moving around ,
B: it 's , it 's before .
B: They have to wait for the drug test to come in before you actually get employment ,
B: so I 'm sure that happened to me , too .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: What , what about , oh ,
B: they just instituted it there at Wal-Mart
A: Yeah .
B: so ,
A: They , they , it was after I was already working there
A: and they were n't testing any of those who were already working .
B: Right .
A: So ,
A: Okay ,
A: now then you heard the question ,
A: what what do you like to do for yourself in car automobile repairs ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I 'll tell you , I used to do a lot more repairs when cars were easy to work on , than I do now .
A: Okay .
B: I do , uh , I do the easy stuff now .
B: I change oil ,
B: uh , and then what some people would consider a little more difficult , I , I 'll change spark plugs
B: and I 'll change , you know , points and , you , you know , do air filters , that kind of stuff .
A: Um .
A: Well .
B: But , uh , I ca n't do as much as I used to ,
B: um , I used to do a whole lot more , but not any more ,
B: they 're just too weird to work on now .
A: Is that the reason you 're not doing it ,
A: or are you so busy you don't have time to do it ?
B: Well , that 's part of it
A: Uh .
B: yeah ,
B: part of it is , like you said , I don't have time .
A: Okay .
A: Well being a female and being alone , you , I don't do anything but put gasoline , in my car , and let someone else check the oil even .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , have you had any major repairs recently ?
B: Well , um , on this car I 've got now , no ,
B: but I had a van before ,
B: and it was only two years old ,
B: and it had transmission go out on it .
A: Oh .
B: But fortunately that was covered under the warranty .
A: Okay .
A: Well , you should be , feel very fortunate .
A: I had to have a transmission replaced in an eighty-six automobile
B: Um .
A: and I 'll declare , that 's an expensive .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Maybe I should have just traded the car in .
B: Yeah ,
B: sometimes it makes you wonder .
A: Oh , it just ,
A: well , I have a very comfortable car and I have a health problem that I need a large comfortable car .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , um , anyway , I have a new transmission ,
A: and I 'm sure that any of them would have cost or charged me almost the same amount .
A: But
B: Yeah .
A: it hurts , it hurts real bad .
B: Did you take it to a dealership ?
A: No ,
A: I took it to an independent out in Garland .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , I see .
A: I had , um ,
A: these people were recommended by a neighbor
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , that 's the only thing ,
A: I am not a native of Dallas .
B: Oh , I see .
A: So that means I have to depend on , on trustworthy friends
B: Right .
A: and that 's .
A: Anyway , it 's fixed ,
A: it 's running ,
A: and I pray that I get my thirteen hundred dollars out of it .
B: Oh , gosh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's going to run for a for a while yet .
A: Oh , I know it .
A: It certainly is frightening .
A: What work are you in ?
B: Uh , I , I work for T I .
A: Oh .
B: I , I work in the networking area .
A: Okay ,
A: okay .
B: Do you work for T I ?
A: No .
B: No ,
B: okay .
A: No ,
A: I have just retired from , um , the Southwest Medical Center .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah , where there are a lot of people down there that could help me with my car ,
A: but they 're all too busy .
A: So .
B: Yeah .
A: I have to do it the other way ,
A: and that 's find someone and pay them to do it .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: So I certainly hope you have a nice New Year .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I 'm , I 'm planning on it .
B: Oh , it ca n't be any worse than last year ,
B: that 's for sure .
A: Oh , it could be ,
A: but I don't much think so
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true ,
B: that 's true .
A: I 'm , well , we 're starting out a new one ,
A: so let 's make it a good one .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm going to try and plan on it .
A: Okay .
B: All right , well , I enjoyed the conversation .
A: Thank you .
B: All right , thank you .
A: Bye .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
B: Okay ,
B: what , um ,
B: do you watch much T V
B: or , you know .
A: Um , no ,
A: I don't watch much T V .
A: Sometimes , um , usually the reason I will turn it on is to hear the news .
B: The news ,
B: yeah .
A: But I don't think of that every day , even .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I think I get most of my current events ,
A: well , I get them from everywhere .
A: I sometimes watch T V if I ,
A: I guess I watch T V if I have n't read the paper that day .
A: We don't get a paper
A: but I work , um , at a ,
A: I teach a college class
A: and , uh
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: there 's a ,
A: the library has a paper .
A: And so I often drop in on a break and and read it .
B: Yeah .
A: And I keep the radio on quite a bit when I 'm home .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then I , I figure if there 's big , big news , I 'll hear it from my husband when he gets home or , someone else , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Now I also ,
B: I get it from all over .
B: I watch the news every day ,
B: and I we have a news ,
B: you know , we get the newspaper , and , uh um , magazines , anything .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , I 'm ,
B: I read a lot ,
B: so I get ,
B: um , you know , I 'm , I 'm really up on , uh , current affairs .
B: I get , you know the news and , and everything .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: what 's your favorite news ,
A: do you get a news magazine
A: or ,
B: Um , well , I 'm not getting
B: no ,
B: I 'm not getting any news magazines
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , um , you know , as , as I said , I do ,
B: it 's , uh , it 's easy to keep up on current you know on you know , especially when you , um you know , you get a paper every day .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 've got .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: exactly .
B: And , uh .
A: Are you satisfied with the quality of coverage ?
B: Uh , I don't know
B: Is there anything missing ?
B: I , you know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's kind of hard to know .
B: And I don't know , you know , what , what 's , I mean , what are we supposed to , uh , compare it to you know , I mean , the quality , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: whatever they tell you ,
B: you know , I , uh , I guess I , I , you know , I 'm satisfied .
B: I mean , I ,
B: uh , you know , they , they 're supposedly covering everything that happens ,
B: so
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: you know .
A: Well , I do feel like , a little bit like ,
A: being from California and wanting to hear like
A: I 've heard through the grapevine sometimes that there 's been an earthquake or sliding or something ,
A: and
B: Oh , really ?
A: I don't ever hear it in the news here .
B: Oh .
A: Um .
B: Well , uh , sometimes it 's such a ,
B: you know , it 's , it 's so , um , slight , you know like the tremors are so slight that they don't even bother putting it in the paper .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: But most of the the times I find that even if there are , you know , they do have like tremors out there , you know , there 'll be a small article in the paper about it .
A: Yeah
B: But , uh .
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I sometimes feel like , um , the Dallas paper and the DALLAS NEWS , um , the top headlines are always a murder , you know .
B: Oh , well . That 's what sells papers .
A: That that 's because there 's a high crime rate .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's , um , that 's been like that since they , the first newspaper , you know
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 'm sure .
B: You know , but , um , I don't know .
B: I , I guess I 'm satisfied ,
B: I don't , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , what basis , you know , of comparison do we have really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: really .
B: We don't get a , you know .
A: That 's true .
A: We certainly get enough coverage .
A: I mean , we , we can get news ,
A: you know , I mean , there 's even the C N N channel where we can get world news twenty-four hours a day .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I was going to .
B: Sure ,
B: yeah .
B: Sometimes you don't even want to be bothered with the news because it 's all so bad
A: Yeah
B: It 's all so negative , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: often times .
B: But .
A: So . Yeah .
B: Well , we have to keep talking , I guess
A: Well , no ,
A: I guess we can end .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's just whenever we 're , um .
B: Oh , is it really ?
A: Yeah .
A: Have you always gone until the recording ?
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I don't , I don't , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: I guess we 're not supposed to
B: I don't know ,
B: we 're I guess we 're supposed to wait
B: or I don't know .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I ,
B: you know , like one , uh , well ,
B: was it last week , we were supposed to talk about gardening
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , and it was really funny ,
B: I , I , I mixed it , made the call ,
B: and it happened to be my friend who lives a few blocks away .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: and it was really .
B: We were laughing ,
B: I mean . But , you know , we don't really do any gardening ,
B: so like , that took like a minute
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then we just talked about , you know , whatever , I mean .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Interesting .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I mean , some topics ,
B: really now , you know , now , this topic , this is , I mean ,
B: there really is n't much to say after you know , you , uh , you know , you , you tell the person what , uh , news there , uh , you know , where their , where they find their sources of information from
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: and then , you know , if it 's , uh , if they 're satisfied ,
B: and that 's about it , really .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's hard to talk for five minutes on this
A: Yeah
B: So , um .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I guess I can just say I , it bothers me that I hear a lot about , um , you know , on the news that ,
A: well , it seems like , I don't know , some things are sensationalized or some things are , um ,
A: you know , you 'll hear one report
A: and then you 'll hear that it , you know , they did n't , um .
A: Okay .
B: So , what are your favorite shows ?
A: Um , I like watching COLOMBO and , um , MATLOCK and QUANTUM LEAP ,
B: Oh , really ?
A: yeah .
B: QUANTUM LEAP ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Did you see it the other night ?
A: Um , uh-huh .
B: That was , that was pretty good .
A: Yeah ,
A: that one was .
A: What about ,
B: What do you ,
B: with the psychic and everything ?
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: Okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: I like , uh , I like NORTHERN EXPOSURE and , uh , HOME IMPROVEMENT .
A: Oh , I , well I have n't seen either of those
B: You 've never seen NORTHERN EXPOSURE ?
A: Huh-uh .
B: Oh , it 's a great show .
A: Um , I also like to watch STAR TREK ,
A: but it 's on so late here , that I don't always get to see it
B: Really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: we like it , too .
B: Have you seen the movie ?
A: Uh , I have n't seen any of the movies because I just barely , just like in the last year or so got interested in it ,
A: and they 're , you know , already out with number six by now ,
A: but . So I have n't seen any of the movies , yet ,
A: but I .
B: Oh , you have n't seen any of them .
A: No .
B: Oh , well , they 're good ,
B: they 're real good .
B: They 're , uh , they 're getting rid of the old cast for the movies , though .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Which ones are you watching , the new ones ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've seen quite a few of the older ones .
A: I have n't seen really the new generation that much .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Yeah .
A: Is there one you prefer better , the older one or the the newer one ?
B: Well , they 're , they 're a lot different .
B: But , I like , I like the older ones because at that time , you know , they were really futuristic , you know .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And the newer ones are , I guess the newer ones are real futuristic , too ,
B: but I like , I like both of them .
A: Yeah ,
A: I do too .
A: I have a brother-in-law who really likes the old ones a lot ,
A: I mean , he almost hates the new ones
B: Really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: because he , he thinks the newer ones is like a soap opera and the other one is n't or something ,
A: but , I don't
B: No .
B: Not really .
B: It 's not really like a soap opera ,
A: Oh , I think ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , but it 's ,
B: but that 's true ,
B: I mean , you , you learn more about the characters and stuff ,
B: but that 's the way all shows are now .
A: Yeah ,
A: sure .
A: Well , let 's see .
A: Um , I like to watch COLOMBO because it 's like a mystery thing .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's sort of how Matlock is ,
A: but COLOMBO is way tricky
B: Yeah .
A: I mean he does n't even try to let the person know he 's getting onto them .
B: Well , it seems like they always show COLOMBO , the same ones over and over , though you know what I 'm saying , like that one where he goes to college ,
A: Well , did you see the one .
A: Um .
B: or is this , is there a series on .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: there 's like one on ,
A: well we see it Thursdays at seven ,
A: and it was ,
B: Okay .
A: this last time it was about this , um , movie director ,
A: did you
B: Yeah ,
B: I saw that one .
A: did you see that ?
B: See , that was a rerun .
A: Really ?
A: Oh , I guess I
B: Yeah ,
B: I wondered if that 's
A: Huh .
B: see I don't know if that 's a , the movie of the week or , or what ,
B: but it seems like there 's only about four or five different ones ,
B: and then , then they keep showing them over and over .
A: Oh , I guess I 've , I have n't seen it before .
B: He was a movie director ,
B: and he had that gal killed .
A: Yeah
B: Okay .
A: yeah ,
A: on the set or something .
B: That was pretty good though
A: Yeah ,
A: it was .
A: But , yeah ,
A: I like COLOMBO probably the best of any of those mystery things .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , um , there 's no , never anything good on Saturdays , though
B: No kidding .
A: I don't think so .
A: Well , STAR TREK 'S on at five ,
A: but I 'm never home
A: so ,
B: What is it that ,
B: there 's something I watch , something I watch on Saturdays ,
B: and I ca n't remember what it is .
B: Now I used to watch TWIN PEAKS .
A: Oh .
B: You never saw that ?
A: I 've heard of it a lot ,
A: I 've heard of ,
A: a lot of people somehow or something
A: They 'll say , so and so from TWIN PEAKS , or something , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: that was a different soap opera .
A: Oh .
B: But , it was , it was a different type of show .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I did n't like the way it ended , though .
A: Oh , did they end the whole series ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: they did n't , they only did it for , I think , two years .
A: Oh .
B: But it 's all over now .
A: Oh , another show I like to watch is MASH .
A: So . How 's your products been ?
B: Um , I really have n't had , uh , too many problems .
B: Uh , seems to me that everything that I buy goes bad just after the warranty runs out .
A: I hear that one .
A: Have you had any lately go out ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've had a dryer , an ice maker , a microwave , all three ,
B: and they ,
B: unfortunately I bought them all three at the same time , when I bought my new house ,
B: and , uh , I really don't have any recourse ,
B: so I had to call and have them all repaired and that .
A: Oh , wow .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was a hassle .
A: So you did n't get anything ,
A: even , all the , all the warranties were out ?
B: Yeah ,
B: the warranty on the refrigerator , uh ,
B: the
B: the refrigerator warranty 's still good ,
B: but the ice maker itself , passed its three years ,
B: and it was three years and two months .
A: You 're kidding .
B: No .
A: Yeah ,
A: we just moved into a new house , too ,
A: so we had to buy all those , too .
B: Uh , watch out .
A: Yeah ,
A: the only thing I 've had problems with is , um ,
A: I buy a lot of wood working equipment through the mail
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I bought this paint stripper where they advertise that it 's nontoxic and such ,
A: and when you get the product it ends up being toxic and all these warnings .
A: So .
B: Um .
A: I did n't return it because it 'd probably cost me more than ,
A: I just ended up using it .
A: But , that 's about the only thing I 've had gone wrong .
A: But .
B: I usually have pretty good luck with appliances ,
B: but I just , uh ,
B: it was within two days that all three of these stopped working ,
B: and the the ice maker was , uh , had to have a new pump ,
A: That 's incredible .
B: and the , uh , microwave had to have , uh , some kind of something I ca n't even pronounce ,
B: and they , uh ,
B: the dryer had to have a new heating element ,
B: so it was about , almost three hundred dollars for all three of them .
A: And they all went out at the same time ?
B: Uh , within two days of each other .
A: Or two days .
A: Wow .
B: I was ,
B: it was n't a good week .
B: I was pretty mad .
B: And plus the place that I 'd bought them all had gone out of business ,
B: so even if I , I think even if I had , uh , had kept the warranty , the service agreements were with the companies that , that manufactured ,
B: but still they were through that retailer ,
B: so I don't know if I could have taken it to another retailer or not .
A: Wow ,
A: it 's frustrating .
B: But I did n't have to worry about all that , because they were n't under warranty .
B: So . It was a call to the local appliance dealer who came out and fixed them all ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , I ,
B: the only other things that I 've ever had trouble with , uh ,
B: I seem to have a real bad trouble with electric hair dryers , blow dryers .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: they go out a lot ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've had two or three of those go out .
B: One was under warranty ,
B: and the other two were n't ,
B: but , I just ,
B: other than that , you know , T V and things like that , I have n't ever had any trouble with .
B: I don't think products are getting much better though .
A: Yeah .
A: See I 'm in the manufacturing
A: home from work
A: and make , um , automotive air bags , the safety air bags .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
B: That 's interesting .
A: At Morton International ,
A: and , I
A: well , it 's , it 's changed a lot with the manufacturing environment .
A: We test everything after each assembly process ,
A: and so our testing is pretty thorough ,
A: but .
B: Do you , do you test each individual one
A: Um .
B: or do you just test ,
B: like if you 've got ten , you test one ,
B: and by the test results of the one you assume that the other nine are okay ?
A: Um , the tests that ,
A: well , we test every one electrically .
A: We don't ,
A: I think they test four or five a day , actually exploding the air bags
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , but we do test after , during the assembly project , product , um , after we assemble each part of the inflator or what explodes the bag , we check to make sure it 's there after we install it ,
A: so , each assembly process has an inspection right after it 's done ,
A: and then we do electrical tests on them during the process ,
A: so .
B: Well , that 's something I 've never had to use ,
B: it 's never , I 've never been involved in an automobile accident ,
B: so , luckily that 's a product that I have n't had to test .
A: Yeah .
B: But I think it 's a great idea .
B: I 'm , I 'm ,
B: seems like all the good logical ideas take forever to come about
B: but that .
A: Well , they do the , all the testing that we have to do through the government ,
A: it 's incredible how much testing they have to do .
B: Oh , I 'm sure they want to be thorough before they .
B: But , uh , even ,
B: you know , I don't mind spending the extra money on the car if , you know , even if they pass the savings , the cost onto the consumer , because it just seems like a real worthwhile thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm not a real big seat belt ,
B: my , uh ,
A: Well Jackie , uh , on taxes , I , I guess I would have to say , that I , that my opinion is that I do think Americans are paying too much in taxes .
A: Uh , what 's your feeling about that ?
B: I agree .
B: I think taxes are high .
A: Right ,
A: uh , where you live do you have a state income tax and a sales tax both ?
B: Oh , yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , uh-huh .
A: In New Hampshire we have , uh , uh , no , no , what we call broad base taxes .
A: No income tax and no sales tax .
B: Huh .
A: Uh , we tax business , uh , eight percent ,
A: businesses are taxed eight percent
A: and we have what we call the five B s. Uh , for our taxes . Booze , uh , butts , cigarettes , beds , uh , hotel room tax bellies , a meal tax and bets , gambling .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: So , uh , we do have a very low tax rate ,
A: but you know , combined with the federal income tax . I think that Americans generally do pay too much in taxes
A: and .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I agree
B: and I , think it 's about the time of the year when you just start getting ,
B: well if you do get money back from like jobs ,
B: I 'm still a student so , uh , I only work part time ,
A: Uh-huh
B: so I , I get a check back
B: so
A: Well that 's nice .
B: from , from taxes
B: but ,
A: Nice , nice to get a refund .
B: Yeah
B: It is ,
B: but it 's not much .
B: So .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you think that , uh , for whatever taxes we do pay that , uh , we are getting value for it ?
B: No .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , my , my opinion of taxes is that we just send money to Washington or to the state
A: and they say they are going to send some back ,
A: it 's like giving yourself a it 's like one arm giving the other a transfusion .
B: Yeah .
A: You know what I mean ?
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , it , it really , uh ,
A: I should say one arm giving another arm a transfusion through a leaky tube because , Right because , uh , there 's an old saying in amongst taxes and politicians that there 's a fly paper effect
B: Yeah .
B: There you go
A: and that is that money tends to stick where it lands first
A: and when you send it to Washington or send it to your state capitol , uh , a lot of it stays there and not that much comes back to you .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
B: I don't know .
B: I ,
B: don't seem like they are doing much with it ,
B: I mean there 's plans there
B: and now that they are voting and people , you know , getting into drug and that stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They have nice plans
B: and , uh , but , they don't always work
B: and then you know they try to raise taxes more
B: and I don't what happens with all the money because if their plans don't work ,
B: you know , but taxes get raise
B: so . I don't know .
B: I 'm not really into politics , uh
A: That it ,
B: I don't really understand it
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it 's just you know
A: Well , it does it , it does seem that the more taxes that are raised the more the politicians spend .
A: Uh , it 's almost like they will spend as much as the , they 're allowed to collect . You know .
B: Right .
A: Uh , there is an interesting proposal that 's been going around now for a few years of having a flat tax . Uh , ten percent or thirteen percent .
A: There would be no figuring .
A: I mean you would take your income tax ,
A: you would have a certain amount ,
A: I mean you would take you total salary
B: Uh-huh .
A: those who made under a certain amount would n't owe any taxes ,
A: and then there would be a set amount for however many people , you know , dependent you have ,
A: and you would just pay a flat tax . No exemptions , no deductions or anything else after you know , after you figure up who 's in your family .
B: Right .
B: Huh .
A: And that would eliminate a lot of the bureaucracy in the I R S
A: and it would eliminate all these loop holes that the fat cats get away with .
B: Yeah .
B: The could be nice
A: Yeah .
B: Huh .
A: I , I 'd like to see something like that .
A: I think it would be fairer
A: and it would put a , you know , a lot of the tax attorneys our of business
A: and I am sure they will fight it tooth and nail ,
A: but I really think a flat tax would be a lot fairer for all Americans .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: I mean it does n't seem right that somebody that makes twenty-five or thirty thousand dollars pays four or five thousand dollars in taxes while somebody that makes two hundred and fifty thousand dollars might pay nothing in taxes .
B: Right ,
B: huh .
A: It does n't seem fair to me .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is n't ,
B: there is not much out there that is fair ,
B: that 's for sure .
A: Right .
B: Huh .
B: I will agree to that .
A: I think your taxes in Wisconsin are pretty high . I , I , if I am not mistaken , are n't they ? I mean for your state .
B: Uh ,
A: What is , do you know what your state income tax rate is ?
B: Um , no
A: Twenty percent ?
B: I , I have no idea ,
B: I just .
B: My dad does it all for me
A: Just , you just pay it , huh
B: I use ,
A: You 're like , you 're like my daughter who is in college down in Massachusetts
A: and , uh , she works as a waitress
A: and she is attending college full time also
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she sends her taxes to me
A: and I figure them up .
A: She really has no idea .
A: She gets a refund check
A: and ,
A: Okay .
A: How do you keep up with current events ?
B: Um , well actually , usually , uh , in the mornings I am getting ready to either go to work , uh ,
B: usually catch the news in the morning .
A: Yeah ,
A: what what channel do you watch or what station ?
B: Uh , N B C .
A: That 's the one I watch .
A: I usually keep up with T V .
A: I don't ,
A: I am a student
A: so I really don't have much time to like read the newspapers and stuff
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I get a lot of stuff through the grapevine which is really is n't too great sometimes
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I usually tend to just , you know , rely on , you know , T V , uh , again , you know , just through the grapevine just , just to know like , you know like what today 's stories are
B: and I usually like go out an buy a newspaper if you know I 'm interested in any particular one .
A: Yeah .
A: The radio does n't really have much news sometimes .
A: The stations I listen to are just mainly music .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think you pretty much have to listen to all news station to get any news at all .
A: Yeah .
A: Do you think that T V is , uh , pretty accurate .
A: I mean sometimes do you think it gets pretty commercialized
A: or ,
B: Well , what I really don't like about T V , especially local news as compared to like national news is just , uh , it seems , it seems like everything is very spoon feed
B: and you know it 's , it 's more like the news shows is now is now you know an entertainment show like a sitcom or like the news , because they would always have like the wonderful investigative reports , you know , is your kid 's bus driver smoking crack , on the way to school , you know ?
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's
A: they mainly go with like popular topics just not like basic news .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Also , also I have the observation of , uh , with the press is that , like any any stories that I had any first hand knowledge of that I see in the press , you know , which only happened like ten times in my life you know first thing you know for anything of you know or anything that actually had , had more than just a blurb about it . That the press has managed to just mess up some aspect of the story
A: Huh .
A: Yeah .
B: it 's something wrong .
A: Going ,
A: they 're , looks like they 're going more for ratings than for you know actual news .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think , you know the probably the best source of just plain journalism would be newspapers
B: Uh-huh .
A: they typically have a better .
A: I am from a small town too here in Texas and so that then like local news is really who grew the biggest tomato
B: Uh-huh .
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: the farm report .
A: Yeah ,
A: farm report and oil reports .
A: That 's pretty pretty sad
A: or who killed who .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Also I have found that newspapers probably are n't as bad as television .
B: Read the story and just found it so incredibly watered down
B: and ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well , in , uh , in Dallas , I don't know if you heard about the killing where the guy drove into Luby 's
A: and the story was , uh ,
B: Was that like he started shooting people , people in this cafeteria or something ?
A: Yeah .
A: And the news covered it right , you know , hours after it happened
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they were taping people who were crying who had everything
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then like three days later this , uh , local news station was using as as their promo to promote themselves .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I just thought that was really that 's kind of cold ,
B: Oh yeah ,
B: I have seen that happen lots of times .
B: You know , uh , Channel X gives you the best coverage
B: you know we were on the scene with our team players
B: and ,
A: Yeah
A: and it was just ,
A: they were showing like these dead people
B: Uh-huh
A: and they were showing people crying
B: Uh-huh
A: I mean just taking advantage of you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: They are trying to get the , you know , most emotional response for ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it did n't seem like there was much coverage of the story ,
A: but just the play on people 's emotions
A: It 's just gotten so ,
A: I mean , somewhere there 's , it 's lost a lot of the quality that they use to have like in Walter Cronkite that if you know
B: Yeah
A: and everything .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: You know , I 've pretty much stopped watching local news totally you know
A: Yeah .
B: uh , you know even the national news I just find it to be you know very watered down ,
A: Yeah .
B: very ,
A: What did you think of the coverage of the war ?
B: Uh , I I found it very one sided .
A: Did you ?
B: Uh , you know , it , it just seemed to lack any sort of debate .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , you know , not saying that we that we actually should have been there or should n't have been there ,
B: but it just seemed like , you know .
A: They kept just showing , you know , how great we were doing
A: and it never really showed what actually the damage that really happened that 's
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: a lot of times like the news coverage showed all the , you know , the guys who did n't get hurt coming home and all the big parties
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they kind of you know ,
A: if they were going to show that why did n't they show the guys who you know got really hurt and everything .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I really think that you know in the involvement that the press states , you know that the the military basically sets the press ,
A: Think about , uh , taxes .
B: Well , I think they 're a necessary evil .
B: Uh , I wish the government would operate on the same premise that , uh , businesses operate on
B: and that is , uh you , you don't spend more than you , than you bring in .
A: You spend what you have
A: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that , the general idea is to you know , spend , uh , during a time of recession that , you know , for the deficit spending to help pick up the economy ,
A: but they 're running under the
A: you know , the way they 're running it now , they 're you know , running it under a deficit spending , you know , while we 're not under a recession ,
A: so there 's never any surplus coming in to counter the deficit that we 're running ,
A: so that 's kind of a basic thing of economics , I guess , keep spending , keep going into debt ,
A: you 're not going to payoff what you owe ,
A: but , so , I guess the , the question was more like , uh , do you get what you pay you know , get what you pay for .
B: Well , I ,
B: it just depends .
B: Uh , uh , roads are very expensive , uh , commodity and so is , uh , utilities they supply and police and fire department , uh ,
B: you know , they need to make a living .
A: Yeah .
A: There 's ,
B: So I think for , for , for many years , uh , we 've paid teachers and police officers and firemen who are , uh , to a great extent , public servants uh , we have not paid them really what they 're worth in what they contribute to society .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I agree with that .
B: But , uh , then again , uh , it 's the , hard to justify with all the wastefulness of money that the government spends on all levels of , of , uh , government , including municipalities as well as state and federal governments .
A: I guess ,
A: I 'm , I 'm a student right now
A: and I don't make a whole lot of money
A: and , so , I , I kind of don't pay a proportionate amount of taxes to , I guess , uh , compared to what I get , because I , you know , all my , my education is state sponsored .
A: I go to a state sponsored school
A: and , uh , my education all up through high school and stuff ,
A: so I guess I 'm kind of in debt , I , I suppose , because I don't , you know , been paying taxes all that , all that long .
A: My parents , I guess , however , have contributed to that , you know , for the education side of it and everything ,
A: but , uh , I usually end up getting money back .
A: I will this year anyway from a ,
B: Uh , you 're very fortunate .
A: Yeah ,
A: I am
A: I need it , too ,
A: otherwise ,
B: We just try not to pay any more in than we have to ,
B: uh , we pay in a substantial amount . Uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: We don't regret paying taxes .
B: We do think that , uh , sometimes , uh , we have a reverse of a regressive tax , a progressive tax .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And progressive tax , I think , uh , does not give people incentive to make more money ,
B: and what I mean by that , the more income you make , the more tax you pay .
A: More taxes you pay .
B: It should be , I think , a flat percentage
B: and , uh , that percentage ought to be an equitable amount .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Is n't ,
B: Uh , last year when they passed the tax laws for the , uh , nineteen ninety , ninety-one , whatever , nineteen ninety-one uh , I added up all the taxes that we were going to pay on all these different specific luxury items and travel expenses and everything else ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I totaled them all up
B: and basically , uh , we were going to be paying seventy or eighty percent tax .
A: Wow .
B: Now , that was the assumption that you spent that same dollar for every , for every item on there even though there 's , uh , taxes on different things .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well is n't ,
B: But , you know , there 's there 's a lot of taxes you pay that you 're not even aware of that you 're paying , uh ,
B: like when you buy a tire , you pay a federal excise tax .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: there 's a lot , yeah , lot of hidden taxes .
B: You pay gasoline taxes every time you pump something into your , your tank .
A: Uh-huh .
A: The taxes that people don't think about that ,
A: yeah ,
A: the , the , the income tax is a lot more visible portion of the taxes you pay , I guess .
B: But you probably pay more percentage wise in other taxes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: There was that ,
A: which
A: was it Jerry Brown ,
A: one of the democratic candidates had a proposal for doing away with all the , the tax codes they have now and implementing a I think a flat percentage , something like that .
B: Yeah
B: if you implemented a flat percentage , it would encourage people , uh , to make more money
B: and the , what people need to understand in my opinion , now this is just my opinion , okay , uh , is that businesses create jobs and jobs create income and income pays taxes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , so , if they penalize businesses , business people are smart enough to say , here 's my break point , I 'm not going to work any harder and make any more or create any more jobs .
A: Right .
A: Exactly .
A: That 's , because until , like eight ,
B: And so ,
B: Based on that , who do you think you 're talking to ,
B: you 're talking to an employer .
A: Up until , like , eighty-five or something was the ,
A: Well , actually , uh ,
A: I , I don't think I 'm in the , uh , majority of , in , in Texas
A: I don't think I agree with ,
B: Oh really .
A: No .
B: You don't believe in it ?
A: Uh , I would n't say that .
A: I think I would have said that a few years ago .
A: When I was younger I thought it was , uh , a sign of a civilized society if you did n't have , uh , capital punishment
A: but , um , uh , maybe slowly changing my opinion .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm not thoroughly opposed to it .
A: I still think it 's sort of true that a more civilized society would n't have to use capital punishment
A: but I 'm beginning to believe this is less civilized society than I thought
B: You sound a lot like a friend of mine . A a girl I hang out with .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She has very , very black and white opinions , you know .
B: There 's no gray in her opinions , you know .
B: She , she probably would agree more with you
B: but , but I don't know .
B: I think I would rather a person go ahead and be put down than give them the opportunity to get out and do it again .
B: I 've never had a , a punishment or a , a crime like a murder touch my immediate family
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I still feel very strongly that capital punishment is a good way to , to punish , especially criminals who seem to have absolutely no remorse for what they 've done .
A: Yeah .
B: And we see that more and more .
B: Like in our state right now , there 's a fourteen year old boy who raped and then killed a seven year old girl
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , that 's fourteen years old .
B: What 's he going to be doing when he turns into an adult .
A: Yeah .
A: I certainly don't , uh , advocate turning people like that loose .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm not sure executing them , uh , does anymore than keeping them in jail ,
A: but , uh ,
B: No
B: it does n't
B: but , it costs less .
A: Yeah .
A: That , that 's a factor .
B: And , yeah ,
B: to me it is .
B: I mean , I work and I pay my taxes
B: and I lived out in Texas for a little while
B: and they 're
B: and that 's a pretty heavy state compared to Georgia
B: I mean you guys are , are a lot more , uh , for to each his own even than we are in Georgia .
A: Right .
B: But even in Georgia that 's the attitude for the most part .
B: If I work and pay my dues you work and pay your dues and we 'd get along just fine .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: But when I 've got to work to pay my dues and your dues then I don't like you very much anymore .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I ,
A: the cost is something
A: but it 's , but I think it 's relatively unimportant compared to what 's the most effective way of , dealing with crime
A: and I guess I would like ,
A: I don't know ,
A: the European countries certainly , uh , none of them have capital punishment
A: and they they don't have a crime problem either .
B: Oh , really .
A: No ,
A: you ca n't ,
A: they don't execute anybody in Britain or France
A: and I don't believe they do in Germany or Italy either
A: and they don't have the crime problems we do .
A: I don't really think that there is too much of a relationship between the two .
B: Yeah .
A: I guess what worries me about capital punishment is , uh , when I see people enthusiastic about it and , uh , uh , sort of bloodthirsty . I think it brings out the worst in the , in the people who do the punishing
A: and the , that , that bothers me .
B: You might be right .
A: But it ,
A: but , uh ,
B: I mean I , I 'd hate to be the person to pull the switch , you know ,
B: I would never in a million years want that job
A: Huh .
B: but I do believe it 's necessary
B: and I ,
A: Yeah .
B: On the one hand I , I guess I admire the person who has the guts to do it because I could n't I could n't stand behind a gun and shoot somebody for nothing
A: Huh .
B: and I could n't pull the switch
B: but , uh ,
A: Well actually I ,
A: the other thing that bothers me is when it becomes a political issue because I don't really think it , uh , I don't really think it 's a very important aspect of fighting crime or law and order or anything else .
A: I think it just becomes a , uh , symbolic I 'm tougher than you are type of emotional issue for politicians
A: so
B: Yeah .
A: I would like for it to be settled once for all and , uh , get in the background while the more important issues get discussed , uh , uh ,
B: Right .
A: Like I said , some years ago , I think I would have said there 's no place for capital punishment in the , civilized western country .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Now I 'm , I 'm not so sure of that .
A: I 'm , I , I would n't vote against somebody just because it was for capital punishment and nor the other way around .
B: What what 's making you become more convinced that it might be a good way of punishing
A: Uh , I guess I 'm , I 'm ,
A: my view of uh ,
A: my ,
A: I 'm beginning to believe that some people are simply not rehabilitatable and , uh , that , uh , uh , costs and other factors justify , uh , uh , executing people .
B: Yeah .
A: Maybe it 's more a symbolic gesture that , uh , uh , than anything else
A: and , uh , I 've also never been a victim although I have some , I have two friends whose wives were murdered
A: and , uh I can imagine that , uh , uh , for some people it would be the only form of justice in that case .
B: Oh , gosh
B: Oh yes ,
B: if it ever touched my
B: I don't know what you drive now .
B: I mean , what do you drive now ?
A: Uh , I have a Ford pickup
A: and , uh , the family car is a , uh , a Dodge Caravan . And , uh , because we have three kids and they 're under thirteen
B: Oh , okay .
A: so , uh
B: Throw them in the back .
A: they sort of fit our requirement .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have a , one of those , uh , pickups with the , uh , seat with a seat in the back .
B: Cab .
B: Oh , yeah ?
A: And so they just fit in there .
A: When they get to be teenagers with long legs , it may not work .
B: Yeah
A: Right now , I can , right now , I can throw them all in the back when we have room
A: and , uh and since I do a lot of projects , I throw things in the back
B: There you go .
A: and I kind of like having a pickup truck .
B: Yeah ,
A: Actually , I think of it as a as a car that 'll last
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: I know .
A: I like the way trucks are built
A: and I don't care about comfort .
A: So , I 'm pretty happy .
B: Yeah ,
B: you 're looking at ,
B: I got a Toyota Four Runner .
B: I wanted a truck that I , I wanted something that I could throw people in the back too ,
B: so I got a Four Runner .
A: So I would n't hesitate to get another one .
A: I , I never buy new
A: so I would n't hesitate to get another used truck .
B: You 're just like me .
B: I 've never bought a new vehicle in my life .
A: And , uh , yeah ,
A: I don't , I don't need to pay for the glitz .
A: I 'll let somebody else , uh , have the showroom shine
B: No .
A: and I 'll pay for the rest of it .
B: Let somebody else break it in ,
B: right
A: Right .
A: And , uh , the van we 're
A: we might go again on a , on a van .
A: We , we could probably do with a , a , something just a little bit larger than a compact in a sedan next time .
A: I 'm not sure .
B: Yeah .
A: We have to , we , we 'll have to face it in a couple of years
A: but , uh , I , I guess , we had a small Toyota wagon
B: Right .
A: and we were real happy with that because , uh , my , my second requirement after price is , uh , low maintenance .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , it certainly had that .
A: We did n't do much to it at all .
B: Yeah .
A: So .
B: Yeah ,
B: my , my ,
B: pretty much the same .
B: I , I got a , like I say I got one of those Toyota Four Runners
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it pretty much does everything I need it to .
B: I mean , it , it 'll tow three thousand pounds
B: so I can tow everything
B: and it ,
B: I can throw ,
B: I 've had eleven people in it before Believe it or not .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it 's real reliable ,
B: I , I mean I 've had it for almost four years now
B: and up until , oh , say two weeks ago , it had never had anything wrong with it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then , of course , two weeks ago , it decided ,
B: I don't know ,
B: it 's the strangest , weirdest thing in the world ,
B: but it blew a head gasket .
A: Uh-oh .
B: Did n't do any damage to it .
B: Uh , I caught it real early .
A: How ,
A: at how at how many miles ?
B: Uh , oh ninety-seven thousand .
A: Huh .
B: So it 's not real early
A: You did n't overheat it ?
B: No .
B: Never overheated it .
B: I smell , I smelled the , uh , I smelled the coolant
A: Uh-huh .
B: Went out and looked .
B: Saw it was , saw where it was coming from .
B: Drove it right to the shop and left it off .
A: Huh .
A: Well that was , ,
B: And that was it
B: because I , I have that
B: and then I have a , a Kawasaki motorcycle . Which is , actually , the , usually my preferred mode of transportation if I can take it and it 's not raining .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean that 's , that 's sort of my , hobby though more than a vehicle .
B: It , it 's a
B: I don't know ,
B: people who buy motorcycles for transportation I think are kidding themselves
A: I have one colleague that , uh , commutes to work on one when it 's not raining
A: and , uh , uh , he 's a ,
A: it 's ,
A: he 's pretty conservative guy .
A: I don't think it 's much of a sport for him . I guess , uh ,
B: I know
B: but I bet you he really enjoys riding it .
A: I 'm sure he does ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: So , you know ,
B: when was the last time you took out , took your truck out just to , just to go driving ?
B: Yeah .
A: No
B: And I go out twice a week on the bike , so . At least . Just for the enjoyment .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh .
A: Yeah
B: But , yeah ,
B: I , I mean , the only thing I think I might get , a new car or , not necessarily a new car but , a , another car ,
B: uh , I would consider going to a , a non , to a normal pickup rather than a , a covered pickup like the one I 've got . Just because there 's a lot of times I wished I had , just an open bed to throw stuff in .
A: Right .
B: I 'm sure , I 'm sure that that 's very ,
B: I mean you got one .
B: It 's , that 's really convenient to be able to throw that sort of stuff in the back
B: and ,
A: If I only had some place that I could store the , uh , camper top , I would have it off most of the time .
B: Right .
A: I really leave it on there just for , just to have it out of the way because you put it on the ground it gets dirty .
B: To have it out of the way .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , they 're solid .
A: Uh , trucks are built , uh , I mean ,
B: I think they last a lot longer than anything else .
A: They 're the only things Americans still know how to build
A: and , uh
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: the trucks do .
B: Uh , even though , you know , the Jap , the little Jap trucks are , are good there too .
B: But so are the ,
B: though I think the Chevies ,
B: I don't think the
B: I don't like the Chevies as much as I like the Fords .
A: Yeah .
B: I think they , I think the Fords tend to last a little longer . At least until recently
A: Right .
A: I I kind of like mine ,
A: yeah ,
A: so , mine 's a Ford
B: A friend of mine just bought , bought like a year ago . It , it 's a really nice truck .
B: I mean , I don't like Dodges at all
B: but one of the Dodges they have out now has a , uh , the Cummins turbo diesel on it .
A: Oh , I heard about that ,
A: yes .
B: Oh , it 's beautiful .
A: Yeah .
B: That thing , that thing will last forever I mean ,
A: That , that 's a serious truck .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: that thing 's , uh ,
B: it 's got a boat engine in it
A: Right ,
A: this , uh ,
A: I , I know a contractor who just got one of those .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He 's pleased with it .
A: Well I have n't had an awful lot of , uh , incidents regarding child care .
A: When my two year old was in New Orleans , she got bit on the cheek
A: and , uh , but , uh , that 's about the , the , uh , the extent of it .
A: But , but , but when ,
A: I really am , am concerned about is that , uh , so many of these child care places are , are coming under , uh , uh , you know , investigation for , for , uh , you know , child molestation .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I , and I , and I 'm saying to myself , well , you know , you dump your , your , your little turnip off to , uh , you know , this child care place
A: and they don't pay very much
A: and why , why would they be interested in , in your little turnip unless , you know , one of the motivations in the hidden agenda is well that 's somebody to molest , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , that 's a terrible kind of thing
A: and I don't think my children have ever been subject to that
A: but my wife did n't work
A: and so we really did n't have that much exposure to it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well I am a working mother
B: I have three children
B: and my children , since I , uh , since they were very young ,
B: I 've had various , um , different alternatives , child care arrangements
B: and like most working mothers I 'm really not defensive about it .
B: I personally feel , uh , in our particular situation , I 'm a much better mother when I work out of the home
B: and my kids , I think , are very , very secure , well raised children .
B: My comment on this is that we paid an absolute fortune over the years for a variety of opportunities .
A: Huh .
B: So I , I , I ,
B: you know , it is a problem .
B: And , but as you pointed out , I , I think the real problem is the low pay child facilities
B: and that is sometimes what some women who have to work , that is all they can afford .
B: When our children were very young , we had a pay , a live in paid baby-sitter that was wonderful .
A: Huh .
B: And then as they got older , they went to , uh , I preferred to call them schools
B: and they were really all day preschools
B: and they were wonderful .
B: And I think they got exposed to a lot of neat things .
A: Oh , well that 's interesting .
B: But we did , we really truly did pay a fortune .
B: I mean we were paying at one point , well about , about a , close , about five hundred dollars a week for two children .
A: Oh , my God .
B: So .
A: Well you must have a , just one hero ace professional job to support something like that .
B: Well , I
B: I 'm a physician . Uh and , as is my husband .
A: Oh , well , yeah
B: And , and I felt , uh , very good about working .
B: I 'm a pediatrician actually .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , but I think there are some wonderful child care opportunities out there for children
B: but , and we all know the kind of things that you 're supposed to look for . I think ,
A: Well , not , not all of us .
A: You know what the kind of things you 're supposed to look for .
A: I 'm an engineer .
B: Oh . Well
A: And ,
B: I think it 's real important that you have a place that , first of all parents have a lot of input into and that they 're always welcome and that they have a lot of activities where parents come in during the day and that at any time you can drop in .
B: And we had a really wonderful arrangement , uh ,
B: I 'm with the university actually
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they had a wonderful , uh , program that started at age three
B: and it was about a block away from the hospital where I work .
B: And so , many times , at lunchtime , I would go over and visit the children and eat with them and see what they were doing .
B: And they had wonderful ,
B: they had things like gardens and lots of pets
B: and just , they had a four to one uh , teacher student ratio .
A: Yeah .
B: So that , that sort of an ,
B: most of the teachers had degrees . Uh ,
A: Five hundred dollars a week . For two kids .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's incredible .
B: It was incredible actually
A: Oh , oh .
B: But it was good .
B: I mean it was , it ,
B: at that time there were two children
B: and they were in special programs
B: and each one was a little over two hundred a week
B: and then , in addition , I paid a little bit extra .
B: But the kids were ,
A: Well .
B: I mean they really had some great opportunities .
B: But ,
B: what you were alluding to earlier is , you know , women who work for minimal wage and , and really have feel they have to put their children ,
A: Yeah .
B: sometimes they do put them in , uh , fairly low paying situations .
A: You know ,
A: they could ,
A: somebody will have a job at three hundred a week to get off welfare
A: and you know , that 's a good starting wage
B: Uh-huh .
A: but boy three hundred dollars a week does n't go very far on child care .
B: Uh-huh .
B: No ,
B: even that , that really , I think , I don't ,
B: it 's been awhile since I 've looked at ,
B: my youngest child is eight .
B: So it 's been a little while since I 've looked into , actually daycare centers .
B: But they are
A: Huh .
B: you know , the good ones do cost maybe sixty dollars a week since .
A: I mean we used to pay , pay fifty cents an hour to baby-sit .
A: But mine are twenty-two , twenty-three and twenty-seven
A: so you know , that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess baby-sitters now are up at , what , five dollars an hour ?
B: Something like that .
A: Oh my .
B: Well , you know , but you made the comment earlier , why would someone be interested in children .
B: I mean it has been a real , uh ,
B: there have been some good entrepreneurial type experiences .
B: And I think , I think they have captured a certain market .
B: Again the ,
B: but then there are baby-sitting groups .
B: As a pediatrician , one of the things we 've been real concerned about is the infections .
A: Uh-huh .
B: As you start putting lots of little kids together , the infection rates that go around
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Hi , Cynthia .
A: What did you wear to work today ?
B: Um , let 's see .
B: What did I wear to work today ?
B: Um , actually I wore corduroy shorts with a white blouse , um , and flat shoes .
A: So , can you dress pretty casually ?
B: Um , on occasion . On occasion .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , I do vary .
B: Um , you know , I wear suits ,
B: I wear skirts and sweaters .
B: On occasion I can wear jeans .
B: Um , how about you ?
A: Well , I , um , run a business out of my home .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I tend to get up in the morning , put on , sweats , um , do whatever I want to do with the kids , then whenever I have a meeting with a client , I 'll put a suit on . And then come home and get back into regular clothes again
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um , you know , there 's real no , no real dress code where I work .
B: Um , you see people wearing , you know , all different attire .
B: I , um , don't like to wear heels , that really tires me out .
B: I work in a big building .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I predominantly wear flat shoes .
B: Um , you know , in the winter I wear sweaters ,
B: in summer I , you know , I like one piece dresses , short sleeves , things like that .
A: I 've recently , um , tried to update my wardrobe , trying to put suits together that I can interchange , the , jackets and the blouses and all that a lot .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: That 's helped me a lot with having ,
A: I can only have a , a limited wardrobe , since I 'm only , working part-time right now .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , but still , it gives it some variety . Add different blouses and scarves and belts and things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: accessories ,
B: uh-huh .
A: What about your casual wear ?
A: Do you like to wear jeans most of the time ?
B: Um , yeah
B: mostly .
B: I mean , at home I predominantly wear laughs while saying remainder of sweatpants and things like that , also .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's nice you can wear shorts , especially on a day like today when it 's so hot .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , they 're , um , you know , they 're like
A: Dress shorts .
B: yeah ,
B: they 're like black corduroy Bermuda shorts .
A: Yeah .
B: And sometimes I wear a blazer with them ,
B: and I get really a lot of compliments on them .
B: Um , where I work is predominantly male .
A: Yeah .
B: So , you know , they ,
B: their attire is always the same , you know . Suits or slacks , you know , jeans , whatever .
A: Yeah ,
A: but ,
B: And , um , but I 'm really the only woman , I guess , at work that does that ,
B: but seems to work for me
A: Yeah ,
A: but .
B: In fact , I just bought , I , I just got a new outfit as a gift that , um ,
B: it 's one of those skorts ,
B: you know ,
B: it 's shorts but it looks like a skirt .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I think that 'll be good for work , too .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: It 'll be comfortable .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: So ,
A: I guess down here , uh ,
A: we just recently moved to Texas ,
A: so my wardrobe has changed quite a bit .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , we moved from Colorado where ,
A: and I have a closet full of sweaters .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That ,
B: Well , see , I live in Virginia .
A: You live in Virginia , now ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , that 's interesting .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: So , I 'm ,
B: you know , like right now , today was in about , you know , the fifties .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , um , you know , I , I do wear a lot of sweaters and things like sweater dresses .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'd like to be able to wear those here .
A: Today it 's eighty-eight degrees .
B: Oh , my
A: So
B: Uh-huh .
A: Needless to say , my sweaters have been hung in the closet for quite a while now
B: Uh-huh .
A: Today was , uh , definitely a shorts day around here .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: we 're still pretty much , you know , in winter , as far as that goes here .
A: This is pretty unseasonal ,
A: but , uh , at least , we ,
A: you know , it , it , it feels good ,
A: it gets , uh ,
A: everybody does n't have cabin fever today .
A: It 's nice to get , out and about .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I guess we 've discussed everything there is about clothing
A: Okay .
A: Sounds good .
B: Okay ?
A: It was nice talking to you .
B: Okay ,
B: it was nice talking to you , also .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Hi .
B: Hi ,
B: um , okay
B: what , now , uh , what particularly , particularly what kind of music do you like ?
A: Well , I mostly listen to popular music .
A: I , uh , listen to it all the time in , in my car ,
A: so , I , I tend to be one of those people who switches stations a lot because I don't like commercials .
A: But , uh , I find myself listening to popular music ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , quite honestly , I , I have some little children
A: and I , unfortunately , found myself listening to a lot of nursery rhyme music here lately ,
A: but that 's not by my choice .
B: Oh , really .
A: How about you ?
B: Well , um , I don't have that , I don't have that are experience to share
A: Lucky you .
B: I , I do , I do listen to a lot of ,
B: you know , I do , I switch the stations a lot because I don't have a cassette player in my car .
A: Um , um . Uh-huh .
B: Uh , uh , however , I , I do , I do like a lot of different forms of music
B: so I switch quite often .
B: Um , I think I like ,
B: I , I 'm really particular about the type of music that I listen to .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , the , uh ,
B: there 's such a wide selection ,
B: I think I like a lot , I like a little bit of a lot of different types of music .
B: You know , I , I , I like music that is , that I feel
B: if it is performed correctly or if it 's done right , or if the version is done right , I like it
A: Yeah .
B: but , if , if it 's not , then I wo n't .
B: I , I really don't ,
A: How do you feel about rap music ?
B: Rap .
A: It seems to be so popular these days .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I , I don't really have anything against rap music .
B: I ,
B: the one thing I do object to about rap music is , is when it becomes militant , or , if it 's , uh , violence oriented .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: I , I have strong objections to that .
B: Um , actually I listen to ,
B: one time I remember , this was back when , even , uh ,
B: I would say about ten or fifteen years ago I ,
A: When it was really just starting .
B: Yeah ,
B: right
B: when it was just starting , I heard what was called talking blues , which actually is rap .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it was about ,
B: the , the piece of music , the piece of music was about , I think about forty or fifty years old .
B: And , it was incredible , I mean , the parallel , you know , between it and rap .
A: Right .
B: And , um , you , you listen a lot ,
B: if you , if you hear a lot of old gospel , uh , uh , especially well , the black gospel .
B: You know , you will , you know , you can really pick it up . I mean ,
A: Yeah ,
A: you really .
A: It seemed to be influenced by a lot of different music .
A: A lot of times you 'll hear songs that you know , they 're not original , but have been put to a rap kind of a rhythm .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , sounds , it sounds so much different
A: and yet , I , I have a much younger sister who listens to a lot of rap music
A: and , uh , she thinks its pretty funny how often I know all of the words to songs that she 's listening to ,
A: and yet , she thought they were brand new , original pieces .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: they , they do , they do copy versions , they do cover versions of , of , you know , like standards , I guess you could call it .
A: That 's right .
B: I think it 's kind of absurd , you know , the fact that , you know , they don't really , they don't really give , you know , the original artist , or the original composer , the credit that is really due to them .
A: No .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess there was even a , a bit of ruckus caused by the M C Hammer , who 's really , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: seems to be the hot one of , of today .
A: He used , um , WILD THING .
A: Do you remember that , that song .
B: Yeah .
A: he used , um ,
A: I ca n't remember who the artist was on that .
B: Jimi Hendrix was the original .
A: Who ?
B: Jimi Hendrix was the original .
B: He wrote
A: Was it ,
A: well , maybe it was n't that one .
A: Because , it was a living , it was a living person that I 'm , I 'm thinking of that , um , that said , `` You know , hey that , those are my words . ''
B: Okay .
A: And , uh , I guess that they , because they had n't originally gotten , um , permission , from him to use it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , he , he since then has , has amended that , and paid them his royalties every time the , the song goes on
A: but ,
B: Yeah .
B: I don't know
B: it may have , it may have been somebody else , because I think , I think that even Jimi Hendrix did it ,
B: I think that was a
B: you know , come to think of it , I think that was a cover version of , like a John Lee Hooker song , or something ,
A: Maybe so .
A: I , I , ca n't think .
B: I mean it was just like ,
B: it was really old .
B: I mean I , I ,
B: there are a lot , there are so many different songs ,
B: I mean like the whole thing about cover versions a lot of times . I mean I 've heard some songs that , that I just thought were horrendous cover versions of ,
B: I 'm like , you know , I , I don't want to listen to this . Because you know , you think of the original is like ,
A: Yeah .
B: you know , oh , that was really great .
B: That was a , you know , a really good piece of work ,
B: and then when you hear the cover it 's like , you know , God , what are they doing .
A: Right .
A: They destroyed it .
B: I , I think a good one was , um ,
B: there was a Peter Frampton song ,
A: Oh , yeah !
B: and , then the cover version , I think , I mean , I thought , was absolutely , it was pitiful .
A: I , I remember seeing the video of it on M T V ,
A: and I thought it was hideous .
B: Yeah .
B: I did too .
A: It was ,
A: ugh , I did n't like that either .
B: Yeah ,
B: but you know , whatever became of Peter Frampton .
B: I mean , there was nothing ,
B: he was a phenomenon ,
B: I there was no reason for him to really come into , you know , great stardom or anything .
A: I remember , I saw him in a concert , when I was ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think , I think it ,
A: I think it was in high school .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that probably what did it for him was the fact that he was a good stage performer .
A: Uh-huh .
A: He was very good .
A: I remember I saw him in a huge stadium in , uh , Philadelphia .
A: It was in J F K Stadium , if I can remember .
B: Oh man .
A: Hundreds of thousands of people is what it seemed like .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've , I graduated back in seventy-nine ,
B: so ,
A: Um , um . Uh-huh .
B: but , but I 've really ,
B: I , I loved ,
B: I mean , I was , I was really into the album oriented music , even then ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I was really familiar with a lot , with a lot of , of the A O R type music .
B: Um , the album oriented like the , uh , James Taylor , and , the , uh , the Beatles ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: and you know , I mean , a lot of people they go , they 're better than the Beatles ,
B: and I 'm like , you know , you don't know what you 're talking about .
A: No
B: I mean , the comparison made between New Kids On The Block with the Beatles It was just ,
A: You can only laugh
B: Yeah ,
B: you just sort of ,
B: you know , well I guess I can just humor them , you know At this point .
A: Right
A: well , they ,
A: I guess our age is showing when , we , we think that .
B: Yeah ,
B: but well , you know , I , I , I 've liked a lot of the new music .
B: I think , um , um , when
A: Uh-huh .
B: I saw some promise , you know , with , with a lot of the new wave , when it , when it came out , uh , back in the mid and early eighties .
A: Yeah .
B: And then , um , I don't know
B: music is kind of in a weird , it 's in a very weird position right now .
B: I think that ,
B: I mean , I like , you know , things like to hear , you know , what they call world music . Which is , you know , using all these natural forms of music
B: and ,
A: Like Paul Simon .
A: Like ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: Paul Simon .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , you know , really that 's not world music .
B: But , what , what Paul Simon 's doing , I think is , is , is great because he 's , you know I think , I think that using , I guess what they call it is eclectic , you know . drawing from a lot of different sources and making , you know , a synthesis of a new type of music . Um ,
A: Yeah .
A: What do you mean by world music ?
B: Well , world music is , um ,
B: a lot of the , a lot of where they , where they make music that they adapt to a , to another kind of , to another type of listener .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , for example , let 's say you 're taking like an original Brazilian form of music and , with a certain style ,
B: and then you try to make it a little bit more listenable for , let 's say another audience , let 's say a North American .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , then when they hear it , it , it 's a really , it 's another form of music , and , you know , sort of , um , trying to draw out the best sources .
A: Um .
B: The , the best of every type of music .
A: Right .
B: Because , I mean , there are some , I mean ,
B: I , I
B: there are some , you know , types of heavy metal that I really like ,
B: but , but I would n't , I would n't say that I , I completely like heavy metal .
A: No .
B: I , I think ,
B: you know , and it 's the same way with ,
B: you know , world music takes the forms that have really been , um ,
B: I guess , I
B: you know , the best example or , you know , the cream of the crop , I guess you could say ,
B: and then , and then taking those , those qualities , and then applying , in the styles , that are really , um , that are extremely enjoyable , and then taking ,
A: So then it becomes a kind of music of , of its own , so to speak ,
A: or , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it becomes a kind of music of its own .
B: I mean , when you listen to it , it 's um , uh ,
B: I think that they don't use ,
B: some of it ,
B: it 's ,
B: they use electronic and acoustic interchangeably ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , you know , well a lot of the stuff you hear coming from South Africa now , and from West Africa , that 's considered world music , because it 's not particularly using certain types of folk styles .
A: Right .
B: But , they 're , they 're trying to make it somewhat more modern .
B: I , I , I ,
B: a good , another good example was I heard Miles Davis ,
B: and Miles Davis worked with Robbie Shoncar , if you can believe it , I mean ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh
B: You know , he 's a jazz performer ,
B: and then he 's playing with Robbie Shoncar ,
B: who 's a very good , he 's a very good arranger .
B: Uh , arrangement to , uh ,
B: we 're going to have to get off .
A: The ,
A: are they trying to ,
B: I don't know .
B: But , uh ,
A: We 've talked our five minutes though .
B: Yeah ,
B: okay ,
B: but , I mean , when I heard his album , I heard it and it was just incredible .
A: I 've been listening to that a lot lately .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I listened
B: and , I heard ,
B: you know , you hear this guitar ,
B: and then you hear the muted trumpet .
B: I
B: me ,
B: and you never would think that they , that they can actually play together
B: but ,
A: Oh yeah .
B: Okay ,
B: I don't know ,
B: which end do we push
B: but okay ,
A: Okay ,
A: well , um , let 's see ,
A: I , I think there 's a lot of people that don't vote because they don't really think their , their , uh , opinion is going to be heard
A: and , you know , there 's such a small voice and such a huge number of people in the United States
A: and that , you know ,
A: their , vote 's not going to make that much difference
A: and whether you vote for one person or the other person , the issues is what , you know , what you believe in ,
A: and that person is going to have a lot of , uh ,
A: since there 's so many issues , this one person can believe a lot of different ways on , all of them
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: so , it would be really difficult to have that one perfect person that believed exactly what you believed .
B: That 's true ,
B: you know , a lot of people , uh , uh ,
B: I think the , that it ends up the people that , uh , vote every time , uh , elections come around are more the , the polly , uh , the party type followers , the guys that , uh , you know , follow the party lines , you know ,
B: and , they , you know , just go in
A: Yeah .
B: and if they 're Republican they vote Republican every year , you know ,
B: and , uh , the people that are independent , you know , are the ones that don't , uh , don't really , uh , show up every year because they ca n't seem to , to decide which are the good aspects and which are the bad aspects of a candidate .
A: Right ,
A: yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: that 's good .
B: I always thought
B: it was back when Anderson was running , I was hoping that things would change and he 'd actually get elected and party politics would start going down the tubes ,
B: but , um that did n't work .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's , uh , a lot of extremes on the parties , too , with the you know , the real , uh , far side of the Democrats
A: they 're real liberal now and to where probably fifty or a hundred years ago , um , the Democrat party being liberal like they are now , you know , would never be thought of ,
A: it would be the other way that the Republicans were real liberal minded as far as like , uh , moral standings and those kinds of things .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's , uh ,
B: and then , and then people always get upset about it , too , because , you know , every year the , the , the politicians are the ones that are usually pushing for more people to vote ,
A: Uh-huh
B: they , they each think that , uh , if more people vote , they 'll get more votes , huh ?
A: Yeah
B: I 'm always amazed at that , that each candidate thinks it 's going to be the people that come out that will vote for him , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's , that 's true .
A: I think in , uh , the Texas governor elections , I think more people turned out to vote against somebody than for somebody , this time .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , that , uh ,
B: I know that there 's certain issues that can really motivate people because we live in a predominately Catholic type area ,
A: Oh , really ?
B: and when things start , uh ,
B: when , when abortion comes on the issues and people just get all inspired , you know ,
A: Right .
B: and , uh , still on the other hand we 're also , uh ,
B: this particular community is a Catholic community
B: but , uh , uh , down in D C where , where things are a little bit different , uh , you know , it 's , it 's women 's rights and the , and that sort of movement ,
B: and so it 's , uh , quite the opposite ,
B: so elections start getting very , uh ,
B: the elections where they have that topic seem to be a little bit better attended than some of the other ones .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: But , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true that the different places in America that , uh , you know , different issues would be a lot more important than say in another place .
B: Yeah ,
B: I can understand why , why some of the , the rural areas , the voter turnout is n't as much because it does seem sometimes like the lobbyists in D C are like controlling things for the , the Midwest ,
A: Uh-huh
B: and , uh , it does n't matter who they put in office , they 're going to fall subject to , uh , the pressure that the lobbyists can put ,
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: and it 's , uh , real true that , uh , you know , they 'll say one thing , to get elected ,
A: and then once they do get elected , they don't have the power or the authority or the willingness to do those things that they promised , you know , beforehand .
B: Right .
A: You know , maybe it just was n't possible at all in the first place , you know , like the no new taxes thing .
A: You know , that 's , uh ,
A: with the economy going the way it is and everything , that was nearly ridiculous thing to , even try to do .
B: Yeah
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I don't think he 's going to have to worry about that next year .
B: I think he can probably raise taxes and still get elected .
A: Right
B: Uh ,
A: Right ,
A: after the war .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That really , uh ,
B: Unfortunately that will probably even drop lower , the voters turndown , even more because more Democrats will think that they don't have a shot
B: so they wo n't even bother turning out .
A: Uh , that 's true ,
A: yeah .
B: They 'll just say , oh , well , you know , the Republicans have this election
B: we 'll see you in four years .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: hope some of the local ,
B: well that 's what they , they keep saying that it seems like people with old-fashioned values are the ones that are n't turning out at the , at the booths ,
B: they , they say that these older voters that , uh , you know , they , they feel like the kids are running the , the country
B: so they , they don't come out , turn out to vote
B: and they 're the ones that , uh , you know , really know what 's going on , have the experience and seen , you know , how politicians can , you know , screwup or what ever .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , I know , my grandmother has n't voted in years .
A: Right ,
A: that 's ,
A: you know , neither has mine as a matter of fact .
A: And , uh , that 's true ,
A: they , I think they look at it as , well everybody , the majority of the people think this way , when that 's not necessarily true , because , you know , that 's what the media says .
A: Well , the majority believes this way
A: so , uh , they don't even bother turning out to vote to express their , uh , opinions .
A: So that 's , that 's true .
B: Yeah ,
B: wonder if they 're going to take into account this computerized conversation that there 's little children , you know , bouncing in your knee , the whole time your talking
A: Yeah .
A: Do you hear the dogs in the background here ?
B: No ,
B: I ca n't hear them .
A: Okay ,
A: they 're ,
A: the children next door just opened the fence
A: and they went off .
B: Oh , yeah ?
A: Yeah .
A: But anyway , that 's ,
A: I guess we 've , uh , talked long enough
A: and , uh , that was sort of interesting .
B: Yeah
A: What part of the country are you from ?
B: Uh , Washington , D C ,
A: Are you really ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Wow .
A: This is ,
A: I 'm in , from ,
A: this is Dallas where I 'm at .
B: Oh , okay .
A: The outskirts of Dallas .
B: Well , I figured with Texas Instruments they 'd probably have a few , uh , Texans on the line now and then .
A: Yeah ,
A: do , do you work for T I in any way ?
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: Wow ,
A: how did you , how did they get you ?
B: Um , they , they went through engineering companies ,
A: Oh .
B: and , uh , we 're communications .
B: I , I work in a communications company .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: right .
A: I work for T I
A: so , we saw it on the , uh , T News one day
A: and I thought , wow , that might be interesting .
B: Yeah .
B: sort of different .
A: Yeah .
B: They called me at , uh , ten o'clock one night ,
B: that was very strange .
A: Yeah .
B: I guess they were doing Eastern Standard Time .
B: I was like ,
B: I don't know how long it takes whether it takes five minutes or twenty minutes .
A: Yeah ,
A: Central Standard Time is what they 're doing it by .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: I still have n't figured out what the zero through six days which day is which yet
A: but , I did n't study it that hard
A: so maybe I 'll figure it out .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , anyway , it was nice to talk to you and , uh , sort of meet you ,
A: and , that was an interesting topic .
B: Okay .
B: Yeah .
B: Okay ,
B: well , if your ever in , uh , D C , come look up Wayne Sherman , you 'll say oh , yeah , talked to that guy .
A: Okay .
A: I 'm , I 'm Kyle Hunt , too , if you ever come to , to Dallas area .
B: Oh .
B: Okay .
A: We live right by the airport .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: so do we .
A: Oh , okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: right next to Dulles .
A: Yeah .
B: All right , I 'll talk to you later
A: Okay .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye .
B: Back by that .
A: The , uh , uh ,
A: you know there are so many ramifications to this entire thing of woman , how women have changed ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , look at them ,
A: in England , Margaret Thatcher was prime minister , uh , Indira Ghandi , uh , in India ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so many , uh , women are heads of state
A: and I , you know , we , we keep saying oh yes , we feel some day a woman will be president .
A: But , uh , I have some question , whether or not they will ever really get around to that .
A: I think we 'll have a black president before we have a women president .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I don't know whether that 's bad or good ,
A: it 's just a point that I have observed that we ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I ,
B: yeah ,
B: I , I , I truly believe that , that before that , that we have to address the racial , racial issues in the United States , before we can go anywhere .
A: Yes .
A: Right .
B: Um , because it is so , you know , it 's ,
A: Uh , oh .
B: Hello .
A: Uh , oh , I think , we 're , we 're supposed to hang up .
B: Yeah ,
B: well it was n't the matter of wealth ,
B: it was the matter that they were not wealthy , that made them equal .
A: Yes .
B: Well , I 'll talk to you later ,
A: All right .
A: Thank you .
A: Bye , bye .
B: Okay .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: uh , what do you think about , uh , the idea of having volunteer service for everyone ?
B: Uh , I think that , uh , really it would n't hurt most of the young people of the country to have to go and do voluntary service .
B: Uh , and , you know , I mean , there have been so many people that have done it
B: and I 've talked with several
B: and I think they 've gotten a lot out of it .
A: Well , are you doing any kind of volunteer work now ?
B: Not right now ,
B: but I have done , uh , Red Cross work
B: and , uh , I 've taught C P R training
A: What about , when , when would people do it , when they finished high school ?
B: I think probably as soon as they finished high school it would be ideal , because a lot of times , if they go straight into college I think they 're going in too quick
B: but ,
A: I think particular boys that the maturity ,
A: in fact I was n't very mature when I left high school
A: and I think there 's a , there 's a real challenge there .
A: There 's also this , this issue of , of , uh , you know , whether you 're really ready ,
A: and I think it gives a different perspective .
B: Right ,
B: uh ,
B: I , I think if you 've been out of school a year , year and a half , before you start to college , you appreciate college more , than someone that just goes right straight into college .
A: The only complication is , is , is how do you fund something like this ?
B: Well , a lot of parents fund their children .
B: There are , uh , some groups that have their children , you know , go away for a year .
B: Even the religious organizations .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think the Mormon church has , sends out missionaries that ,
B: Right .
B: And the parents fund them for the whole year , year and a half that they 're gone .
A: That 's , uh , it 's interesting .
A: It gets them away from home and , and gets them to do something useful ,
A: although the kids today , though , it , it seems that almost that their concern for money ,
A: I , we were doing some investigating colleges and said the kids are much more interested today in , in trying to find a job , study something that will give them a job as opposed to , be curious , be curious
A: as to if ,
A: if there was , if there was mandatory , you could choose the option of either a mandatory military service or voluntary ,
A: do you think that would be reasonable ?
B: I think it would .
B: In , in Israel , the , even the women are , are required to , to be in the military for a certain period of time .
B: Uh , I was in the military ,
B: and I personally feel if , if they have the draft , that they should draft women as quickly as they do the men .
A: Well , but , the , the issue of , of , of , which ,
A: what , what would , what would you find , what would you have them do ?
A: You know there are a lot of people around with ,
A: there 's a lot of unemployment right now .
A: What would you have these people do if they were brought in ?
B: What , into the service ?
A: Well , yeah .
B: Or ,
A: Or say , say the volunteer ,
A: say that , say that it was mandatory .
B: Well I , I , I think that they ought to have something for the , the unemployed in a voluntary field like the , uh ,
B: I don't know if you know , remember about the W P A ,
A: Yes ,
A: my father was in the C C C .
B: He was in that ?
B: I mean , you know , uh , it 's not the best thing in the world ,
B: but , uh , it gave them something to do .
A: Well , it seems that there 's some things like the , uh , the programs at least just go around and , and , and clean up streets and , and , and pick up trash and even aluminum cans and some of these kinds of things .
B: or go into the , the more depressed areas and help repair the houses .
A: Yeah ,
A: in fact , we , we helped with , uh , oh , Help To Help Humanities ,
A: and that was a , that was a good experience ,
A: but you take the kids out
A: and and a lot of the buildings in downtown areas that , that either need demolishing , or need fixing up ,
A: so
B: Uh-huh .
A: it would be a good idea .
A: Uh , we 've been doing this three or four minutes .
A: I think that , uh ,
A: do you have any other further comments ?
B: No ,
B: not really .
A: Well , it was good talking to you , Betty .
B: okay ,
B: I 'll talk to you later .
A: Have a good night .
B: Bye .
A: Uh , books .
B: Yes .
A: Mainly I read the Bible these days .
B: That 's very good .
B: I do , too .
A: Good , that 's great to hear .
A: Uh , and Christian literature .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I 've kind of ,
A: I used to read a lot of , uh , novels ,
A: but it seems as though if you really want to set a side time to read the Bible and you work and and whatever , uh , that pretty well takes up your time for reading .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it does .
B: It ,
A: And I , I been praying that God would put a desire to read the Bible in my heart
A: and he really has .
A: It 's getting , to where a just really want to read it .
B: That 's good .
B: That 's good .
B: It , it , it 's , uh , it 's hard for me to find time , also , to read .
B: Uh , a lot of times I do just read magazines and stuff like that for , you know , because I don't have a lot of time ,
B: but when I do get to sit down and , and read , I like to read the Bible
B: and I like to read ,
B: I read to my daughter a lot , too .
A: Do you ?
B: And , uh , I like to read , you know ,
B: I have Bible storybooks
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: so I like reading those to her
B: and she really enjoys those .
B: So that 's good .
B: And it , and it 's kind of short because we don't , woe don't have a lot of time , to , to read ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , it 's real enjoyable . For both of us .
A: Yeah .
A: Have you ever read any of Frank E Peretti 's ?
B: Frank E
B: no
B: I guess I have n't .
A: Uh , THIS PRESENT DARKNESS and , uh , uh , I forget the the other ,
A: well he , uh , he 's also written a lot of children ,
A: how old is your daughter .
B: Five .
A: Five ,
A: okay ,
A: he 's written some children 's books as well
A: and they 're all spiritually , uh , oriented ,
B: Oh , really ?
A: yeah .
B: What 's his name again ?
B: Peretti
A: Frank E Peretti ,
B: Frank E Peretti
A: P E R E T T I .
B: I have to look for those .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: do
A: because , uh , I love to read his , his , uh , children 's books just
B: Just to read them .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , they 're good ,
A: they 're great .
B: That 's good .
A: And it 's like , uh , uh , usually about a family of , uh , archaeologists and the spiritual fights that they get into , like , uh , uh , digging in old ruins , and running across , like , uh , the old gods and things .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , that sounds pretty neat .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
A: It 's real exciting .
B: Oh , I 'll have to look for those .
A: And it also teaches them spiritual warfare you know ,
B: Right .
A: so ,
B: Well , that 's neat .
B: Well , I I have a ,
B: my daughter has PRECIOUS MOMENTS collection
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I like that because it 's a , it 's real easy to , uh , follow for her ,
B: you know , uh , gosh , if , if I read straight out of the Bible to her she 'd never understand any of it .
A: Well , it 's hard for me .
B: That 's right
B: It is , it is real hard to , to follow and understand ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I 've got a Bible that , uh , has a little bit of a , uh , a glossary in the back
B: and it helps explain who people are .
B: That 's , that 's about the hardest thing is , who 's related to who
A: I know it ,
A: and especially it 's hard to keep your interest in those begats .
B: Yeah .
B: Yes .
B: Yes ,
B: it sure is ,
B: but , but it is good reading
B: and it 's good for us , and and everything .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's right .
B: I really do enjoy it .
B: But , uh , I also ,
B: but then on the other extreme I like to read , uh , uh , I guess I don't know , horror , Steven King type books .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 've read a lot of his , too .
B: The ,
B: and I , I like that ,
B: that 's good fun reading .
A: Yeah .
A: Ca n't put them down .
B: No
B: you ca n't ,
B: you really ca n't .
B: They are good
B: and ooh they just , they 're just so suspenseful .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: I really do enjoy his .
A: Uh , there 's another guy .
A: Oh , what can ,
A: what is his name
A: Oh , durn
A: you would , well
A: you know when you 're recording you ca n't
B: I know
A: Uh , oh , Dean , uh , Kratz , or Kranz
A: or ,
B: Judith Krantz ?
A: who ?
B: Judith Krantz .
B: I know her .
A: Uh , no ,
A: it 's a guy .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And he , he writes the same thing , though .
A: It 's that real , gruesome horror stories .
B: Oh .
B: Ooh .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's good .
A: Yeah .
A: Koontz .
A: Uh , his last name ends in a Z , I know that .
B: Yeah ,
B: oh , I think I know who you 're talking about .
B: Uh , I 've seen ,
B: I don't think I can pronounce it either ,
B: but
A: Yeah , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm in a book club
B: and I think I 've seen his books in there
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've never read any of his .
B: But they 're real ,
A: I kind of got burnt out on Steven King , though .
A: It seems like it 's all the
A: did you ever read the , uh , uh , oh ,
A: it 's one of his first books , THE STAND .
B: Yes .
B: That , oh , that long thing .
A: I know it .
A: And that seems like all of his books have kind of come from that , I mean .
B: Yeah ,
B: they do kind of follow or , Are similar .
A: You know , that ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: I love that book , though .
A: I thought it was great .
B: Yeah ,
B: it really was ,
B: and I loved THE SHINING .
A: Ooh , yes
B: That was , that was my favorite .
A: Oh , those hedges when they started moving .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Whenever they they made that into a movie , I was thinking oh , my gosh if they show that , I 'll just die .
A: For some reason that scared me more than anything .
B: Yeah ,
B: that is ,
B: he just brings stuff alive , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: You could just visualize everything .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's ,
A: And that was a pretty scary movie , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think they did a pretty good job ,
B: but they did n't follow it exactly ,
A: Yeah
B: but they did give it , you know , do it justice .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
B: But , uh , most of the time they don't with , when , follow books very well when they make them into movies
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
A: I liked IT as well .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah , uh ,
A: That 's , another big fat one .
B: I did , too .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that was good .
B: I liked , uh , I also liked , uh , CUJO .
B: Did you read that one ?
A: Yeah ,
B: And ,
A: except it broke my heart .
B: Yeah ,
A: I 'm a dog lover .
B: Me , too
B: And then , uh , NIGHT STAND ,
B: is that NIGHT ,
A: No ,
A: it was , uh ,
B: DEAD , DEAD ZONE .
B: That 's one I liked .
A: What ?
B: DEAD ZONE .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: That was a ,
A: I 've read that one , too .
B: That was a real good one .
A: He 's written a lot of books .
A: Boy , he just sits down eight hours a day . Just like any other job .
B: I know it .
B: Right ,
B: and then he has some under , uh , another name . That he 's written .
A: That 's right .
A: That one about the Gypsies , or that , hunger
B: Yeah .
A: or , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , I think his name was Bachman .
B: He wrote under the name of Bachman .
A: Yeah ,
A: Richard Bachman .
B: Yeah .
B: He is really interesting .
A: Yeah ,
A: he 's so prolific .
B: Yeah
B: Ooh , I wish I could do that
A: Oh , I know it .
A: And I have gone back
A: and , after I , I graduated , I read some of the old classics that I just bluffed my way through and have found that I enjoy them quite a bit , too , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: I do , too .
B: I love old , good old ,
A: Once you can get into the language ,
A: you know , the
B: Yeah
A: It 's like , it 's English ,
A: but it 's not the same English they speak today .
B: Right .
A: So it 's kind of hard to keep , you know , at it ,
A: but
B: That 's true ,
B: but I ,
B: That 's , that was one of my favorite subjects in school was , uh literature .
A: Yeah ,
A: me , too .
B: I used to love those old , good , good old books .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I did n't mind doing that at all
A: Nathaniel Hawthorne is pretty scary himself .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: I liked , uh , oh ,
B: gosh why ca n't I think of their names ,
B: uh , shoot ,
B: the one that wrote , uh , WUTHERING HEIGHTS .
A: No ,
B: No
B: that was another one .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh , well , you know who I 'm talking about
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: those are good old good old books and classics ,
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
B: that 's right .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: Sure is neat
A: That 's why I like to watch that MASTERPIECE THEATRE on channel thirteen , because they 'll take a classic and , and , uh , televise it you know , put it into a viewing format , more or less .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: A lot of people just don't have time to read nowadays .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I know it 's , it 's really hard for me .
B: I work two jobs and uh , have my daughter and teach Sunday school and go to school , myself ,
A: Do you ?
B: so it 's , it 's hard for me to sit down and read ,
A: Well , I can imagine .
B: but when I do I just , just love it .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
A: me , too .
A: Well , I think we 've accomplished five minutes
A: so ,
B: I think we have , too .
B: Thank you very much .
A: It 's good talking to you .
B: You , too .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Well , what is your view , do you consider the Soviet Union a threat ?
B: I don't know that it 's so much a military threat anymore as a ,
B: well , you know , it 's , it 's real confusing right now to know what kind of a , of , of a threat it is , I guess ,
A: Sure .
B: it , it takes awhile to , to get used to something ,
B: you know , if , if they have completely
B: on the , place has completely turned that much around to where they 're not , you know , not what they used to be ,
A: Right .
B: uh
A: It 's , it 's hard to , to know anymore if it 's a , a threat one way or another because , uh , it used to be so , much in the past that whatever the top said the rest fell , you know , rank and file in behind it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And now that with Gorbachev is introducing more , I guess , freedoms or expressions of freedom , it does n't look as though , you know , everybody 's following the same pattern .
B: Yeah .
A: And , those ,
A: the people who are , you know , the staunch military conservative people ,
A: you never know , well , Gorbachev 's future is like whereas , whereas in the past it was seen as , you know , whoever was the head of the , the communist party was seen as , you know , untouchable .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I
B: yeah ,
B: the thing that keeps happening is happening so fast and so , uh , dramatic that you almost think , now wait a minute , you know , we 're getting stuck into something here , you know ,
B: if , if somebody 's about to , to clobber you , the first thing they do is sort of say , well , you know , we 're , we 're ashamed , we 're not going to do that anymore .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Exactly .
B: And , uh , um , you know , I 'd , I 'd like to think that that is n't true
B: but I , I ,
B: you know , the evidence is that , uh , you know , he 's , he 's let some , some stuff go , you know , the east German situation .
A: Right .
B: It 's just the whole thing is so incomprehensible ,
B: you know , if I 'd have been asleep for five years , and read it in a book , I said , no , no , no , that did n't , could n't have happened that way .
A: Right .
A: Well , it 's amazing just because of the drain that 's been on , you know , both economies that our economy is , of course , been able to , uh , withstand that a little better ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , the Russian economy
A: they , you know , they ,
A: I don't know what the percentages are ,
A: but I heard it one time ,
A: it 's just some ungodly number just to support the military machine .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And finally , you know , who knows
A: maybe they 're finally waking up and saying , you know , we ca n't afford this .
A: Uh , the U S is n't the threat that we 've always made them out to be , you know , even if they 're saying that beneath the doors .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it 's hard to thing that just one person can bring that much of a radical change in that short of period .
B: Yeah .
A: Even if it is , you know , the best thing in the long run , it just steps on too many people 's toes , who are comfortable with the way the situation is .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think , you know , what I 'd have to ,
B: I , I I guess to answer the question directly , I 'm still just a , a little bit , you know , leery of the whole thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What I have n't seen is the , uh , you know , a great stepping back in the military , situation .
A: Right .
B: You know , it 's , it 's one thing , you know , to let us go ahead and sort of disarm
B: and , you know , I even had a thought once that the whole Iraqi thing might have been just a , a deal to go ahead and let us , uh , you know , expend some , some military hardware .
A: Expend ?
B: Of course , it did n't turn out that way .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , uh , that , that may have been a , a , a kind of far out way of thinking about it I don't know .
A: Well , it 's interesting , anymore the world 's getting so small that it does n't seem to tolerate anymore any kind of the expansionism , philosophy that , that was here in , you know , twenty years ago .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , but , of course , the people who have challenged that or tried to do , have have not been world powers .
A: So , it 's easier for us to say , you know , to an Iraq , you know , uh , you ca n't do this , get back , you know , or we 're going to force you .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: or , or we can do something about it .
B: Yeah .
A: Whereas , you know , if the Soviet Union would have , who knows what taking over Mongolia or , or something like that , who is really , will we have been more just rhetoric , uh , rather than going in there officially or , you know , physically and try to , to remove them .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , the , the China situation , you know , the when , it looked like that thing was , was turning around
B: and all of a sudden it was like somebody in the , in the Red Square or wherever said , okay ,
B: and that 's enough .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the tanks came in and , you know , pretty much took care of that .
A: Exactly .
B: And ,
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , that ,
A: personally I don't see as Gorbachev as being maybe a threat ,
A: and I think he 's actually , honestly trying to do some change .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I don't believe that he , in this first pass around , you know , being the first one to really turn things around or attempt to is going to be allowed to get away with it either .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , this would be like if somebody was elected president of the United States and suddenly took off toward , you know , just some pretty hard by the socialism ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , you know , the , the reaction , uh ,
B: you know , the , the economic ,
B: well , the , uh , the social structure of the Soviet Union , you know , it , it 's , it 's coming apart at the seams .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , and I 've heard people say , well , you know , it 's just like the American Civil War , will there be a union or not ?
B: Well , no ,
B: it 's not the same sort of a thing at all because that , the whole Soviet system was put together under total force ,
B: you know , there was no ,
B: as , as we are seeing now with a lot of those , areas wanting out of it ,
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , they , uh , nobody
B: you know , a lot
B: man , those people did n't vote to become part of the Soviet Union ,
B: they had no choice .
A: Yeah ,
A: that was always kind of interesting ,
A: people ,
A: you know , a lot of my friends have a taken us down , the stance of , you know , these people are just trying to be free and trying to get away
A: and I 'm thinking more of it from a nationalistic ,
A: you know , if I 'm a Soviet and if part of , you know , south , let 's say South Dakota wanted to you know , succeed , am I going to stand for that .
B: Yeah .
A: Now I realize that the origins are , are different and that we all joined under a common direction and a common bond to begin with , and that they may have been forced , I 'm not that familiar with their future ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I , you know , I ,
A: it 's easy to believe that they were probably more forced into a pact than , uh , a volunteer or willingness to join .
B: Yeah .
A: But ,
B: There , there was the whole thing was put together , you know , by force .
B: There 's , there 's no , no real question about that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And some of the countries that were forced in at later dates is the three Baltic countries , you know , came in , in the forties ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it 's , well , it 's not that they came in , it 's they were conquered by the Germans ,
A: And then , just never given back .
B: and then the Russians even , took it back from the Germans and never bothered to give it back , you know ,
A: Yep .
B: so . That 's a , a little different situation .
A: Well , that whole a ,
A: the whole idea if you look at the Russian history and I guess all countries the way it used to be is , the only way to truly protect your borders was to have a buffer .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that was the whole idea why they had so many buffers
A: and maybe , you know , more and more people are seeing , oh , countries hopefully are seeing that that buffer is n't going to help you ,
A: you can ,
A: well , I guess like , with , uh , Israel is a perfect example .
B: Yeah .
A: The reason they have the Angolan Heights and the , the , uh , all their buffer area is between Jordan and the , the Sinai and , and Lebanon was just as a buffer
A: but , you know , as you can see with the , the scuds go right over there .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: they don't really pay a whole lot of attention to buffers .
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's , there 's very little that , that binds you anymore in today 's technology .
B: I knew a lot of guys in the service when they were sent to Germany they said that 's the safest place in the world because if a war starts , all the bombs are going to go right over Germany
B: and they 're going to land in other places ,
B: you know , that 's going to be the safest place to be .
A: That 's probably very true .
A: that 's very interesting , never thought of that .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , uh , I , I guess , what they 'd have to do to ,
B: I really don't know ,
B: you know , in , in the , in , you know , I hope that what 's happening is exactly the way it appears .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , some reason or other , you know , is , uh , it 's kind of a strange thing we 've been trying to make something like this happen for so long that when it finally happens you say , whoa , wait a minute ,
A: Nobody knows what to do .
B: you know . What 's , uh , what 's , what 's really happening here .
A: Is it real ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: But you wonder how , well , this thing ,
B: who , was it Boris Yeltsin , the guy that 's running the , uh , or evidently was elected president of the Soviet , for the Russian republic , which is , I guess , the , uh , the biggest ,
A: Right .
A: Exactly .
A: I get confused between all the , which is the Soviet provinces versus which are the , the Russian provinces , versus what are ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , in the center
B: but you got a , the , the great big area that 's just , was traditionally known as Russia
B: and then all these little nationality groups , around it , you know , that were , you know , was there nineteen of them or , or whatever ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , and these were all the Soviet economists , us you know , they had some real fancy names for them .
A: Right .
B: Matter of fact when the ,
B: uh , yeah ,
B: what I read when the , uh , uh , United Nations was setup in , in San Francisco , one of the first things the Russians wanted to do was bring in each one of the , uh , of these , you know , republics , as a separate country ,
A: Oh , as a ,
B: you know , so there would be , there would be nineteen , rather than one .
A: as a vote .
A: Sure .
A: Sure .
B: And , uh , the United States said , well , that mean we get to bring in forty-eight , you know .
B: And , uh , that sort of ,
B: you know , they backed down on that .
A: Died down on that .
A: I thought it was interesting that recently here the Warsaw Pact no longer exists as a military force ,
A: but it 's merely an economic now .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , wonder if that
A: Well , I mean at ,
B: uh , what do you get shot by something that 's called a , an economic force or what is called a military pact ,
A: Yeah ,
A: exactly .
B: you know , it 's all ,
B: you can change the name of something
B: but I wonder if it 's still , exists .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Although , I 've seen some evidence that , you know , the , uh , the Russian soldiers are ,
B: well , you ,
B: the funny thing there is they 're not particularly welcome back home because there 's , they 're having housing shortages now .
B: What do you do with all these troops that have been taken care of by , uh , Bulgaria and , and Czechoslovakia
A: Exactly
A: and , and all the ,
B: and now all of a sudden they 're going home
B: and somebody 's got to pay for their ,
A: Well , that 's what they 're saying the whole problem , you know , with , if we were to demilitarize Europe ,
A: what are we going to do with all the soldiers over there ?
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that 's not ,
A: What 's going to happen to the economies that are no longer have a , a million plus people in the you know , in each country from the U S ...
B: Yeah .
A: Well , since you live close , I don't know if you know , um , about what Louisville is doing with recycling ,
A: or are you familiar with any of that ?
B: Well , I know that we have some relatives that live around , like the area in there ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: I know they 're doing some curbside recycling as a kind of a test there .
A: Yeah .
A: You know , I read , you know ,
A: when they first started doing that in the paper , and I read about that ,
A: I was just praying that , that would be in our area , because we 've been recycling for quite some time .
A: And , you know , we separate everything out , and then have to haul it up to a Metco , you know , which is a real pain .
B: Huh-uh .
A: So if they would come up , curbside recycling ,
B: they 'll help you , recycle , because we , there is some bins , like behind Wal-Mart , that take some things .
A: Well , now have they moved them behind Wal-Mart ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , God .
B: Because I finally asked because , you know , we had all of those milk cartons
B: and there was nowhere else to take them
B: and they had it in front of Wal-Mart
B: and I ask in Wal-Mart
B: and they said they moved it just behind .
A: Oh .
A: That 's really nice to know , because we were doing the same thing .
A: Because to take it to a Metco , you have to take it when they 're open , you know , which is always a real pain .
B: Huh-uh .
A: And so when that thing came up in Wal-Mart parking lot , we thought , oh , this is great .
A: And we started taking them up there .
A: And then , all the sudden , it disappeared , you know
A: I did n't know .
A: And we 're going , oh , no , there goes our recycling place .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's really nice to find out that it 's behind there
A: Well , we pretty much do , um , plastic milk cartons and , um , um , um , newspapers .
A: I could n't even think of what you call them .
B: Yeah .
A: Plastic milk cartons , newspapers and cans , and glass , I guess , is the four , is really the four things that we do .
B: Like aluminum cans ?
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's about what we do too .
A: And really , that 's about , that 's really about it .
A: Is there anything , any place else that really takes anything other than that , that you know of ?
B: Well , I guess , um , down in , kind of in North Dallas , there is a place that will take almost anything .
A: Oh , really .
B: Uh , I don't , we just don't have the room to store all that much , you know ,
A: I know .
B: I don't want to be running down there every week , or whatever .
A: I know .
A: I know .
A: We 're kind of the same way .
A: You know , at first , you know , you ,
A: at first it was a real , it was a real hassle ,
A: and I 'm wondering are we really going to do this ,
A: but you kind of get , I guess , into a little routine , you know , where it becomes , is automatic , now , to throw , different things in different places ,
B: Yeah .
A: you know . So I just go , you know ,
A: we have a pretty good size pantry in our kitchen
A: and I 've just got three trash cans sitting in there ,
A: you know , we just kind of dump things in each one , if , you know , if we get them ,
B: Yeah .
A: so .
B: Those milk cartons take up so much room .
A: Oh , they do , too .
A: And they 're impossible to crush .
A: I mean , you ca n't get the down to any size , you know .
A: If you get four milk cartons and that fills up trash bag , you know pretty easily ,
A: so . You know ,
B: I guess we kind of started recycling after I moved here about a year and a half ago .
A: Oh , really .
B: We were using baby food
B: and there was so many baby food jars , kind of what started it .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Some of our neighbors were doing it
B: and so , you know , when I found out some places to take it ,
B: and , um , like , um , they also take some things at the Flower Mound dump behind the fire station there ,
B: and I know that they 're going to use , you know , the money for that to build some kind of multipurpose field and that type of thing . Put lights and stuff
A: Oh , that will be good .
B: so , you know , if I 'm not going to get the money for aluminum , I would just assume give it to the city of Flower Mound . to do something with , you know .
A: Sure .
A: Let somebody get something out of it .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
B: And they wo n't raise our taxes .
A: Yeah
B: Yeah .
A: Ha-ha
A: Well , I was kind of hoping with ,
A: you know , do you work for T I ?
B: No ,
B: I don't .
B: I have a friend , of mine told me about this program , is the reason that I 'm ,
A: No .
A: Yeah .
A: There was a ,
A: T I has got this organization called T A D which is T I'ers Against Drugs .
A: And , you know , we 're recycling aluminum cans up here and , uh , just what you would buy out of the machines and drink here
A: and there was crushers out in all of the hallways you know ,
A: and that 's ,
A: they use the money from that to fund this T I'ers Against Drugs Program .
A: It 's ,
A: you know , T I does n't give them any money , all , everything is made from that .
A: And they had talked about having a thing like , one Saturday a month , you could come and drop your aluminum cans off from home , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: And I 'm kind of like , yeah .
A: I shall ,
A: they would do that because at least somebody was getting the money out of it , you know . That was going to use it for good ,
A: so ,
B: is talking to someone in Sorry .
A: Sounds like you have a little one just like I do
B: She 'll be two in July .
A: Yeah .
A: Mine was two in December
B: Oh .
A: Well , it was good to talk to you .
B: Well , it was nice to talk to you .
B: I know they 've started over in Richardson where my dad lives .
B: They pick up newspapers , I think .
A: Oh , do they really .
A: Curbside pick up ?
B: Yeah .
A: I really hope they do that in Louisville .
A: It would make it a lot easier on all of us .
A: Talk to you later .
B: Okay .
A: Bye-bye .
A: So what do you think about it ?
A: How are we doing in recycling ?
A: Are we ,
B: Well , I think we need to do more .
B: I mean , I know I need to do more .
B: They have programs around where you can reach the , uh ,
B: they come and pick up your newspapers if you have them bundled up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I have a hard time of being able , of separating , you know , having a place , separating my trash ,
B: and get all the cans from the paper ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , you know , I just have n't gotten that dedicated yet
B: So .
A: I do a lot of work with the boy scouts ,
A: and we try to do a lot
B: Uh-huh .
A: but there 's still a lot more we can do .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , I don't recycle my newspapers myself ,
A: but I noticed in one of the sales catalogs this weekend they have a , like a , a clothes hamper kind of thing that , you know , you lay your string in , then you put your papers in there tie them all up and bundle them up ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I figured I might get me one of those because we don't always read the newspaper .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Sometimes it just sits around for a while ,
A: and then we just chuck it .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I don't , I don't get the paper every day ,
B: but , you know , I get it on ,
B: I try to buy , you know , the early edition for the coupons , you know , the Sunday edition .
B: So .
A: Yeah .
B: But , then I just , you know , bundle it up and put it on the front , you know , the front walk you know , every Monday or every other Monday , and have them pick that up ,
A: Yeah .
B: but that 's the extent of what I 've done .
B: I 'd like to be able to do more .
B: The problem is , with a lot of it is , you have to go , you know , it takes a while to drive to these places where you recycle it , you know
A: Yeah
A: see , and ,
B: it 's not always convenient to do it .
A: Yeah ,
A: see , and here in Lubbock everything 's so close .
A: I can imagine what it 's like up there .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm not exactly sure where the , you know , the can thing is ,
B: but , you know , sometimes it 's just so ,
B: seems so much easier just to take it and throw it in the trash , and have them pick it up than it is to smash the cans and drive it some place to have them .
A: Yeah .
A: See , I went out to Payless Cashways here a couple of days ago , as a matter of fact , and got me one of those little can crushers that I could put on the wall
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then I put me a little five gallon bucket ,
A: and it 's just outside the garage door
B: Uh-huh .
A: so every time we drink a Coke or whatever we crush the can and just drop it into the bucket .
B: Do those can crushers work good ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I got one from Payless Cashways ,
A: and it 's actually metal
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's not plastic .
A: I did n't want to buy a plastic one .
B: Yeah
B: because those things I think would just snap you know .
A: Yeah .
A: But Payless Cashways has them
A: and they 're metal ,
A: and I don't know what affiliate of Payless Cashways you have up there ,
A: but it was only like seven dollars , not too bad .
B: Oh .
B: I 'd have to check into something like that , because , I mean , we don't drink a whole lot of soda around here , you know ,
B: but , um you know , occasionally we have some around ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , you know , for other kind of cans , just to , it 'd probably only take aluminum cans like that , don't they .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't ,
A: yeah ,
A: I don't think it would crush steel cans ,
A: it 's pretty tough .
B: Yeah ,
B: so . I don't know ,
B: I don't think you have to crush the other ones for them to get to take that ,
B: but , I need to look into it more ,
A: No ,
A: you could probably just , you know ,
B: you know , it 's , you know , it ,
B: sometimes , even with the newspaper they say they 'll only take certain types of paper , you know ,
B: they wo n't take paper that 's shiny ,
A: Yeah
A: they wo n't , yeah , they wo n't take any lint free paper
A: or , see , I work at T I .
B: Yeah ,
B: so does my husband ,
B: yeah .
A: We do a lot of recycling out there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Now we recycle all our computer paper and our cardboard ,
A: but that 's just now come on board .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , we 've been throwing paper out there away for years ,
A: and we 're just now getting on board to recycling ever since this big Earth Day thing came out , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't know what ,
B: you know , I have n't ,
B: I 'm sure they 're probably doing that here some .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm sure they are .
A: T I is doing it pretty well nation-wide , I 'm sure .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think it 's necessary ,
B: I , I like it ,
B: you know , it makes ,
B: I think it 's good that you see these , you know , like boxes , cereal ,
B: they 're now starting to make them , you know , the packages out of recycled paper ,
B: and , And I 've bought , you know , I 've bought greeting cards that are made out of recycled paper ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: and I think they 're just fine .
A: Yeah ,
A: I bought a ,
A: I got one at work that I bought for one of the guys there at work ,
A: it 's his birthday ,
A: we 're pretty good friends ,
A: and what it is is a recycled paper bag
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's just got Happy Birthday printing on it , and a cute little phrase inside ,
A: and it 's just a paper bag
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , and it 's really cute .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I think we 're doing better and better all the time ,
B: Yeah
A: still don't ,
B: I think we 're getting , becoming more conscious because we just ca n't stick everything in landfills any more .
B: So .
A: No ,
A: there 's not going to be any room , shortly .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: the office ,
A: I don't know what New York does about theirs .
A: I guess they still ship it out on barges somewhere .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's probably sitting out on the barge somewhere
A: Yeah ,
A: so . But I think we 're getting better at it
B: Yeah .
A: I think there 's quite a bit more we could do .
B: to someone in the Girls , put that away .
B: Now .
A: But , you 're right sometimes it does seem like it 's more trouble than what it would be worth .
B: Yeah ,
B: I just wish it was a little more convenient to do ,
A: Yeah .
B: you know , seems like you 're so busy anyway ,
B: and then that 's just one more thing to have to worry about .
B: So .
A: Yeah ,
A: it sure is .
B: I think if , you know , the cities , locally , you know , they 'd get more programs going so that you could do that , it 'd make it a lot easier .
B: So .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Well , they 'll get at it sooner .
A: I guess the schools will get into it , too , sooner or later .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: get the kids interested in it too .
A: You know they have ,
A: We tried to have an aluminum can drive with the cub scouts that I have ,
A: and we just don't have any place to store those kind of cans .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , if we go out and pick up a bunch of cans from people , sure they 'll save them for us , there 's no problem there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But what do you do with them in the meantime ?
B: That 's right .
A: Now I don't want a can , a garage full of cans
B: That 's right ,
B: who does .
B: You know people don't have room for that kind of stuff .
A: You know .
A: No ,
A: they 're just not , they 're not prepared for it .
B: No ,
B: and in Texas , they 're just get , things like that ,
B: they just get bugs in them .
B: So .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: they do .
B: So , you don't ,
A: You know , the more trash you have laying around the more bugs you get ,
A: that 's for sure .
B: That 's right ,
B: so .
A: So .
B: I 'm pretty lazy about it right now .
B: Everything goes into one thing and goes out to the
A: Yeah .
B: You know , pick it up .
B: So .
A: Yeah ,
A: myself .
A: About the only thing I really recycle around here is aluminum cans .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So .
B: Well , I need to get , get better at it .
B: So .
A: Well , if we all try a little bit , a little bit goes a long way .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: If everybody tries to do just a little bit , and a little bit more then we 'll get there .
B: That 's true .
B: That 's right .
A: Well thank you for talking to me .
B: Huh .
B: Well , thank you for calling .
B: I ,
A: Sure ,
A: no problem ,
B: Okay ,
B: take care .
A: All right ,
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: I , I , I , assume you have kids in
B: Uh , we have one .
B: She 's only nine months old .
A: Oh , well she , she does n't have to worry about public schools yet .
B: Right .
B: Well , my degree is in teaching ,
B: so .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , we have a little bit of a basis for conversation .
A: I was a substitute teacher for about a year .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah .
A: I , uh , thought I wanted to be a teacher
A: so , but before I went through all of that I wanted to see how I was going to like it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and they , uh ,
A: in Alabama , where I came from they , they allow you to substitute if you got a four year degree .
A: So I went out and played substitute for a while and decided , nope , not for me .
B: Did you teach in all subjects or in all grade levels
B: or ,
A: Yeah .
A: It was ,
A: I just took grades one through six .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I thought I was going to be smart and get the good kids , wrong .
B: Well , my degree was in fourth through seventh grade
B: but I taught junior high .
B: And I expected it to be a lot of trouble
B: but it was n't that bad ,
B: I taught remedial reading kids .
A: Um .
B: And , well , they don't call it remedial reading these days , they call it something else .
A: Yeah .
B: But , but , anyway , at the time that 's what I taught .
B: And , um , you kind of group your behavioral problems together that way , when you have your slow readers
A: Uh-huh and clicking noises in
B: but it , it was n't too bad .
B: We , we got long real well .
A: Well , I , I sometimes wonder if I did n't mess up .
A: I maybe should have taken the higher grades because at least you can , if you have to you can get mean with them .
A: Those little kids don't understand it .
B: Yeah .
B: I ,
B: especially with the real young ones .
B: I started out wanting to teach lower , like primary and then top primary and thought , well , no , I don't like this as much and ended up moving up and got up until about the sixth
B: and so that 's what I got my certification in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I had decided long before I was even married that I wanted to , if possible , teach my kids at home and not put them in the public schools .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , and my reason for that was I don't like the , uh , what 's the right word . The varied inappropriate influences that you find so much in the public schools .
A: Well , that 's a nice way of putting it .
B: You can find a lot of good public schools if you , if you look real hard
B: but I don't think they could cover everything that you could teach , your children on an individual basis .
A: exactly ,
A: And too , most people don't have that option .
B: Yeah .
A: You know . And plus it also depends on the district your in as , I mean , on the ,
A: I 've seen some districts where all the schools are lousy it does n't matter what you do . Uh , accept for the private ones , of course , we 're talking about public .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: I don't know
A: Back when I was going to school uh , you just did n't get away with the things these kids get away with now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean you , you pulled stunts like that and you were down at the principal 's office and , uh , usually bending over to get five of the best ,
B: Yeah
A: Um , but now , nowadays they ca n't even , they can barely scold the children for something , you know , without getting sued .
B: And the , the , um , the crime is just escalated and the drugs and , even in the , in the the , the lower , the lower schools .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Well , the thing that really did it for me , I was subbing in a fifth grade class
A: and , uh , this kid comes to school with his lunch box
A: and inside this lunch box he , he 's got easily two , I 'd say two hundred to two hundred and fifty dollars in one dollar bills .
B: Um .
A: And I asked him , uh , what are you doing with that ?
A: And he says , `` My father gave it to me . ''
A: And I did n't believe it for a minute .
B: Uh-huh
A: Um , so , uh , but , uh , you know , the ,
A: not a lot I could do about it .
B: Right .
A: Ca n't stop the kid from bringing money to school if he wants .
B: Crazy for him to
B: but ,
A: Well , I have ,
A: I , I , I 've
A: I think I understood what the , what the kid was doing he was a , uh ,
A: well let 's just say he was one of those types that you would n't doubt that he was selling something .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: But not a lot I could do about it .
B: Well , we had the problem when I was in ,
B: with teaching , um ,
B: I was eighth and ninth graders that I worked with
B: and if we did have a , a student come in and they were drunk or they were on something you had the option of calling the police and have them taken out of the schools or trying to teach them something while they were there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And you don't know if you were reaching them or not
B: but we felt like , you know , maybe just going ahead and try to teaching them was trying to teach them was better than have them taken out .
A: Yeah .
A: Because , uh , uh , that just ,
A: that does n't do a lot for them .
A: I mean it , alleviates your problem
B: Yeah .
A: but it does n't do anything for them .
B: Right .
B: Uh , most the time if they were , they were ,
B: some of them were even better behaved .
B: I 've only had two instances where I it was really noticeable
B: but they were better behaved when they were , um ,
B: I don't know if was alcohol or something else that they were on
B: but it ended up better
B: but ,
A: Uh , I don't know ,
A: guns and ,
A: I don't know
A: it 's something .
B: I think there 's a problem too with teachers trying to , um , to be so versatile that they do loose sight of the basics , you know ,
B: they 've been a big drive in , especially in the seventies to return back to the basics .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , and I 'm not completely just , you know , just teach the basics in schools
B: but I think there does need to be a reemphasis of those because , of our , our lower grades in the standardized test and such .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Oh , sure .
A: I mean , it 's indicative across the board that we , we 've done something wrong .
B: Right .
A: And when you see , uh , Koreans and Chinese and Japanese who are taking all the , uh , science jobs , all the engineering jobs , all the mathematical jobs
A: and , you know , here we are
A: we ca n't , we ca n't balance a checkbook without a calculator .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I don't know .
B: Well , I spent a year and a half in Japan also
B: and I 've seen how their school system works
B: and I ,
B: they go by a complete rote system ,
B: you just memorize everything .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then at the end of the , of a certain time period you spitted everything back out
B: and the better the memorizer you are the better your grades are going to be .
A: Yeah .
B: So I don't completely agree with that either .
A: No .
B: But there , there definitely needs to be a balance somewhere .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's , that 's a great deal what law school 's like
B: Oh , is it ?
A: Yeah .
B: Is that what you ended up going into ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , I did the same sort of thing ,
A: they just ,
A: you sit there and read hundreds and hundreds of cases
A: and then you get one examine for the whole semester
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's how well you can remember it all .
B: How , how much can you stuff in your brain .
A: Yeah .
A: And I found that a particularly useless way of studying .
B: Yeah .
A: I never did .
A: I always tried to understand things , not tried to memorize .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And consequently some of the very best students were , had excellent memories
A: but they could n't put two and two together as far as the law was concerned .
B: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: Yeah .
A: It did n't show me anything .
A: A year and a half , I gave it up .
A: I was n't really
A: I did n't want to be a lawyer anyway , just wanted the degree .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: Yeah .
A: Well ,
B: Well ,
A: I don't know .
A: What can we do about it ?
B: good question
B: Probably ,
A: Money , Money is not the answer .
B: Taking ,
B: No .
B: There 's plenty of money in the system ,
A: Yeah .
B: it 's just ,
A: Yeah .
A: I mean , they 're throwing more money at it now than ever before
A: and things are getting worse .
B: I think it 's like a lot of things in the , in the United States .
B: We 've got so much built up in , um , in the , in the , uh , bureaucracy and in the politics of it ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and in the , the power plays that it needs to be pulled down and started over again
B: and there 's no way that , that can be done .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Not without wiping out a whole generation of , of kids in the school system ,
A: Yeah .
B: so .
A: Yeah .
B: Maybe on smaller , smaller scales .
A: Well , I don't know
A: I , uh ,
A: as much as I did n't like school when I was going through it , from my perspective now I can see that it 's a lot better than what we have now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I think part of it is that they 've got to give authority back to the local school .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , I mean , it 's , it 's silly that these , that these people are handcuffed when it comes to discipline .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right into the classroom it needs to be be able to be enforced .
A: Yeah .
A: Exactly ,
A: I mean , I , I mean teachers are so afraid now of even saying something , to students because they 're going get , they 're going to get complaints or they 're going to get sued or something .
B: Uh-huh .
B: It 's like doctors in lawsuits ,
A: Oh yeah .
B: you know , they 're kind of fearful of , everything .
A: Well , lawyers help create that
B: That 's , that 's ,
B: well , at least I 've heard that
B: I , I , I have n't fortunately been in a situation where it 's , been applicable to me
A: Well , I think , I think , I , I mean what we 've turned the school schools into now are just day-care centers
A: you know , somebody ,
A: okay ,
A: we 're going to send our kid here for seven or eight hours a day
A: and he 's out of our hair .
B: Right .
A: And the other part of it is parents have quit becoming parents .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , they 're just ,
B: Oh , yeah
B: it has to be reinforced in the home .
A: Oh , sure .
A: I , I
A: you , you can , you can have the best school system in the world if you don't get anything at home then it 's , it 's not going to help either .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: So , I don't know ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I don't know what the answer is .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's an interesting , interesting thing you want to do .
A: I ,
A: how is Texas about keeping your children out of public schools ,
A: do they allow it ?
B: Yeah .
B: They allow it under certain circumstances .
B: You have to , to prove that you 're teaching them something .
B: You have to follow , a preferred curriculum ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , they try to encourage you to follow a specific curriculum , although you don't have to .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then if you have particular religious beliefs they have to be , they 're kind of monitored .
B: You know , they , they will allow you to ,
B: I ca n't think of any examples
B: but certain religious groups don't want their children in public schools because the influence .
B: And maybe they were a group of Mennonites or something like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't think they 're were in this area
B: but , um , they , they are monitored by the , um , by the State School Board .
A: Um .
B: So .
A: That 's interesting .
A: I remembering reading a few cases about that when it , when some people first tried that and they got sued . Got taken to court by the school system .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm glad the parents won .
A: I mean , it seems silly that , um , we started
A: that 's , that 's the way you got your education in this country .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then , um ,
A: I don't know .
A: I grew up , uh , in the , the sixties ,
A: and at that time , uh , it was is a changing time for the whole music scene , I guess
A: and I grew up with the Beatles and the Rolling Stones and the whole pot culture during that time and went through that phase and kind of stayed with it I guess for several years after I graduated from college and , and thereafter
A: but have since , uh ,
A: I grew up in a small town in , in southern Oklahoma
A: I have kind of gone back to , uh , more of a county , uh , flavor in music .
A: Um , I 'm not quite sure why that is
A: and it seems like almost a opposite ,
A: but I guess I got away from what I consider to be the pot , uh , sounding music .
A: It did n't have what , you know , I guess what I was looking for at the time country tells more of a , a story .
A: It kind of reminds me of my roots of growing up
A: and I 've , I 've become I guess more of a country fan over the years .
B: When you say that you grew up , uh , in the sixties I take it that was the , uh , teenage type years
B: or , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that was my teenage years .
A: I was born in fifty
A: and , and , uh ,
B: Okay ,
B: we , we 're very similarly aged ,
B: so we probably have an interesting perspective on the music on the times ,
B: so I 'm just a couple years older than you ,
A: Yeah .
B: um , essentially I was one of the nerdy types in high school really which meant that I , for one reason or another I did n't pay much attention to music ,
B: but as I look back now I realize it was very formative for me ,
B: uh , my early popular music interests were in Simon and Garfunkel , whom I saw perform when I was in college
B: and I became attached to that style of , uh , urban , urban country if there is such a thing ,
A: Yeah .
B: I think with , in a way one could talk about Simon and Garfunkel that way because they do tend , uh , to have a dramatic or story approach to their music , uh , usually tend to have some good or bad moral to it .
B: Uh , over time I became very interested in , in baroque classical
B: and I think that was just through experiencing contacting college and the fact that I found it , it very relaxing for me .
B: My tastes now run I guess to a upbeat , uh , Simon ,
A: Yeah .
B: it 's something that interests me , uh , combined with , with the classical tastes I had mentioned .
B: And my classical music tends to be confined to the seventeen hundreds , early eighteen hundred music .
B: I 'm not a music , um ,
B: , I 'm not particularly schooled in it .
B: I know what I like to listen to as far as classical music .
B: And I , I spent a good deal of time listening also to , uh , people from the late seventies , really , um , Neil Diamond , for instance . Um , people of , of that particular time ,
A: That 's kind of the way I am .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I listen to some country and western
B: but I 'm not schooled in it
B: and I , I 've enjoyed the times when I have listened to it .
B: I played a little bit of piano .
B: I continue to do that .
B: I want to do it
B: and I never have the discipline to stay with it ,
B: but when I do play , uh , and begin to reacquire skills I inevitably fall in love with country western music which tends to be in some ways easy to play for a , for a new piano player .
A: It is , it 's got , uh , basically an easy , uh , rhythm and , and tone .
B: Right .
A: And it 's , it 's pretty , fairly well easily to uh , uh , something to fall into .
A: I 'm kind of the say way ,
A: I , I 've gone through different periods of life , uh , in music from pop to classical .
A: I guess one of the things was that influenced me was that I , I 've worked in radio stations as a D J for all my college years trying to support my way through there ,
A: and
A: was support ,
A: I was influenced by all different kinds of music
A: but basically because that 's where I worked .
A: And I 've developed a real love for , uh , classical music in , probably junior high and high school because my band instructor was , uh , heavy into classical type music .
A: He said he used to sit on Saturday mornings and watch cartoons just to hear the music , uh , that they were using behind them because they used , especially Disney used a lot of classical music , uh , behind the cartoons
A: and so consequently we wind up , wound up playing a lot of classical music there
A: and I think that , uh , got deep seated into me .
A: One of things I especially like now in music regardless of what kind it is , uh , are those that call on those classical , uh , roots , I guess , uh , Barry Manilow comes to mind for some reason there 's , there 's not a whole lot of his stuff that I 'm real crazy about ,
A: but he does have some things .
A: Chicago had some things ,
B: Right .
A: uh , and I think even Electric Light Orchestra had some , some real , um , influences by classical music
A: and I 'm still , still ,
A: my favorite ,
A: in fact most of my C D are classical music .
B: I find it very interesting that some television shows that I enjoy I particularly like the music .
B: I don't know which is chicken and egg in that situation .
B: Uh , a good example would be , uh ,
B: I have connections but , but not particularly deep ones to the Vietnamese war type situations ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , and I found that I really like CHINA BEACH
B: and I particularly like TOUR OF DUTY
B: and both of them , I had as much fascination of the background music , I think going on as I did to the theme of the shows ,
A: Yeah .
B: uh , and I , I 've , uh , THIRTY SOMETHING I 'm particularly interested ,
B: but it 's the music , almost that I find myself listening to , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm kind of thinking that 's maybe ,
A: our generation was , uh , so in tuned to music of that time that we identify goodness or badness with , uh , things now with the music that 's behinds them .
B: That could well be .
B: I , I , uh , spent my junior year , uh , and sophomore and junior year in , in college when I ,
B: a song by the , uh , uh ,
B: I think the title of it was just Downtown ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , and if you recall how it goes downtown , ta , da , da , da ,
A: Right .
B: uh , all I have to do is hear that song and I get strongly evoked memories of , of difficult times in school being behind on work ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , and my family now knows if they come into my study and , uh , I happen to have had a tough day at work and maybe I 'm trying to get a project done , uh , at school , uh , and I 'm humming or whistling in a sort of mad crazy way the tune to Downtown they know to just stay away ,
A: That 's their signal .
B: They can hear the unconscious music signal behind it ,
A: Yeah .
B: that 's right .
A: When did you first take your , uh , first piano lesson ?
B: Uh , probably about first grade ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I have , uh , returned about every four or five years to thinking that I would like to do something about it .
B: I usually get to the point where I can play some of my favorite themes
B: and then inevitably I am swept away by the , the pressure of other types of things ,
A: Yeah .
B: uh ,
A: It is a time consumer .
B: It is .
B: In order to continue to , to grow and
B: I , I always think that I 'll be able to do it
B: and then I inevitably discover that I have no innate music talent relative to composition and that I struggle and really ca n't quite understand what is that other people take for granted , in composition themes
A: Yeah .
B: and I ,
B: keys and things are something to me that remain a mystery no matter how many times I bang on them .
B: I have a pretty good mathematical concept for what 's involved ,
A: Right .
B: uh , but in a , in a innate music sense there just seems to be something missing there which is always frustrating for me since I have pretty high math aptitude
B: and I keep thinking , gee , I thought that all the math and music people are supposed to go hand in hand
B: but , but it does n't for me .
A: No ,
A: it 's making that , that connection especially with the mechanical parts of it .
A: I was never able to , to master all that .
A: In fact my brother and sister both , they were , oh , thirteen , sixteen years older than I , they went through the , uh , parent thing where you 've got to practice or you 're not going out to play thing ,
A: and when it came to my turn the folks said no we 're not going through that again ,
A: they sold the piano ,
A: and is the turns out I was the only one who really had an interest in it and never got to ,
A: so I ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's one of things I felt like I missed in life
A: and I , I really ,
A: in fact , uh , one of my favorite things to do now is sit down and listen to Chopin , that is played on , uh , piano .
A: I just , you know , I can just drift off into some other world just listening to that for hours if I ever have the time to do that ,
B: Oh , ,
A: maybe one of these days , I 'll ,
A: you know , I 'm kind of like you , maybe one of these days I 'll get around to it ,
A: I 'll do something with the piano ,
A: but probably not .
B: So we both have a secret background that says somehow or another we just knew we were piano players and never got a chance , uh ,
A: Just never got a chance to come out .
A: No .
B: That 's the most fascinating thing
A: Well , it 's a pleasure talking with you .
B: And you , sir ,
A: Best , of luck in your graduate school .
B: take care .
B: Okay .
B: Good-bye .
A: Good-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: do you want to go first ?
B: Well , I could barely hear what the switchboard operator was saying as what was the topic .
A: Fitness and exercise .
B: Oh , God
B: No ,
B: why don't you go first .
A: Okay ,
A: um , I like to do , uh , weight training and , and cycling . And just walking , uh , swimming .
A: I used to do a lot of basketball and running and volleyball until I had some knee surgery last fall .
A: And the doctor said that running and jumping is n't real good for my knee anymore ,
A: so I had to kind of change my life-style a little bit
B: Well , let me ask a personal question ,
B: how old are you ?
A: Thirty-eight .
B: Oh , well then you should
B: see over thirty-five everything goes downhill flop .
A: Well , the rest of me is in pretty good shape
A: it 's just that left knee that just does n't want to do everything it used to .
B: Oh , you 're lucky then
B: because I 've battled arthritis all my life ,
A: Really ?
B: I mean even since I was like about two or three .
A: Oh .
B: Then they diagnosed it ,
B: and usually most people are just absolutely crippled ,
B: and , uh , I do water aerobics . Religiously do water aerobics ,
A: Oh , I bet that helps .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I used to do it about six times a week
B: and now I 'm down to about four
B: but it 's about the only thing that keeps my mobility in in there ,
B: uh , I tried weight training
B: and I 'm telling you , you just , I just ca n't lift the things .
A: Yeah .
B: And the shock on the system is , is just too much ,
B: so I have stuck to water aerobics basically , you know , the weightless thing and , trying to keep this shape that way
A: Yeah .
B: but , you know , it 's hard to find .
B: I mean it 's really hard to find a place that 's going to offer water aerobics because what I 'm finding is that if they do offer it , you get the crowd of women that are ,
B: I think they feel this is going to be an effortless sweatless way , to get in shape , without having to spend anything
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: or it 's the geriatric crowd .
A: That 's right .
B: So , I 've considered even becoming licensed to teach it .
A: Well , I mean , if , if you know what your routine is , you can do that by yourself ,
A: and you probably do .
B: Yeah ,
B: but you have to have an indoor pool .
A: This is true .
B: So , to find an indoor pool where either you can do this by yourself without , you know , drawing a lot of looks , means you 're really going to do a strenuous workout activity
B: you look very odd in the water ,
A: Well , that ,
B: that was the one place where I was also able to do weight training ,
B: and that does look very odd in the water .
A: I can believe that .
A: Have you tried the , uh , the pool at the Spring Creek Fitness Center ?
B: No ,
B: and you know , that 's the only place I have n't tried
B: and people have told me .
B: Now that 's the Texins facility ?
A: Yes .
B: I have been told that thing is just lovely .
A: It is .
A: They keep it at eighty-one degrees year-round .
B: Huh .
B: do you use that facility a lot ?
A: Um , a fairly , a fairly good amount , uh , more on the weekends ,
A: uh , I try to beat the traffic in the mornings when I workout in the mornings , I try to come down to the Dallas Fitness Center .
B: Huh .
B: Do you know if they have child care there ?
A: Um , have you done your attitude survey for this year yet ?
A: You need to put that on there , seriously .
B: They don't ,
B: I don't , I don't work at T I .
A: Oh , you don't ?
B: No ,
B: I used to work at T I ,
A: Oh .
B: as matter of fact I was the only woman that they had in the field in a management position
B: actually when I was working there I was the only woman that was pretty much in the industry
B: and I used to fill out those attitude surveys ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , uh , me and the insurance adjusters are , are very familiar with each other
B: and my husband still works there ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , um , I get my attitude expressed through them ,
B: but I find it to be very
B: sometimes it 's kind of shoot yourself in the foot mentality to save a few bucks .
A: This is true .
B: Uh , and never having lived in Texas before I starting working for T I
B: and I came down here
B: and , you know , they did an attitude survey like six weeks after I had been working here
B: and I asked about , you know , day care for the shift workers ,
A: Yeah .
B: and boy I was pulled in by my manager and told that you just don't say that , you know ,
A: Well , it 's not ,
B: it was not applicable to me
B: and I was kind of horrified .
A: Now what year are we talking about ?
B: We 're talking nineteen seventy-eight .
A: Okay ,
A: uh , things have become much more enlightened since then .
B: They could n't have gotten anymore in the dark ages
A: Yeah ,
A: you know , we still don't have a day care facility
A: but people are more sympathetic to it .
B: I understand , I understand that they 're now covering women 's preventative health care ,
A: Yes .
A: Yes .
B: and , uh , the reason I 'm at home is when I had my kids , and I was scheduled to go back and I tell you how much in the dark ages it was . Um , I had been rated number one in the field
B: and then I took , uh ,
B: when I became pregnant I also got meningitis , and then delivered the first baby three months early ,
A: Oh .
A: My gosh .
B: and they put the baby on a heart lung monitor when I took her home ,
B: and the insurance carrier was not going to cover this because it was considered preventative treatment .
A: Could you hold the phone for one second ,
B: Sure .
A: Thanks .
A: Okay ,
A: I 'm back .
B: And then they used to , uh ,
B: and then I had a second one eighteen months later ,
B: they told me to put them back to back
B: and , of course , to maintain
B: and I was flat on my back for the last five months with the second one , because that 's when I go into labor four and a half months
A: Wow .
B: and I don't even know it .
A: Of course it 's real easy to take care of the first one when you 're on your back .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: very easy ,
B: very easy
B: and they , they put me on twenty-four hour fetal monitoring then to , to try to control the labor and see how far it was going ,
B: and after the baby was born , since it was n't premature , then they said they would n't cover the cost of the monitor .
B: I think that 's kind of when my husband hit the roof , because it was a , uh , thirteen thousand dollar bill ,
A: Really .
B: but after the second baby was born I was going to go back to work ,
A: Yeah .
B: and that was when they had ,
B: God it would have been the eighty-five layoff ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I 'll tell you how they handled this
B: and I was just outraged ,
B: I did not know that since I was on personal leave of absence that I had been , uh , terminated until I filed my insurance claims about four months later
B: and they did n't have any coverage under my name
B: and I went back
B: and I said what the hell is going on here , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: really .
B: And they told me that , uh , oh , well , you know , you know , your husband works here
B: and he 's got a good salary
B: we did n't think that you 'd be coming back anyway ,
B: and , uh , you know , we 've got people here that really , you know , need to be working
B: and so that we had just ,
B: you know , it was , this way we did n't have to layoff an active person
B: and we 'd just let you go .
B: And it took me about a year of arguing ,
B: I said , you know , I 've got to put this in writing to me , and because until they put it in writing , I could n't get my insurance benefits
A: Yeah .
B: and I could n't get my , uh , termination benefits either .
A: There you go .
B: I was just pissed as hell that they could do that .
A: I , I can believe that .
B: But I , I guess things have gotten better ,
B: I 've been told that this flex hour and those kind of things ,
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: flex time is great .
B: I still don't think that , they after my experiences that they could , you know , get me to go back , ever again
A: I , I can understand .
A: I can understand .
A: Well , it 's been good talking with you .
B: But let me ask you this , since you use Texans ,
B: how much is it a month ?
A: Oh , shoot it 's only about ten bucks a month .
B: Now that 's for individual .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , uh , to add dependents is , is you know , maybe another dollar or something
A: it 's no big deal .
B: That 's it ?
A: Yeah .
B: Now if you , if you pay your monthly charge , do you then pay separately for classes your taking ?
A: Uh , you do for classes , for classes ,
A: but to , I mean to use any of the facilities is , is no extra charge .
B: God , that 's cheap .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
B: That 's really cheap .
B: Do you have to be an active T I employee to join Texans or , Or a
A: Or , or a
A: or a dependent of one .
B: God , I am so dependent these days .
A: Really .
B: It 's a sense
B: Oh , seen that my , my co-dependents have turned on the hose and are getting my neighbor 's fence .
A: Wonderful .
B: Yeah
B: So my position for management to domestic goddess has been an adjustment
B: but boy , I think I 'm going to go contact Texans .
B: I really think I am ,
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , that beats any offer I 've heard in a long time .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: it 's great .
B: Huh .
B: All righty .
B: When you 're there on weekends is it crowded as hell ?
A: Uh , well , it would depend on when you go
A: it 's not , it 's not excessively crowded on the weekends .
B: See I 'd want to be there in the mornings like from nine thirty to ten thirty
A: Oh , I don't think that would be bad at all .
A: If you 're in Richardson you 'd probably wanted to come to the , to the Dallas site .
B: Oh , I 'm actually right on the Plano line .
A: Oh , well , then you could go either one ,
B: Yeah .
A: the Spring Creek one is a lot more modern , has a lot more niceties , amenities
A: and you 'd probably like the pool there .
B: Oh , God it sounds like I would .
B: I might do that then .
B: Okay ,
B: I learned something here .
A: Well , good .
A: I 'm glad .
B: You can go back to work now .
A: Well , thank you .
B: Thank you .
A: You have a good day .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: um , I guess , um , this is probably really a good subject for me because I really like to do , uh , hand work .
A: Uh , mostly I do needlepoint , I guess .
B: Oh really .
A: But , um ,
B: What kinds of things have you done ?
A: Um , well , I 've made a lot of baby gifts
B: Uh-huh .
A: It seem like that 's ,
A: like , especially lately there 's been so many babies , that , uh , bibs and blankets , and things like that . Wall hangings , um ,
B: Do you ever keep any of your stuff ?
A: Is n't that funny .
A: No
B: I do crochet and a lot of , uh , things like that ,
B: and I have very little of my own stuff ,
B: and it 's kind of embarrassing .
B: People say let me see some of your work .
B: Oh well , can you do it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: is n't that funny .
A: I guess I do have one thing .
A: A friend of mine gave me a clock kit
B: Ooh .
A: and , I , I needlepointed the face ,
A: and I , uh , kept that because she gave me that .
A: So ,
B: That , that would be definitely something you 'd want to keep .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: And it 's real neat .
B: Was , was the whole face done or just the numbers , and , and , like minute marks ?
A: Um , basically , the whole ,
A: well , no ,
A: I guess the minute marks ,
A: but the minute marks are done , they 're like hearts .
B: Oh .
A: And then the ,
A: at the numbers they , they 're kind of outlined and stuff .
A: It , it was quite bit of work ,
A: but , you know , it was a lot of fun , too .
A: I really like doing stuff like that .
A: So .
B: I did some needlepoint years ago ,
B: and then I got into the Bargello .
A: Oh , what 's that ?
B: Well , it 's an Italian , um , needlework , using , using the uh ,
B: I started to say the canvas ,
B: but the , uh , huh ,
B: what kind of cloth uses that .
B: I , I 've just gone blank .
B: But it 's used with yarn ,
B: and it usually takes long stitches over two or three openings in the cloth
A: Huh .
B: and you weave intricate patterns and use different colors .
B: Like it could be a flame stitch where so rather than drawing a picture you 're making a design like a geometric or whatever ,
B: and it was used quite often in the colonial times to , uh , uh , to upholster chairs , and so forth , as well as the crewel , um , embroidery work that was done on them .
A: Wow , that 's interesting .
A: What did you , what kind of things did you do ?
B: What I did , when I was doing that was mostly pillows , you know , for sofas and so forth ,
B: and I ca n't find one that I 've done .
A: Oh .
B: It 's one of those things
B: I I did n't give them away ,
B: but I did n't know if it 's been my color choice or multiple moves or , or what ,
A: Yeah ,
B: and it ,
B: I was so proud of them when I got them finished ,
B: but I have no idea where they are .
A: What did you call that ?
B: Bargello .
B: It 's B , A , R , G , E , double L , O out the
A: Huh .
A: That 's ,
A: I 've never heard of that before .
A: I 've probably seen it , though ,
B: I suspect you , I suspect you have .
A: I mean , when you described it .
A: Yeah .
A: I mean , when you described it , it sounded like something , you know , that would be around , I guess .
A: But , I 've never heard of it before ,
A: and it 's really interesting .
A: Um , I guess I 've decorated baskets and stuff before in the past ,
A: but I 've kind of gotten out of that .
A: I use to do a lot more and sell at craft shows .
B: Me , too .
A: Really
B: Yes
B: That 's interesting .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
B: How did you know to choose this subject , tonight .
B: That 's funny
B: What ,
B: how did you ,
B: what kinds of decorations did you use with the
B: how were you decorating the baskets ?
A: Oh , basically bows and lace uh , ribbons .
B: Um .
A: Um . I really wanted to do ,
A: you know , so many of them now have the ribbons where , I 'm not sure how they do it ,
A: but the ribbons , they make them , they like .
A: I don't know how to explain it .
A: They make them hard , you know ?
B: Like fabric that 's been stiffened .
A: Yeah .
B: Yes .
A: I 've never done that ,
A: and those are so neat .
A: I mean , I would really like to do those
B: I 've seen some ,
B: and there , there , they ,
B: I suspect they 're fairly simple , because the one lady I 've seen , I know that does it , I 've never asked her any questions ,
B: but she has three kids all under the age of like six .
B: And , and they 're all a handful .
B: So it 's got to be something she can do fairly easily and fairly quickly .
A: Oh , definitely ,
A: yeah .
B: When I do , um , crochet , it 's usually the lacy Victorian type things like that ,
A: Oh .
B: and I stiffen those with a , a glue mixture .
B: It 's like white glue ,
B: and it may be something similar to that that the fabric is dipped in and then , um , allowed to dry in those , those draping bows , I mean , those draping streamers . I don't know .
A: Oh .
B: I was just .
B: There 's bound to be some kind of fabric stiffener like that that 's very similar that 's not going to melt too much with , uh , uh , high humidity , in a room ,
A: Yeah .
A: That 's I think that 's what my concern was , was it really sure , and how they would , how they would last .
B: Do you know what my concern is ?
B: How will I dust this thing ?
A: You 're right .
B: That 's terrible .
A: No
A: that 's true .
A: That 's funny .
B: So many of my crafts ,
B: well , right now I 'm looking at a little quilted , uh , uh , hanging ,
B: it 's , like , it 's a flag ,
B: and I don't want to wash it , because that would start breaking down the batting and so forth ,
B: but it 's such a dust collector to be out , and so forth .
A: Yeah
B: And most of my things are dust collectors
B: Uh , and I hate to dust .
A: I know .
B: So first thing I think of is how easy would this , thing be to clean .
A: That 's funny
A: No ,
A: I do some ,
A: I have really gotten out of it .
A: I don't do it quite as much as I used to . Um , I guess because I , I went back to school ,
A: so I don't have as much time .
B: Oh , you don't have time .
A: No ,
A: and I have two children also
B: You definitely don't have time .
A: It keeps me very busy .
A: But I really enjoy it when I do do it , when I get the chance , you know .
A: It 's really ,
A: it 's so relaxing to just sit ,
A: and , but once I get started , I ca n't put it down .
A: I just ,
B: I have a similar problem .
B: I 've got to have time
B: or I don't even want to get into it in the first place .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so I end up lots of time not doing anything at all .
A: I know ,
A: I started a project , it 's been over a year ago that I swore I was going to finish for somebody for Christmas .
B: You just did n't say which Christmas , right
A: That 's what I keep telling this person ,
A: well , I did n't tell you what year as if talking to other
B: What was this project ?
A: Um , well , it 's a , it 's uh , cross stitch ,
A: and it 's a picture ,
A: and it 's a wildlife ,
A: it has deer and trees
A: and , it 's really beautiful ,
A: but it 's going to be a lot of work ,
A: and you know , I 've , I have worked on it quite a bit , but not as much as I 'd like to .
A: You know , it 's just so hard .
B: Now this is done in the needlepoint ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I
A: it 's counted cross stitch , actually , is what I 'm doing ,
A: and so it 's really , since it 's counted , you know , it 's really a lot of work .
B: Yes .
B: Yes ,
B: I do know .
A: Yeah .
B: I have done a little bit of that ,
B: but I decided that that 's something that demands my my , my total attention .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so I 've got to have total , almost total silence .
B: I ca n't really watch television if the pattern is very intricate .
B: It sounds like you 'd have lots of shading on that particular piece .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yep .
B: It is not , does not sound like an easy one to finish .
A: No ,
A: it really is n't ,
A: and I tell you , really , I could just kick myself for even starting it , because I have a feeling I 'm never going to get it done .
A: I 'm probably going to hear about it the rest of my life
B: Oh , I 'm sure you 'll get it done ,
B: but it just may not of the original ,
B: obviously not of the original time schedule .
A: No ,
A: that 's true .
A: I , I just don't know when I 'm ever ,
A: it just seems like there 's just never enough time to pick it up and do it ,
A: you know , it 's just really hard .
A: But I really do
A: like I said I really enjoy it when I do .
A: It 's just hard .
B: Just hard finding the time that can be dedicated .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And there 's , there 's so many other things that , I , I have done , you know , in the meantime , like I said , so many baby gifts .
A: I 've made a lot of bibs , and wall hangings ,
A: and so , you know , those don't take much time at all .
A: So it 's no big deal for me to pick those up and do them .
B: Do you , do you use patterns , I mean , like a book of patterns ,
B: or do you go out an buy a , a kit , like for a bib or something like that .
A: No ,
A: I usually just buy a pattern book .
A: I have several pattern books ,
A: and I just go with those .
B: Okay .
A: And then I buy the bibs separate .
A: Usually I think it 's a little bit cheaper in the long run ,
A: and then I just use whatever colors I want to .
A: I don't usually use the colors they tell me to .
B: Um .
A: And it , it depends on what it is , you know .
A: But some things , especially letters , if they suggest certain colors for letters , I just go with whatever I want to .
B: That 's what I would do , too .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Or whatever I have .
A: There 's yeah , there 's a few designs I guess I 've done myself , but not very many .
A: Real simple ones , you know , I do .
A: I 've made , I made a little , uh , little , uh , little thumb print and made it a bunny .
B: Ooh .
A: It was really easy .
A: I mean , just , just did a thumb print . You know .
B: What . With ink ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And then , see I did n't cross stitch the actual thumb print ,
A: you know , that was just the ink ,
A: and then I made the ears and little eyes and nose and mouth .
A: That was so simple
B: Oh , that sounds really neat .
A: It did n't take anything at all .
B: Did you do , did you use , like , uh , a stamp pad and ink .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And then I just ,
B: Ok
B: so you ,
B: just like being finger printed ...
A: Okay ,
A: so what kind of movies have you seen , lately , I guess ?
B: Um , a lot ,
B: well , the last movie I saw , but it was n't my choice , was the NINJA TURTLE movie
A: Obviously you have kids .
B: That 's right .
B: Yeah ,
B: but my preference is the one we saw before that was SILENCE OF THE LAMBS .
A: I have n't seen that one yet .
B: That 's an excellent movie .
A: Um , the last movie I saw was , uh , SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY .
B: Oh , was that good .
B: I heard ,
A: Uh , see , I 'm not a big Julie Roberts fan .
B: Oh , okay .
A: But I was a lot , I was a lot more impressed with her than I thought I would be .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: It turned out to be a better thriller than I was expecting it to be .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was a pretty good movie .
B: SILENCE OF THE LAMBS kept me on the edge of my seat .
A: I , I 'm ready to go .
A: It just ,
A: it 's , you know , has n't worked out that way yet .
B: Right .
A: You know , it 's , uh , it looks good , you know if you like thrillers , anyway .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
B: Right .
B: And I do .
A: In fact , people I 've talked to said that they had n't slept real good for a while afterwards .
A: So
B: Really .
B: Oh , I love them like that .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm not ,
B: I mean , I , I like all ranges of movies ,
B: but I like that where they run tense .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I really enjoy ,
B: they keep me guessing the whole time .
B: It 's really , it was really interesting .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , what other movies have you seen then lately ?
B: Oh .
A: Other than the ,
A: I assume you were talking about the new NINJA TURTLES .
B: Yes ,
B: the new one , of course
A: Is that any good ,
A: I mean , I 'm sure I 'm going to be seeing it because in a week to Amarillo where my sister lives , and she 's got two boys that I took to see the first one .
B: Oh drawn
A: So I 'm sure I 'm going to see the next one here real soon .
B: Amarillo .
B: I did n't see the first one .
B: My husband said it was , um , about the same lines .
A: Oh , well , then it wo n't be too bad .
B: So , yeah .
A: You know , it was n't impressive necessarily ,
A: but it was better than it could have been .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: And I was impressed with the fact that , um , it was n't that childish .
A: Yeah .
B: You know what I mean .
B: It was n't ,
B: my daughter 's five ,
B: I mean she understood everything .
B: She goes to almost all movies with us except , you know , R rated .
B: And she really enjoyed it ,
B: but it was on a higher level , you know , where there were some things that kids did n't understand that adults did ,
B: and I liked that .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that 's important if you 're going , you know , if you 're going , uh , kids are going to , uh , parents are going to have to go you ought to make it at least you know , semi for them too .
B: Right .
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's pretty good .
B: But we take her to just about every movie ,
B: and , she , uh , she does really good .
B: We 've taken her from real young ,
B: and she does real good .
B: Like I said , we don't take her to R
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , if and when we ever get a baby-sitter , like we did with SILENCE OF THE LAMBS , we go see it .
A: I 's about to say , you 're not going to take her to that one , I 'm sure .
B: Oh , no ,
B: no .
A: Do you take her , or do you go to a lot of comedy movies
A: or to ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: What was the last comedy you saw ?
B: of to Oh gosh what was the last comedy we saw ?
B: to regular Huh , huh , huh . Good question ,
B: good question .
B: We don't get to go that often ,
B: but something on the tip of my tongue ,
B: and I ca n't think of which one it was .
B: Uh . Gosh , I ca n't remember .
A: The last , uh ,
A: in fact I guess this was the last movie I saw
B: Uh-huh .
A: I said that wrong ,
A: the last movie I saw was THE HARD WAY with Michael J . Fox .
B: But that , that sounds good .
A: Well , that really was n't too bad .
A: There were ,
A: you know , he 's supposed ,
A: you know , he 's this actor , right
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he 's playing a cop .
B: Right .
A: Or he 's hanging around with a cop trying to pick up the stuff .
A: I think he did an excellent job in not being too much of a cop .
B: Oh , okay .
A: I mean , there , there were times when he was , like , he 'd be running with a gun or whatever .
A: He did n't look like a cop when he did it .
A: And I was so impressed with that because , you know , usually ,
B: That 's neat .
B: The part was hard , to do that .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: because , I mean , everybody grows up looking at these cop movies and trying to , you know , to imitate them or whatever .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , I thought he did such an excellent job of not going that far .
B: Yeah ,
A: Now , by the end he was looking more like a cop . But at the beginning of the movie and all through the middle part , you know , he was trying to , trying to get it ,
B: Right .
A: but he was n't there yet .
B: Right .
A: And you could tell it ,
A: and I guess that I thought was a real good acting and writing job both , you know , because I think , or directing job .
A: I think they did a real good job of that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And James Woods , I think is who it was , did an excellent job as the cop .
A: I mean , you know , he just ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I like him .
A: Yeah ,
A: and there were , there were some definite , um , should I say , tense moments , with him in there .
B: Probably the last comedy we saw , now that I think about it , is HOME ALONE .
A: Yes ,
A: I , I , I had seen it before Christmas ,
A: but I took a date to it , uh , about a month ago .
A: So , I , I , I 've seen it the second time not too long ago .
A: So .
B: It was really cute .
A: I really enjoyed it .
A: Of course , the bad thing about it was , uh , the second time I saw it , I did n't really enjoy it as much ,
A: and I was kind of surprised at that .
A: I thought that would be one of those that I would love to watch over and over .
B: Yeah .
A: But before ,
A: maybe it 's just the idea of my reaction to the first time . I had laughed so hard I was hoarse .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I really was , I was hoarse getting out of there .
B: Yeah .
A: And maybe I just laughed so hard the first time that I did n't have it ,
A: I mean , it just was n't as funny the second time because I had just gone overboard the first time .
B: Right .
A: I don't know
A: but ,
B: Maybe so ,
B: maybe so .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , it was , it was a great movie though .
A: I loved the movie .
B: Yeah ,
B: I did , too .
B: I 'm looking forward to this summer , uh , NAKED GUN TWO AND A HALF is coming out .
A: I love those movies .
B: I do too .
B: I mean , they are just slapstick drawn out for
A: Oh , yeah .
B: It ,
B: you have to see those twice to catch everything .
A: Well , you have to see them more than that .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I , I , I still catch things in AIRPLANE that I did n't catch .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , it 's amazing
B: I do too .
A: I love those movies
B: I do too .
A: I really do .
B: So I 'm looking forward to seeing that because that looks hilarious , as they all do .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh yeah .
B: Well , we we try to go a couple times a month , I guess to see a movie .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It , it 's just getting so expensive .
A: Oh , is n't it though .
A: You know , but that 's at least the good thing about the Texas organization letting you buy the tickets cheaper .
B: But normally we don't think about it until ,
A: That 's exactly what , I was going to say .
A: I keep not doing it until after I 'm there
A: and then all of a sudden I 'm saying I wish I 'd bought these things .
B: I know , because we can go spend fifteen dollars just getting in the three of us .
A: Easily .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: And then if you want popcorn and stuff
B: Yeah .
B: I don't understand why they charge you out the kazoo for both .
B: You know popcorn is not that expensive .
A: No ,
A: nowhere near that expensive .
B: So they get you at the ticket booth and then try and get you at the popcorn and coke .
A: And , it , it 's just the idea that these , uh , these actors , you know , live in such lavish style .
A: I mean , it 's as simple as that .
B: Yeah .
B: We just keep breeding them .
A: Yeah ,
A: and as long as we keep paying the money for it , they are going to keep paying them .
B: I guess so .
B: Now have you seen DANCES WITH WOLVES ?
A: Yes .
A: Oh yeah .
A: Oh , that was , that was an excellent movie .
B: I have n't seen ,
B: we 're waiting for the video .
A: No ,
A: don't .
B: No ,
B: really ?
A: don't .
A: That needs the big screen .
B: Oh .
A: It really and truly does , because to get the feeling of like when the buffalos are , when they 're chasing the buffalos and everything you 've got to be where you feel it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh really ?
A: You really truly do .
B: Oh .
A: I would ,
A: I mean , I guess my first instinct was to wait for the video , too .
A: But I 'm glad I did n't .
A: I really and truly am .
A: I mean , that that was one movie I came out impressed .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I really and truly did .
A: I mean , I have absolutely no problems with them winning seven Oscars .
A: None at all .
B: Right .
A: Normally I 'm one of these people that I don't like one , one movie taking all the honors .
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I wanted him to win best actor on top of it ,
A: he was ,
B: Yeah , oh .
A: Like I said , I would n't given the supporting actresses either one .
B: Yeah .
A: But even though they were okay , the girl in it ,
A: they ,
A: somebody made an interesting observation ,
A: now that I think back on it , I 'd say yeah , I ca n't believe that either .
A: She was the only indian to have her hair done at all times .
A: You know what I mean , you know .
A: It was just too perfect at all times .
B: Yeah .
A: That was a mistake that they made .
A: They should n't have done it .
B: Yeah .
A: Now the best ,
A: the supporting actor , he was good ,
A: but from what I heard , the guy who got it was better ,
A: so I , you know , I can see that .
B: Yeah .
A: But , oh ,
B: You think my daughter would like it ?
A: Oh , well there are , there is one spot that was just a little bit on the gory side .
B: Oh , okay .
A: But , um , it 's it 's
B: She does n't mind when we cover up her eyes .
A: Okay ,
A: no problems
A: It , it 's just the idea that there is this one spot where the white man has come by and killed a bunch a buffalo and just stripped its hide , the hides .
A: So there 's ,
B: See , that 's the one , that is the honest to God the one reason I don't want to see the movie is because I love buffalos for some weird reason ,
A: Yeah ,
A: but , well , And , and , of course ,
B: and I know they 're fake .
A: and , well , yeah ,
A: that , and plus , I mean part of it is the idea that he goes with them on a buffalo hunt .
A: So , I mean , they are killing buffalos in it .
A: But they don't stress that very much ,
A: they really don't .
B: Okay ,
B: okay .
A: And I think it 's an excellent movie for ,
A: if , if she enjoys movies I think it 'll work pretty good .
B: Oh , that 'll be good .
B: We really need some ,
B: my husband keeps wanting to .
A: It 's , it 's , it 's a long movie .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I heard the video 's even going to be longer .
A: Oh yeah .
B: They did a lot of stuff that they cut out .
A: I may have to see the video .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: they said ,
A: I had n't even thought of that .
B: Yeah ,
B: they said there 's a lot that had been edited , because of the length and that they wanted in ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so they 're going to put it in the video .
A: Yeah .
B: And that way you can watch it at your leisure .
A: Well , yeah ,
A: I kind of like it when they do that , because the video , like I said ,
A: there are certain things you ca n't do with a video
B: Yeah .
A: and the idea that they may put a little extra in it I think is a good idea .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Because I mean when you rent a video ,
A: videos , of course , are not cheap either
B: True .
A: and so the idea of getting a little extra with it I think is a good idea . Because they , they make bundles of money off those things .
B: I know it
B: Is n't that ridiculous .
B: We have cable which helps a lot
A: Oh , I do too .
A: Yeah ,
A: but not enough .
B: Yeah ,
B: we keep holding out , you know .
A: Yeah
A: I 'm getting to the point where , you know , I watch , well I watch NICK AT NIGHT .
A: Okay ,
A: do you have
B: Are you there ?
A: Yeah .
B: Okay
A: There , okay .
B: Okay .
A: Had to mess with my phone here .
A: Um , do you have children ?
B: Yes ,
B: I have one .
A: Oh , okay .
B: How about you ?
A: I have three .
B: Oh , my goodness
A: Yeah
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , do you work ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I do .
A: Okay .
B: I do ,
B: I work
B: and , and , uh , Brian 's in a day care center .
B: He 's uh , he was two in December ,
A: Oh .
B: so he 's not quite two and a half yet .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He ,
B: uh , I put him ,
B: I 'm kind of had different , different ideas from what probably the majority of people have ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I put him in a day care center from the very beginning .
B: He started in day care when he was eight weeks old .
A: Oh , no kidding .
B: And I just ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I have kind of the opposite opinion of most people ,
A: Really .
B: I have had this real problem with a , a private individual .
B: I mean I , I kind of looked at it like if you take him to a home with a , with private individual , when the door shuts , that one person has total control ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: and I always figured at least in a day care center there are other people around ,
A: Yeah .
B: and if you get one bad apple , there 's are at least other people that can see it .
A: Yeah .
B: They can watch ,
B: and I just kind of always felt that the chances of something happening were less .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Because there 's ,
B: You know , how can you help depending on the day care center , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: you got to when you hear about all the horrible things that happen in day care centers ,
B: have you ever noticed they 're always like a family owned center where the mother and the daughter and the son run it , you know , kind of thing .
A: It 's like a family thing .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: You never hear about it really in the big ones .
A: Yeah .
B: So , that 's what I did
B: and I have had just excellent luck .
A: Oh , good .
B: I have been just so happy .
B: He 's ,
A: Oh , good .
A: I was just going to ask you how it , you know , if you liked the , the ,
A: but obviously you do or you would n't have him there , I know ,
A: but ,
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Well he was in , he was in the same center for two years , for the first two years ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it was wonderful ,
B: and I loved it ,
B: and I was so happy there
B: and the woman who owned it sold it .
A: Oh , gosh .
B: But , I thought okay , I 'm going to keep an open mind here ,
A: Right .
B: and the people who came in , it just was n't , it , just was n't the same
A: Was n't the same .
B: and their , their attitude and philosophy was just completely , opposite from mine ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I left him there for about a month and just decided I ca n't do this anymore ,
B: and I , moved him , which was an extremely traumatic experience
A: Yeah .
B: but . but , he 's done well ,
A: Was it ?
A: Yeah .
B: he 's been there , a couple of months now ,
A: Good .
B: and I just feel so lucky .
A: Oh , good .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's great ,
A: that 's good .
B: How about you ?
B: Do you work
B: or do you get to stay home with them ?
A: Well , I got to stay home with my kids for the first ten years .
A: My oldest one is ten and a half now , or she 's , I guess ,
B: Wonderful .
A: yeah ,
A: it 's ,
A: was about ten years .
A: So I , yeah , I , I was really happy that I was able to do that .
A: But , I ,
A: that 's what I wanted to , because I , uh , you know I just could n't wait to have kids
A: and so , if I was ,
A: I was so anxious to have them
A: and I could n't wait to have them it would be kind of silly , you know , to go back to work as soon as I had them ,
A: so ,
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: so , it , it , it , it was really great .
A: By the end of the ten years I was really ready to go back to work ,
B: Yeah .
B: I bet
A: and my youngest was only , uh , two and a half
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean she was already two and a half ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so it was n't , you know , she was n't an infant .
B: A baby .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: so , I felt real good about that ,
A: but , uh , boy , I tell you with summer coming up I 'm just pulling my hair out , in terms of what I 'm going to do ,
A: I , I guess I , went back to work about a year and a half ago
A: and , uh , I worked full time all last year
A: and now I 'm going to school part time and , uh , graduate school ,
A: and I 'm working part time
A: And , so I 'm still ,
B: I know how that goes
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm still going full time ,
A: but I only have half time salary ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , when school lets out , I just don't , I have n't , I have no idea what I 'm going to do , because I certainly ca n't afford what we did last year which was ,
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: Did you have them in a center or something last summer ?
A: Well , we did ,
A: we tried , we had all different things ,
A: we sent them to camp .
A: One ,
A: first month , in June , they went to summer school , then the second month they ,
A: uh , one ,
A: my daughter went home to visit my Mom for a while and my son , uh , went to camp
A: and there we had , uh , I don't know some ,
A: forget what else we did
A: but it was all , uh , really expensive
B: Yeah ,
B: that stuff is expensive .
B: It really is .
A: So , now they 're a year older ,
A: and I ,
A: my daughter 's eleven , going to be eleven this summer
A: and my son will be , nine and a half .
A: And so , I 'm not ,
A: I think I can leave them home ,
A: for a ,
A: if I can work part of the day , you know , I 'm going to leave them home .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: I was going to say they 're getting to the age where , you should be able to trust that a little bit ,
A: Right .
B: yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yes ,
A: in fact I 'm doing that right now with their afternoons , when they get home before I do . You know ,
A: that 's okay .
A: But , the four year old now I I have had her since I went back to work , or before I went back to work really , in a home day care situation ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , we 've just been really thrilled , with it too .
A: We were what ,
A: actually we ,
A: it took us two or three different people to find ,
B: To find the right one ,
A: Yeah .
B: that 's what we have to do though .
A: Right .
A: But , I was n't embarrassed to shop around you know ,
B: No .
A: so , the , the person we found it through the ,
A: there 's an association here in town of professional home , care providers or something like that .
B: Where do , where do you live ?
A: In Plano .
B: Plano ?
A: Yeah ,
A: and they have a number you can call
A: and all these people are registered with their association
A: and , you know , go like our , our , uh ,
A: I don't want to call her a baby-sitter ,
A: she 's does n't like , to be called that ,
A: care provider .
B: Care provider .
A: Right .
A: She goes to seminars
A: and , uh ,
B: Oh , that 's wonderful .
A: she gets home visitations by the I don't know , the state boards , I guess , some of them and then some by the association ,
A: and they have weekly meetings and everything
A: and , so it 's just really , really well regulated .
B: That 's great .
A: And , she 's just great .
A: In fact , uh , she 's all upset because Galen is going to go to kindergarten next fall
A: and she says this is it ,
A: you know , I 'm not going to have her anymore
A: and I said , Oh , no , don't count on that
A: After noon classes she 's going to be here because she 's going to morning kindergarten .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: So , but , we , we 've tried , we 've tried everything
A: and one year , I guess last year when I went back to work I had
A: my son was eight at the time , just barely eight ,
A: and , uh , we put him in Amrein 's Day Care , after . After ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: I 've heard that , they were very good .
A: Well , that 's why we picked it , because they were , were supposed to be real great ,
A: and , you know , I think they were fine ,
A: but the thing is he was in school all day , in second grade ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: in , in Plano , it 's open classroom situation where they don't have walls ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so there is like a hundred and twenty second graders in the same area with no walls .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , and then he 'd get on the Amrein 's Bus to go to Amrein 's
A: and then there would be a whole ton of other kids , all in the same room , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: you know what fun they had with these computer games
A: and then they 'd go outside for awhile ,
A: they had snacks and story time and everything .
A: But , it was just like going to school until five thirty at night instead of being able to get home at two thirty .
B: Poor kid was in school all day .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Because he was always around with a crowd of kids and he just really missed being able to be by himself , and having some peace and quiet
B: Uh-huh .
A: or , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Even at that age they need that time ,
A: Yes .
B: we all need that time , just some quiet time to wind down from the day .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: That 's exactly it .
A: So , another thing that we tried to do ,
A: I , I know your son 's too young right now ,
A: but we 're trying , we tried to sign him up for after school scouts and , stuff like that
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: and ,
B: I think that 's really important ,
A: Yeah .
B: and we 've already started about ,
B: you know , I mean , how young can they start T-Ball and soccer ?
A: Right
B: You know , I mean , I just ,
B: you know , we both think of that that as just so important , to get him involved in stuff like that
A: It is .
B: and , you could hardly wait ,
A: It is .
A: And ,
B: I mean , he 's , he 's so much fun now ,
A: Yeah .
B: he 's really , he 's really starting to get lots of fun
B: and I ca n't wait until stuff like that starts happening
A: I bet ,
A: yeah .
B: you know , and , you know , we did the Easter egg hunts , which was really the first year he was really able to
A: Uh-huh .
A: understand .
B: and to know what we know what he was doing you know , and enjoy it ,
A: Yeah .
B: and it was so much fun
B: and gosh he went a couple of weekends ago and rode an elephant
B: and , God he got up on this elephant all by himself
A: Oh , my gosh .
A: You 're kidding .
B: and Lord , I could n't believe it .
A: You 're kidding .
B: They had so much fun .
A: Oh , that 's great .
B: I bought us tickets and stood there in line
B: and I thought , I 'm going to end up on this elephant with him you know ,
B: He did it by himself ,
A: Well , good for him .
B: so stuff like that is starting to come along where it 's really , getting fun , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Day care has just done just incredible stuff with him
B: and he like comes home with something new everyday , you know
B: and so , I know , I know they 're working with him
A: Well , that 's great .
A: That 's so good .
B: and he 's excited to get there in the morning , and just does n't even want to kiss me good-bye .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's just like bye ,
B: and he goes running , you know ,
A: He 's out of there .
B: and he 's always having fun when I pick him up
B: so , you know . Yeah ,
B: this , this day care is , is ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's Bright Steps in Lewisville .
B: And ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: whenever you say Bright Steps , everybody goes , oh , I 've heard that 's the best day care in town , you know ,
A: Yeah ?
A: Good .
B: and it 's , it 's one of those that 's very hard to get into .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they have , this , this , this woman owns three day cares , two in Lewisville and one in Irving .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and she had to open the second one up in Lewisville because , her waiting list was just like , you know , like a year old ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it was ridiculous .
A: Oh , my gosh .
B: And , she 's got two day cares within like three blocks of each other .
A: No kidding .
B: Yes ,
B: so its ,
A: She knows something right , that she
A: and ,
B: She knows what she 's doing ,
B: all the teachers , like about half the teachers are degreed teachers .
A: Yeah ,
A: that makes such a difference .
B: Oh , it makes a huge difference .
A: That 's the way it is at my daughter 's nursery school too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I think that really makes a difference .
B: Yeah .
A: They 're in it because it 's a profession , not because it 's a job they could get because they did n't qualify for anything else , you know .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
B: And , his old day care as much as I loved it , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the owner , I really liked her
B: and she worked really hard to get good people ,
B: but the people that she got were there because they were n't qualified to do anything else you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: And , and I got lucky
B: and all of his teachers were , very good .
A: Because , because ,
A: Right .
A: Some , sometimes that 's fine ,
A: that 's great , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: but then sometimes , you know ,
A: Sometimes it is n't .
A: You just have to .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , is it real expensive then ?
B: Um , it just went up the first of this month .
B: I 'm paying , uh , seventy nine dollars a week for now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: Wow .
B: It 's a little high ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , but it 's , you know , it 's like where he was before I was only paying sixty three ,
B: so there 's quite a little jump there ,
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: but , I looked all over Lewisville ,
B: I looked in every day care there was in Lewisville ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , you know , and there were places that were cheaper ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but is it ,
A: No .
B: you know , your peace of mind is worth a little bit of money , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I have peace of mind , where he is
A: Uh-huh .
B: and some of those other places I would n't have .
A: That 's exactly it .
A: See , we do the same thing ,
A: since Galen goes to nursery school , we pay our , our home care provider , for our day care provider , full time for a whole week ,
A: but she , she 's gone three mornings .
A: Galen just does n't go there three mornings a week .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But , I said to her , I said , you know , it does n't matter if for whatever
A: when school holidays come around , I used to have such a problem with that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They would n't have anything to do .
A: I 'd either have to
A: Okay .
B: Well , have you ever , uh , had a family reunion ?
A: Yes ,
B: Oh .
A: and , uh , let me tell you
A: this is a really neat thing to do too , that they did ,
A: I did n't do it .
A: Some of the other people , the older people organized it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , what they did , they had , uh , a book made up
A: and it was like , when our ancestors first came over .
B: Oh .
B: No kidding .
A: And , then what they did was they asked every family to write something about their family . And , like , how many kids you had , and who you had married ,
B: Huh .
A: and , you know , it went through like ,
A: and it showed who my , uh , well , who my husband 's parents were , you know . And , who he married and then how many children we had and then like his brothers and sisters
B: Uh-huh
A: and it went through the whole family and stuff .
B: Oh , that 's so neat .
A: And , it was so good .
B: Oh , great
A: Yeah .
A: But it , it really did ,
A: you know , and plus it 's got a lot more people interested in it because , you got to participate sort of .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: So , so did everybody send in their information and they made a book up , about it ,
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then you could get it at the reunion .
A: Right .
A: And , everybody got a book , that came to the reunion .
B: Oh , nice .
A: And , it told like , uh , you know , where the first Connallys came over ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , it told what happened when they got there and how many kids they had
A: and it just kept coming on up through the generations .
B: Wow .
A: So , it was really , that was really neat .
B: That is neat .
A: And ,
B: So , do you have a big family ?
A: Well , he does
B: Oh , he does ?
B: Yeah
A: He does ,
A: I don't .
A: But , uh , he has enough relatives to make up for me not having any
B: That 's kind of how my husband and I are .
B: I have a kind of a big family
B: and he just has himself and his brother and his parents ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that 's it .
B: So , he had to kind of get used to us when we first started going together .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's what , that 's what happened when I , when I first , uh , met my husband .
A: I said , this ca n't be , you know ,
A: nobody can have this many relatives ,
A: because a lot of them lived in like a group , you know , down one highway .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , there was a lake ,
A: and they all lived down there by it .
B: Oh , how nice .
A: And , so , we were going down , the highway , you know ,
A: and he kept saying , this is where my uncle lives
A: and this is where my aunt lives and my uncle ,
B: Oh , my gosh .
A: and I kept thinking , this guy is putting me on .
A: Nobody has this many relatives , you know
B: Yeah .
A: So , but , they really were all there .
B: How funny .
A: And , another thing that 's really good about , uh , family reunions , is having everybody just cook whatever is their specialty , and bring it . At , because nobody it seemed like , liked the same thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: But you had a choice
A: and then you got to taste a lot of new dishes and stuff too , and get a lot of good recipes .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Where if you said a certain thing and say , okay , we 're all going to have fried fish , or , we 're all going , to have fried chicken .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Everybody might not like that .
B: Not be able to do it .
B: So , did people come like from out of town to the reunion
B: or ,
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah ,
B: They did .
A: they came from all over .
B: Did you put them up in other people 's houses
B: or did you have hotel rooms ,
B: or , how did you do it ?
A: Um , they just stayed with different ones of them .
B: They did .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They just came down and like say , okay , this aunt and Uncle Kip , uh , all their kids and their grand kids and everything ,
A: and then , they had it .
B: Uh-huh
A: It had gotten so big that they had it at the church .
B: Oh , really ?
A: And , they had a church service ahead of it ,
A: you know , and then they had , uh , uh , then they ate out on the ground .
B: How nice .
B: And they just brought food with them ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Did they just have like over a weekend ?
B: Is that how they did it ?
A: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I 'm real curious because my family ,
B: it did n't sound ,
B: I don't think my family is as big as your husband 's .
B: I don't think we 'd need a whole church ,
B: but , um , the problem is we are all really scattered , around .
B: There is n't any one place where most of us live ,
B: so if we ever had a reunion , we 'd kind of all have to stay in a hotel .
B: I mean , you know , there would be one person who lived there that would have a house ,
B: but they could n't put everybody up .
B: So it , I think it would get kind of expensive .
A: But , you know what you can do ?
B: Huh ?
A: A lot of these lakes and things , if you could find a centrally located , like , say about the same distance for all of you all to come ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: They have these places where you can rent them
A: and it , you know , like on a lake ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: like , uh , it 's a big place ,
A: I mean , you know , it 's got little rooms that separate off of it and stuff ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , it 's not very expensive that way .
B: Oh , you mean
B: so ,
B: oh , I see ,
B: so everybody could stay together ?
A: Right .
A: It 's like a , they have like a , a convention type thing .
B: Yeah .
B: a house or something .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , then it has little rooms off of it where , you know , you 'd go and sleep at night time .
B: Oh !
A: But , then it has like a kitchenette and things like that
A: but you ,
B: See , that would be great because then you could spend so much more time together , than if you all were in your own hotels or something .
A: Right .
A: And another ,
B: And then , every time you wanted to go eat with somebody , you 'd probably have to go to out , eat or something .
B: It would run into a lot of money .
B: So ,
A: Yeah .
A: But , they had ,
A: that was ,
A: you know , that ,
B: That sounds like fun .
A: what you can do is , you can write different places , the Chamber of Commerce , tell them what you 're interested in .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Ask them what they have , you know , at area lakes and all . If they have something like that
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: because now every time we plan anything , just about , we write to the Chamber of Commerce of where we 're going because , you can find out so much easier , that way , than try to locate it , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: You get a ,
B: Yeah .
A: calling different places can really run you up a bill .
B: Yeah .
A: But , if you can find a centrally located place where everybody would have to come about the same distance ,
A: I mean , you ca n't get it exact , you know , usually ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: but , uh , and then everybody goes to that place .
A: And that is not bad at all .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , they have , lot of times they 'll have like , uh , little cabins ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and three or four or five families can stay in those cabins because they have , you know , just the single bunk beds and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , they can all stay in those cabins .
A: And then , you know , you can have cookouts and stuff like that
A: that does n't cost you as much .
B: That would be great .
B: That would be really nice
A: Yeah .
A: But , that 's , uh , you know , that 's the best way I found , because whenever you have , something where you go and ,
B: Yeah .
B: That sounds good .
A: now we had one ,
A: this was before I lost a lot more of my family ,
A: but it was n't any of my immediate family anyway . Because I did n't have any of them left .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , um they had , uh , uh , thing where you could , everybody could come and meet and go out to eat .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , I did n't think that was as good . Because , it was like , you know , you could n't really talk and stuff , like you could when , you were at the lake , or somewhere , you know , where you were out .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Right .
A: This was like everybody came into town and went to this restaurant .
B: And you have to sit at a table and just ,
B: yeah ,
A: Yeah .
A: And , it just ,
A: I did n't like that much .
B: Well , um , did you ,
B: was it hard to decide who to invite and who not to invite .
B: I mean , did you have to draw a line ,
B: or did the people that had that reunion have to draw a line ?
A: No .
B: Like , they just
B: whoever wanted to come .
A: What they did was , Well , see what they did was , okay , they , uh , they wrote to all the initial people , you know , the , the oldest ones .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: Okay ,
A: then those in turn got a hold of these other ones .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they had like ,
A: I think there was four or five different people , that would call , you know , some of them , if they did n't have their addresses and all on them ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , they told them that what we had to do was when we sent back in our information , we had to tell them how many people were going to be coming , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: And then , when they , when they talked to us or when they sent us the letter , it , uh , you know , to get the information and all , it asked , you know , will you be willing to bring
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you had to check off what all you would be willing to bring .
B: Oh , I see .
A: And , so , really there was n't any problem with ,
A: that 's the reason it ended up in a church because , I mean , there was just so many of them .
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But , it turned out so much better like that . Because everybody knew , they knew ahead of time how many people to expect .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: Now if there was a sickness or something like that , I mean , you know , you 're not going to lose that many .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
B: No that would just be a few .
A: Right .
B: But how about like because of divorce and stuff like that ?
B: Like my parents are divorced ,
A: Okay well ,
B: and they are both remarried
B: and , you know , there , I mean , there 's ,
B: I don't know .
A: Well , see , then
A: okay ,
A: if you wanted them both to come , then you would put , you would have put that down on the list
B: Yeah .
A: and you would have sent , you would have been the one that sent their invitation to them , and ask for their information .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: So then ,
A: To send back to those other people .
B: I , I 'm kind of like , in control over who comes . Uh , just from my family .
A: Right .
A: Because once it went to the , the oldest people and then they knew who they wanted to invite ,
B: Yeah .
A: then , they sent their little things to us .
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: it was up to me , who I was going to , you know , whether I wanted my kids and , you know , my , any of my family to come .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: I see .
A: So ,
B: I see ,
B: that 's a pretty good idea to do it that way .
A: And then , you know , it never did ,
A: like if I did n't want somebody to come , then I just would n't send them one of the questionnaires .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So there really was n't a problem that way .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: right .
B: Well , that 's a real good idea .
A: Well ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , I tell you what , that 's the neatest book we 've got ,
B: I bet .
A: course we 've got , we 've still got it
A: and they charged us , I think it was like , it was like five or six dollars , I ca n't remember exactly , you know , that we paid for the book to be printed .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's not , uh , it 's not a hard back book , it 's just a , oh , like a , you know , folder type thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it has the entire ,
A: you know , it has everybody that you could ever imagine , and some you could n't
B: How neat .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know , that 's really neat .
B: That 's really neat .
A: and , it will be something my kids will have , you know .
A: Just like ,
B: I was just thinking of that . What you could tell your kids .
A: yeah .
A: Because if you stop and think ,
A: I don't know if you 're like me ,
A: but I know very little about before my grandparents .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , very , very little about it .
B: I just ,
B: the thing is I know a lot of stories ,
B: but I ca n't remember who it was about .
B: My grandparents told us when I was growing up and even when I was an adult
B: they still tell all kinds of stories about their parents and their cousins and their best friends , cause they all grew up in New York City ,
B: but I ca n't , you know , I remember these stories
B: but I have no idea who it was that was in those stories .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I mean , I could n't give an accurate ,
B: I could n't tell my kids what , you know , those people were like ,
B: I just remember they had some funny stories ,
B: but I don't know who it was .
A: Maybe what you could do if you could n't get into a full family reunion , and you wanted to go back some ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but then usually when you find out some information from like your parents , then you can find out from , you know , you can find somebody else that can tell you something else about these ,
B: Yeah
A: Okay .
B: All right .
B: What , uh , what kind of camping is there in Texas ?
A: Well , there , there are quite a few , um , parks , I guess , state parks ,
A: and there 's a couple of national parks , I guess , that you can camp at .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , most of them have pretty good facilities .
A: I don't know if the camping that I 've done is really roughing it without a , a whole lot of stuff .
B: Yeah .
B: So , you do , uh , like backpacking and the like ?
A: Uh , done a little bit of that , mainly just , um , like camping out at the state parks ,
A: I 've been to a couple in Texas
A: and there 's some real nice ones in Arkansas .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I think Arkansas has one of the best parks departments around .
B: Huh .
B: Is the Ozarks in Arkansas ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: part of them are .
B: Yeah ,
B: so , that 's probably a pretty nice place to go
A: Yeah ,
A: they 've got , uh , real nice lake system , and , around their parks .
A: One of them , uh , the gray , I think that 's one of the ones we 've been to , it 's real nice there , a bunch of lakes around it ,
A: there 's a golf course and , um , just a whole bunch of camping sites .
B: Yeah .
A: What about you ,
A: where have you , uh ,
B: Oh , I 've been camping for years , not on a regular basis
B: but , uh , I first started camping out in the desert in California . And then sometimes in the mountains also in California
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , then I moved to North Carolina
B: and I , I did n't camp for a long time ,
B: and then I started to , uh , go camping again kind of in conjunction with white water rafting ,
B: so , I 'd go up somewhere and camp overnight and then do some rafting .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then maybe camp another night and drive home .
B: And that was , uh , that was pretty good
B: so , I went out and bought a whole bunch of camping gear
B: and , uh , you know , I still do it once in a while .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think we 've collected stuff off and on over the years .
A: The more times we did it , the more serious we get about it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Where , where is Raleigh , in North Carolina ?
B: Uh , well , it 's , it 's , uh , in terms of north , south I would say it 's , uh , a little , a little more towards the northern border of the state and pretty much in the eastern half of it .
A: Okay .
B: So what
A: Are you kind of away from the Blue Ridge Mountains ,
B: Well , it , it 's , uh ,
A: an area .
B: actually the , the Blue Ridge in Virginia are closer to Raleigh .
B: They 're about three hours away if you go due north .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , of
B: the Blue Ridge in North Carolina I think are much nicer
B: and you can pick those up going west ,
B: but then you 're talking about six to eight hours .
A: Yeah .
B: The way it works .
B: But , um , it 's a real , it 's a real nice place to go and camp ,
B: and there 's some pretty decent campgrounds although , I don't think Raleigh , I don't think the state of North Carolina takes ,
B: they probably just don't spend as much money as a lot of other states might .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: my wife 's from the western part of Virginia ,
A: we 've been down the parkway a lot ,
A: but I did n't know how much , how much camping areas there were along there .
B: I think there 's quite a few .
B: I ca n't say I 've checked them all out though .
A: What , what 's it like camping in the desert and California ,
A: that seems , like a challenge .
B: It 's , uh , it 's actually kind of incredible ,
B: it 's really , really nice .
B: Um , I like it better than almost anything I 've ever done .
B: Just the sky is so amazing .
B: You know , you really can probably count thousands of stars ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it 's , it 's just kind of nice .
B: I like the , uh ,
B: I think the desert has a rare kind of beauty which , uh , a lot of people don't realize ,
B: you know , they hear desert
B: and they think of scorpions and snakes and sand and being real dry , and lack of water ,
B: course it , it has all of those qualities
B: but it also has a certain quality of beauty that you just don't find anyway else except in a desert .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , it 's pretty nice .
B: The , uh , the movie , THE DOORS , has some nice desert scenes ,
B: those guys all go camping out in the desert .
A: Yeah .
B: Of course , they drag a lot of drugs with them
B: but , um , the , uh , the shots are , are pretty nice
B: and it 's sort of like that ,
B: I mean , it 's just almost surreal , in some places .
A: Huh .
B: It 's very pleasant .
A: Are the temperatures real extreme there
A: or the , the ,
B: They can be ,
B: yeah .
B: I mean , you got to , you sort of have to choose your season carefully and know what 's going to happen .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've been camping in Death Valley ,
B: one does n't go in July
A: Yeah ,
A: true .
B: But it 's beautiful in February .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , it 's just beautiful .
B: The days , get up into the high eighties , uh , maybe the nineties
B: but it 's , it 's quite bearable
B: and then the nights are reasonably warm , you know , sixties or seventies .
B: It 's just great .
B: It 's really very nice .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 've talked about planning a trip up through , um ,
A: I have a sister-in-law that lives in New Mexico , up through New Mexico and into Colorado and the Grand Canyon area .
A: I don't know , don't know when I 'm going to get a chance to do that
A: but ,
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that would be , that would be pretty nice .
B: I 've been , I have been camping on the south rim the Grand Canyon .
B: That 's okay .
B: A lot of people like to go down and camp down inside ,
B: I was just too lazy that trip to do all that walking , especially with my gear .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 'll bet .
A: That one , one thing you said about the stars is really true
A: it 's ,
A: when you 're close to a big city like Dallas , the , the lights kind of wash , wash off the star
B: Oh , yeah .
A: so it 's nice to , to get away .
A: It 's just amazing , how , how much you miss .
B: Yeah ,
B: it ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it ,
B: yeah ,
B: it really is .
B: I mean , I don't think I ever see the Little Dipper ,
B: you hear people talk about the Little Dipper .
A: Huh Uh-huh .
B: But I don't think I ever see it except when I go get out of the city and go camping in the desert or in , in the mountains .
B: Otherwise it 's just too faint
A: Well , I guess we 've talked as much as we need to on the subject .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think we fulfilled our obligation .
B: Well , thanks for calling ,
B: nice talking to you .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was good talking to you Robert .
B: Okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Well , Stephanie , what 's your position on gun control ?
B: Well , on a scale of one to ten , uh , being ten , no , kind of legislation and zero being , uh , total ban , I probably would lean more towards six or seven .
B: Um , I feel like a total ban on guns is just going to put the guns in the hands the criminals .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I lived in Massachusetts for two years
B: and they have a total ban on guns
B: and I saw that , it did n't stop crime in that state .
A: Now was that just on handguns or was that on rifles ?
B: Any , any kind of firearms .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , it 's ,
B: there 's was a mandatory jail sentence if you were caught , um , with a firearm
B: and also I think there was a fine .
A: And that did n't help at all ?
B: No ,
B: I don't ,
B: the , the crime is not any better or any worse ,
B: I mean it 's ,
A: Huh .
B: I , I should n't say I don't know if it was any worse ,
B: but it certainly did n't get any better .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I usually just ,
A: I 'm trying to think of ,
A: I guess I would tend myself to be more towards the , the , like three , where I don't think you should necessarily ban guns any , by any means ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but you should definitely have the character search and the seven day holding period and things along that nature , uh ,
A: you know , you should n't be able to go out there and just buy one and , you know , right off the shelf .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I , I agree with that .
A: And but ,
B: I , I think that the , the law is on who can buy a gun are , are way too lax .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: exactly .
B: I think that , I think that the ,
A: And , so , I think that kind of control is , would be good ,
B: Yeah .
A: but the , uh ,
A: I , you know , I 'm trying to think of how many times you make the statement and , just to kind of exam it a little bit
A: and I , I know that any statement in absoluteness is not necessarily true , uh ,
A: only the guns were in the hands of the criminals ,
A: but how many times ,
A: I guess I have never heard of a , a robbery being foiled or spoiled because the person who 's being robbed had a gun .
B: Um , I ,
A: And maybe they just don't report those
A: or I 'm not sure
A: or , you know , I ca n't think of ever hearing on the news or whatnot or hearing or knowing anybody who was being robbed
A: but good thing they had their gun on them
A: and they , they thwarted the robbery attempt .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I 'm , I 'm not really sure ,
B: I don't , personally I don't own a gun ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , and I don't think I probably ever would , um , although I would like to know how to handle one ,
B: and I think it 's good that and I think everybody should learn how to handle one .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , you just never know when you might come into contact with one .
A: True .
B: Um ,
A: Did , did you , were you brought up in a family that hunted
A: or ,
B: No .
B: Uh , nobody in my family hunted ,
B: uh , my father had , had guns when I was in high school because he got them from a friend who lived in Massachusetts
B: We lived in New Hampshire at the time .
A: How about that .
B: And he lived in Massachusetts and had to get rid of all his guns ,
A: Huh .
B: so we ended up , uh , with these guns ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my , really my only experience with a gun was shooting a pistol and not knowing how to hold it right
B: and the hammer came back and hit me in the thumb and blood squirted everywhere .
A: Oh , jeez .
B: And so that was really the only experience that I 've had with guns
B: and it , it kind of scared me .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I think that if I learn how to use one , I would , I would feel better .
A: Right .
A: I 've also always thought about the idea , you know , most sports , you know , which are the N R A and people have their thing , you know ,
A: if you ban guns , you 're just banning the , the recreation , the sport of hunting , things of that nature .
A: Most of that 's done with rifles and such . Uh , though there 's , you know , probably I 'm sure some sector that does it with handguns .
A: But just by the mere fact of outlawing handguns , would make it so that it would be not as conspicuous ,
A: you could n't be inconspicuous , when you walked into a store stuff like that ,
B: Yeah .
A: you could see someone coming or dressed inappropriately , you know ,
A: if they had to have a rifle or was ,
A: you know , made it more difficult to get a , a , uh , a handgun .
A: Now of course , you know , in this world anytime you 've freedom you can be able to get anything you want .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: But I guess to make it more difficult for the person who 's just so irate and upset and , you know , temporarily a little bit , uh , offset or off keel ,
A: I don't know if that 's a large percentage of , uh , crime or not
A: but I guess it would be some .
A: But I , I think definitely ,
A: like today they just introduced the , what 's called the Brady bill . The seven day mandatory waiting period , on getting any guns .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I think that , Shoot that 's a good idea .
B: I would definitely support that .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I , I agree the thing that scares me , uh , though about where I would , I would definitely want some sort of legislation
B: and coming from the north east , I 'm just not used to seeing , um , these ,
B: and I , I know this may sound kind of stereo typical
B: but the cowboys with the gun racks in the back of their trucks . That 's kind of scary to me
A: Oh , sure .
B: that kind of , to me it is more like vigilantism .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , and it kind of scares me especially with all the shootings that have been going on , in L A , on the freeways ,
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's crazy .
B: and then you come here in , in the Dallas area , um ,
B: I don't , I don't believe that people should be allowed to carry guns in their vehicles . Um , especially not in the back window , for everybody to see .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's kind of , kind of wild .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That is kind of wild .
A: Well , that 's all very interesting
A: Well , thanks for talking .
B: Sure you 're welcome .
A: Good-bye .
B: Okay ,
B: bye-bye .
B: There we go .
A: Right .
B: Well , actually I 'm a , I 'm a Dodgers fan from way back .
A: Oh
B: Um ,
A: how way back , I mean
B: Like , um , late fifties , early sixties .
A: Okay
A: so Wally Moon moon shots and all that .
B: What 's that ?
A: Yeah ,
A: coliseum , Wally Moon and all that .
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah ,
A: it 's a , um ,
A: I , I 'm living in , just west of Baltimore , and Frederick , um , which is also just west of Baltimore , has a minor league team .
A: And , uh , and , Wally Moon is the manager of them .
B: Is that right ?
A: Yeah ,
A: so he 's still kicking around .
B: That 's interesting .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I also lived eight years in Ohio before going to , uh , going away to college ,
B: and I used to go watch the Toledo Mudhens .
A: Oh , I saw them ,
A: um , um , I was out there last Summer ,
A: and I saw a game at Ned Skelton .
A: Is that the stadium ?
B: Uh , I could n't tell you for sure .
B: It 's been a long time .
A: Oh , okay .
A: So , um , there used to be a , uh , race track .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was ,
A: that was impression I got when I was there
A: so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's right .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah ,
A: so had a lot of fun
A: actually , I mean , I like minor league baseball , a lot .
A: It 's cheaper for one thing
B: Well , that 's true .
B: I think , I 've kind of become a Rangers fan over the last eleven years since I 've been here .
B: Uh , they 've led the American league in batting , fielding and pitching ,
B: but they 've never been able to do more than one of those in any , any given year .
B: So .
A: Yes
A: I think they 're in for a odd year this year ,
A: actually , um , they , um ,
A: I don't understand why Encovilla got released .
B: I don't either .
B: I mean , the guy 's twenty , twenty-five home rums , maybe thirty , eighty some R B I-s .
A: I mean , he , you know , he ca n't field
A: and , you know , he strikes out a lot ,
A: but , I mean , he 's done that for five years .
A: Why get rid of him now ?
B: Really , I mean , he really has become a , a very decent fielder .
A: Oh , yes .
A: Okay .
B: He 's not a , the liability that he was , that he used to be .
A: Oh , okay .
B: Um .
A: Oh , he fits right in with Texas bunch of guys , I mean with Detroit , bunch of guys that hit home runs and strike out a lot .
B: Yeah ,
B: of course , get a guy like Cecil Fielder , you know ,
B: if he strikes out a lot , so what .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I mean , with Detroit , I mean , they can get away with one guy like that .
A: I mean , if I , if I were in Detroit , I would start building the team around Fielder .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: But that does n't mean get three other guys who hit , all they can do is hit home runs and strike out you know , which they did .
B: Right .
B: Yep .
A: So .
B: Well , I think the key for , for L A this year is whether Oral Herschiser can come back .
A: I think the pitching 's deep enough that it does n't matter .
B: It may be .
A: I , I like them a lot .
A: I think they 're going to go all the way .
A: Um , and , and , I mean , by saying I like them , I like their chances .
A: I , I actually don't like the Dodgers ,
A: I 'm a Giants fan from way back .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: Well , picking up Darrell Strawberry did n't hurt .
A: No ,
A: but Butler did n't hurt either .
A: Uh , and Bobby Ojeda did n't hurt
A: and ,
B: Uh , who 's the last one .
A: Bobby Ojeda .
A: They got him from the Mets for Hubie Brooks .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Um , he 's a , a pretty decent pitcher .
A: He 's ,
B: Yes he is .
A: Okay ,
A: you know , he .
B: Yes .
A: And , uh , that guy , the short stop , is going to be good .
B: Yeah .
A: Um .
B: Well it should be an interesting year .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm looking ,
A: I 've already been to one game ,
A: and I should have been to two
A: but ,
B: Are you an Orioles fan ?
A: Um , the , the team I live and die with actually is the Red Sox , mostly die ,
A: but , um , I go to the Orioles since they 're here ,
A: and I , you know , I do enjoy them .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , I 've had an opening day on Monday .
B: Yeah ,
B: you know , I kind of wish that they had inter league play , like they do in all the other sports so I could see some of the National League teams here once in a while .
A: How far is Houston ?
B: Uh , three hundred miles .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: keep forgetting how big states are out there sometimes .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is , it 's incredible .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , um ,
A: you know , we 're , we 're pretty lucky because if I want to see a National League team , I can usually go up to Philadelphia .
B: There you go .
A: And , um , saw , saw the Cardinals and Cubs last year , and a bunch of teams the year before .
B: Boy , you are a baseball fan , are n't you .
A: Okay ,
A: uh , yeah
B: Interesting .
A: Um , I try to see whatever I can .
A: I mean , I 've been to like thirty or forty games each of the last few years .
B: Wow .
A: Yeah ,
A: hope I 'm going to do it this year because , um , uh , having a kid this fall ,
A: so it 's like so much for going to lots of baseball games .
B: All right .
B: So , so do it while you can .
A: Yeah ,
A: seriously .
B: Sure .
B: Well , it 's been good talking with you .
A: Yeah ,
A: good talking with you .
A: And , and you 'll be happy I think in October when the Dodgers win .
B: I would n't mind it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'll be , I 'll be upset probably even though my prediction will be right
B: Yeah ,
B: well , God bless
B: and good talking with you .
A: And good talking with you .
A: Take care .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye .
B: Do you want to start ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm trying to think what I 've seen lately .
A: I
A: well we just finished watching , uh , TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES on tape , you know
B: Did you watch DANCES WITH WOLVES ,
B: did you see the movie ?
A: Yeah ,
A: we , we 've seen that ,
A: yeah .
B: Did you like it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it was great ,
A: have you seen it ?
B: I thought it was very well done .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , um ,
B: How about GHOST ?
A: We , we saw , an , we liked it
A: but , you know , I did n't think it was as good as all the , uh , hype was about it .
B: Right ,
B: I feel the same way about that too .
B: It was okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: I
A: I , I could n't see it worth getting a nomination for , uh , best picture .
B: No ,
B: no .
B: And , uh ,
B: let 's see , uh ,
B: the most recent ones that I 've seen are those two , GHOST and , uh , DANCES WITH WOLVES ,
B: but I rent , uh , uh , videos ,
B: do you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: and so we just ,
B: You , you watch many ?
A: Uh , it depends , um , you know , it depends on
B: Do you like the classics like , uh , GONE WITH THE WIND and , uh , you know the older movies .
A: I 'd like to see those ,
A: I keep , you know , um , you know , there 's like three movies that I , I keep telling myself that I should see one of these , you know , some day that I have n't seen , you know , that , that are classics , you know .
A: Because I 've never seen CITIZEN KANE ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that was good .
A: and never seen , I 've never seen CASABLANCA and never seen GONE WITH THE WIND .
B: I think I 've seen most of Humphrey Bogart 's movies , but , in , in , you know a long time ago ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , like the MALTESE FALCON and all those , uh , uh ,
A: Oh , I , I
A: we saw part of THE AFRICAN QUEEN on , on T V a couple of years ago ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that was good ,
B: yeah .
A: and I 've , I 've I 've been wanting to see all of it
A: but we just , you know , we walk into the video store
A: and we 're like well why don't we go see this now
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's true .
A: But , um , I
A: one of the movies we saw recently , we saw , uh , MISERY .
B: Oh , I did n't see that one .
A: That was good , um ,
B: Really .
A: oh , it was great .
A: And it ,
A: you think , you know , for a Stephen , you know , it because it was by Stephen King it would be really gory
A: but there 's only one ,
A: well there 's a couple scenes , at , at the end there 's , there is , you know some blood and everything
A: and there 's one really bad scene where it 's , I mean , there 's not blood but it 's pretty graphic
B: Yeah .
A: But it 's , um , it 's a really good movie , um .
B: Really ,
B: is that the one where , uh , the guy gets captured by that women ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
B: Okay ,
B: yeah .
A: he 's a writer
A: and , um , she 's his biggest fan
A: and she 's also a little , a little on the nutso side .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Did you see PACIFIC HEIGHTS ?
A: No ,
A: we have n't , um ,
B: I saw that one ,
B: that one was n't that great either .
A: Oh , it was n't ?
B: Well I did n't think so ,
B: no .
A: I , I got ,
A: I heard like mixed reviews , um , of that ,
A: we
B: How about SILENCE OF THE LAMBS ?
A: That 's , that 's on our list of things to see
B: I know ,
B: I , I wanted to see ,
B: I , I was curious if you had seen it
B: and that , uh ,
A: our big thing is , um ,
A: you know , movie prices up here
A: I think it 's like six bucks now in the theaters ,
B: Yeah .
A: you know . So it 's like ,
A: you know , a lot of things we try to catch like at the dollar theater or matinees
A: and then a lot of other stuff we just wait until it comes out on tape .
B: That 's us too ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah
B: true .
B: I know , it 's too bad that they 've gotten so expensive .
A: well one movie we saw in the last couple of months that we really enjoyed was , uh , EDWARD SCISSORHANDS .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: have you seen that ?
B: No .
A: Oh , it was great
B: Really .
A: Yeah
A: it was ,
B: I thought it was kind of maybe for kids more , than
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: it 's , um , it 's an odd film
A: and it 's really interesting that ,
A: I like the director a lot , um , a guy named Tim Burton .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Did you ever see the movie BEETLEJUICE ?
B: Uh , part of it ,
B: I , I never really watched the whole thing .
A: Oh ,
A: Oh ,
A: yeah ,
A: well if you , if you liked BEETLEJUICE you 'll probably like EDWARD SCISSORHANDS ,
A: if you did n't like BEETLEJUICE you 'll probably wo n't like EDWARD SCISSORHANDS .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , um ,
A: Burton 's kind of , uh ,
A: he 's , a very odd , odd man
A: but he 's ,
A: I think he 's very interesting
A: and , uh , I liked those two movies of his a lot .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He did BATMAN also , which , you know
B: Yeah ,
B: that was pretty good , though , really .
A: It was good ,
A: but I mean , he was , um ,
B: When you think of what it takes to make some of those kind of movies , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: You see it for , uh , you know a couple of hours or an hour
B: and it really ,
B: there 's a lot in it when you look at the scenery and the cars , and all the different stuff like that , you know .
A: Oh , yeah , oh .
A: Yeah .
B: Whose your favorite actress or actor ?
A: Um , don't really know ,
A: I like Costner a lot
A: but , uh , I 'm a big , I 'm a big baseball fan
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , you know , after BULL DURHAM and FIELD OF DREAMS , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: Um , although , you know ,
B: That was good ,
B: I saw that movie too .
B: That was very good .
A: Which one ?
B: FIELD OF DREAMS .
A: Yeah ,
A: FIELD OF DREAMS was good ,
A: um , and , I , I think , I liked the other movies he 's done .
A: NO WAY OUT was really good
A: and ,
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: did you ever see SILVERADO ?
B: SILVERADO ,
B: uh , who , who was that with ?
A: Um , let 's see .
A: Danny Glover , Scott Glen , Kevin Kline , um , Brian Dennehy , Jeff Goldblum 's in .
A: Uh , John Kreas is in it if you don't blink .
B: That ,
B: the
B: the , the title sounds familiar ,
B: I 'm trying to
A: It was , it was a big western ,
A: I mean , I think Roseanne Arquett was in it too , another one that if you blink you 'd miss her .
A: Uh , it was ,
A: and I think it was like a three hour movie or two and a half hours ,
A: and , and it was one of those ones that could have been four hours if they had n't cut a lot out .
B: Oh , really .
A: Um , but it was , it was really good Um ,
B: I , I might have seen part of that because the name sounds familiar although I I would remember , I think in , with him in it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: How about REVENGE ,
B: did you see that with him ?
A: No ,
A: I did n't ,
A: is that any good ?
B: With , uh , Anthony Quinn .
B: I thought it was ,
B: I like everything he 's done so far .
A: Oh , okay .
B: You know , it 's , uh , one of those movies that it 's not a great movie
B: but it was okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: we were in the video store today
A: and somebody was recommending it to somebody .
A: You know the , the people who run the video store was recommending it to somebody else .
B: Yeah
B: it was , it was not a bad movie .
A: Huh , well , I 'll have to catch it one of these days .
A: You
A: you , you said you seen NO WAY OUT ?
B: Yeah ,
B: that was excellent .
A: Yeah ,
A: that was very good .
A: Um , he was in THE UNTOUCHABLES , too .
B: Now that 's another one I wanted to see .
B: in fact , that was advertised not too long ago .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was on , um ,
B: Cable ?
A: no ,
A: it was on one of the networks , I think last weekend . Uh , or two weeks ago .
B: Okay ,
B: I know I saw , yeah , something about it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , um , I wish , I , I mean I 'd seen it when , when , you know , it was originally in the theaters
A: and , um , I saw it , you know , I saw part of it again .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean I like , you know , I like Costner ,
A: I like Sean Connery ,
A: and , uh , there 's this one , there 's this one actor ,
A: it 's really silly that I enjoy him a lot
A: but I , I 've really enjoyed him in everything I 've seen him in , a guy named Charles Martin Smith .
B: I don't know him .
A: Um , you 've probably seen him
A: and just , an ,
A: you know , oh , that 's who the guy is .
A: Do you remember ,
A: did you ever see AMERICAN GRAFFITI ?
B: No ,
B: I , I don't think so .
A: Oh .
A: Did you ever see the movie STAR MAN .
B: Yes .
A: Okay ,
A: in STAR MAN , he was the guy chasing after , um , Jeff Bridges and Karen Allen , or Nancy Allen .
B: Okay ,
B: okay .
A: You know ,
A: short nerdy guy with glasses .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: He 's , he 's just ,
A: I , I don't know why but he 's always a lot of fun in every movie he 's in .
A: He was in the UNTOUCHABLES .
A: He was the accountant
B: Oh , oh I know who you mean .
A: Yeah .
B: He was in , uh , uh , HONEY don't SHRINK THE KIDS , was n't he ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: you 're thinking of Rick Moranis .
A: He looks like Rick Moranis
A: but he 's not
B: Oh , okay ,
B: all right ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's the one I was thinking of .
B: But I have , I 've seen quite a few movies ,
B: I , I enjoy them .
B: I think that , uh , it 's , it 's kind of like , uh , good entertainment . An , uh , an escape type of thing .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: How about some of the ads ,
B: do you go by the ads when you look at them , or the reviews ?
B: Do they influence you a lot .
A: Uh , a little of ,
A: a review usually wo n't make me go see a movie I had n't already wanted to see .
B: Yeah .
B: Did you see GOODFELLAS ?
A: No ,
A: it 's uh ,
A: I want to see it .
B: That that was pretty good .
B: Um , and ,
A: Um , we want to see GODFATHER PART THREE also
A: but my , my girlfriend 's seen part one and part two although she saw them years ago ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I 've never seen either of the first , you know , of the , of the GODFATHER movies
A: so , we 're probably going to like rent those some time and then try to see GODFATHER PART THREE somewhere .
B: I was just going to say , you should see those , uh , first if you can .
A: Yeah .
B: If if you read the book it 's , uh , even better .
B: The book was excellent .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: I have n't , never read it .
B: Yeah .
B: and , uh , I was a little disappointed in the third
B: it 's GODFATHER THREE .
B: It was not bad
B: but , I expected more , I think .
A: Uh-huh .
A: We just rented , um , a couple weeks ago , a movie called THE FRESHMAN ,
A: with , um ,
A: it 's got Matthew Broderick in it and , um , uh , Marlon Brando .
A: And Brando like does a parody of the character he played in THE GODFATHER .
B: Oh , really .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's one of the reasons why , you know THE GODFATHER 's been on our minds lately .
A: Um , but , uh , there 's a bunch of scenes from , uh , uh , from THE GODFATHER that 's used because Matthew Broderick 's going to film school .
A: And , uh , in his classes they 're using , there 's a they 're running a bunch of scenes from THE GODFATHER
A: and then he 's running into Marlon Brando who is playing , you know , this you know this , uh , organized crime head .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , it 's um , it was , it was a fun movie .
A: Uh .
B: or , uh ,
A: I liked RAINMAN ,
A: I thought , I thought it was interesting that he was doing
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: that was good ,
B: I liked RAINMAN , too .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I 'm ,
A: being from Baltimore , of course , I 'm a big Barry Levinson fan since , uh , he , he 's , you know , he 's done a bunch of Baltimore movies .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um ,
A: Barry Levinson did , um , DINER and TINMAN , and AVALON which are all set in Baltimore .
B: Yeah ,
B: they sound familiar .
B: I probably saw parts of those .
B: You know , a lot of times I 'll I 'll start watching a movie
B: and I 'm tired
B: and it ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: next thing you know , it 's , it 's
B: especially if there 's commercial in it
B: and then the titles might sound familiar
B: but I really don't know what they 're all about .
A: of the three of those , DINER 's probably the best .
A: I mean , they 're , they 're all pretty good ,
A: but DINER is really worth seeing .
B: Is that the one set in the fifties , or sixties .
A: Uh , late fifties ,
A: yeah .
B: Late fifties ,
B: yeah ,
B: I think I saw that one .
A: Okay
A: and , uh ,
B: How about Meryl Streep ,
A: Uh , I don't know ,
A: I 'm not a real , uh , great football follower ,
A: I guess , there are two basic teams that I seem to follow every year .
A: One is the Dallas Cowboys
A: and the other is the Oklahoma Sooners .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Uh , being a native Okie , I uh , I like to keep up with what the homeboys are doing . Uh .
B: I see ,
B: so you make it , uh , to that Longhorns Sooners game ?
A: No .
B: Every year .
A: No ,
A: it 's funny .
A: Uh , I got out and got my bachelor 's degree in uh , seventy-three and , uh , never went to a game there and have never gone to a game since .
B: How about that .
A: But I always enjoyed watching them ,
A: I just
A: growing up in Oklahoma , there it was always the home team , kind of like Dallas is around here .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And there 's always been an interest there .
B: Well , it 's kind of same for me ,
B: I grew up in southern New Jersey
B: and the local team was Philadelphia .
A: Yeah .
B: And they were like thirty miles right up the river
B: and I 'm still pretty much an Eagle fan , I guess .
A: I guess you keep those things you grew up with .
A: I worked in , uh , Missouri for a while
A: and , uh , I was probably the only one in the room several times when we were watching football on T V when the Cowboys were playing the Saint Louis Cardinals
A: and I was rooting for the Cowboys .
B: Yeah .
A: But , they were kind of closer to home when , when I struck up with them .
A: I really don't know what 's going to take place with the Cowboys this year .
A: Everybody keeps talking about the reconstruction they 're going through and new players and how next year is going to be even bigger and better than the previous year .
A: In a way that happened this past season ,
A: and I think that 's quite a bit of optimism around here that still there 's a chance that maybe , uh , these guys are right , maybe they will come through and , and do something this year .
A: I look for it to be a pretty good year .
B: Boy they , uh , they sure did have a big turn around from a couple of years ago .
A: They did ,
A: uh , they got rid of a lot of familiar names and got a lot of names in that we were n't , were n't familiar with .
A: Some of them turned out to be pretty good players ,
A: uh , some of them did n't
A: and you know maybe the stuff that , uh , Jerry Jones is talking about the construction and redefining the team and maybe the effort might be starting to pay off .
A: At least we hope it will .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm , I keep waiting for the Eagles to get over the hump .
B: They make it to the playoffs it seems for the last few years
B: but they just have done absolutely nothing when they got there
B: And you know , they 've got a lot of the tools to do it ,
B: but doggone if they ca n't just put it together , uh , you know ,
B: they have got the quarterback there in Randal Cunningham , who 's just , you know , phenomenal ,
B: but , he , he 's too streaky it seems .
A: Yeah ,
A: but they have always been a really strong team .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and without a whole lot of big name players .
B: They have got a few anchors on offense and defense
B: and you know they , they 've managed with those guys
B: and I don't know .
A: Once the pressure gets turned on they , they seem to loose it .
B: I guess , yeah .
A: See that 's the typical trait of the Dallas Cowboys . And the Oklahoma Sooners .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's funny , over the years .
B: I guess since Staubach left , they have n't been able to , keep it going .
A: It 's . It 's been a rough tow , a rough road to hoe ever since he left .
A: I don't know why it 's so hard to find , uh , a good quarterback these days .
B: Well , that , that says a lot for the , for his ability , though I think . For Staubach 's , I mean .
A: Well , yeah .
A: You know , he was one of the few who come through in history that can really perform ,
A: uh , we hope ,
A: every team hopes their current quarterback is going to pull them through .
A: In a way Aikman has done some of that .
A: But , uh , the guy winds up getting hurt every other game .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I tell you , it 's difficult in that guy 's position coming into that because there , he was just so highly touted by the press and everybody expected so many big things , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: they did .
A: They put a lot of pressure on him from the outside and from the inside .
A: Uh , it 's funny watching them , them play ,
A: he 's probably like a lot of quarterbacks , uh ,
A: when the pressure is really on when it 's down to the last few minutes of the game for the season is when the guys seem to really do their best .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I have n't quite figured that out ,
A: if they figure they have got it won or if there 's no real hurry because the first three quarters or , uh , if , uh , if something happens that that adrenalin starts flowing . They say , hey , we got to do something now . And then start playing the game the way the game should be played toward the last few minutes .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I don't know
A: I 'm looking for a good year .
A: I guess we 're always looking for a good year .
B: So , obviously though , do you think they 're going to do anything in the playoffs to make it to the Super Bowl this year
B: or who do you , who do you like to do that this year ?
A: Uh , no
A: I don't think the Cowboys have got a chance .
A: I think they will probably win one or two more games than they did this year ,
A: and they 'll get close to it .
A: They 'll probably get everybody 's hopes up and blow it toward the end .
B: So who 's going to beat them ?
B: Who are they going to blow it to ?
A: Uh , that 's a good question .
A: Uh , I 'm figuring either one either the Eagles or possibly San Francisco
A: I 'm not real sure .
B: Boy , they 'd some big changes , speaking of them .
A: They did .
A: So , I don't know how these changes are going to help or hinder the team , sometimes it brings in new motivation
A: and all you can do is get out of the way because here they come .
B: Yeah .
B: I 'm sure , you know , my sentimental favorite would have to be Philadelphia ,
B: but I , I sure am scared of them Giants
A: Well , that 's true .
B: Those guys are tough .
A: They are tough
A: and they 're big ,
A: they 're mean
A: and they are going to come right through you if you don't do something .
B: Yeah .
B: That , that sure was a fun Super Bowl to watch this year .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: I mean , I was n't pulling for either team .
A: No ,
A: no .
B: But that was just a good football game .
A: And it 's funny ,
A: you know . You like to pull for the underdog
A: and for a long time I was pulling for Denver .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , Marino makes me just crazy mad sometimes , because of some of the stupid stuff he does ,
A: but he 's a good quarterback .
A: He 's got a good arm ,
A: sometimes it 's too good because he throws too hard .
B: L A you mean ?
A: I mean L A ,
A: sorry .
B: Boy , speaking of Denver , on another subject , I 've been up there like five times in the last three , four weeks .
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: Yeah
B: we 've been trying get this new D N B two thousand printer up and running .
A: Has it been , uh , snowing up there ?
B: Oh , boy I was just up there ,
B: I just got back last night around eleven thirty or so ,
B: and it was about seven inches of snow on the ground .
A: Wow .
B: And it snowed all day .
A: Well , that will make the skiers happy .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: If , if
B: it snowed that much in Denver you know
B: they got that much up in the mountains , you know , just west of there .
A: Oh , you bet .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: up around the Keystone and Copper Mountain , those guys will love that .
A: Well , good to talk to you .
B: Yeah ,
B: enjoyed it Bob .
A: You guys have a good time , keep those printers coming .
B: Hey ,
B: we 'll do it .
A: All right ,
A: bye .
B: Bye .
A: Go ahead .
B: Okay ,
B: do I still still can feel that the Soviet Union , as such , is still a threat to the civilized western world ?
B: Absolutely .
B: And my reasons are based upon not only from what I read in the newspapers , what I see on the newspapers , but up against some of the , fun and exciting things I ran into during my six years as a soldier in the Fifth Special Forces Group .
A: Um . Okay .
A: I guess I don't see them as much of a threat as they used to be ,
A: but I think just the instability of the country right now is , sort of scary .
B: Well , that 's what makes it a powder keg .
B: The , um ,
B: I 'll go back in time a little bit , to about eighty-one , when my first real involvement with the military started .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , naturally we were at the time ,
B: the Soviet Union was considered to be the big military power and the big threat .
B: So we got lots , quite a bit of information as well as indoctrination on Soviet tactics and weapons .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I went to Lebanon in eighty-three , before the marines ever got there , with the U N Peace Keeping Force . And with the training I received prior to going there , with captured weapons we kept running up against .
B: These were n't , these were n't Chinese made copies .
B: These were Soviet made , top of the line , fresh out of the box , A K forty-sevens . As well as a lot of the explosives we were running into .
A: Um , uh-huh .
B: In Granada , in October , twenty-fifth , eighty-three , we invaded the place .
B: Sure there were Cuban soldiers there ,
B: but there was also a bunch of Russian advisors that were damn good shots .
B: The team I was with , we jumped in on the western tip of , of the island down on Point Salinas .
B: And for every Cuban there was at least five Russian advisors .
A: Huh .
B: And they were all shooting state of the art Soviet weapons .
B: In eighty-four , I was down in Central America , as an advisor to the Honduran Army .
B: Again we were running up against Cubans quite a bit , plus Soviet advisors .
B: And the equipment we were capturing and taking from the Nicaraguans , was brand new , out of the crate , Soviet made material .
B: Do I consider them a threat ?
B: Absolutely .
B: They have a university in Moscow called the Patrice de Lamumba University .
B: About like A and M or U T , where they 're teachings subjects like that , they 're teaching terrorism .
B: Some of the people we went up against in Lebanon were graduates from that place .
B: And let me tell you , they are nothing nice to go up against .
A: Huh .
B: I 'm surprised during this Iraqi crisis we did n't have more incidents than they did .
B: These guys are top of the line .
B: When they , when they graduate from there , they can pull terrorist actions anywhere in the free world .
B: And they are very , very good at what they do .
B: So until I see the entire , quote , old guard of the Soviet military , of the Soviet government completely roll over and disappear , preferably buried , I still consider them a threat .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Their military is different from ours , to where there are extremist generals that actually control tens and thousands of troops .
B: That
B: irregardless of what Soviet policy is , they 're going to do what the general tells them .
A: Yeah .
A: I guess that 's what concerns me the most . Is they 're , they 're so unstable that somebody like that could make , uh , decisions that would jeopardize a lot of people .
B: Well , it 's interesting watching the different Soviet states , Albania , Lithuania , doing their little revolts down there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Each one of those sectors has got a Soviet general over the troops that are there .
B: So far they have n't run into the real psychos yet .
B: There 's probably five or six , which would be an equivalent of our joint chiefs of staffs , that are in positions over some of these Soviet states .
B: If uprisings happen in their sectors , it is , it 's going to be a total blood bath .
A: Yeah ,
A: it looks like it 's come close to that as it is .
B: Actually , they 're showing remarkable restraint .
B: They get real nasty , the hyundee helicopters come out
B: and they , would level entire areas .
B: Okay ,
B: you 're from the Dallas area , right ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Okay ,
B: you know , basically the size of , uh , the area around Richardson ?
A: Yeah .
B: You put five Soviet hyundee helicopters in the air , they can level the entire area
B: and there wo n't be anything left alive .
B: And they can do that in about four minutes .
A: Huh .
B: And they 've got entire squadrons of those just standing by .
B: They used them in Afghanistan , did remarkably well considering the terrain they were flying in .
B: But on a highly populated area , like some of the Soviet cities would be , with the weaponry that 's attached on those things , there is no place to hide .
B: If the bombs don't get you , if the bullets don't get you , then , then the nerve gas definitely will get you .
B: The only drawback on that little piece of machinery is they only got five minutes of air time .
B: They drink that much fuel .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Were you ,
B: have you ,
B: I take it you have n't spent any time in the military ?
A: No ,
A: I have n't .
B: As a civilian that 's never been attached to any form of the military ,
B: I know a lot of this stuff that I was involved in , never did make the newspapers .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , during that same time frame , did n't you get some feeling , that , I mean , they 're getting all these weapons and stuff ?
B: Did n't it bug you a little bit why they kept coming up with all this stuff ?
A: You mean in the , in the most recent conflict ?
B: In any of them since eighty-one .
A: Oh . Yeah ,
A: definitely .
A: I , I 'm , I 'm a little bit shocked to what the U S has done in terms of selling to Iraq in the past ten to fifteen years .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think we , we kind of shoot ourselves in the foot that way too .
A: It 's bad enough that the Soviets do it .
B: It all boils down to , whether it 's our side , their side ,
B: it 's a matter of money , to a certain extent .
A: Um .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The deal the Iraqis have with the Russians was for oil .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's scary to know that they 're supplying that many people with weapons . Especially when it 's to the south of us .
B: Uh , the ones to the south are more regional conflict .
B: They 're not really that worried about invading north .
B: They 're more interested in ,
B: they 've got a screwed up situation , I 'll give them that . From Mexico all the way down into Central and South America .
B: The situation down there is weird
B: and it 's very screwed up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Inflation is out of this world
B: and the governments , which our government has technically supported for years , are corrupt as all get out .
B: And generally the people , are getting screwed ,
B: and they 're tired of it ,
B: and they 're willing to try anything to get out from under it , even if that means going to communism .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I think Russia is getting to the point where they 're , they 're about to do something to get out of communism .
A: I guess I 'd would like to see somebody like Yeltsin to get more power .
A: I think Gorbachev has about had his day .
B: Unfortunately , Yeltsin 's got too many connections with the old guard .
B: That 's the only drawback that I see with the entire thing .
A: Yeah .
B: Gorbachev has made his attempt
B: and he 's had his problems with some of the old guard himself .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeltsin 's in tight with the old guard .
B: So it may be trying to choose between the lesser of two evils , at this point .
A: Uh-huh .
A: True
A: I don't know ,
A: I sure would n't turn my back on them .
B: You mean ,
B: I understand when they pulled the troops out of , uh , or they reduced the number of troops in Europe after the Berlin Wall went down ,
B: I thought that was great .
B: But by no means do I endorse or approve pulling everybody out .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It may be a much reduced force than what we used to have over there .
B: But you still better have the key players in place , if something does go down . Even if it 's a regional conflict .
B: If United States is going to flex its muscle and be the super power that it is , not only does it , it can talk the talk , but it 's got to be able to walk the walk .
B: It 's got to have the stuff to back it , back up what it 's saying .
B: If you 've only got a token force there , you ca n't hold your ground .
A: At least they 're learning a little bit from history .
A: I mean , uh ,
A: So , well , this is an appropriate topic the day after Earth Day ,
A: so .
B: Right .
A: Um , well , what do you think is , uh , the pollutants , the main pollutants in the air ?
B: I have trouble with the chemical plants and things like that I just , uh , I think they put off so much
B: and they 're not regulated enough .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , that 's me too .
A: After , um ,
A: on channel thirteen , uh , they had some , some programs the day before ,
A: and I 'm not sure that about yesterday , we did n't really watch it too much yesterday ,
A: but the day before they had a lot of programs about the environment and , you know , how we 're affecting the Earth and things by what we do , as the people
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and they mentioned sulfur and carbon dioxide a lot ,
B: Yeah .
A: and that actually , um , as our population increases and , you know , our , of course , our , our cars , you know , our number of cars increase per the population , that 's the problem . But also like you said the industry pollution
A: and , you know , their their regulation that 's placed on them is , I mean , it 's better than it used to be
A: but it 's incredible that they still don't have , you know , they don't , they 're not made to regulate the amount of pollutants that they put into the air .
B: Right .
A: You know , I , I just ,
A: I ca n't stand that
A: and I know for a fact that they get away with a lot that ,
A: you know , they 're supposed to be regulated because we have a , we have a plant , I don't know about T I but we have a plant , uh , a Pillsbury plant , in , in a town adjacent to ours ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I know people that work there that ,
A: of course , you would n't think Pillsbury would put out certain chemicals ,
B: No .
A: but they put out toxic chemicals there just in some of the , um , what they do , uh , to , uh , make their dough and to , clean out the flour and stuff like that ,
B: Really ?
A: yeah ,
B: Huh .
A: I mean , it 's incredible .
A: And , um , they said that they 're , you know , they have a little creek that runs by them
A: and some of the people that work there have told me that when they have inspectors coming they , you know , shut down everything
A: and they clean up their act , but on a normal basis that they 're , that they 're dumping things , that they 're not supposed to be dumping ,
B: Oh .
A: and I 'm like , if they 're getting away with it , can you imagine ,
B: Right .
A: that 's a , that 's a Pillsbury plant
A: I ca n't imagine plants ,
B: I would n't have thought that Pillsbury could , would , the , I mean , or even had you know , well ,
B: those chemicals would not ,
A: Yeah ,
A: they have chemicals that they use to refine their flours with and stuff , you know to , to break the flours down
B: Yeah .
A: and then they , they also do testing there ,
A: and I don't ,
A: you know , when you consider , you know , it 's probably not radioactive
A: but toxic can be , can be anything that 's uh , classified that can damage the Earth .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: So , there could be a lot of things that they could put , you know , that chemical wise that they use to , uh , that they are testing with , that they 're dumping .
B: Right ,
B: you know , like in , In packaging
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , you know , just goodness .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't think they do the packaging at this plant ,
B: Yeah .
A: but they do , they do a lot of research
A: and they do , um , they do , do a lot of the refining up there
A: or ,
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm not really ,
A: what 's it called when you do flour ,
A: I 'm not ,
B: Uh , only thing I can think is bleaching
B: but , I mean , I , I don't know what 's , how they do the flour .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: But , um , we , we 're on the southwest side of Houston
B: we don't have that much as far as , uh , aiming in the plants over on this , uh , the east side does .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We 've got Imperial sugar
B: but , uh , and they 're , you know , they 're right there on the creek also
B: and , uh , they 've been there for years .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh ,
A: But ,
A: I mean , you think about it , it , you know ,
A: it 's probably a lot easier to detect things that go into the ground than it is maybe to just ,
A: I 'm not really sure
A: but I would think it would be easier to detect those things because you could detect them down or stream or such ,
B: Yeah .
A: or you can , you can , you know , do , uh , testing on the ground itself at that point ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but when they pollute into the air and you 've got , you know , and you 've got movement through the air , it 's going to move a lot of that off .
A: So , I don't see , you know , how they can do some of the
A: unless it just hangs there like in places where it 's a lot of pollution , you know , like in Los Angeles or , or the bigger cities where it , it tends to get stuck there ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , that you have a lot more particles in the air , you know , per , per , uh , per particles in the surrounding community because it 's not moved away ,
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , um ,
B: I know that ,
B: I worry every now and then ,
B: we 're still on a well water ,
B: we 're not on city water ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I think , well , what if somebody 's dumped something back there in the , and no one knows about it and , you know , it sinked in through the ground and all that ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I know out in some ,
A: I 'm not sure ,
A: I ca n't remember the name of the county
A: it 's , it 's where Stillwater is or , sweet ,
B: Yeah .
A: no
A: I 'm not sure ,
A: I know it ,
A: I think it 's , uh ,
A: I know we have a piece property there ,
A: it 's called Dublin ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's in Dublin , Texas .
A: I 'm not really sure what the county ,
A: it 's Stephen ,
A: no
A: Stephenville .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: okay .
A: Okay ,
A: where Stephenville 's at , they 've had a lot of problems because they 've , um , introduced a lot of dairies there ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: so , they have a lot of cattle in the area ,
A: I mean , they 've got like per , per , uh , per lot ,
A: you know , they 've got like a lot of head of cattle because dairies they don't
A: it 's not like it was a big ranch where they let the cow roam around free ,
B: Right ,
B: uh-huh .
A: they 've got to have them there to be able to milk them .
A: And they ,
A: and I read in this article , I could n't believe it , where , you know , like , one cow produces , like , a day , produces like a hundred or so pounds of manure .
B: Oh .
A: One cow ,
A: I was like , my God ,
A: and they ,
A: and this thing says that , that , you know , people think , well , cow manure is good for fertilizer
A: but when you get that much manure it says it becomes a real problem because it 's not , it 's not
A: when , you know , you buy cow manure at the store they 've added stuff to it
A: and they 've added humus and stuff that , breaks it down ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and this , and this article said that they 've got a real problem that , um , you 've got toxins and , and , uh , bacteria in the manure that is ,
A: what it 's doing is it 's going through , uh ,
A: they don't have a very deep , um ,
A: you know , their water , their natural water , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I forget what that 's called with , you know ,
A: it 's like a spring , spring water ,
B: Yeah .
A: but it 's below the surface
A: it 's not very far down ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and all this stuff is seeping through to the water ,
B: Oh .
A: and they 're like , they 're afraid that , you know , within a certain amount of years , that it 's , their they 're water in that town will be totally polluted ,
B: It will .
A: and they wo n't be able to have any drinking water because they will have , um , polluted , completely polluted , so that they 're , you know , there 's too many toxins and bacterial growth ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: and the
A: and I 'm like my God , you know , just from that one , you know , just from them introducing dairy farms , in that one county .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: and the , the ground will filter some of it but not all of it .
A: No ,
A: not when you figure ,
A: I did n't realize a cow , one cow produces that much manure
A: and they were talking like , thousands of cows , you know , they were talking thousands cows in one little tiny area .
B: These are well fed .
B: These are ,
A: You ,
B: Good grief , these are well fed cows , uh ,
A: Well , they are evidently .
A: But , um , I mean , evidently a normal cow produces that much too ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but they 're just so spread out on ranches and stuff that it 's not , you know , a problem ,
B: Right .
A: but when they get them in these tiny little areas , you know , and they 've got a real big problem ,
A: and they , they said that , that what they were doing was scraping it with bulldozers and stuff , and taking it to , uh , these like ponds that they had to filter it with ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the ponds because they 've had so much rain in the past few years , they just , overflow
B: Yeah .
A: and they overflow into the , the creeks and stuff in the area .
A: So , that just creates ,
A: you know , there , there 's ,
A: and , oh , it was just disgusting
A: it said the creeks will foam .
B: Oh .
A: People , people stand outside their houses and their , watch the creeks foam brown and all ,
B: Oh , now that 's bad .
A: and I 'm just like , oh , my gosh ,
A: and the smell is really bad they
B: Oh , I was going to say , the air pollution alone there just from a hundred pounds of cow manure was going to be bad .
A: Yeah ,
A: but I , I don't know
A: it really frightens me though as far as the , when you think about the , you know , thinking of just air pollution itself
A: and then , and , channel thirteen they 're really , um , emphasizing the problem with acid rain , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: if we , if we keep putting that stuff into the air and , and , you know , if we keep creating the problem and not doing anything about it that it 's really going to be a problem for , um , just the , the Earth , you know , what the Earth is receiving back , you know , because how can you tell where it 's going to come down at .
B: Yeah .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: And then cutting the trees , you know , that bothers me .
A: Yeah .
B: As far as , you know the
A: The rain forest and all .
B: yes ,
B: uh , we 've been wanting to ,
B: well , not me
B: but , uh , it 's been or suggested that we cut a few of the trees down here ,
B: I 'm like , no ,
B: you know , for what 's cut down here , you know , more will be cut down someplace else
B: and it will just take that longer to grow back ,
A: Yeah .
B: and trees help so that , uh ,
B: I don't ,
A: Well , they do because , what is it , carbon dioxide , they use that where we ca n't synthesize it
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they 're synthesizing it for us .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: believe me it 's just so much better .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh , yeah ,
B: I knew ,
B: I think there 's lots that be , that could be done to , to improve how things are done now .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think we just have to ,
A: I don't know personally , you know ,
A: I suppose , you know , if you just make sure your car is , is working properly
B: Uh-huh .
A: and
A: you know , they 're
A: nowadays they have the emission controls on them
A: but , uh , I think the only , the main thing is just keep on the , your legislator 's back , you know , as far as ,
A: seems like they 've only just really started as far as the environment saying , okay , we 're really going to get involved
B: Uh-huh .
A: it , it 's really becoming a problem .
A: By the year two thousand there will ,
A: what , what are we going to have ,
A: what kind of results are we going to have for the environment .
B: Right .
A: And , and what will we ...
A: Huh ?
A: Okay .
B: I don't know how much I know about this subject
A: Well , I don't know if I know anything or not ,
B: Yeah .
A: but I 've , I 've got some opinions on it .
B: Okay .
B: Go ahead .
A: See those type of people that , that have the most opinions , ones that don't know anything
B: Yeah
A: Well , uh , I 've had teenagers
A: and I now have grandchildren that are teenagers ,
A: and I don't know that it might do them a little bit of good to see the world from a different perspective .
A: Uh , I think this `` me '' generation has gone far too far .
A: And the young people are overly impressed .
A: And I think it would n't hurt them to step back from themselves just slightly and see things from a far more disadvantaged viewpoint .
B: That 's true .
A: Uh , I personally know nothing about the Peace Corps though .
B: Um , me either .
B: I , I went to college and then started working and then got married
B: and ,
A: But they have ,
A: I read somewhere ,
A: and I 'm , I 'm out on a limb here , some type of college , uh , volunteer work for teachers , that they are straight out of college
A: and they do one year of volunteer work teaching in the , uh , lower income brackets of the United States .
A: Have you ever heard about that one ?
B: No ,
B: I have n't ,
B: I know that , uh , my sister ,
B: I have a twin sister
B: and when they graduated she went to , uh , teach in a small town down in south Texas
B: and I know , that like if you have college notes , if you teach in a lower income bracket where they don't pay as much and they cancel part of your , you know , your college note or whatever .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: If it 's like , you know , really a , you know , a lower paying job , you know , where in a small town you don't obviously you don't need as much as far as to , you know , to live .
A: And this is money that she 's borrowed to form her college education ?
B: Yeah ,
B: she only taught there one year
B: but I ,
A: But she got credits for it ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's very interesting .
B: And , um , I think it would be ,
B: I know that also one of my cousins who , uh , he is in like the therapy type thing
B: and he was , um ,
B: some group paid part of his college income
B: but then he was required to go back and work for a certain number of years in this town at , uh , uh ,
B: I mean , it 's a nursing home or something like that .
A: Huh .
B: So , you know , if ,
B: I think that 's a good way for people to , you know , maybe get people to come back to these small towns to work by helping people that normally might not be able to go to college and get the type of degree they want .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that is an excellent program ,
A: I really do .
A: I like that .
A: And it 's , it 's beneficial to the small towns too because , they really , really have , have a disadvantage that we would n't understand because we 're in the Metroplex .
B: Yeah .
B: As far as yeah , getting doctors and all that stuff , yeah .
A: Right ,
A: you know , if , if we had some really major health problem that required a specialist , we could find one it would n't be convenient ,
B: Yeah .
A: but we could find one .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We would n't have to drive and spend the night someplace or something like that .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I , I can see the advantage to that one .
A: The Peace Corps itself is really a , uh , dying out , is n't it ?
B: I really don't know that much about it ,
B: you know , I , I , I think of the Peace Corps , you know , more like the sixties and that kind of stuff when ,
A: It 's still in existence .
B: Yeah .
B: And don't they go into other countries and stuff ?
A: I want to believe they go into other countries and teach them how to do things like farm , uh , dig their own wells , set up , their schools .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Things that make the ,
B: yeah .
B: Make them more self-supporting ?
A: Yes .
A: They ,
B: Yeah .
A: It 's not a program to teach them to use the American money , it 's a program to teach them to be more self-reliant .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: And , yes ,
A: you 're right ,
A: I think it 's a sixties program .
A: I think it was one of Kennedy 's hot points that he ,
A: that was his big deal .
B: But it definitely would give a lot of the kids now that have everything given to them that they want to see what it 's like if you don't have all the money and ca n't have what you want when you want it .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Um , I think I , I 've singled out my grandchildren
A: and but actually they 're , they 're pretty good , along those lines as compared to what I have seen from other people 's children and grandchildren , mine are n't really that bad ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but at the same time I think it would do them a world of good .
B: Yeah .
A: But there 's a ,
B: I don't , I don't know that you could require everyone to , do that for , yeah , to do it for a whole year , or two years or something like that ,
A: Mandatory just like , like the draft .
A: No .
B: I don't know that that would work if , somebody 's , was , did n't really want to be there and did n't have ,
A: Every time you ,
A: They could buy their way out .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean , there would be loopholes just like there is in anything else
A: Right ,
A: you know , they , they 'd figure a way around that one in a heartbeat .
A: But , I 'm wondering if there 's another issue here ,
A: and maybe this is why this has died out .
A: Can you go into ,
A: and this was n't the question
A: but it 's , it may be the more of the issue versus should young adults ,
A: can they go in there and can anyone go into , well , out of
A: the Kurdish community is a little bit extreme at this time ,
A: but say , I think Bangladesh would have been a good example or some , some really desperate situation
A: and teach them to farm and teach them
A: and it does n't do any good .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know that it does .
A: I , I , don't know that , um , if you step back from the current issue and look at it more intellectually , there are forever over , as long as we know there are races of people that are dropping out .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , we 're losing certain , races of people .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There are people now that are obsolete point and fact just , just like endangered species of animals , so there are quote tribes of people , that are endangered or obsolete .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I 'm just wondering if you 're fighting a natural process there of being winnowed out .
A: There 's a German word for it that 's elegant ,
A: but I never can remember what it was ,
A: uh , but , but that they 're , they 're being winnowed because they 're , where they are they 're not adapted to their environment essentially .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: Um , and one of the quick examples is the Aborigines .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Uh , when we were in Australia , uh ,
A: sad little things . Uh , I felt sorry for them . Because their society is n't there anymore ,
A: and their belief system and all their structured of theirs , all the structures of their society are gone , essentially .
B: Yeah .
A: And they 're just kind of more like a side show than anything else
A: and that 's sad .
B: Yeah .
A: But I don't think there 's any way you could go , uh , the Peace Corps could go in and rescue those people ,
A: and I don't think you could have done it fifty or a hundred years ago either .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I , I 'm wondering if the Peace Corps is , really an effective tool .
B: Well ,
B: Down here with the Peace Corps we 're talking about all these people that are n't even in our own country when there 's enough people here that I think probably need help and , could be helped .
A: Good point .
A: We 've got enough without without a passport
A: there 's plenty .
B: Yeah .
A: Yes .
A: I think we ought to worry about our own species .
B: And maybe rather than just , require somebody to join like the Peace Corps for a year maybe like , um , during college , you know , maybe have some kind of course where they 'd be required to do some kind of community service type work , and help people in that area or people in the United States .
A: I wonder now in ,
A: and I 've been out of school too long to answer this ,
A: but I wonder if there are n't some sociology courses .
B: There probably are , you know ,
B: for
B: but I 'm sure ,
B: that 's probably like people that do that are , are the people that are going to go into social work and stuff
B: but I think that it would n't really be half bad for everybody not to do something , you know , and realize it 's everybody 's responsibility to , um , help these people , you know ,
B: and
B: I 'm not saying just give them money
B: but , I mean , because they have to be taught to be ,
A: That 's the last thing you want , to do .
B: Yeah
B: I mean , I know that 's what my father-in-law was talking about , you know , when you give these people money
B: or , what was it
B: they were bringing up points asking as far as whether they need to give , um , more money to these people ,
B: I mean , and that 's not really the answer , I mean , because if they 're alcoholics they 'll just go out and spend , it on , you know , booze or something like that ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's exactly it .
B: but .
A: They 're not going to take that money you give them and go try to figure out a way to dry out with it .
A: Now come on , let 's be realistic ,
B: Yeah .
A: that 's just not realistic .
B: Or , you know , to find a job where they can learn how to support themselves ,
A: Right .
B: I mean , I guess we 're getting kind of off the subject , here ,
B: but .
A: No ,
A: we 're not I don't think .
A: I think , that 's more realistic than making them go in the Peace Corps .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean it 's ,
B: True .
B: Yeah .
A: I think that 's a lot more realistic .
A: Uh , I , I think that we should be spending more time
A: and , and again I don't think the , the Peace Corps is , is as successful now simply because it 's not . It does n't fit the circumstance anymore .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , we 've got plenty ,
A: in fact , we 've got far too many .
A: You 're in , uh , what Flower Mound ?
B: Flower Mound ,
B: yeah .
B: So , we 're a little you know , farther removed from like Dallas and some of the areas where they probably have more of the homeless and that type of thing .
A: I was ,
A: that 's exactly what I was going to ask you .
A: Have you ever , have , have you been downtown
A: Start .
B: What kind of recycling programs do you have in Rowlett ?
A: Um ,
A: well right now they 've got a , kind of a central location off of the main highway ,
A: and they 've got some great big bins there for newspaper , um , plastic , um , I think three bins for glass , white , green , and whatever other combination there is .
A: And , and I think they 've got a uh , some kind of container for aluminum .
B: Plano 's doing real good on that .
B: They have , uh , they start off putting out great big huge garbage cans . Which we 're supposed to put all our week 's garbage into it ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and of course it does n't fit right now .
A: Yeah .
B: But now we start in May , breaking it down ,
B: and they 're picking it all up .
A: Um .
B: So they 're going to by ,
B: and we have to separate our papers , and our glass ,
B: and then , uh , they have one day for , like , um , oh , everything you picked up from your yard ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we put that in disposable bags ,
B: and they pick that up on Monday .
A: Um .
B: So it 's really great .
B: I , I 'm really going head , you know , completely for it ,
B: I think it 's marvelous .
A: Well , that 's good .
A: Well , Rowlett had sent , sent out a survey , not too long ago , um , in terms in how many people were interested in having a , a pick up , I guess , on the days they do trash or something like that .
A: And apparently a lot of people responded to it favorably , because they 're going to do it .
A: I don't know how , how soon they 're going to do it , or how organized it 's going to be ,
A: but they 're , they 're supposed to initiate that sometime in the next couple of months .
B: Well , does your , uh ,
B: where you work , do they also have aluminum cans pickups and things like that ?
A: Um , I 've never noticed that .
A: We don't have a , a whole lot , because we 're in a hospital setting ,
A: so most of the things we have are through our cafeteria . Um ,
B: Well , down in the cafeteria do they have any place where you can put your , you know , pop cans , and things like that ?
A: Um , no .
A: There 's , there 's only one pop machine
A: and it 's not accessible to the cafeteria now ,
A: so , uh , mainly what they serve in there is juice and coffee and tea .
B: So you don't have much choice there .
A: No
A: Not , not really .
B: Well I work at , uh , J C Penny
B: and last week they brought ,
B: they have a sign up that says for one full week you bring in your old wire hangers
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 're going to recycle them .
A: Um .
B: So it 's getting people clean out their closets and such .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then like , the week before that , they said go through your cupboards and any food that is still good , bring it in
B: and they brought it down to the shelters .
B: And , they have , one , two , they have three , I think , that I know of for cans for people have pop ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they put them right near where they have the time cards .
A: Yeah .
B: And it works great .
B: And they have one in the room where the snack machines are too .
A: That 's good .
B: So they 're really going at it ,
B: and I think it 's marvelous because ,
A: Yeah .
A: I , I guess Rowlett 's done a lot for the size town it is .
B: Well ,
A: And I think they 're trying to , to make some changes .
A: I , I noticed at the library or someplace this past , uh , month , month and a half ago , they were having a speaker , um , talk about doing lawn work and , how important it is to , to cut your lawn without a bag . Just to kind of mulch it , rather than bag it up , because of all the the grass that 's being bagged and being hauled away by the garbage trucks and stuff ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's , uh , I guess a lot more ecological to just mow the grass and let it work its way back into the soil .
B: Well , did you watch the program the other night on , um , was it SAVE AMERICA ?
A: I saw part of that .
B: It was good .
B: The only thing I thought , um , that I have n't been trying , is when I , you know , go to take a shower , to save the water , and to put it on my plants . Which I had never thought about before .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I 've already gone to ,
B: oh I started years ago , I guess , not years ago ,
B: but , yeah
B: I would say five years ago , turning off my fountain , I mean my water faucet , in the sink when I brush my teeth .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I did n't realize that was the biggest waste of water .
A: Yeah .
B: That was surprising to me .
A: Um .
B: I missed that question , totally , I mean really bad .
B: I 'm trying to think ,
B: I did n't miss too many ,
B: I ca n't remember what my score was ,
B: but I did exceeding well .
B: I was surprised .
B: But I did n't realize that our garbage is n't being decomposed .
B: That was a shocker to me .
A: Yeah ,
A: well there are a lot of things that are n't ,
A: I 'm ,
A: that 's , uh , one of the things I wonder about ,
A: uh , one of the questions was , do you think more should be done , or something else .
A: I , I wonder about some of the products that they don't take , like some of the plastics and things that they don't take . Uh , why , why they could n't do more recycling with those .
B: Well , I was in , uh , Bizmart the other day ,
B: and , what I don't understand is there is recycled paper in there ,
B: and it cost more than regular paper .
A: Um .
B: And it was only , I think , uh , forty cents more , you know , fifty cents more ,
B: but , It upset me to realize that , hey , the recycling that they 're going through the expense of recycling ,
A: Yeah .
B: but people are n't buying it ,
B: so the cost of it is higher .
A: True .
A: Yeah ,
A: I noticed that about things like
A: I I seen a lot of adds recently for organic fertilizers and , and lawn additives and that type of thing ,
A: but the cost is , is like , double or sometimes triple , what the regular things you , fertilizers and things you buy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , in , in terms of that ,
A: it 's ,
A: you know , and , for the environment it 's , it 's , there 's a good reason to do it ,
A: but the cost is kind of prohibitive .
B: Now , see that 's recycling , you know ,
B: companies that do at least go into it ,
B: I 'd like to see subsidy by the government or something , or tax-wise or something , heavily enough to where they could get their prices lower than regular .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So that people would use this stuff over again .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a good idea .
B: It 's like when he was saying , uh , which one was recyclable , which was reusable ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the recycle ones are better to use ,
B: but lots of times you don't even see the signs on the bottles .
A: Yeah ,
A: true .
B: And if we 're going to really do something , they ought to put that stuff out bigger for people to see it .
B: I had to put my bifocals on to see it
A: Um .
B: That 's hard when you 're in a grocery store and you 're short anyway .
A: Yeah .
B: You have to get enough nerve to ask somebody to take something off the top shelf .
B: You have n't got enough nerve to say well , put it back ,
B: it 's not recyclable .
A: I , I 'd heard something stranger ,
A: talk about bottles the other day on , uh , on the radio station , I think it 's K L T Y . They were talking about the ,
A: I think it 's in Canada they 're using , oh , recyclable milk jugs , plastic milk jugs , as a , a reinforcement for roads . For road repairs .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , really ?
A: And apparently they , they don't break down very easily ,
A: and , they don't expand or , or contract when the weather changes ,
B: Oh .
A: and this is kind of an unusual use for that type of thing .
B: You know they 're ,
B: along that same line , they said they were using , um ,
B: what is , oh , I know ,
B: it was toilets . You know , the old ones ? Smashing them up , because they 're , that stuff there is great for , in road work .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh .
B: And I thought , well , that 's good .
B: And then I saw recycling on tires between , uh ,
B: well , hoses were being used , and , uh , uh , soaker hoses , made out of old tires .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: What else ,
B: something else was made out of old tires ,
B: I was trying to remember what it was . Oh , I ca n't think of it now .
B: But I was , I was trying to get my , uh , kids , you know , to see different things that we could come up with for recycling purposes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And just anything , to , you know , recycle rather than keep throwing it away ,
B: but my biggest problem is , I take the bags out of the store , buy the bags to bring the back ,
B: and then I forget to bring them in the store .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm forever going back out to my car to pick up my bags to bring them and take my garbage back out .
B: I wish they 'd really push this recycling bit , because I never realized , I really did n't realize how much stuff I actually throw away .
A: Well , I think the , the more people are aware of it , the , the more they 'll do .
A: I think that 's just the biggest problem is keeping it in , in front of the public so they understand how serious the problem is , and how important it is to do that .
B: You know what I 'd like to see a little more .
B: I don't have any little tiny kids ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but if they get the little tiny kids saving it now , in five years , when they get bigger , it 'll work a little bit more , too .
A: Yeah .
A: True .
B: Because it 's ,
B: we 've all got to do it right now .
B: I just ,
B: I really amazed to find out that , what is it , eighty per cent are filled now , in , in garbage fills .
B: In five years we 're supposed to be at max .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't think I can keep my own garbage .
B: I mean , I might not have that much ,
B: but I would n't ,
B: I started when I was in college .
B: You know , they always offer credit cards for college students .
A: Yes .
B: So I went ahead , and accepted every one that I was offered . Because I knew it would be easier to go ahead and get them and establish credit early .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: So , I I pack around a lot of them ,
B: but I only use a few of them .
A: You have a lot of discipline .
A: They make it really easy for people to , uh , to get credit cards , especially college students .
B: Yeah .
A: I have , uh , two daughters who , who both are in college
A: or , in fact , one has finished now .
A: But they both have a lot of credit cards .
B: And they give you such high credit limits .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's , it 's easy to get caught up in the minimum payment trap .
A: Uh , right .
A: And then they , they give you , uh , uh , the credit limit ,
A: and then you 're always seemingly up to that limit .
A: Now I have quite a few credit cards that I 'm always almost up to the limit on most of them .
A: And that 's , that 's how a lot of people get into trouble .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've got , I 've got two that I , you know , that usually I 'll have a balance on .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then all of the others I just try to use kind of like you would an American Express card and , and pay it off every month .
A: Right .
B: And that way I feel like I 'm getting , you know , a thirty day loan .
A: Yeah .
B: But I don't have to worry about , you know , running them up too high , except at Christmas .
B: Then they usually go , then they usually get run up pretty good .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , you have a lot of discipline .
A: I , uh , I 'm trying my best right now to pay off some of mine .
A: I , I 've , I 've paid off about four credit cards this year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , but still I have some that are , are up to the limit .
A: And especially the Visa Card that you can go and get cash on
B: Yeah .
A: And it seems like every time I 'm short of cash , I just go get , get it from Visa .
B: Now that 's one , that 's
B: I 've never used my Visa for cash before .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Can you use it like at a bank machine
A: Uh ,
B: or ,
A: Well , uh , you can go in a bank and just hand them the Visa Card and say , `` I want a cash advance . ''
A: Or if they 've sent you a , uh , a number that you can use . You know , a , a personal identification number that you can use in the , uh , impact machines or whatever , you , you can do that .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Because I have one that I don't have a pin number for .
A: You know , sometimes you have to ask them for that .
B: Yeah .
A: And then I have one that , uh , just gave me the pin number automatically .
B: Now we got ,
B: that 's , that 's funny you said that . Because we got a credit card , uh , my husband and I got credit cards in the mail one day that we had n't even applied for .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Now a couple of weeks later we got , we got pin numbers ,
B: and then we got , uh , a bill saying , you know , uh , the yearly fee , it was like forty dollars .
A: Right .
B: And we , we cut them up and sent them back because we , we had n't even applied for them ,
B: and we did n't want them .
B: But they , they had just automatically approved us and sent them without even contacting us .
A: Oh , wow !
B: So I thought , man , I don't know if I trust this or not
A: Well , they , they do that a lot if you have good credit and you have been paying your bills on time .
A: everybody in the world will offer you a , a credit card .
B: It 's like , let 's see if we can get her to run up her bills
B: But it 's hard ,
B: I mean , it 's , it 's tempting when you see something to say , `` Well , I 'll just charge it . ''
B: And sometimes I 'll do that ,
B: but usually I , I will try to pay everything off the next month
B: or the ones that usually have an outstanding balance all the time , I 'll , I 'll pay more than the minimum payment .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Just I I feel like even that little bit helps .
A: Right .
A: Well , you know , the way the economy 's going and inflation and the recession and all that , I think we , we really need to try to stay out of debt as much as possible .
A: That 's , that 's why I 've , I 've really started to try to , to pay off mine and get out of debt . Because we never know when we might , you know , get laid off or something .
B: I know it .
A: Especially me .
A: I work for Texas Instruments ,
A: and they 've had , had a lot of , of , uh , you know , layoffs lately .
B: Well , I work for T I too .
A: You do ?
B: And I think they 're getting ready to , to probably sell us out , our division .
A: Where are you ?
B: In Johnson City , Tennessee .
A: Johnson City ,
A: uh-huh .
A: I know they 're selling out somebody in Colorado Springs .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: They just , they just announced that , did n't they ?
A: Yeah .
B: So , I mean , it 's , it 's kind of a bad time to be a slave to your credit cards .
A: It , it certainly is .
A: I 've , uh , I have worked on a part , part time job , uh , where I was a collector . For , uh , uh , a jewelry company
B: Uh-huh .
A: People , uh , that
A: they just had this jewelry account .
A: It was Zales jewelry , in fact .
A: And , uh , a whole bunch of
A: I mean they have about a thousand collectors , I guess .
B: Man !
A: And , uh , there 's just so many people that have bought jewelry , which is really a luxury item
B: Yeah .
A: and then they , they just ca n't pay for it .
A: Something , something happens ,
A: you know , and you hear so many stories listening to them . Like , uh , you know , they lost their job
A: or , uh , they , they 've signed for a friend .
A: You know , they got it in their name
A: but they got it for a friend
B: Oh .
A: and then the friend would n't pay them .
B: Did n't pay them .
A: and now they 're stuck with the bill ,
A: and it 's ruining their credit
A: and you really have to watch it , this you know .
B: Man .
A: Because ,
B: That 's scary .
A: Yeah .
A: Because every , every month all of these credit cards report to the credit bureau , you know . Automatically , most of them do .
B: I did n't realize that .
A: Yeah .
A: And if you , if you 're , uh ,
A: it 's bad because if you , you know , your bill is due on the fifteenth then you 're not past due until the fifteenth of the next month .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , okay .
A: But , you know , if you , if you pay one day after that fifteenth , you 're not one day late ,
A: you 're thirty days late .
B: They don't , they don't recognize any time difference , do they ?
A: Right ,
B: Ooh ,
A: right .
B: that 's scary .
A: and , anyway , we need to watch our credit reports and all that kind of ,
B: That 's something I never thought about getting , you know , checking with to see what , what your credit report looked like .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , you know , you , you can do that .
A: I believe it costs about ten dollars .
B: Might be worth it for peace of mind .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: It is ,
A: it is .
A: You might even find somebody 's been reporting on you
A: and you did n't even know it .
A: You know , you , I mean you might think you 're paying something on time
A: or and you , by that day
A: and you 're thirty days is not real bad though anyway . phone line that persists through the end of the recording . Sounds like a cordless phone is being If you 've got a charge off on your credit report or something like that .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's when it really gets bad .
A: Or something you have n't paid in sixty days or ninety days , you know . And things like that
B: I think that Discover Card has a good idea with , you know , giving you a little cash back incentive for each amount you , you purchase . As long as you don't go crazy trying to get cash back .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And since they don't have the yearly fee .
A: Do they charge a lot of interest on that card ?
B: I don't know .
A: I don't ,
B: I 've never , I have n't gotten one . Just because it 's , uh , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I felt like with Visa and Mastercard and American Express you did n't need another one .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I would think it would n't be , you know , much more than the eighteen or nineteen percent everyone else charges .
A: Yeah
B: So that , that would n't be too bad .
A: Well , always watch out for anybody who bills you out of Atlanta , Georgia .
A: Or there 's a couple of other places that are able to charge us like twenty-one and twenty-two percent interest .
A: I know , I had a charge with , uh , Spiegel ,
A: and I had n't read the , uh , terms of the credit agreement really .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , when I did , I , you know , I realized that , that it just looked , seemed like I was never paying the balance off , you know .
A: And I looked at the credit card agreement one day ,
A: and it was like twenty-three percent interest .
B: Holy cow !
A: And that 's the one bill that I hurry up , hurried and paid up .
B: Definitely .
A: And , and I 've always watched it since then .
B: That 's awful .
A: You really have to watch those interest rates .
A: I mean ,
B: I mean there 's no point in giving them any more money than we have to .
A: That 's true .
B: So ,
A: So anyway , they ca n't bill you any higher than eighteen percent , I think , in , in Texas .
A: But there , there are a couple of states that can .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: And one to watch out for is anybody that bills you out of Atlanta , Atlanta , Georgia .
B: I 'll try to remember that one .
A: Well ,
B: Well , let 's see .
B: I was trying to think if there was anything else
B: Uh , the , I guess the worst problem I ever had with , with a credit card though was , um , I got a , an item on my bill that I had never purchased .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I had ordered a sofa and had filled out the paperwork ,
B: but they were n't supposed to process it until they delivered it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I changed my mind ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but then they went ahead and charged it on my account .
A: Oh .
B: And it took me about eighteen months to get that , all of that mess off of my account .
A: Wow !
B: So that 's , that 's probably the worst thing I 've ever had happen with a credit card .
A: I wonder if they ...
A: Okay .
A: Hi Norma .
B: Hi .
A: Have you taken anything back lately , uh , that you 've bought ?
B: Well the only thing we 've taken back recently are plants . Shrubbery , that were guaranteed
A: Well why ?
B: and we had no problem with it .
A: Very good .
B: We got our got our money back .
A: Good .
A: Well do you think that , uh , consumer goods , goods are generally getting better , or worse in quality ?
B: Well , I believe they 're better .
A: I do too .
A: I believe about ten years ago that we went through a terrible time ,
A: but I don't ,
A: I , I believe that they 're better now ,
A: you know ,
B: I think so .
B: I don't think they 're shoddy , not as shoddy .
B: Electrical appliances I think are pretty good , reliable .
A: however , I did n't like it very well when the transmission went out on my car with sixty-three thousand miles on it .
B: Right
A: And I don't like it very well if , when my electric blanket that was only one year old went out at , uh , on one side .
B: Oh , did you return it ?
A: No ,
A: I had moved away .
B: No ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I had taken the first one back .
A: I did n't think that it heated well enough .
A: It never did get anything but just moderately warm ,
A: took it back
A: and , uh , the people told me well that 's the way it 's supposed to be
A: and I fell for it
A: and , uh , when I got this one it did , a it heated a little bit warmer
A: and then after one year it started heating only on one side .
B: Huh ,
B: so either you or your husband can be warm but not both
A: Also , I took an iron back after having it only one year .
B: Oh .
A: Now I figure uh , anybody that is dumb enough to iron , needs to have an iron that will last a long time ,
A: and one year of ironing only once a week is not long enough for it to last .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
B: Did they replace it ?
A: Well without even any question ,
A: but I think it was the store .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Wal-Mart .
B: Wal-Mart ,
B: I was going to say , it must have been Wal-Mart .
A: Yes
A: And , uh , well , have you been buying any clothes lately ? Any new clothes ?
B: I have n't bought any new
B: well the last thing I bought was a dress last Summer .
B: And the buttons turned on it over the winter .
B: The buttons tarnished slightly
B: and I have not gone back about it .
A: That was poor quality , I think .
B: I think it is too ,
B: and it was an expensive dress .
A: I wondered if it were n't expensive ,
B: Yes
B: it was .
A: and they should have put buttons on it that would last forever .
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's what I think too .
B: And one belt loop , the uh , you know , like the chain link , chain belt loop half of it raveled out .
A: Yes .
B: And that was , I believe a Leslie Faye dress
B: and it was , I think , over a hundred dollars .
A: You spent that much on your dresses ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't usually ,
B: but I did that one .
A: You 're really divulging very personal information .
B: But I think it should have been better than that , for that money , is what I mean .
A: Oh , of course , I do too .
A: Well I believe that we 've been talking about five minutes .
B: Okay ,
B: I think so .
A: And Norma , it is just wonderful to talk to you .
B: Good talking to you too ,
B: I 've enjoyed it
A: You are a good one to talk about consumer goods , because you keep up on it all the time .
B: Well , we 'll be talking to you later .
A: Bye , bye .
B: Bye , bye .
A: And , uh , what part of Virginia , uh ?
B: Uh , I live down in the south western part of Blacksburg .
A: Blacksburg .
A: Okay ,
A: I 've been ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: have you ever heard of Virginia Tech ?
A: Sounds vaguely familiar .
B: V P I .
A: Yeah ,
A: okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: okay .
A: I , I had n't been down in that part of the state really .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Okay .
B: Well , we vacation a lot .
B: How about you ?
B: Quite frequently .
A: Uh , I wish we did
B: Well , we retired early
A: Oh , okay .
B: so , we 're , we take trips pretty often .
A: Where all you guys go ?
B: Well , we go to Maine every Fall
A: Uh-huh .
B: then that 's kind of a family visit and a vacation all up and down the coast
A: Uh-uh .
B: and I have a daughter in Texas and one in New Mexico ,
B: so we go out there
B: and we go to Florida
A: Uh .
B: and down , oh ,
B: we were just out recently at the outer banks of North Carolina .
A: All these places that I 've never been
B: Is that right
B: Where do you go ?
A: Uh
B: What type of vacation ?
A: well , it really depends ,
A: I mean , uh , seems like I do a lot in the Midwest lately ,
A: uh , my , uh , fiancee 's family 's from Wisconsin
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so we 've been out there a couple of times
A: and , uh , I , uh , went to Purdue for a couple of years ,
A: so I 've gone up to Indianapolis on occasion to visit friends
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , uh , I 'm a real big baseball fan
A: so I usually try to combine it with , uh , catching a couple of games somewhere .
B: Uh-huh .
B: What club do you follow ?
A: I 'm , uh , I 'm a big Red Sox fan ,
B: Red
B: good ,
A: but , uh , I , uh ,
B: me too
A: uh , you 're a Red Sox fan too ?
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I usually try to catch whoever 's in town though , I don't specifically ,
A: I , you know , go to Cleveland to see them play , the Indians or the Red Sox ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , uh , that 's about it ,
A: we don't , I mean , we do a lot of little trips around here , uh ,
A: and , uh ,
B: Ever go up in Pennsylvania in the mountains
B: or ,
A: Not that much .
A: We 've gone out to , um , uh , a place in western Pennsylvania called Falling Water .
B: Oh .
A: Uh , have you ever heard of it ?
B: I 've heard of it .
B: I 've never been there .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's really neat .
A: It 's this house built on , on a waterfall
A: and it 's , uh , really cool
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , of course , we keep picking crummy weather to go out there ,
A: uh , the first time we went out there was , uh , the day after hurricane Hugo had come through
B: Gee .
A: So , I mean they , they did n't have any power
A: and it was really cold and , and rainy
A: and , uh , we went up about a year later
A: and it was better but not a whole , lot better
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , where else did we go , uh ,
A: we 've gone to Richland , last year and , uh , had a good time , down there .
B: Oh , did you ?
B: Did you go , to Williamsburg ,
B: have you been down there ?
A: Uh , my girlfriend has with her sisters
A: but I have n't been , down there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I hear that 's nice .
A: We 're going to get down , probably down Norfork sometime this Summer , just to see why , catch a football game actually
B: Uh-huh .
B: We were down ,
B: well , when we came back from the outer banks we came up due Norfork and spent the night there with a friend in Portsmith and then went to Williamsburg and spent a night .
A: Uh , spend a day and a lot of money
B: Yeah
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've heard , uh ,
A: I 'm not real interested in Williamsburg because of the , of the price attached , to it .
B: Yeah .
A: We just ,
A: we ,
A: I ,
B: But it 's a pretty neat down to just go and walk around , if you like to walk ,
B: it 's a good town to just , walk in .
A: Uh .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: we 'll , do that .
B: You can go , to the buildings and not go in if you 're not ,
A: Oh , okay ,
A: so I can wander around without ,
B: Yeah ,
B: you can wander ,
B: it 's a good town to wander in .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: I just have it pay somebody to get into the buildings ?
B: That 's right .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: I did n't know that .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think , uh , they do the whole with , you know , paying ,
B: Yeah .
A: they really did throw away a lot of money to get , getting one thing or another ,
B: Yeah .
A: but they had a good time
A: so .
B: We really did n't do that really this time , we just , uh , visited around .
A: Uh , uh ,
B: We 've done it a couple of times
B: and that 's enough for , uh , probably another twenty years .
A: Yeah ,
A: I was , uh ,
A: we use it live in California
A: and , uh , my , um ,
A: up , up around San Francisco ,
A: and , uh , there was one year when my father was , uh , my father 's company was starting to do stuff down in Los Angeles ,
A: so , my father was working down in Los Angeles for like , uh , six months or so ,
A: uh , actually I think it was closer , I think to a full year
A: and , you know , we 'd , he 'd fly down there on Mondays and fly back on Fridays ,
A: well , any time we had a school vacation or something like that we went down to Los Angeles ,
A: so I saw , I went to Disneyland about five times , in one year
B: Oh
A: and I really have no great urge to go back now .
B: That 's great as a kid though , is n't it , I mean ,
A: Oh , it was great , because , uh , well , the times that were really fun were when , uh , we had vacation
A: but the kids in Los Angeles did n't
B: Uh-huh .
A: so we basically had one of the parks .
B: Right .
A: Uh , Disneyland , I mean there 's still a lot of people at Disneyland ,
A: but there was another , um , another amusement park down there , Busch Gradens , uh ,
A: there was nobody there when we were there , we got , we won a log floating ride like five straight times ,
A: we just get , get done with them and they go , oh , do you want to go again ,
A: sure .
B: Have you ever ,
B: you 've never been down to Epcot at Florida and Disney
A: No ,
A: I 'd like to , sometime
B: that 's good ,
A: but ,
B: we , we really enjoy that ,
B: we 've been two or three times and probably go back again this winter .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've never been ,
A: the fartherest south I 've been on the East Coast is Charlotte .
B: Oh .
A: So , I , um , keep wanting to get further ,
A: you know , I thought I would go to Florida a couple Summers , ago
B: Uh-huh .
A: but never did it .
B: Charleston is a really nice place to visit .
A: My , uh , my sister lives in Charlotte
A: and they 've gone to , Charleston a couple of times and had a real good , time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's a real pretty place .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: one of these days we 'll get down there , although I don't know when we 're going to have vacation to do it
A: We 're , uh , we 're getting married in about , a year
B: Oh , are you .
A: and , our honeymoon , we 're going up to this , um , uh , place in Wisconsin called Door County ,
B: Yeah .
A: it 's up by Green Bay .
A: It 's a place my girlfriend 's also wanted , to go ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh ,
B: Is it on , uh , one of the lakes ?
A: It 's , um , uh ,
A: I don't if you 've ever seen a map of Wisconsin
A: but there 's kind of like a little , a little thing sticking out , uh , in the Lake Michigan ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's Door County
B: Oh , okay ,
B: yeah ,
B: that would , be really nice .
A: So ,
A: Yeah ,
A: they call it the Cape Cod of the , uh , the Midwest
B: Oh
A: so , uh , we 're thinking that 'll be a lot of fun ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: she , uh , she had this , uh , book of pictures from it that were really nice , kind of like a travel guide
B: Uh-huh ,
B: sounds good .
A: so , uh , that should be a lot of fun .
B: Well , I don't know what our next trip will be , I guess our next ,
B: well , I know what my next trip , I 'm going to be a grandmother in July
A: Oh .
B: The first , the first one ,
A: Oh , boy .
B: so my next trip is going to be to Texas
A: Oh , that 'll be fun
B: Yeah ,
B: in the middle , in the middle of the Summer .
A: Well , yeah ,
A: you wo n't even , notice it though
B: Well , they 'll be air-conditioning anyway
B: so .
A: Is that , is that how you got into this , uh , this , you know , uh , data base ?
B: Yeah ,
B: my daughter 's a temp at Texas Instruments , and working on this project .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: I was , I was just ,
A: I mean most of the people I 've talk to are from , are from Texas ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , when I , you know , when I heard you were from Virginia I was like , oh , okay , there 's somebody different ,
A: and you said , oh , I got somebody down in Texas ,
A: I go , okay , that the connection , right there
B: That 's it ,
B: yeah
B: I talked to one in California ,
B: I never asked him the other day how he was connected ,
B: I don't think he was T I employee .
A: Uh , I , uh ,
A: most people talk to Texas ,
A: there 's been a couple of other the people , uh , most of whom are like me that work in , in speech labs that are going to use data base , eventually .
B: Oh , I see .
A: So , uh , it was fun
A: I , actually yesterday , I ended up talking to somebody else from the same lab I 'm in .
B: Is that right .
B: Well , we spent last week end in Charlotte with real good friends that had just , moved to back East from Oklahoma ,
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and she 's , uh , working on this project too ,
B: I mean she 's talking on the project too
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , we got back Monday
B: and I got a call yesterday
B: and it was her , on T I Network
A: Uh , that 's neat .
A: I have n't , uh , I have n't had something like that happen , just , uh , just getting the one guy , from the lab .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , you 're sure have a nice town ,
A: uh , my , uh , sister lives on Lake , Norman , just ,
B: Oh , does , she ,
B: that 's nice out there .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , we keep wanting to get down there and visit them over the Summer
A: and it 's , never really works out .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's real pretty .
A: Yeah
B: Well
A: Traffic , not much else we do for vacation really ,
A: uh , just so we don't , have n't been able to take really .
B: Are you a golfer ?
B: No .
A: No .
B: Me either .
A: No .
A: Are you guys , golfers
B: No ,
B: uh-huh ,
A: or , uh ,
B: no ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: nope ,
B: not too much into sports .
A: Except our outside , though .
B: Just walking that 's all
A: Oh , I don't think there are any , traveling that was in my early teens down in that area
A: and I 'm know real sure there are , um ,
B: No professionals
A: When , uh ,
A: I was thinking I might be minor league
A: but ,
B: Oh , there 's one in Salem , Salem Rebels .
A: Yeah .
B: Salem Rebels ,
A: Buccaneers .
B: Buccaneers .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: um , yeah ,
A: I may be seeing them , um , in a town just west of here , Frederick has a , uh , has a minor league team that plays in the same league with Salem
A: and , uh , I think we may be seeing them this , weekend
B: Oh ,
B: is that right up there in Frederick ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I think they 're out of town .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , that 's a nice little town actually , Frederick , uh ,
B: I 've never been up there .
B: I 've never visited Baltimore .
B: I 'd like to go just sight see a little bit sometime .
A: Oh , there 's , there 's some nice things in Baltimore , you know ,
A: the Inner Harbor and the , uh , the Aquarium and all that are very nice .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , they 've just done a , uh ,
A: you known , I ,
A: you know , the Aquarium is one of those things that , you know , because everybody ,
A: Okay .
A: uh , we 're going to talk about our lawn and garden chores ,
A: do you have either one ?
B: Well , I don't do anything with the lawn really ,
B: but I do gardening , both flowers and vegetable gardening .
A: Do you .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Um , I ,
B: we have enough property that we can have a little bit of a garden
B: and that 's fun ,
B: well , actually Wally 's had one even when we have n't had big yard because , um , we enjoy that .
B: We love fresh vegetables in the summer ,
B: and it 's just one of the things I enjoy doing .
A: So do I .
A: I would ,
A: I had rather be outside than , than inside any day .
B: So would I
A: Do you work during the week , uh , outside the home ?
B: Yes ,
B: I do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , so I manage to fit in my gardening chores afterward ,
B: I work for a school system
B: so I 'm able to do that , um , because I get home a little earlier ,
A: Yes .
B: and I can still do some , some sorts of things
B: but ,
A: Or you sneak out in the morning after daylight savings time starts and with your cup of coffee and see if it has grown overnight .
B: Oh , absolutely
A: Well , I unfortunately am not gardening this year .
A: I love gardening ,
A: in fact , I was prevented at like no , about thirty years ago with a life membership , uh , from the Richmond , Virginia counsel of garden clubs .
B: Wow .
A: And it was n't because I was so good ,
A: but I organized a very large garden club ,
A: but I still have , uh ,
B: Oh , that 's wonderful .
A: It , well , it 's always something that seems so odd to me
A: but , uh ,
B: But that , that 's ,
B: and you really feel you can accomplish something
B: and to help other people too , that 's neat .
A: Yes ,
A: it has really nothing to do with , uh , actual gardening or flower arranging or anything like that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it was just that I happened to organize this group , that was about seventy people .
B: Right .
B: That 's wonderful .
A: That ,
A: is n't ,
A: yeah ,
A: that , that ,
B: Yeah .
A: those numbers were , were great
A: but it ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I think it sounds good .
B: I 've never belonged to a garden club because I 've always been more interested in just doing what I can do on my own ,
B: I 've never had , the time really to get involved in the organized sort of format ,
A: Yes .
B: but I know people who do it and , and enjoy it very much .
A: Well , and actually , I think that most women 's garden clubs that I 've been aware of in the past , uh , are only flowers ,
A: what I would like ,
A: we 've spent the last twenty years in Oklahoma .
A: Just moved to , to North Carolina ,
B: Oh .
A: and , uh , we were originally , of course , from this area , from Virginia ,
A: but , uh , in North , uh ,
A: in Oklahoma , it 's the men 's garden clubs that I would have wanted to join .
B: My word .
A: And you would have because they do all kinds of , uh , gardening and not just flowers like women do .
B: For heaven 's sake .
A: Uh-huh
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , um , there are n't men 's gardening clubs in this area that I know of ,
B: they 're , they 're women .
B: But , um , and usually they 're the tea type things , you know , where they have a little luncheon
B: and they do their thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , um , flowers are primarily the emphasis , um , whereas I enjoy vegetable gardening almost more , I do flowers sort of look pretty
A: Yes ,
A: I think so too .
B: but I , I really like to do the vegetables .
A: Yes ,
A: and , and I have spent the last ten , ten years being a florist .
B: Being what ?
A: Being a florist .
B: Oh , my .
B: Well , what a wonderful thing .
A: It was nice ,
A: it was exhilarating , uh , for many years .
B: Yes .
A: Uh , many of those tanned until the last couple when , uh , we had such an economic slowdown .
B: Oh , terrible
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , tell me what 's in your garden this year , since I don't have one .
B: Okay .
B: Well , uh , the flowers I 'm just ,
B: in fact , I was going to go out today to buy some plants so I could put them in ,
B: I , I always have geraniums
B: and , um , and then I have a shady area that I need to , uh , be concerned about not getting something that has to have sun ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I 've discovered that , uh , impatiens that tried and true is , turns out to be about the best thing to use there along with coleus . Because they , uh , look pretty and , in my front garden , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I like the vinca which is something I had n't ,
B: they look sort of like impatiens ,
B: you know , but they 're not quite
B: and they 're better for the sun areas .
B: Um , and , of course , you know , the , mine are old theory ordinary flowers , marigolds and , and that sort of thing .
A: Yes .
B: In my ,
A: Do you have trouble with red spider on marigolds ?
B: No .
B: I don't .
A: Maybe it 's ,
B: I don't know ,
B: maybe this climate is a little better .
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Um , but in the vegetable garden we grow , um , usually , what
B: our favorite is something called white half runner green beans ,
B: now that 's ,
A: Do you ,
A: is n't that funny ,
A: so is my favorite .
B: Well , you know why , because I grew up in North Carolina ,
A: Okay .
B: and that was my mother 's , um , favorite bean
B: she she always grows , you know , five different varieties ,
A: Yeah .
B: but that 's the kind that produces the best .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I think it has the best flavor .
B: And , and they 're wonderful ,
B: and I pick them when they 're very young and have very little string and then just steam them a little bit ,
B: my mother picks them when they 're fat
B: and she cooks them for an hour with some fat backs ,
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: well , I like them in between .
B: and they 're good both ways .
A: I like them in between .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: The flavor is better I think in between .
B: Oh , in between the
B: size wise
B: yeah ,
A: Yes ,
A: yeah .
B: yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: My mother ,
B: Well , my mother does n't think they have any flavor the way I cook them
A: Well , and I know I love them ,
A: well , that 's the yankee way .
A: But I think , that 's like another vegetable .
B: Oh , of course .
A: I love them that way just , just the thrill of ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
B: They 're two different vegetables that way ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: In fact , I , my mother , who is eighty-six years old , canned over a hundred quarts of half runners last year .
B: Oh , my gosh .
B: My does , mother will be ninety this year
B: and she lives in western North Carolina
B: and , uh , she would do that if , if we did n't tell her that she 'd better not
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: yes .
B: But she does n't have that big a garden ,
B: but she has a bigger one than I do .
A: yes .
B: And I have four children , you know ,
B: so ,
A: And she tends to it herself ?
B: Oh , yes ,
B: oh , yes .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: is n't that wonderful .
B: Oh , it is ,
B: it 's great .
B: It 's , it 's really her joy
B: and I suppose that 's why I enjoy gardening , because , you know , growing up with it .
A: I think so too .
A: Yeah .
B: We also grow , um , yellow and green squash , um , much to my children 's chagrin ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: and , uh , we grow a lot of tomatoes , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: there 's just no replacement for fresh grown tomatoes .
A: No .
B: So , we enjoy that ,
B: um , we grow
B: I , I have been trying to grow watermelon and cantaloupe and get teased by my family
B: but I actually was successful for the last two years ,
B: so .
A: Wonderful .
B: I 'm going to do it again .
A: Bet you showed them .
B: That 's right .
B: And we grow broccoli .
A: Oh .
B: And I have been very , uh , happy about the new way of controlling the , the , uh , worm that gets in broccoli , um , by using the Bacillus Thuringiansis which is the , uh , little ,
B: well , in fact , that 's what they use for gypsy moth ,
B: I don't know if you have had that problem there or not .
A: No .
B: But it 's , you know , it 's a problem that 's , that 's moving south from , from the New England area .
A: Yes .
B: And they devastate the trees
B: so they , they spray , the government , uh , sprays , um , two , three times in the spring when the , uh , caterpillars are , are coming along because what they do , this , this , uh , bacillus , um , the worms ingest it
B: and it expands in their , in their , um , digestive tract
B: and they die .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , that 's the same technique that is , you know , for any of the other , uh , little varmints that get in vegetables
B: so it ,
B: that 's really very nice because it 's a non toxic way of , of handling the problem .
A: Great .
A: Well , we could we could really talk gardening a long time .
A: I 'm enjoying hearing you so much
B: Well , it 's nice hearing you talk
B: and I 'm , I wish you , uh , good luck ,
B: have you just recently moved to Charlotte ?
A: Um ,
A: no ,
A: October .
B: Oh , so , well , that 's not very long .
A: Uh , so , yes ,
A: recently seven months
A: and it ,
B: Yes .
A: the weather is wonderful ,
A: I love it .
B: Oh , that 's great ,
B: that 's great .
A: It is just terrific ,
A: you know , rains a little too often .
B: Well , I hope you have a , an opportunity to garden again .
A: Oh , I think so ,
A: I have a little spinach
B: Oh , well , good
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: so , um , how do think , how do you think we 've changed in the last ten to twenty years ?
B: Uh , I 'm at a little bit of a loss ,
B: you know , I don't know ,
B: ten years ago ,
B: see I 'm what , I 'm about , uh , twenty-eight now
B: so when I was eighteen ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: things have n't changed a whole lot .
A: Really .
B: People are being a little more , oh , I don't know , a little a little less bigoted in some ways ,
B: I don't know
A: Uh-huh .
B: seems to me .
A: Well ,
B: I guess I 'm like my parents .
B: The younger generation gets away with hell ,
B: but , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: Well , it seems to me that civic freedoms are more restricted
B: but that may just be because I 've changed .
B: You know , I used to live up north .
B: Down here , Dallas , seems to me , the police are militant
A: Really .
B: but , uh ,
A: Where 'd you live up ,
A: where 'd you live at ,
B: I lived in Akron , Ohio .
A: Oh , did you ?
A: I 'm from , Illinois ,
A: so .
B: Oh .
A: How long , how long you been in Dallas ?
B: Oh , about eight years .
A: Oh , really ?
B: In fact in the eight years I 've been here it seems to me it gets more and more , gets to be more and more restrictive place to live . I think ,
A: Yeah , uh
A: you know , uh , as you 're talking like police and stuff like that it 's definitely a tough job to do .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it 's ,
B: crime has gone , got a lot worse in the last last ten , fifteen years ,
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I agree .
B: and maybe that has a lot to do with it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I definitely think that has gotten a lot worse ,
A: and you know , I , I think there 's ,
A: to me there seems to be a little bit of a decline in the family values .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: So ,
B: That 's true ,
A: But , uh ,
B: I 'd say my own personal lifestyle has improved
A: Yeah .
B: but that 's more a matter of ,
B: you know I 'm no longer a teenager in high school .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think there 's more pressure like on both parents to work , and things like that than there used to be
A: and ,
B: Hello .
B: Somebody 's at the door .
A: So .
B: Hang on just a second .
A: Okay .
B: off Okay .
A: But , uh , I don't know ,
A: that 's just , that 's one thing I see , I see a lot more , you know , double income families and a lot more like baby sitters raising the kids and things like that , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: it 's getting more and more expensive to live .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's for sure .
B: You ca n't , you ca n't make it ,
A: Yeah ,
A: without it hardly ,
A: that 's right .
B: I guess , when I was growing up , it was , it was still the ideal to get a , get a home and buy house ,
B: and these days you see a lot of people living in apartments forever
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah
B: you know , you just don't buy a house ,
A: just because they ca n't get into one ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's right .
A: Yeah ,
A: the ways our tax laws and stuff are structured , you ca n't ever catch a break until you can get into a house in a lot of ways ,
B: Yeah .
A: so . Yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's a good point
A: so , I 'm trying to think of anything else that 's changed over the last ten or twenty years .
B: Yeah ,
B: for me it 's kind of hard ,
B: I don't know .
B: I think ,
B: I don't know , I think the middle class is shrinking and the , uh , lower class is expanding
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I agree .
B: and sooner or later there 's going to , there 's going to be a turn around .
A: Well , I hope so , you know , at some point
A: but I don't know at what point ,
B: But I think it 's going to be at the expense of the middle class , uh
A: Yeah ,
B: so , usually is I think .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's , uh ,
B: It 's hard for me to say .
B: I hope it happens , because I 'd be one of those that gets caught .
B: But on the other hand , there 's a lot of injustice that needs to be , be changed .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's right .
A: Do you work at T I ?
B: Yeah .
A: Do you ?
B: Yeah .
A: What , uh , department do you work in ?
B: I 'm in semiconductor .
A: Are you ?
A: I 'm in semiconductor division too .
B: Yeah .
A: So . How long you been with them , since you moved down here ?
B: About eight years ,
B: yeah .
A: Um , I 'm over at the Center One building .
B: Yeah ,
B: so am I .
A: Are you really .
A: What floor ?
B: Two .
A: I 'm on the seventh floor .
B: Well ,
A: How about that .
A: Well , it 's a small world .
A: So , so let 's see ,
A: second floor , you work with , uh , linear .
B: Yeah .
A: Do you . Do you , uh , do you know Alec Morton ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've probably seen him around .
A: Oh , you do , huh .
A: Well , he comes up and pushes us around
A: so , uh , so I 'm pretty familiar with ,
B: Are you D A D or something up there ?
A: Huh ?
B: Are you D A D or something ?
A: Yeah
A: Yep ,
A: you must know him .
A: His reputation precedes him .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , seventh floor .
A: Yeah ,
B: T A D ,
A: Well , uh , he , uh , boy , he comes up there and gives us all kinds of grief .
A: They , they say it 's what makes him happy is to give us D A D grief ,
A: so I can believe it
A: but ,
B: Well .
A: Yeah ,
A: let 's see , if you 've been in Dallas eight years , I guess that 's about how long ,
A: I 've been in here about eight years , too , I guess .
A: Um , been with T I like twelve ,
A: but I started out in Lubbock .
A: Lubbock is ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I guess if this is the only place you 've lived , Lubbock is a lot different than Dallas .
B: Yeah ,
B: flat , dry and dirty ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: but the people all seem to be a lot more laid back , too ,
A: I mean , here in Dallas everything is just real rush , rush .
B: Yeah ,
B: I lived in the country for several years ,
B: and living in the city is a whole different uh , social structure
A: Oh yeah .
B: but , uh ,
A: Well , I got some friends that , uh ,
A: seems like he went to school at like DeVry .
A: Is there a DeVry in Akron ?
B: I don't even know
A: Oh ,
B: I have n't been up there in years .
A: Oh , I see ,
A: well , he went to school somewhere in Ohio ,
A: and he 's from that area ,
A: and , uh , he works over in the Park , Park Central building I think
A: but , uh , I have n't talked to him in a while ,
A: but , um , yeah ,
A: he , he misses it .
A: He used to go back twice or three times a year , you know , because he missed it .
A: Sounds like you have n't been back there in a while .
B: No ,
B: I have n't been back in ten , fifteen years .
A: You still have relatives back there
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I do ,
B: I just have n't had a chance to get back
A: Oh .
B: Catch them next year probably .
A: Really .
A: Well , let 's see ,
A: how , how long are we supposed to talk here ?
B: I don't know ,
B: I think we ran out of social , social changes to talk about ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: well my kids are probably needing me to go
A: so
B: Okay ,
A: all right ,
A: well , it 's nice talking to you .
B: Yeah ,
A: Talk to you later .
B: All righty ,
B: bye .
A: Bye .
B: Well , Kathleen , do you believe that there is a problem with our public school system ?
A: I certainly do .
A: Uh , I think ... I think we have a lousy school system .
B: And what do you think that problem is ?
A: And I think a lot of it has to do with the fact that we don't train our teachers very well .
A: And then we put the schools in the hands of professional educators instead of the teachers and the parents .
A: And then , oh , we don't , uh , we put too much , uh , responsibility on the teachers , for things that are really not education .
A: They 're social services .
B: Huh . That seems like you 've thought this through quite a bit before .
A: Well , I , as a matter of fact , I just finished editing a book on the topic .
A: So I have some rather strong opinions .
B: That 's interesting .
B: Do you , like a uh , yourself ...
A: And , and I 'm sure they 're colored by what I 've edited .
B: Do youself have children who are or have been through the public school system ?
A: Yes ,
A: I do .
A: And I was not very happy with the results .
B: I see .
B: So if you were to improve it , what would you do to improve it ?
A: Well , I think I would start with a with getting rid of about two-thirds of the administrators . And all the auxiliary personnel . The school bureaucracy that exists mainly to perpetuate itself .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And then I would provide , uh , use the money that we 've paying them to , uh , provide some special help in training and particularly , uh , mentor teachers to work with the beginning teachers and the teachers who may have been at it a long time but have been making the same mistakes for a long time
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
A: And then let them try some innovative things and see what works . And then , uh , have some sort of mechanism for passing that knowledge along to other teachers who could benefit from the same sorts of things . And then from the parents ' side , have the parents support the school . Get involved .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Pay attention to what 's happening . Talk to the teachers . Uh , talk to their kids about school . And support the institution
A: and ,
A: instead of becoming adversaries to the teachers so that the , uh , the teacher 's in the middle .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's , uh , some pretty good ideas .
B: Why don't you do something with those
A: Well , I 've done about all I can do which is get the manuscript in good shape so that it can be published and read by a lot of people .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , you should , uh , run for a school board position .
A: Oh , well . That I 'm not so sure about .
A: I 've got a lot of things to keep me busy .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That ...
A: Have you done anything like that ?
A: Anything political ?
B: Well , my mother was on the school board . As we were coming up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , that , basically , is the extent to which our , our family has been directly , you know ,
B: they 've always been involved .
B: My parents through the , the P T A organization .
B: And my mother was on the school board for eight years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , that was , that 's the extent of which I guess that 's more than , than some people , less than others
A: That 's more than a lot
B: I would , uh , tend to agree with you that there is a problem
B: The methods of correcting it I have n't thought through quite to the detail which you have .
B: But I believe that there 's definitely a basic perception and image problem with the fact of even being a teacher .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And if there was a way to , through the public mind , set that image to be a little higher esteem , a little , uh , uh , a little more prestige to being a teacher .
B: And with that , of course , you know , you have to pay them a , accordingly .
B: If we paid them more , it would attract more the , the higher educated people to , to either move into that field or to continue in that field .
A: Yeah .
B: And then if you paid them more , you 'd also be able to demand a higher quality product out of them .
A: I think that 's absolutely right .
A: They ,
A: the thing that worries me about that is that if you just raise salaries across the board , you 're going to be , uh , rewarding people who 've been doing a lousy job . And instead of getting the , uh , improvement that we want .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
A: So we 'd have to have some way to , uh , reward and recognize the teachers who are doing a good job and give them a , a pat on the back and respect and some honor and more money .
B: Uh-huh .
B: It , unfortunately , it 's a , and it 's a business or an occupation that the results are not as tangible as other ones
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's , it 's hard to tell .
B: so it 's very , it 's very difficult to say that this teacher is doing a better job than this other one , other than I guess how , you how a person scores in the beginning before the class and then after the class .
B: You know , if there 's some gauge that they could make .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , also , I 've I 've thought around about the idea of making teaching and the
B: before you can get a certificate , you have a , a certain residency period . So much like a doctor .
B: Maybe not the four years definitely .
B: But some certain type of , of position where you 're overseen to begin with .
A: Yeah .
A: Now that 's a very good suggestion .
B: Uh , just something to ,
B: rather than throw someone in , into that environment , uh , you know , it
A: Yeah .
A: I don't think student , I don't think student teaching is enough .
B: I thought that maybe something .
A: I think that , at least what I used to observe in student teaching , was that some college kid who might not be all that bright to begin with , was thrown into a class room with a teacher who was harried and overworked and , uh , had too many kids to handle and too many things to do and too many interruptions to pay much attention to the student teacher .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And then the student teacher did n't stay but about six weeks .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So there really was no time to try , much of anything and get significant feedback that would help the , the student teacher improve very much .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
A: There are lots of things that could be done in that line , including things like video taping . Because it would n't be hard with all the electronic equipment that 's around these days to video tape , uh , either a master teacher teaching a class so that then , students could watch that and , uh , criticize the methods used and , and analyze it . Figure out what worked and what did n't work .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then also to video tape the student teachers so they could correct their own performance .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
B: That 's good as a , a , a teaching aid .
B: But more you see these commercials that have Jimmy walking into class late and it happens that the teacher is an instructor who is in New York while Jimmy 's in Rome .
A: Huh .
B: And , you know , the whole electronic classroom idea .
B: I don't know if I I 'm in favor yeah , in favor of , yeah ,
A: I don't think that 's going to work .
B: I think , especially in the younger years you need to have more of the , the person contact rather than just the fact that your machine being fed information to , to learn how to learn .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , another thing I think would be helpful would be to have some sort of , of say a national curriculum . Because one of the problems with getting good textbooks is that we have such a fragmented system for , uh , curriculums that the textbook makers produce a textbook that will sell in Texas and California .
A: And then everybody else is stuck with that , regardless of what they want to teach .
B: Huh .
B: Is that because that 's where the two biggest markets are
A: Because it ...
B: or ?
A: Well , that 's the two states that adopt on a state wide basis .
B: I see .
A: Uh , and so it , uh ,
A: I used to work for a textbook publisher
A: and it was absolutely clear that if you could get your book adopted by Texas , then you had a built-in market because there were only about three or four textbooks in each subject
A: and all you had to do is just get your share of those adopted in the individual school districts .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Huh .
A: And , you know , a third of the Texas market with its millions of kids is a heck of a lot of textbooks .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
A: And then the states that either don't adopt on a state wide basis or don't have as many kids , just have to follow along and take what Texas gets .
B: Right .
A: California is the biggest for elementary schools
A: but Texas , uh , adopts state wide all the way through the twelfth grade .
B: I see .
B: Well , definitely is a national problem if , that they need to address .
A: Yep .
A: Sure is .
B: Definitely is .
A: And I hope maybe we 're going to get somewhere with a little more attention being paid to it with , uh , Reagan 's , uh , new education secretary and , uh , you know , trying to do some , uh , trying to produce some new programs anyway .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: Excuse me .
B: Well , I 've enjoyed speaking with you .
A: I have got to go .
A: I 've got another line calling .
A: Thanks .
B: All righty .
B: Good-bye
A: Bye
A: Okay ,
A: sorry .
B: Wow ,
B: that 's okay
B: So , tell me about your home .
A: Oh , it 's , uh , it looks like a little shot gun house , almost .
A: It 's got three bedrooms going along one side and the living room and kitchen on the other .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's , uh , an older home ,
A: it 's not new ,
A: I like it though ,
A: it 's big .
B: Oh really ,
B: what kind of square footage ?
A: Oh , I would n't know ,
A: I measured it one time , because I was , uh , we had saw some termites
B: Uh .
A: and we thought about getting it sprayed .
A: I think it was like ,
A: I ca n't remember ,
A: I 'm sorry
B: That 's okay ,
B: that 's okay .
A: It 's big enough for us , though .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We kind of need maybe one more room .
A: We 've got two children .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: okay .
B: So where do you live at ,
B: I mean what part of town . In here in Denison .
A: Okay ,
A: see , that 's north .
B: Or down here in Denison ,
B: yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: I live , I live in Plano ,
A: so it 's north to me
B: Okay ,
B: up here then
A: I say down ,
A: I 'm really from Kentucky .
B: I was going to say you did n't have the typical ,
B: you have a southern accent ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but you don't have a Texas accent .
A: Right .
B: Well I 'm originally from , uh , Ohio , Cincinnati ,
A: Oh , okay .
B: so I 'm uh , familiar with , uh ,
A: That area ,
A: that dialect .
B: Right ,
B: right
B: Also I lived in Georgia for about four years ,
B: so the , uh ,
B: there 's a difference too , between east and west , in the south . And , uh , the way in which people speak .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Anyway , my home is , um , I guess it 's about twenty-five hundred square foot
B: and I have , uh , four bedrooms at the present .
B: We 're busting out walls and things like that .
A: That 's what I want to do .
A: How many kids do you have ?
B: We have two ,
B: we have two .
A: Do you have enough bedroom space , then ?
B: Yeah ,
B: we 'll have enough bedroom space ,
B: it 's ,
B: we 're rearranging our house because the bedrooms are kind of small .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so , we 're going to enlarge our master bedroom and take out a couple of walls and enlarge it . And then shuffle the rooms around a little bit .
A: That 's kind of like what we 'd like to do .
A: We just had a baby a couple months ago
A: and we 've got a den ,
A: it 's more or less a spare room .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We rarely go in there , except for to play chess .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We want to make that a bedroom for my stepdaughter and my daughter
A: and , uh , we need the one extra room .
A: Like , like you said , our rooms are too the bedrooms are too small ,
A: the living room and kitchen are huge ,
B: Right .
A: but the bedrooms are too small .
A: Where you 've got to leave the furniture just one certain way , you ca n't rearrange it at all .
B: Right ,
B: there 's they , uh ,
B: I know what you 're saying there ,
B: ours is the same
B: and they tend to put windows in the strangest places .
A: Yeah .
B: You know we have windows in our bathrooms which really makes it difficult for ,
A: Yeah ,
A: we 've got two great big windows in our back bathroom .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: you 're kind of limited in what you can do there and everything ,
B: so .
A: No privacy .
B: No ,
B: we don't have a lot of that ,
B: yeah .
A: Well , we 've got at least two windows on every wall in the house .
A: It ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'd hate to clean these windows ,
A: I really would .
B: I figured I 'm going to have to hire somebody to remove our windows and put new ones in that are easier to clean .
B: Ours are the double pane
B: and you ca n't really clean them on the inside , you know .
A: Ours are those too ,
A: yeah .
A: You must live in an older home too then .
B: Right ,
B: I do ,
B: the house is about , um , I 'd say almost thirty years old .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's not a new home ,
B: it 's , it 's seen some wear and tear . You know .
A: Ours has too .
A: When we moved in the man that sold it to us had said that he remodeled it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he did it hisself ,
A: so most of that , by now , is falling apart .
B: Oh .
A: You know , well I mean , it 's not just horrible ,
A: but like this tile 's come loose off the wall ,
A: the whole bathroom is covered from ceiling to foot in tile
A: and I don't like that at all .
B: Um , that is awful .
A: With that , uh , the great big tiles , square tiles like , that you put on the floor , the , the huge one .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: he did it in that ?
A: Yeah ,
A: instead of wallpaper .
A: I would n't mind it if it was like short tiles ,
A: for that you put ,
B: The normal tiles ,
B: right .
A: right
A: that you put around a bathtub ,
A: that would be prettier .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But this looks like floor covering on the wall .
A: It just does n't look good .
B: Oh , and also they 're very heavy
B: and so they tend to come off a whole lot easier .
A: Right ,
A: there 's one big one that has come off
A: and short of putting nails through it , we ca n't get it back on ,
A: so .
B: Um .
A: And he rewired the house
A: and it 's shorting out here and there ,
A: and
B: Oh , wow ,
B: I ,
B: that 's one of the things we 've been fortunate with , is our , uh , wiring is okay .
B: We don't have a , we don't have enough power ,
B: um , or our breakers are n't , are n't powerful enough to take , to , to really help with the load in the house .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean we need to redo some , rewiring ourselves
B: but our plumbing is awful .
B: There is there is a shut off valve that 's outside that does n't work ,
A: Um .
B: and there 's no other real shut off valves inside the house ,
B: so if something breaks , we have to shut it off from the main , in the street , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , oh , it 's , it can be really bizarre .
A: Yeah .
B: And we never know where it 's going to flood .
A: We 've got power surges on the west side of our house .
A: We 've got our stereo hooked up .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well that ,
A: the power makes it run .
A: It 's never ran ,
A: it 's always ran just fine , the clock and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it runs about ten minutes fast , except for about a month , for about a month the , the clock ran normal .
B: Um .
A: And then the power went off again ,
A: lightning or something knocked it out
A: and we hooked it back up
A: and now it 's running ten or fifteen minutes fast again .
B: Um .
A: But on the east side of the house it runs fine .
B: Oh boy , you do have a strange wiring problem there .
A: He put new wiring in ,
A: it 's all new wiring up in the attic , or I guess crawl space ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , oh , no ,
A: he did n't know what he was doing ,
A: he really should have hired people .
B: Well that 's something ,
B: my husband 's in construction
B: and he wo n't even touch electrical stuff .
B: He ,
B: I mean , he 'll do a little things
B: but he wo n't do any major rewiring .
B: He says he 'd rather pay the electrician to handle it .
A: Right ,
A: he 'll end up killing himself .
B: Pardon .
A: End up killing theirselves .
B: That 's right .
A: My husband , he 'll change out a light switch ,
A: but that 's about as far as he 'll go .
B: Well that 's the way mine is , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , he , he well he said he went up in the attic and looked around
B: and he was like , oh my God ,
B: he says , looks like a bunch of spaghetti up there .
B: And we had squirrels in our attic when we first moved in because the roof was so sorry ,
A: Uh , was a what ,
B: The roof was really sorry .
B: I mean when we moved in , we had no idea how bad it was .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It was a wood shingle roof ,
B: and we ,
B: the first year we were living there , we had to replace the roof .
A: Well he put ,
A: which
A: I heard it 's a law that you 're only allowed to have three layers of shingles .
A: Is it three or five ,
A: your husband probably knows .
B: He probably knows ,
B: I don't know what it is off hand .
A: Well , he 's got seven layers of shingles up there ,
A: and he told us it was a completely new roof .
A: Like I said , he did n't know what he was doing .
B: Yeah ,
B: he must not of .
B: We stripped ours , we stripped ours off .
B: We did n't put it over , 'cause we put composition roof on .
B: And we completely completely stripped all the old wood shingles off , put decking up , put the paper down , and I mean just started from scratch .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Unfortunately when we were doing that it decided it wanted to snow and hail and rain .
A: Oh , no .
B: And we , and we had , we had almost , I 'd say about half of the roof off ,
B: and it did this .
A: And , uh , uh , a house full of snow .
B: And a house full of snow , and rain ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it came down ,
B: it did this in the middle of the night .
B: We have plastic , you know , just tied down on everything , you know , as best we could , real thick edge stuff , I mean ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the wind came in from the north
B: and it just blew everything off in the middle of the night
B: and we were asleep
B: and , and I woke up
B: and I got up
B: and it was about four o'clock in the morning
B: and I heard all these , these drips , drip , drip , drip , drip , drip , drip .
A: Oh , no .
B: I had water coming in every light fixture .
A: That ,
A: yeah .
B: I had water coming in everything that was in the ceiling , everywhere .
B: And I mean it filled up my light fixtures , because they 're the old kind .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I would go in ,
B: and I 'd turn on a light in the room , you know
B: and the light would come on
B: and the whole thing would be full of water .
B: And I mean the light would still come on .
B: It did n't blow up or anything
A: My neighbor , or a friend of mine when I lived in Louisiana , her ,
A: we all lived on base ,
A: my husband was in the Army .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She woke up about three or four o'clock in the morning , water dripping from hers .
A: The neighbor 's uh , washing machine had uh , over done something ,
A: I don't know
A: but it was leaking , just pouring water in
A: and it all went through to her roof
A: and it was coming out of the lights , fixtures .
B: Oh .
A: The fire alarm went off for some reason .
A: It shorted it out , or something .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: that will happen .
A: So she woke up with about six feet of water in her house .
B: Oh , my lord .
A: No ,
A: not six feet
A: but ,
B: But it 's quite a bit , quite a bit ,
B: you know that ,
A: Yeah
A: you might as well
A: so . Did you have carpets and stuff ?
B: Oh , several of our rooms got ruined ,
B: we have , um ,
B: we are on pier and beam ,
B: we don't have concrete slab underneath our house ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so it , it got into the carpeting , got into the floor .
B: The carpeting was already awful anyway ,
B: but it got into the floor and rotted the floor and made it stink
A: Your house sounds like mine because mine 's pier and beam too .
B: Oh really .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: they came in
B: and they had it ,
B: one room they completely cut up the floor in and removed it .
B: We had to call the insurance company .
B: I mean the insurance company was paying for the new roof
B: but they also ended up having to pay for the damage when the roof was being repaired . You know , which really was n't our fault .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean we 'd done everything we could to keep out the weather . You know , and stuff
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: and ,
A: Well you got to redo it the way you wanted it in the end .
B: Oh yeah
B: it ,
A: Are you finished with it now ?
B: Uh , the roof ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's been done for quite some time .
B: We 're really glad with all the rain we 've had in the last couple of years that we have a really good roof .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: how long have you lived there ?
B: Uh , see , it 's three ,
B: it 's just been at three years .
B: We 've been in the house just the three years .
B: We 've been doing a lot of remodeling .
B: I mean , it 's , it had detached , it had a detached garage
B: and my husband 's built a walkway across
B: and we 're going to brick up the garage to match the house and things like that
B: so we ,
A: You all did it yourselves ?
B: What , uh , the walk ?
A: The home improvements .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: he see he does this for a living ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean this is what ,
A: All right .
A: Well , uh , quite a few
A: and they 're varied .
A: They don't , uh , uh , encompass , uh , many handcrafts like knitting and that kind of thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , I do , uh , quite a bit of wreath making
A: and my dogs are my hobbies .
A: I do a lot of gardening .
A: I go to estate sales , which takes up a lot of time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Now , what do you mostly do
B: Well , mostly right now I 'm a , I do a lot of sports and stuff like that is my hobbies and do a lot of things with my family as much as possible .
B: We 're , uh , we 're about to take the kids to go roller skating and a birthday party and stuff ,
A: Oh ,
B: so .
A: boy
B: Yeah .
A: That should be fun .
B: Yeah .
B: Fun for them .
A: Yeah .
A: How old are they ?
B: Uh , I 've got a little girl who 's six and a little girl that 's three .
A: Well , I think that 's better than having that party at home
B: Yeah .
B: Well , uh , this is a friend 's party
B: and they , they rented ,
B: or , you know , they ,
B: the party ,
B: they , uh , just rent skates and stuff for the kids .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh they 're , they 're looking forward to it .
A: And , the the , the skating rink does the rest practically , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh
A: Boy , what a help that is .
B: Yeah
B: So , uh ,
A: What kind of ,
B: how long have you lived in North Carolina ?
A: Well , not that long .
B: Really ?
A: Uh , just since October .
A: We moved here from Enid , Oklahoma .
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , we are , we 're originally from Virginia , this part of the country .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , we did spend twenty years in Norman and Enid and loved it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , we needed to get back , uh to our older parents .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , I am loving it
A: The weather is divine .
B: Really ?
A: Yes .
B: uh ,
B: did you like Oklahoma , while you were there ?
A: Oh , yes .
A: Very much .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , what did you all do ?
A: Well , my husband was with , uh , begins to be much clearer , a lot less back ground noise and University of Oklahoma and , Phillips University in Enid .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then he went with , uh , a family corporation that had , uh , has oil and ranching and varied enterprises .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , he just quit a perfectly good job and came , we came East
B: Really ?
A: Yes .
B: So , is , uh , is he working there then
B: or
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: He 's doing , uh , quite a bit of consulting work and , has been offered a permanent position
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: and he 's contemplating
B: Uh-huh .
A: He , he 's liking this free time actually
B: Oh , yeah .
A: It 's just wonderful after all , these years of working .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , how did , how did you get , uh , hooked up with the T I switchboard thing ?
A: Um , a gal who works , uh , with T I on this project
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think she 's a temporary worker
A: Uh , mother is my best friend in Virginia
B: Oh , I see .
A: So we have spread the word a little bit in this part of the country .
B: I see .
B: Uh-huh
B: my wife has talked more than I have , uh ,
B: she 's talked to four , five different people .
B: It seems like she has n't talked to anybody from Dallas .
B: In fact , she 's talked to a couple of people from North Carolina , I think .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , what is her name ?
B: Her name 's Tina
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I have n't talked to her .
A: I have n't , I have n't talked to a Tina yet
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: uh , the , the call was probably for her .
B: They would n't accept my , uh , T I N number ,
B: so we put hers in .
B: But , uh , uh , like I said , we 're getting , getting the kids ready to go to the birthday party ,
A: Yeah .
B: so .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , some of
B: yeah ,
B: I , I 've only talked to one or two
B: and they 've , they 've all been in Dallas .
B: But , she has n't talked to anybody , in Dallas , yet .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So , that 's interesting .
A: Well , you have n't told me , uh , what sports that you are active in .
B: Well , the sport I like best probably is basketball .
B: But , uh , I guess I 'm probably better at softball .
B: And so I 'd ,
B: like during the summer months it 's , occupies quite a bit of my , time .
A: Yes .
B: But , I play in a couple of leagues and , and occasionally in a tournament or something on a weekend .
B: But , my family usually goes with me .
B: We try to do everything we can together .
A: Well , I think that 's , uh , easy entertainment for a , family , too .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , they , uh ,
B: a good friend of mine that plays on one of my teams , we , uh ,
B: that 's usually the team I play on with the tournaments and stuff ,
B: and they have a couple of kids that are almost my kids age .
B: So they play together , pretty well
A: Under the stands .
B: and ,
A: Under the , bleachers .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: pretty much .
B: And , uh , Tina enjoys , uh , the other lady , real well .
B: So they ,
B: you know , that 's kind of nice .
B: It 's like getting together with , them .
A: Yes .
A: Well , it 's getting , a little hot , is n't it ?
B: So to speak .
A: It ,
B: Yeah .
B: Well , it 's been raining a lot here so far .
B: So we have n't really had any kind of real heat .
B: I think it 's going to be warm enough this afternoon , we were noticing a while ago it 's already eighty in , in the house .
B: So , it looks like an air conditioner , day .
A: Yeah .
B: But ,
A: It sure does .
A: Or maybe this evening anyway .
B: Yeah .
B: It ,
B: yeah ,
B: but , you know , I 'm sure you 're familiar with that living , here .
A: Very , much so .
B: We go , we go through Enid , you know , quite a bit .
B: We go to Tulsa from time to time .
B: And my , my parents live in southern Illinois .
B: So , we drive , up there .
A: Yeah .
B: And , well , lot of times we take seventy-five
B: and , uh , it seems like , seems like that goes through Enid , I know ,
A: No .
A: No
A: it does n't .
B: I 've either seen the signs or ,
A: Enid is , uh ,
A: it 's in the northwest .
A: It 's , uh , directly across the straight , uh , state from Tulsa .
A: Uh ,
B: Um . I know I 've seen , the sign somewhere .
A: Sure you have .
A: Yes .
A: Well , Enid is , not , uh , an unknown little city .
B: Yeah .
A: It , uh
B: Right .
A: an awful lot of people know where it is , or have been there .
A: And it , was , uh , a very , uh , self-sufficient , uh , wealthy uh , town , for a long time , anyway You know until , uh , everything happened ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: the bottom fell out .
A: But ,
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: it 's beginning to do well .
A: But , there 's a lot of , uh , old time wealth there that , has helped to stabilize things .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , how
B: you said you 've just lived in North Carolina just like , six months then is ,
A: Yes .
A: Something like that .
B: And you really like , it there , huh ?
A: Oh .
B: I 've heard so many people talk about that area .
B: I 've never been there
A: Well it 's , it 's and children in the pretty .
B: but they sure , say it 's pretty .
A: The weather is wonderful .
A: Uh , this winter we ,
A: it was just ,
A: we had so many wonderful days .
A: And ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , I ,
A: if it got to be forty degrees , I decided it was too cold to , to walk the dogs
A: Is n't it , funny how how , your standards change
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: It really does .
B: My wife and I spent a couple years , uh , doing church work up in the state of Washington right , on the coast .
A: Yes .
B: And it rains , you know , a lot there .
A: Sure .
B: But , you get used to it .
B: I mean , it 's like a fine mist all the time
B: and it does n't really ,
B: it gets to where it does n't bother , you .
A: Well , foggy and , misty .
B: Really ?
B: It ,
A: The moss grows , on the trees in the woods up , eight , ten , feet .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's the way it is , was , there , too .
A: Yeah .
A: I think , however , that 's like February .
A: Uh , I know it did it all February .
A: And some people said to me , `` Well , that 's our wintertime . ''
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Well , I know you , need to go .
B: But ,
A: And I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: Well , I have enjoyed talking to you , too .
B: It was nice , to talk to you .
A: Thanks so much .
A: Have a ,
B: I hope you enjoy , North Carolina .
A: Oh , thank you .
A: And I hope you enjoy , and get through that birthday party .
B: Well , I hope , I live through it .
A: Yeah .
A: I do , too
B: That 's what I hope .
B: Okay .
B: Thanks a lot .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Good-bye .
A: All right ,
A: uh , how long have they been recycling there in Virginia ?
B: Um , actually quite a , a , a while .
B: Um , I 've lived here for six years
B: and , can you hold on just a second ?
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh
B: Hello .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , I 'm sorry
B: I must have got the other line cut off .
B: Uh , so , they 've been doing that it for a while now
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it ,
B: I live in an apartment
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my facilities ,
B: there it is ,
B: hold on on
A: Uh-huh
A: Hello .
B: Okay ,
B: sorry about that
A: Yeah ,
A: okay ,
A: you 're okay ,
B: Yeah .
A: okay
B: Uh , anyhow , they have facilities here in my apartment complex for recycling paper only .
B: Uh , I 've been recycling for maybe about two years now and , at another public facility where they have , you know , recycling of glass , uh , aluminum and paper .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Now ,
A: Have you , have you cycled , recycled plastic also ?
B: No ,
B: and that 's what I , I don't understand exactly why they don't have that option .
A: We , we have out here uh , up until just this last year in on you are town there was n't any really good way ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: they had some bends , * sp : bins around that we could find and put them in
B: Uh-huh .
A: but not all that many ,
A: it was n't very well advertised
B: Uh-huh .
A: but recently , uh , the refuse department has , has , uh , is working on getting a system going where we will actually have , uh , a bend that we put things in for recycling these other things
B: Uh-huh .
A: so it , it should be good , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think it 's a marvelous idea when you think of , uh , when I just think of the papers that I dump out
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean there just ,
A: it 's such a
A: I waste ,
A: I just hate to think about it .
B: Yeah ,
B: now an additional thing is , uh ,
B: where I work they also have recycling there of , uh , all white paper and of , you know , cans also
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , I mean , a lot of people , you know , right at the vending machines , they have receptacles that , you know , you can just pop your cans in
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and near the , Xerox machines they have places , you know , for your , paper ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , I keep a little box at my desk , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I just throw , as I 'm using the white paper , you know , I just throw it right in there ,
A: Uh .
B: and then , you know , they have someone that comes around and pick it up , you know , every afternoon which , you know , is an excellent idea , at work because I know the amount paper they go through there
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's neat .
A: Yeah .
B: because ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's right .
A: I guess one of the things , I think , that needs to happen is we need to be better informed about , about it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: there 's needs to be more public , uh , service of , programs or something that would let us know had a happens to it and helps us to become enthused about it because of what is happening
B: Yeah ,
B: I would agree with that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there 's ,
B: Right .
A: I 've seen a few things but not very much , really
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I , I think that 's a shame
A: they need to , uh , do a little more ,
A: I 'd like to know , for instance , when I , when they say , uh , plastic , all plastic , what kind of plastic , can you put all together or , is there some reason not to ,
B: Exactly .
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , now maybe they just sort it after they get it and throw out what they ca n't use ,
A: I don't know
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I , I 'd be glad to organize it , if that they 'd tell me what it is I 'm doing
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I agree with you there ,
B: another thing that I like here which is ,
B: I do with ,
B: I have to actually go to two different recycling areas because one of them is that , uh ,
B: their aluminum cans is for , uh , Children 's Hospital , for a burn fund
A: Uh-huh .
B: so all the monies are donated , you know , for the recycling to Children 's Hospital , which I think is an excellent idea , there , you know , because the other , public ,
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's great .
A: Now that gives , you a little bit of incentive there .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and before even at work ,
B: before they started the recycling plan , which at work they 've only been doing since January first of this year , I had had everyone in my department recycling
B: and , you know , I would have them drop , right , drop their cans off in my office
A: Saving them for you , uh .
B: and then I would haul them , you know , here to this place for the Children 's Hospital Fund which got people really going into it ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: I think that 's , right .
B: but ,
A: I think , I think helping us be more enthusiastic about it , helping us maybe , maybe using the money for something special that would be like paying off the national debt
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh
B: That ,
B: there you go .
B: That 's for sure .
A: But I , I think that 's
A: right I think they , there needs to be a little bit more in the area of , of , uh , advertisement , and letting , public letting you understand , more of what it is you 're doing , why you 're doing it , how you 're it 's done and , what , what happens to it because I think that 's , that would help a lot .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: and I 'm sure , you know , in the near future I would think they would be coming out with more ,
A: Yeah .
B: you know , I 've seen a definite trend , you know , towards more recycling , everywhere , you know , even at McDonald 's , you know , with their , their use of no , foam containers anymore .
A: Yeah ,
A: I ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yes ,
A: I , I 'm glad , to see some of these things , I think .
B: Right .
B: I think , I think it is getting more , you know , advertisement .
A: People are becoming more conscience all the time that it 's necessary to do , and that we need to somehow get away from the fact that we have to have everything individually wrapped ,
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and all these things that ,
B: Right .
A: I think that 's true .
A: Well , I think ,
A: I 'm that 's about my , uh some on recycling
B: Yeah
A: but I , I enjoyed talking to you .
B: Okay ,
B: well , I did too .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: all right ,
A: bye now .
B: Okay .
B: Bye-bye clicks hanging
A: I have , uh ,
A: I , well , I used to have the opinion that there that there really was not any more crime in America , in the cities , anyway , than there was in previous centuries , uh , before , uh ,
A: simply because .
A: The reason there seems to be so much was the fact that the police now had advanced , uh , reporting methods , with computers and other devices .
B: Compile more statistics .
A: That 's right ,
A: and those statistics in turn got them bigger budgets .
B: Uh-huh .
A: However , I have been persuaded , lately , I guess , simply by the , uh , overwhelming data that seems to be available that there is indeed a lot more violent crime .
B: More especially where you are .
B: Are you , in Washington D C or Washington state ?
A: Well , yeah .
A: No ,
A: I am in , I am in Washington D C .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I was going to say ,
A: Actually it ,
A: you know , I do a lot of business here ,
A: and I come here quite often
A: and , and that again is a , is a sort of media perception there 's some absolutely lovely and marvelous and peaceful areas in Washington . Regardless of the racial makeup ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: but it 's , it 's real , uh ,
A: there 's pockets of violence that is so violent that they , uh ,
B: It just really grabs your attention .
A: Yeah .
B: It just makes the whole place seem like that .
A: Right .
A: Now just to focus on that a minute , I guess , uh , uh ,
A: when , uh , previous secretary of , uh , Bennett , I think his name was , became the drug czar , uh , for , uh , President Bush , he was going to focus on it , on this area and do something about it
B: Yeah .
A: and I see that even he was met without , with , with little success , even though the entire , I guess a , a quite a bit of money and other , uh , planning efforts went into that .
B: What do you , what do you think is causing all this ,
A: Well ,
B: because , it seems that there
B: even though
B: crime , though I think it is increasing in number , it sure does seem to be increasing in intensity , and violence too .
A: Yes .
A: Well , I , I have three theories about it , you know , three things .
A: I have one theory ,
A: and it 's brought to us by two things .
A: One I , I believe that this is a function of , uh , the violence that young people see on television and the movies .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , I am not just talking about , you know , uh , role models of of tough guys and gangsters and things like that ,
A: I am not even , I am not even convinced that maybe things like football , hockey and , the , you know , the , and even baseball games now where the , everything is settled with a fight . You know , the , the immediate need to show some sort of violence to settle the argument .
A: And , and then I , I am an advocate of hand gun control to some degree ,
A: so I think that particularly
A: I , I was reading the other day about , uh , Corpus Christi , Texas which has the the highest ,
A: I think it 's Corpus Christi , that had the highest rates per hand gun death in America uh , per capita .
B: Yeah ,
B: I was , I have not seen that ,
B: but , uh ,
A: I mean the Saturday night special stuff
A: so ,
B: Yeah .
A: That , that 's what I think about it ,
A: that 's some of the things I think about it ,
A: plus like drop I do not know ,
A: what are your views ?
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I tend to agree with you with , you know ,
B: it seems anymore , uh , a movie can not be considered good unless there 's just some , some sort of violence , or something in it .
A: Yes .
B: And , and along with that , you know ,
B: and then you start making a movie and it has no , there 's no call for something violent ,
B: but , so they just throw something in there just to say they have it
A: well that 's , that 's , that 's the impression I get , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: And I , and I imagine that it 's , you know , it just feeds upon itself when we have this sort of violence in society ,
A: people want to ,
A: it conditions people to it
A: and , uh , you have to
A: it has to be even , uh , magnified to to attract people 's attention . I guess , to have them spend money on something like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: you become callous .
B: Yeah .
A: And I am sure that it does form role models for young , for young men and young women
A: and ,
B: Yeah .
A: uh , I mean I , I , read now where we are , you know ,
A: women are young women are arrested fighting with knives over , over whatever . whatever reason , which is kind of unheard of when I was young .
B: Um .
A: Now , I do not want to sound like an old fart ,
A: but , that 's what
A: seems that those things happened did not happen in that manner before television .
A: And I , I , I , I have to think that , that it has some influence on it .
A: But ,
B: I listened to a radio talk show today at lunch time
A: Yeah .
B: I do not know if you listen to him or not ,
A: No .
B: he 's on A M ,
B: but , there 's a fellow that had called in and was lamenting about the ,
B: there was an interview done on the assistant chief of police for Los Angeles , the guy under Gates ,
A: Oh , yes .
B: and they were just really coming down on him because of some of the things he was , just some of the things that he believed in , some of his morals .
B: For instance , uh , they asked him if he spanked his kids ,
B: and he said `` You bet , I believe in discipline '' .
B: And people , I , I , I , I guess they confused discipline with punishment .
A: Yeah .
B: You know .
A: Yeah .
B: And , just ,
B: it seems anymore that , uh , if , if you have , you know , this type of a moral stance , that people come down on you .
B: It 's like , you know , hey , everybody has to be free to do their own thing .
B: And I disagree ,
B: and I think that 's really contributing to this high rate of crime .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
A: Well , I mean , I , I guess what I wanted to say and I stopped , uh , I do not know , I got diverted , was that , that , uh , there 's so there 's so much of a return from to prison that the rehabilitation programs seem to be a failure .
A: And , and that is not emphasized .
A: I recognize there 's , there 's over crowding problems
A: and , and since we have decided to put everybody in jail that commits a crime now , that that 's complicated the entire process .
B: Yeah .
A: What I also think that ,
A: I guess it 's the reflection of the society where , where we have so much more mobility and less attachment to , uh ,
A: you know , it does not seem to be any responsibility to the community where you , where you live
A: or . I do not mean attachment and responsibility ,
A: I guess I mean any sort of ,
B: Well , nobody feels responsibility to do something .
B: It 's like , oh boy , I wish they would stop doing that .
A: Yes ,
A: that 's right .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah
A: I , I do not know how that 's ,
A: I do not think it 's done by , uh ,
A: the changes come simply by statutory nature .
A: I do not know what it really will take
B: Um .
A: And , I do not know if I have solutions , except , except to ,
A: you know , I am sort of a , a , an advocate of , of , uh , of letting people , of having free speech
A: and I guess to curb , uh ,
A: television , uh , the violence on television and in the movies would be contrary to my beliefs in that .
B: Yeah .
A: However , there does seem to be a ,
A: right now in verbalizing ,
A: it does seem to be a higher need for something of that sort .
B: Yeah ,
B: and then how many ,
A: And the sacrifice is not that great .
B: How many studies have to be done to show that there is a link between , you know , what you see and how
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , what you see affects how you think and therefore what you do .
A: Yes ,
A: yes ,
A: I think , I think that 's correct .
B: And , yes
B: but , you know , as soon as you start , uh ,
A: Well , Texas has , uh , Texas has , uh , has always struck me ,
A: I mean I , I , I have lived in and out of Texas , both in the service and , uh , uh , short business stints .
A: And it seems to me they are a pretty , pretty tough law and order state ,
A: but that 's a ,
A: but yet that does not seem to have effected the amount of violent right in the state .
A: Just citing that , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , unfortunately you have got a lot of the , uh ,
B: some , well a lot of it can be contributed to the racial differences , I mean , just that we are so close , to the border with Mexico ,
A: Yeah .
B: we have got a lot of that influence .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yes ,
A: I talked with , um , I talked with people from Richardson and Plano
A: and , uh , the first three days ,
A: and then yesterday I talked with someone with , from Pennsylvania ,
A: so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: because ,
A: it 's the ,
B: I 've only made ,
B: this is only my third call .
A: Oh .
B: I , I tried to make calls two different days
B: and I could n't get through .
A: Oh , I know .
A: Sometimes I just
A: I 'm , in ,
A: it just takes a very long time
A: so ,
B: Does it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've been trying to , you know , do that ,
B: and , and sometimes I just ca n't wait that long ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
B: so I just hang up . Because it keeps going through the thing over and over again .
A: Well .
A: This is hilarious
B: But I knew as soon as I heard your voice ,
B: I thought , Kathy 's , it 's Kathy Kester
A: Oh . Well , tell me , what books have you read lately ?
B: Well , let 's see ,
B: I , um , gosh , I ca n't even think .
B: I have n't read any ,
B: and you 're such a reader , I know that
B: and I ,
A: Well , I don't read all that much for enjoyment .
A: I mean , I read a lot for school ,
A: but gee , I just don't have much time for enjoyment reading
B: Yeah .
B: The , the last book I picked up was a book by Judy Bloom ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it was , um , it was called , um , SMART WOMEN , I think . Um , or something like that .
A: Um .
A: Yeah .
B: And it was , it was kind of ,
B: I really did n't like it at all .
A: Huh .
B: It was , it was written back in the early eighties .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And it was all this , this , um , divorced woman syndrome of the , um ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: it was almost like a , a pre-AIDS scare kind of thing .
A: Interesting .
B: It was really an interesting ,
B: because I , I right away looked at when it was copyrighted . Because I could tell by the theme of almost when it was written . And , um , you know , a lot of hanky-panky , going on .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes ,
A: yes ,
A: yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: That kind of was , um , kind of a pop psychology time for when a lot of books like that were coming out , I think .
B: That 's right .
A: And so that makes real sense , that that 's , um , when it was written .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Um , I have n't , was n't really aware that she had written anything for , um , adults .
A: I was always , just more aware of her you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: for her young people , her books . * one utt ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and she 's more famous for that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but she has been writing for adults also ,
A: I 'll be darned .
B: and so I thought hey , I 'll just try this , you know , and see what it was like .
A: Yeah .
B: It was very , um ,
B: the style was very conversational .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You would have lots of conversations between people rather than any description .
A: Yeah .
A: Right ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: You know how that is ,
B: and um ,
A: Yeah .
A: I wonder if she 's written anything really recently , if she 's got anything printed , in print .
B: Yeah ,
B: she has ,
B: because I , I remember seeing a new book by her that was out ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I think it was a , it was an adult book .
A: I 'll be darned .
B: So anyway ,
A: Yeah .
B: but that 's the last thing I , I 've read ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , um ,
A: Well , it 's ,
A: I 'm trying to think the last actual book I read that was n't ,
A: let 's see , I think I read , oh ,
A: when I was on vacation , um , between semester break and summer , you know , on semester break between spring and summer
B: Yeah .
A: and I went to my mother 's ,
A: I read a book that I have , should have read when I was probably in high school .
A: I read , um , JANE EYRE .
B: I ,
A: No ,
A: wait a minute ,
A: wait a minute ,
A: wait a minute .
A: JANE EYRE ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: no ,
A: no ,
A: it was n't JANE EYRE .
B: WUTHERING HEIGHTS ?
A: No ,
A: it was , um , uh , PRIDE AND PREJUDICE , by Jane Austen .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: by Jane Austen ,
B: yes .
A: That 's what it was ,
A: yes .
B: Yes .
A: And , um , you know , I , I did n't know what to expect , except I had heard that , that Jane Austen was such a wonderful novelist ,
A: and she really was good .
A: I mean , I was , was very much impressed with the way her plot was put together so , intricately
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , and , you know , I just ,
A: but I , as I say , I was pretty much ashamed that I had n't read something before then .
B: Yeah .
B: Because I , I think I was , I think I read it in college , or had to write it , read it in high school or college ,
B: but I don't remember it .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: And then when Jennie had to read it at Gettysburg and I got her the , I got her someone ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think it was , um , oh , some actress reading it .
A: Oh , how interesting .
B: You know , they had an abridged version of it on tape .
A: Yeah .
B: And so I got that for her ,
B: and she loved doing that .
A: Oh , I 'll bet ,
A: yeah .
B: But I remember that was the book .
A: Yeah .
B: And now I , I mean , I think it 's around here somewhere ,
A: Right
A: I would n't be , surprised ,
B: I 'm just going to have to put it , in the car sometimes and listen to it .
A: yeah .
A: Sure .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: But , um ,
A: Well , I read that ,
A: and then I 'm trying to think , um ,
A: usually I try to , to find something long that , I 'm going to ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: when
A: if , if I have long periods of time , like Christmas vacation , or , you know , when I know I 'm not going to be doing anything for a while , um ,
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , that 's what I do too .
A: Yeah ,
A: and that 's about it , because otherwise I 'm reading so much for school .
A: I 'm , um , I have just started reading a book .
A: Actually , it 's for school ,
A: but it 's for , um ,
A: there 's a , a literary
A: well , not a literary journal ,
A: it 's a , it 's kind of a journal of , of the history of ideas that 's , that 's starting to be published , um , from U T D .
A: The first issue does n't come out until next year ,
A: but , um ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I 'm doing some reviews of books , just to , what , to sort of recommend to whether or not a full-scale review should be done for the journal ,
B: Oh , how neat .
A: and I 've ,
A: yeah ,
A: it 's really neat because these are brand new books
A: and I , just got a , I got a , this one ,
B: Oh , great .
A: um , most of the stuff is on , uh , literary criticism and philosophy , and religion and all that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: This one is on Johann Sebastian Bach ,
A: and it 's a , a , a biography , that is really interesting ,
B: Oh , great .
B: Oh , that 's fascinating .
A: I mean , it , it 's fascinating ,
A: it really is .
B: Oh .
A: Um , but it 's so long ,
A: I , I don't really have the time to read the whole thing ,
A: but I think , eventually I 'll go back to it .
B: Yeah .
A: But it 's , it was written ,
B: Yeah .
A: I mean the , the copyright is nineteen ninety-one ,
A: so it 's a brand new book .
B: Oh , it 's a brand new book .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Oh , that , that would be wonderful to read something like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: and he really , this man really shed some light on , um , some , aspects of of Bach 's genius and , and , and , you know , the , and more sociological things , you know , like the , the idea that , um , that music , to be a musician was as much , um , of a family occupation as anything .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , you know , that was it was families had just loads of musicians
B: Yes .
B: Yeah ,
B: and they just went from generation , probably to generation , just with these , with these all passing it from one to the other .
A: Yeah .
A: that 's right .
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: and , um ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's the way it was , I 'm sure back then .
A: Yeah .
A: So , uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , that 's interesting .
A: it was just really interesting ,
A: if that 's , you know , that 's kind of what ,
A: but I have to
A: not only am , am I reading it to decide whether or not it should be reviewed , but also , um , because the board of advisers for this , um , journal does n't have , right now does n't have a really respected name , um , who 's a , uh , a scholar on , on music ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: um , and I 'm supposed to decide whether I think this man might be a worthy person to be a , you know , in that position on the board
A: so ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I don't know if I want to take that responsibility or not ,
A: but But at least I , can tell them what I think ,
B: Wow , that 's rough .
B: That 's real rough .
A: so , um , it 's real interesting .
B: Yeah . Because I think our , I think my alma mater , um , Gettysburg , I think they were just starting a magazine * sd that was similar to that .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: I think that 's probably a , sort of a thing to do in small colleges ,
A: Yes
A: Yeah ,
B: but , um ,
A: that it ,
A: you know , you see , you see a lot of small colleges doing things , like that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: right ,
A: uh-huh ,
B: Yeah .
A: because it attracts really a , a lot people 's interest .
A: That 's one way ,
A: it 's really good public relations for small schools ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I think so
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , another one of my projects this summer is , actually it 's part of my research assistantship , is , um , it 's helping a professor , uh , compile a bunch of translations of , of various poems for a book that he 's writing ,
A: and so I 'm learning the names , if not the actual contents , of a lot of different poems and a lot of French people .
B: Oh .
B: Now , translations , what do you mean , translations of , of ,
A: Um , well , where , where , for instance , um , a Baudelaire poem that was written , in the French and then has been translated into English by , various people .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , I see .
A: And the translations are all so different from one another .
B: All different .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , that 's interesting .
A: So it 's multiple translations of single works
A: and , and that 's right now , right now pretty much what I 'm doing as far as , um ,
A: my work , is just kind of compiling , all that for him .
B: Gosh .
A: So ,
B: That 's great .
A: It 's real interesting . There are days when I would be prefer , really doing that
B: Boy , you really lift me up to a different ,
B: I mean , here I , I 'm dealing with , uh , cleaning the stove
B: and ,
B: You know , I 'm I wish I were dealing with Baudelaire .
B: That would be nice .
A: I don't know if I 've told you ,
A: but , um , this is not on the subject ,
B: What do you think about it ?
A: Well , I , I feel in light of some of the accidents and so forth that have happened lately , that I think there are some occupations that they should , such as the health field , the transportation field , uh ,
A: they 're already doing it in the armed forces , where they handle weapons and so forth , uh ,
A: they do it to prisoners
B: Yeah .
A: so , I , I , uh , I , I , I feel like it should be mandatory in some professions ,
A: and I think if , if , uh , an employer feels that he wants to , to drug test employees and they don't like it , then they should not be employed there
A: That was ,
A: you know , I would not mind it .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I especially agree that if it 's an area where they could cause somebody else , you know harm or injury , absolutely .
A: Right .
B: And I don't have a problem at all with employers , uh , testing in the hiring process ,
B: but I , I , I don't , I don't have a problem with them too much , testing even after the fact ,
B: but I do a little bit where it , where it would n't hurt anybody .
B: I don't know ,
B: sometimes I think they carry it a little bit too far .
A: Uh-huh
B: But ,
A: unless an employer has a reason to believe that his , uh , the work competency of , of the employee is , is hurting the business .
B: Yeah .
B: Right
A: I mean maybe it 's , uh ,
B: and then it 's not a problem .
A: Number one because generally if , if they are involved in that type of thing they are into theft
B: Yeah .
A: and as an employer , I would think that would be ,
A: and the first ,
A: it 's not going to be wholesale because of the cost .
B: Oh , absolutely .
A: There 's no way .
A: But , but my concern is , uh , school bus drivers .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: the train drivers ,
A: Um , I 'm not even ,
A: I 'm in education ,
A: I 'm not even opposed to it for that .
A: Uh , I 'm concerned in the medical field .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I , I think they should screen for alcohol in these areas , too because I consider that a drug .
B: I wish they would .
B: I wish they would ,
B: and that , I think , is even probably more widely abused by , you know , the masses than , than drugs , so to speak .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: So .
A: But when you consider they could be driving an airplane or driving a bus , or a train , um
B: Oh , I know .
B: And ,
A: and it does n't take that long .
A: They don't have to be totally roaring drunk
B: No .
A: just a little off on their timing could , could mean life .
B: Just , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: and ,
B: Now T I has the random testing policy
A: Oh , okay .
B: and , and , you know , our names or our employee numbers or whatever are in a , in a pool
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I 've already been tested once when I was hired and , and once since they initiated this random testing program .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: But I work with one girl who was tested , her name got , got randomly selected three times in six months
A: Oh , my word .
B: and I think that 's the only reason I have a problem with it , when there 's no , you know , there 's no reason to suspect someone , you know .
A: Control .
B: That , that 's getting a little bit ,
B: that 's enough to make anybody paranoid
A: Right .
A: Well , as long as you accept that it is a random , a random testing uh , you know , to , to alleviate ,
B: Yeah .
A: that way you ca n't feel like somebody 's out to get me .
B: Right .
A: If ,
A: it 's almost like being selected for jury duty
B: Yeah .
A: You know , so your name came out of pot when they spun the wheel ,
A: that 's , that 's just the way it is .
B: Either just the lucky or the unlucky one , depending on how you look at it .
A: I would , I would rather have it that way , to know that I was chosen at random by a computer than to think that somebody turned me in because I , I think there 's , when you let other employees turn in people ,
B: Oh , absolutely ,
B: There are so many people with , with their petty axes to grind
A: Right .
B: it could really get out of hand .
A: Right .
A: So , I , I , I would really rather know , however ,
A: there 's got to be some backup to say that
A: if , if somebody does observe you at , say at a party , uh , using drugs I would think that it would be their obligation to report that .
B: Yeah .
B: To report it ,
B: and I guess you 'd report that to a supervisor , maybe anonymously or something because I , I would feel very uncomfortable working with someone I knew was using either illegal drugs or abusing alcohol ,
A: Personnel , or something ,
A: Right .
B: I 'd just I 'd feel really uncomfortable .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: I don't know what kind of work you do ,
A: but there , there would be , even be a situation where you were at a machine and working with somebody that was that way .
B: Yeah ,
B: we have , we have a lot of people who work on the line .
B: I 'm in accounting ,
B: so it would n't ,
B: you know they could n't hurt me with their ten key or something ,
A: Right .
B: but out on the line , they 've got people working some serious equipment .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: So .
A: It 's , it 's ,
A: I , I just think employers have to have , especially given today , the drug abuse that goes on , I just think employers have to have some kind of way to see that they 're not being put at Because they 're the ones who are going to have the lawsuits , the insurance claims , et cetera ,
B: Put at risk .
B: I agree totally .
A: and , and I 'm not sure but what some of the insurance claims are n't due to , uh , illnesses brought on by drug abuse or alcohol abuse .
B: And in the long run , we 're all paying for that
A: Right .
B: so it , I mean , it protects us in the long run hopefully when they do that .
A: Right .
B: I , I was trying to remember , there was a court case , uh , here where I live , just a few months ago .
B: The city workers , they wanted to , um ,
B: the city government wanted to institute the random drug testing
A: Uh .
B: and the city workers , uh , took them to court to protest , saying that it invaded their , I guess , first the , the search and seizure amendment
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and it 's still tied up in the legal channels .
B: They have n't ruled on whether they can test them or not .
A: Huh .
B: So I 'm curious especially since T I a local , you know , employer is also already doing it , seeing what they 'll say about it especially since ,
A: To see how that 's ,
A: Is it , is it , uh , just a small group of the employees that are concerned ?
B: Well , it 's the whole , it 's the whole city ,
B: seems like the whole group of city employees that 's raising a stink over it .
A: They , they just don't want to be drug tested .
B: Yeah .
B: So .
A: You know , we 've never , my husband and I have never been in a situation where somebody said you have to be drug tested .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , my husband 's retired from I R S agents .
B: Uh-huh .
A: However , this is n't a problem that we have either alcohol or drug ,
B: Right .
A: and so , we , we , in our minds we 're thinking what 's the big deal .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's the way I looked at it .
B: If I had something to hide , it 's one thing ,
B: but I 'm ,
B: you know , you know you don't ,
B: so it 's not as big a deal ,
B: and you sometimes wonder when these people protest so much whether they 're really concerned about their rights , or whether they 're really concerned about something else .
A: Right .
A: And , and then they say , well , if you give them the right to do this , then they 're going to take some other right away from you ,
A: but I , I
B: I don't believe that .
A: I think that an employer has the right to ask you to do anything ,
A: and , of course , the big deal , one of the big deals now , too , is to , that when you , come into a company , as you sign a paper saying that I will go take a ,
A: Okay .
A: I 'll let you start .
A: Do you all keep a budget ,
A: and how do you hold to yours ?
B: No ,
B: I , I never keep a budget .
B: My budget or philosophy , I guess , is spend as little as possible .
A: Well , that 's , that 's good
B: And , uh and it 's , it 's sort of always worked .
A: Especially for these times .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , but that depends , you know , on the individual if they can I guess have self-control .
A: Well , that 's a lot of it .
A: Uh , I know we tried several different ways .
A: One time we tried something that really worked
A: but we did n't keep it up .
A: I passed it on to a friend
A: and she wo n't quit doing it .
A: She loves it
A: and that was the envelope system . Where you go ahead and decide about how much based on what you did last month that you are going to spend ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you put the cash in envelopes marked for that .
A: So you have one for entertainment and one for groceries et cetera .
A: And then for some reason taking it out of that envelope and seeing it in cash instead of in check form , uh , causes you to realize how much is left .
A: And she even writes down on the envelope as she subtracts and kind of debits on each envelope , what she 's buying .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then at the end of the , of the period , pay period , if she has any left , that much is for fun or entertainment .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they kind of work it that way .
A: We tried for a while
A: and a seems like the problem that they were having of all the , of all the things that worked was not planning enough for the incidentals that we could n't think about .
B: Yes .
A: And those are the ones that will kill you .
A: You know , the the accidental fee or the car repair or the things that were n't supposed to be every month .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I , I could n't probably be bothered doing that every month ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and and ever since ,
A: That 's what I mean .
A: It was a hassle
B: uh , well , we 've been married almost thirty years now
B: but , uh , my husband got paid once a month .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So you learn to get ,
A: That 's , that 's kind of hard
B: Right .
B: You learn to get through , you know , to the end of the month
B: and , uh ,
A: But do you sort of self budget even ,
A: I mean , you would n't like on payday think , boy , I can go do this and that and this and that .
A: You kind of think this is got to
B: No .
A: you kind of divide it in fourths in a way , don't you ?
B: No .
B: Because if you charge things , uh , you pay all your bills at the beginning of the month , when you get paid ,
A: Right .
B: or you get paid the last day or next to the last day .
A: Right .
B: You pay all your bills
B: and there is n't anything left to spend anyway .
A: Well , that 's true .
A: What we 're in the process of doing right now is paying off our credit cards entirely .
A: And we 're going to go ahead and try to just live on what we earn instead of guessing ahead of what we probably will have next month
B: Well , yeah ,
B: we , we tried to , to , to ,
A: Oh .
B: or we are paying them off now .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 're not there yet .
B: Uh , there was a time when maybe we did n't take all of them off ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but you just sort of had to watch what you put in , because you hate to pay those finance charges , when you see how much it is .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: And for most of , uh ,
B: I mean I 'm a substitute teacher ,
B: and I 've only substituted , I guess , for the last fifteen years ,
A: Huh .
B: so there 's only been really one working .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: same here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it , it works for me
B: but I ca n't see that it would work for probably the majority of people .
A: Well , I could say it 's kind of ,
A: you know , that 's , that 's good .
A: You you probably have a little extra than you have to have , to ,
A: you know what I 'm saying ?
B: Yeah .
A: And so , that , that 's the difference there where sometimes like I know if we 've had an especially bad month and we 're just almost getting down to payday , then I think if we could really budget ,
A: we tried one
A: I know when we were planning to buy the new car and we had n't had a car payment in five years , we had to go ahead and write down each month what it was that every penny went for , to see how much was going to be left ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: and that was a real eye opener . Uh-huh . * slash error should be ' b '
B: Uh-huh .
B: It , it is when you do it that way .
A: But to , to have lived by that every week would have been tough for me because sometimes I 'll spend less on groceries but we 'll go out .
A: So it 's kind of hard to say this is how much you 're going to spend going out for fun .
A: This is how much you 're going to spend
A: It 's kind of hard .
B: Well , we , we eat out a good deal at this point .
A: Do you ?
B: I , I started subbing just to go on a vacation and saved , all that money so because I knew that you could n't , you know , spending , five thousand dollars on a vacation , or whatever .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Right
A: Right .
B: We were going to go for ten weeks , uh , in nineteen eighty
A: Oh .
B: so I started , working in nineteen eighty-seven and just saved , for three years .
A: How nice .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But the ,
B: what minuscule amount I made
B: but , that way you just did n't put it on your credit card ,
A: Well , that 's ,
B: and , and it was paid for .
A: and it made a big ,
A: and you enjoyed it better probably .
B: Yes .
A: Yeah , .
B: And so I think that that 's difficult for most people ,
B: but then my father was , very Scotch
A: I think so too .
B: and , you know , you never could afford anything although we could afford everything if he wanted to . Um ,
A: So if you 're out like in a department store and there 's a sale , you 're just real careful not to let your urges get hold of you ?
B: Yes .
A: That 's , that 's excellent .
A: That 's what I 'm working toward .
A: I think you 're probably much ahead of me there
A: and I 'm working on it .
B: And I never worried about saving money because we just , we 're in the savings plan at work
B: and they took it out
B: so ,
A: Same here ,
A: same here .
B: I , uh ,
A: And I think though that we need to have some liquid around that you don't have to go through the company to get
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know ?
B: Well , we never had too much of that
A: Yeah .
B: but then we never had any really emergencies that , uh ,
A: That came up .
A: Yeah .
B: And we did n't buy really new or expensive cars .
B: I think the most , my , we 're looking at cars now , uh , we ever spent for a new car was like six thousand dollars .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they were mainly used cars .
A: Well , that 's the best thing to do .
A: My husband said the other day it was the worst mistake we ever did to buy a new car because it was n't worth it from the day after .
B: Yeah ,
B: so ,
A: So ,
B: you know , we 've been rather rather frugal in that . In that respect .
A: Rather frugal .
A: Well , that 's , that 's going to payoff on retirement .
A: Yeah .
B: So .
A: Well , it , uh ,
A: I guess we 've completed ,
A: do you think we 've been here to
B: Well , each time they used to call in and tell me their space is limited and to please , uh ,
A: How would you go about organizing a family reunion ?
B: Well ,
B: for ,
B: I grew up in the deep south like south Alabama .
B: So whenever I think of family reunions ,
B: my family , like , got together almost every week .
A: Oh , gee .
B: And there would be like thirty people .
B: So people talk about , you know , big family reunions
B: and I think , like
B: I have a friend who just went to , like , Wyoming to some big ranch , you know , where like there were four hundred people for their family reunion .
A: Oh , my .
B: And I ,
B: so I mean , how I would go about doing it is I would just call all my relatives .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because I , since I came from ,
B: my father has , uh , five sisters and two brothers
B: and my mother has four brothers and two sisters .
B: So I
B: both of my parents had big families ,
B: and we always we always got together , just always .
B: Now it 's different because I live here
B: and I ,
B: you know , when I go home I try to see the families , as much of the family as I can
B: but it 's real different .
A: Yes .
B: And I grew up in a real not , I think not normal setting .
A: With all of you living so close together .
B: Right .
B: I mean Sunday dinner was at my grandmother 's
B: and , you know , like I said there would be thirty , you know , thirty people ,
B: and everyone would just bring things
B: and my grandmother would cook and cook and cook .
A: Oh .
B: And
A: Well , I come from a very small family .
A: And we planned a family reunion this spring . Uh , where we are from Texas
A: and my family is from Ohio
A: and we met in Florida .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So the seven of us went on a cruise and then went to Disney together .
A: So that 's all the family ,
A: so planning our family reunion was very easy you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess so .
B: It really sounds like it was fun .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , we had a wonderful
A: Well , I almost forgot the topic ,
A: I was waiting so long for , uh , for it to find somebody . Um ,
B: It 's on your favorite T V shows and why .
A: Right ,
A: well , so what is your favorite T V show ?
B: Uh , MAJOR DAD .
A: Oh , you like that one ?
B: I , I love it ,
B: I think it promotes good family values ,
B: and it 's funny .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I 've never really watched that one .
A: You know , it 's funny how you can just get in a mode where you only watch certain shows
B: That 's
B: yeah .
A: and , uh , you know , there 's , so there 's only a few that I , that I like to watch routinely .
B: What kind do you like to watch ?
A: Probably my favorite is , um , oh ,
A: well , I like shows like GROWING PAINS
A: and , uh , what 's the other one now , they moved from Tuesday night to Wednesday night ,
A: so I don't get to watch it very much .
B: WONDER YEARS ?
A: WONDER YEARS ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's my favorite . Uh ,
B: I like both of those real much also .
B: I , I think basically , they same thing , they promote family values .
A: Yeah .
A: WONDER YEARS ,
A: I , I guess that is supposed to be put out at a time when I was growing up or whatever .
A: I guess I can really relate to it ,
A: and , uh , it 's just a real cute show
A: Uh , I , I guess I like the shows that really have a real sense of , uh , I don't know , honesty or sort of a purity value , I guess .
B: I do , too .
B: I , I don't like it , uh , lot of the shows that , that I 've liked in the past , like , uh , oh , GOLDEN GIRLS
B: and , some of them tend to get so risque ,
B: and when you have children uh , watching it , that sometimes really starts to bother me
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: and , uh , that 's one of the reasons ,
B: I mean , if you want to go all time favorite show , probably one of them was LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: my wife really likes that show ,
B: yeah ,
B: which I just , I was , I always felt was wonderful
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , and so many of them nowadays , like I said , I think are just , um
A: Yeah .
B: uh , they , they go after , well ,
B: they ,
B: like I said , the risque stuff , just I guess they think that 's what people want to watch .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , there was ,
A: but there 's a sense of I guess , purity in the show ,
A: like one of my favorite shows used to be HAPPY DAYS
B: Yes .
A: but , uh , you know , Richie always used to be so , you know , just so honest and pure I guess ,
B: Yeah .
A: and when he left the show , you know , that , it seemed to be missing that part of it
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I never did like it after that
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , I don't know ,
A: I , I say , see the same thing in like WONDER YEARS and a lot of the shows that I like to watch .
A: There always seems to be that kind of value in there somewhere .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I agree .
B: Uh , do you like the sports programming ?
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Um , I , I enjoy those also , almost as , as much to a certain extent .
B: I 'm ,
B: our whole house is baseball fans
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , we enjoy that ,
B: and , uh
A: So you 're going to watch a game tonight ?
B: oh yeah ,
B: oh , yeah
A: So do you , do you have a favorite for the series or anything ?
B: Uh , probably the Pirates ,
B: but only because of Steve Bushel , I guess
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: otherwise I really don't care that much ,
B: but , uh , you know , I 'm , I 'm annoyed that the Rangers got rid of him ,
B: and , uh , I 'd like to see him do well , like all the way to the bank I guess
A: Yes .
A: Yeah ,
A: he 's a nice guy .
A: I take it you live in the Dallas area .
A: Do you live in the Dallas area ?
B: Live in , live in Plano .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I live in Garland ,
A: and , yeah ,
A: I , I like Steve Bushel ,
A: but I don't really like the Pirates .
A: I 'm a big Saint Louis Cardinals fan
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , uh , I 'm kind of , I 'm kind of pulling for the Braves over all ,
A: they , you know , they they 've come from so far down ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I really would like to see them do well .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's , uh ,
B: so I keep hoping the Rangers are going to do
A: Yeah ,
A: one , one year they ,
A: maybe they 'll make it , I don't know
B: Right .
A: so , but , uh , yeah ,
A: I like sports programming quite a bit ,
A: but , uh , I guess my , my favorite shows are the ,
A: and , you know , that getting back to the point that you made , that 's really true ,
A: we were watching ROSEANNE , I guess , couple of weeks ago ,
A: and her daughter was talking about birth control , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: and my daughter was kind of walking in during that time ,
A: and , you know , she 's only seven years old ,
A: so ,
B: Well , it 's ,
B: so many of them now , um , you know , it just seems like they feel like they have to stick that stuff in ,
B: and and , uh , you know , I 'm , you know , I 'm , I 'm an adult
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: and I have adult tastes now ,
B: but I don't need that
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: uh , I , I like things that , uh , are , are wholesome , I guess .
A: Yeah ,
A: well that , that seems to be more our values , too ,
A: like the WONDER YEARS , I , I mean , it 's kind of risque stuff for , maybe for teenagers ,
A: you know , or , and you can kind of relate to it you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't know ,
A: that 's ,
A: I enjoy that a lot
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
A: but , uh , you know , I agree with you ,
A: the ,
A: and it 's funny because the shows ,
A: like a lot of them that used to be considered risque , like THREE 'S COMPANY and stuff , I think they , they maintained ,
A: people would watch them because
A: there was that , uh , you know , there was really the period that was going on there ,
A: I mean , he really was n't messing around with the girls ,
A: but everybody perceived him that way , and stuff
B: Uh-huh .
A: but as soon as , you know , he went to move in with another girl , the show just died
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's , it 's interesting that a lot of the shows are that way ,
B: Okay ,
B: I 'm ready .
A: Okay ,
A: so we 're going to talk about , uh , what kind of clothes we wear while we work .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Do you work for T I ?
B: No ,
B: I work at home
A: Oh , you do ,
A: well , you 're like me then
A: I stay home also .
B: Do you have children ?
A: Yes ,
A: I have two , a seven year old and three and a half year old .
B: Oh , that 's good .
A: How about you ?
B: I have four girls
A: Oh .
B: they 're nine and five and three and a newborn .
A: Oh , my , you are busy
B: Yes ,
A: and they 're all girls ,
A: I have two girls ,
A: so , all girls around here
B: Girls are nice , are n't they ?
A: Yes ,
A: uh , really sweet .
B: Anyway , as far as clothing goes , um , my wardrobe changes all the time , depending on my size
A: That 's how I am too .
B: We go from regular kind of spring clothes regular kind of fall clothes pregnant clothes , clothes that are in between where you 're not down to regular size yet or you 're on your way up from regular size
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , that 's funny .
B: and they 're all in boxes or bags ,
B: and they all rotate all the time kind of the same stuff all the time , though ,
A: Yeah .
B: I don't , uh , get a whole lot new right now ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know that 's kind of how I am .
A: I said , who ever I talk to is going to be board , because when it 's summer time , I 'm wearing shorts ,
A: and when it 's cold , I 'm wearing sweat pants , and most of , unless I 'm going to something special that my daughter 's doing , or something like that ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I like jeans a lot .
A: Well , that 's , that 's good .
A: I used to wear jeans all the time until after I had kids ,
A: and now nothing seems to be comfortable because I bulge in all the wrong places ,
A: so
B: Oh , and it 's , it 's frustrating ,
B: I just , I find I have to get the right kinds , though , or it 's not comfortable
A: Yeah .
B: they ,
B: it , it works best if they have pleats in the front
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: and , uh , they have to ,
B: my waist is kind of small compared to the hips ,
B: so it has to be not the straight up and down levis kind
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I know what you mean .
A: Well ,
B: But , um , but I ,
B: when I was , I was pregnant through the summer this time and I wore dresses all the time because it was so much cooler and so much more comfortable not to have something binding on your waist
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
B: but , uh ,
A: One of my daughters was born in June ,
A: and I remember , I wore sundresses and , you know , just those real cool dresses almost the entire time
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And I had one that was born in December ,
A: so , um , it was a little bit , because it was a real warm winter
B: Uh-huh .
A: so even , even into like November and December I was still wearing the short sleeve dresses ,
A: course I 'm always hot when I 'm pregnant , too ,
A: so
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
A: I , I did n't really need warm clothes
A: but I really have been spoiled by sweat pants and these new , uh , units outfits , you know , that are just knit ,
B: Oh , I have n't tried those ,
A: Oh , they are so comfortable .
B: Huh .
A: It 's , it 's just , um , you know , a light weight kind of like a sweat suit but made out of that real light polyester stuff ,
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's just great because you can put , you know , you can decorate them up , or dress them up , if you want ,
B: Yeah .
A: or you can just wear them with , you know , tennis shoes if you want .
A: So they 're really nice
A: and I 've enjoyed wearing those
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I ,
B: I don't know if they expected us to talk about blazers and such here
B: but I sure never wear them
A: Yeah ,
A: well I don't either ,
A: if we , if we had professional jobs where we go into an office and have to wear a jacket or something that would make a big difference .
B: Yeah .
A: I worked part time when my oldest was a baby
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , I had to wear a dress every day ,
A: and and it was a little bit hard to , uh , wind down ,
B: I 'm watching , Janice ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I would , I would have to drive six thirty five home
A: and I would be burning up , like in the summer time
B: Oh .
A: by the time I got home I was like , Oh , I 've got to get out of these clothes
B: I , I remember that from when I was ,
B: I worked way before I was married , even ,
B: but offices , they keep them so cold in the summer that you ca n't wear regular summer clothes and be comfortable
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: you 've got to have something to add to it or something
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know if you can ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and then when you drive home , like especially if you 're in a lot of traffic which you are in Dallas ,
B: You burn up ,
A: uh-huh
B: Yeah .
A: because I always hated to run my air conditioner just sitting still all the time
B: Yeah .
A: I was afraid I 'd make the car overheat .
B: It 's hard on the car .
A: Yeah ,
A: so I would roll my windows down ,
A: it was still a hundred degrees
B: Oh .
A: and I would just be sweltering hot by the time I picked my daughter up ,
A: and um , I had a friend who used to take shorts to work ,
B: Yeah .
A: and after work she 'd go in the bathroom and change her clothes
B: Oh , that 's funny ,
A: and I thought , that 's probably a good idea because you really
B: Yeah
B: at least something cooler ,
A: yeah ,
A: because you can ruin your good clothes getting so hot in them if you especially if it 's something that has to be dry cleaned , which I don't have any of .
B: That 's true ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't have to worry a whole lot about that .
A: No ,
A: when you have children , you don't ,
A: um , even when I go to church I have to have something I can just throw in the washer when I 'm through .
B: That 's right ,
B: something that it does n't matter if it gets spit up on , too
A: I know it .
B: I 've always been a creature of comfort , too
A: Me , too .
B: if it 's not comfortable , forget it .
A: I know ,
A: that 's how I am , too ,
B: Wool was never comfortable to me .
A: Right ,
A: me neither ,
A: I have ,
A: Okay .
A: Where do you enjoy dining out ?
B: Oh , I generally go to the quickie places just because they 're cheap .
A: Yes ,
A: do you have children ?
B: Uh , we have four ,
B: but most of them are gone now
A: Uh .
B: so there , there might be ,
B: but we were taking , you know , uh , four , five and six people out
A: Yeah ,
A: that makes a difference , does n't it .
B: Yes .
A: What area of the country do you live in ?
B: I 'm in Texas .
A: Yes ,
A: I am , too .
A: But ,
B: And we we lived in Ohio prior to this .
A: I did , too .
A: I 'm from the Dayton area .
A: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , but I look for service even at the quickie places type things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I don't like to go to the drive-thrus because sometimes they get your order wrong
A: That 's right .
B: and then you 're stuck
B: and it 's a pain to have to stand there and see what it is before you leave
A: Yes .
B: so I really don't like the drive-thrus that much .
B: I , I like to go and eat there .
B: But I would say service , uh , atmosphere , and whether the food is good ,
B: and on going out , I like steaks .
B: So , we try to hit those places when we can .
A: When we travel we look for Wendy 's because we have kids ,
A: and my husband and I like getting the salads or the lighter meals
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then that way they can get their burgers and fries
A: and we can have a salad bar
B: Yeah .
A: so sometimes we drive for a couple hundred miles until we find a Wendy 's , because it 's all either McDonald 's or Dairy Queens ,
B: and , in , in , in the countries , unless it 's a large city , I guess Dairy Queen and Wal-Mart are their main
A: Right ,
A: that 's right ,
B: That 's what you find ,
B: right ,
A: I know .
B: My husband likes , uh , Dairy Queens .
B: He likes their milk shakes and their chili cheese dogs , I guess ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so he 's a fan of , of Dairy Queen ,
B: and , and we 'll go even in town here at times , just as a , a change although I 'm not that excited about it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But we 've eat , we eat out so much it 's gotten so I don't like to really eat any place
B: but yet I hate to cook food at home
A: Oh .
B: so that might be why I look for inexpensive places just because we 're eating out probably five nights a week maybe .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Um .
B: Or we eat junk food at home
A: Yeah .
B: uh , now my
A: Well , what are some of your , your favorite inexpensive places ?
B: Oh , we 'll go to them all .
B: We sort of take turns .
B: And we , uh
B: I sort of favor the ones ,
B: if I have a coupon we can go there
B: and if not we ca n't , because it 's cheaper
A: Uh-huh .
B: so mine is , monetarily , I guess strongly monetarily based .
B: Uh , we 'll go get pizza and , uh , at Little Caesar 's , although the kids prefer Domino 's .
A: Oh , we are Little Caesar fans here
B: Right .
A: that 's where we always go ,
B: But it 's just a lot cheaper than , than Domino 's ,
B: so that 's .
B: We go to Grandy 's quite a bit I would say .
A: Yes ,
A: we like Grandy 's , too .
B: McDonald 's , uh , we 've sort of been off of that for a while
B: and no particular reason ,
B: and I ,
B: maybe we avoided Wendy 's the last few years because our daughter worked there
B: and she never wanted us to show up there
A: Oh .
B: so , I don't , we don't go there that much .
A: Where do you go if you like to have a nice meal out , or a big meal ?
B: A nice meal , oh ,
A: Where do you go for steaks ?
B: It 's usually when we 're out of town
A: Oh .
B: and I 'll order steak or steak and lobster combined
A: Uh-huh .
B: so it 's really not in town .
A: Oh .
A: You ever been to Houston 's on Belt Line ?
B: No .
A: That 's where we go to get steaks
B: Uh-huh .
A: they have a teriyaki steak there ,
A: and when we have something to celebrate , we head to Houston 's .
A: They don't take reservations ,
A: and you wind up waiting about an hour
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the food is good ,
A: and they 've got a nice patio area that you can wait and get something to drink , unless you get there at five o'clock ,
A: then you can go right through .
B: Right .
A: But they have real good signature salads there and nice steaks ,
A: so , that 's our nice place to go .
A: We don't usually take the kids when we go there ,
B: But well , we don't go out that much ,
B: I well , I guess we do go out without kids .
B: We 're usually picking things up quickly ,
B: though we just don't dwell on food too much ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , with my husband traveling he can get all he needs of that during the week going to those places
A: Right ,
A: That 's right .
B: so , it does n't really matter to him .
B: He 'd probably just like to stay home . Well , I think , I , I never have liked to cook food ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's the way with my husband .
A: He 's gone during the week and likes to eat at home on the weekends ,
A: and I 've been eating at home all week long with the kids and would like to go out somewhere ,
A: so we have a conflict of interests on the weekend .
B: but I think it all began eating out when we had , uh , the boys in , in different , uh , baseball on baseball
A: Right .
B: it was mainly baseball teams
A: Yes .
B: and my husband would coach ,
B: so we were never home at the same time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm not one that 's going to fix , you know , the meal at two o'clock in the afternoon so they can eat it all day whenever they 're there .
A: Right .
B: or you go you know you fend for yourself .
A: Yep .
B: You go somewhere else .
A: Well , the types of vacations that I usually take ,
A: I usually come back more tired after my vacation , then I do , you know , before I take it .
A: Um , I need to definitely take a vacation where all , all I do is rest .
A: And I guess to do that I 'd probably have to take it at home .
B: Oh
A: But , um , the vacation spots that I like to go to are places like the Bahamas and Florida .
A: I enjoy the beach .
B: Oh , I am , after our last summer 's vacation I am antibeach .
A: Antibeach .
B: Uh-huh .
B: We went to , uh , Cape Hatteras .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , we , we were out visiting one of our kids in Maryland ,
B: and we went down to Cape Hatteras for a few days .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , uh , the , the waves were huge .
B: I 've never quite seen waves like this one
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I was standing in water not more than , in barely above my ankles
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , you know when the waves go in the waves go out they kind of all of a sudden you 're in sand above your ankles .
A: Right .
B: And I was standing there talking to my daughter
B: and this really big wave came and totally threw me ,
B: and one foot did not come out of the sand ,
B: and it tore the ligaments in my knee
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I 'm never going to another beach again , ever .
B: I 'm
A: You might be like I am .
A: I enjoy , I enjoy going to the beach and to beach areas ,
A: but I really don't like to get in the water , the ocean .
A: I prefer a swimming pool
B: Well , I , I love to go and play around .
B: At least I always did but although actually , my , I like the mountains .
B: I , uh , I don't really like hot weather
A: Uh-huh .
B: that 's my biggest gripe about living here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I basically , don't want to go to a hot place on vacation
A: Right .
A: I can understand that .
B: Oh .
B: I , my dream vacation is Alaska .
A: Uh-huh .
B: This is just someplace I 've always wanted to go
A: That would be nice .
B: and someday I hope we can afford to just take a humdinger of a vacation up there .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I know I 've taken several vacations to Colorado ,
A: and I used to live in Colorado , oh , sometime ago for a couple of years ,
A: and I really enjoyed that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'd , I 'd like that .
B: Uh , I have n't been to Yellowstone for a long , long time
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I would , uh , we 've been talking about going there next summer
B: Uh , I don't know we 'll have to , to ,
A: Yeah .
A: I 've never been up to the Yellowstone area .
A: So ,
B: It 's been a long time .
B: But you know , it seems when your family is , is different places , a lot of trips involved going to visit
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
A: You got that .
B: Oh , I 'm ,
B: we usually go up to Wisconsin at least once a year because this is where my husband and I are both from .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And my mother and his mother live up there feeling lost and alone because we moved down here
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , we 've got one of our , our kids lives out on the east coast
B: and so we have to , you know , go to those .
A: Well , you have , you have a lot of vacation areas you can go to then .
B: Well , I know
B: but I 'm tired of them
A: Right .
B: I want to go someplace different up there .
A: That 's right .
B: Uh , my , my idea I guess of the ideal vacation would be to begin with , uh , money be no object . You know , so just absolutely , you know , first class fly where I want to , rent a car if I want to . Uh , you know , just the , really the nicest hotels and stuff like that and and not worry if somebody says , well , let 's take this little side trip , you know , and not have to sit there and figure out , um , you know , again we , we fit that in there or not .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , that , that 's what I , um , you know , that 's what I would like to do .
B: I have no interest , for example , in taking a cruise .
A: Uh-huh .
B: To me why somebody would want to ride around on a boat for a few days is mind boggling .
A: It would be sort of ,
A: I feel like it would be confining .
B: Yeah .
A: You know I would rather much rather get on a plane and get there and then enjoy myself .
B: Uh-huh
B: Yeah ,
B: I just , uh ,
B: that , that does absolutely nothing for me .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I don't know
B: I can say that I think my , my favorite spots are still to go , to go where there 's mountains and , and a lot of trees and , and wildlife to view
B: and , and , uh , I like that kind of stuff .
B: I could just sit there all day and look at the scenery
A: Yes .
A: I , I agree .
A: I can , I can do that too ,
A: and , uh , you know , I think if I had , if I had the money , I would probably go to Europe every year .
A: Because , you know , I think that they have , they have it all over there in just a few tiny , two , two miles .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , there 's mountains
A: and there 's beaches
A: and it 's all right there .
A: So ,
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , I , I guess I 've never really thought about it that way .
B: Our , uh ,
B: we have a daughter who 's almost thirteen
B: but she 's , uh a very picky eater
A: Uh-huh .
B: and our , our standard excuse for not going someplace like that is , you know , gee , Holly would starve to death if we , you know , we took her into the country
A: Oh .
B: so So , but I , I would like if , you know it was anywhere in the world to go , I guess , even though it 's hot ,
A: Right .
B: I would like to go to Africa .
A: Real excited when I heard this .
A: So far I 've been trying to call all day because I keep getting these subjects like capital punishment
A: so football , I love this .
B: Oh , yes .
A: This is great .
A: Well , we 're from Colorado
A: so we 're Bronco fans
A: And , um , we just moved here two years ago
A: and they went to the Superbowl when we first moved here
A: and they lost again .
A: That was pretty pitiful ,
A: but they seem to be doing pretty good this year .
B: Well , I was from Illinois originally ,
B: and I grew up a Bear fan .
B: And , uh , then we moved here
B: even when we knew we were being transferred here we became Cowboy fans .
A: Oh .
B: And we had some wonderful , wonderful years there under Roger Staubach .
B: And we kind of got spoiled .
A: Yeah .
B: We expected it to continue forever .
B: I think they 're doing pretty well this year though .
A: Well , they have n't , they have n't , have they just lost one game this year ?
B: I think two .
A: Two .
B: I know they lost , yeah , to Washington and Philadelphia .
A: Yeah .
A: But they 're not doing bad .
A: People are pretty surprised that they , I mean they beat the Giants .
B: Yeah ,
B: and was n't that fun .
B: I went to the balloon festival in Plano and carried my little portable radio with me ,
B: and I must say I attracted a lot of attention .
A: I bet
B: People running up saying , oh , what 's the score , what 's the score ?
A: Oh , boy , I bet all the men that got direct down there were just right on it
B: That 's right
B: and that 's exactly what they said , to sound like a my wife dragged me away from the television .
A: Yep .
B: You know , but I was n't ,
B: I had forgotten
B: or I probably would n't have been there .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I am , I 'm a big football fan .
A: I never
A: my father was a football fan my whole life
A: and he used to have the football pool at the office and all this stuff
A: and I just hated it .
A: And I think I was just mad because he spent so much time watching football on Sundays .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , so when I met my husband , he was watching football
A: and I figured out that I could n't see him all weekend .
A: I could n't see him until like Tuesday because MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL , if I did n't , like football .
A: So ,
B: That 's exactly where both of the wives came from I think .
A: Yep .
B: It was , uh , you know ,
B: it 's easier to join them than fight them .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And if you want to see them , you might just as well enjoy football .
A: Yeah .
B: And I used to tease my husband sometimes and say , my gosh did you bet the house or something this week to get so excited about , these games .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I do .
A: I just , I love it .
A: It 's such , I just think it 's such a fun sport .
A: And , uh , I 'm just hoping that the Broncos can get back on their feet .
A: We 're not convinced that we 're going to be Cowboy fans yet .
A: But , uh ,
B: Well , it takes a little brainwashing first .
A: Well , I guess we 'll first have to get to used to the idea that we 're staying here
B: Yeah .
A: That 's even harder .
A: But ,
B: Are you , uh , transit usually ?
B: I mean do you stay not in one place too long ?
A: No ,
A: we 're just ,
A: this is only the second place we 've lived .
A: We 've only been married for five and a half years .
A: And , uh , we have two small children ,
A: and he had a , uh , just got transferred here to E-Systems ,
A: so .
B: Well , it will take you a little while
B: but you 'll probably always have a soft spot in your heart though for for Denver .
A: Oh .
A: Well , I tell you this ,
A: the weather here and there 's no mountains or anything , you know ,
A: and when you go to a football game in Colorado that 's , you know , there 's snow
A: and it 's an adventure
A: And here , yeah you 've just got to drive down to the , to the stadium
B: Oh , I know .
A: and , uh ,
B: Well , if they close it in , see , we 'll have the best of both worlds then as they 're talking about doing .
A: Yes .
B: But , uh , Dan Reeves is a pretty neat guy anyway .
A: Well , he 's from here .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right , you know
B: he was one of ours , one of our boys .
A: That 's what I hear .
B: So we are never , we never cheer against Denver unless they 're playing the Cowboys .
A: Which is rare .
B: Yeah .
A: Which is good .
A: Yeah .
A: But , uh , I ,
A: you know , it 's funny
A: in , in Colorado when the Broncos went to the Superbowl three times in the last , I don't know , five or six years whatever it 's been . Um , they have these songs on the radio .
A: They take popular songs and , and change them to fit , uh , the Broncos and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they had ,
A: I was just thinking about one the other day .
A: Uh , if I saw a picture of John Elway in the , in the cafeteria at school , um ,
A: but they did the Johnny Angel .
A: They did Johnny Elway to that .
B: Johnny Elway .
A: And , and I was trying to get my son to sing that .
A: My husband was just having a fit to sound like her don't have him sing that song
A: But , they , they do a lot of fun things .
A: I think football is , football is kind of a , a sport that I think you kind of , it 's hard not to like it .
A: Because you know there 's just ,
B: Well , there is so much about it to like .
A: It 's exciting .
B: You know it 's so exciting .
A: Yeah .
B: And when the Cowboys won the Superbowl here , of course , they put together some real cute songs ,
B: and we all ran out and bought the records ,
B: and now we feel like they 're kind of a collector 's item .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: they
A: I , I wish I would have bought the tape when I was in , uh , in Colorado .
A: Because , uh , I , I think about that a lot .
A: But , you know , when I first moved here was when they , well , no , I guess it was about a year ago they did this .
A: This interstate seventy-five song . Or whatever it was about Central Expressway and getting it done in nineteen ninety-five and everything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That was kind of a funny song
A: but they sure do ,
A: it seems to me like they really love their Cowboys here .
A: Even when they were losing pitifully , you know , people still support them .
A: We drive by some houses everyday that have big signs ,
A: we love the
A: Are , are we paying too much in taxes ,
A: and are we getting what we pay for ?
A: What 's your opinion ?
B: Well , it 's kind of a broad subject , uh ,
B: I , I think there are some areas where we , where we , uh , pretty well , you know , get our money 's worth ,
B: but I , I also think there are a lot of areas especially in , uh , big government , federal government , uh , where we 're short changed . Uh , lot of money spent for , uh , things that are not used
B: and , uh , I was , I was in the Air Force
B: and I was at , there were , there was equipment at every base I was ever on that was just going to waste .
B: It was just sitting and rusting
B: and , you know , and
A: Okay .
A: I , I tend to agree with you .
A: When it comes to government spending , there are so many studies done that don't mean anything
B: Yeah .
A: but we 'll spend hundreds of thousands , if not millions , of dollars on .
B: Yeah .
A: And it 's nice to know something does n't work or something does n't exist ,
A: but , it could be put to more practical use .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I , I think that , uh , it 's a , a tone of our times that politicians , uh , are into themselves more than they are into , you know , doing something worthwhile for the people they represent , which is really unfortunate .
A: That is true .
A: I agree with you in that area .
A: Uh , I have a tendency to ,
A: I 'm in , from Texas
A: and I read , you know , how our politicians voted each week in the paper .
B: Yeah .
A: And it 's , you know , it 's interesting how the votes vary
A: and what they ran on in platform don't necessarily come true in their voting in the senate or Congress , whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And don't really respond to , uh , people who write them and call them
B: and , uh , you know , unless they 're in the limelight and under pressure
B: So ,
B: yeah ,
B: I think we get short changed on that .
A: Right ,
A: that 's very true .
A: What , what state do you live in ?
B: Texas .
A: Okay .
B: That 's ,
A: What do you think about Robin Hood ?
B: Well I work for school district
B: and , uh , it 's , it has hurt us a lot .
B: Uh , there has to be some way , I think , to equalize education opportunities .
B: But , uh , you know , our , we , we tend to think , I think , especially big government , tends to think that the solution to everything is to throw money at it .
B: And I don't , you know ,
B: that 's just not true .
B: I don't think the , you know , I don't think money is going to take the place of intelligence or , uh , problem solving skills .
B: Uh , I think there are , there are too many things that money ca n't uh , that , that money ca n't buy that , that are important as far as education is concerned .
A: That 's true .
A: What school district do you work for ?
B: Richardson .
A: Okay .
A: I work for Plano .
B: Oh .
B: Great ,
A: So , we 're comparable .
B: Yeah .
A: As a matter of fact , I just paid my Richardson taxes because I live in Richardson and supplemented the Robin Hoods very thoroughly , I think .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think we 've , uh , Yeah , we have got it on the line don't we .
A: Our taxes went up tremendously .
A: Yes .
B: And it 's not going to get any better .
B: you know , I mean , it 's going up and up and up .
B: Uh , I used to live in the Plano school district ,
B: and , uh , there was a , an organization , a taxpayers organization that , uh , finally communicated the message to the , I think to the people in Plano that , you know , we did n't want our taxes raised .
A: Yes ,
A: I remember there was about four , five years ago .
B: Yeah .
A: Yes .
B: But , this , you know , this , uh ,
B: I think living in Richardson , we 're kind of spoiled because I think we get , we come closer to getting our money 's worth as far as the city is concerned , I think than probably any , any city in the country .
A: Yes ,
A: well , did you read in the Dallas paper where they increased the the administrators ' pay by thirty three percent after they laid off all those teachers .
B: Is that incredible ?
B: That 's , that 's the biggest mess I 've ever heard of .
B: You know , how can you , how can you justify raising anybody 's salary if you , you know , if you have to lay people off ?
A: Right .
A: But , you know , I 'm not going to complain because Plano got , we all got a pay raise this year .
B: Yeah .
A: You all got a pay raise this year .
B: Yeah .
A: Is that correct ?
B: Well , yeah , I think the teachers uh , did ,
B: and I don't know about administrators .
B: I , I 'm semiretired
B: and I was , I was an administrator ,
B: so I , you know , I don't get a raise anymore .
B: I just , I , I work part-time and just get , uh , you know ,
A: Okay
B: my pay does n't change .
A: Are you on the early retirement ?
B: Yes .
A: Oh , are you enjoying it ?
B: Yes ,
B: very much .
B: Uh , course , I , I still work two part-time jobs
B: So , it 's not really total retirement .
A: Well , it 's interesting , you know , because when you look at what Richardson has done with the early retirement you ,
A: Jeri ?
B: Yes .
A: We 're supposed to discuss crime in the United States and what can be done with it .
B: That 's a rather , rather broad topic
A: They 're usually pretty broad anyway .
B: Yeah .
A: Where do you live ?
B: Uh , we live in Plano .
A: Okay ,
A: so , that 's a ,
B: Uh , and where you are ?
A: I 'm in Richardson ,
A: so when I heard the topic I was thinking of the thing down at , uh , Maceo High School in Dallas .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Right ,
B: that is so frightening .
A: It is , you know ,
B: Uh , do you have children in school ?
A: No ,
A: mine are already in college now ,
A: so I don't have to ,
B: Yeah .
A: at least when they were in high school , it was beginning but not like the rampages .
B: Well , I have ,
B: my oldest is his first year in high school
B: so we have all this to , to look forward to ,
B: and it is really frightening , uh , to think that you ca n't even send them to school in safety .
B: I mean , certainly , you know , you ca n't just turn them loose in the middle of Dallas ,
B: but , you know , when you ca n't even , send them on their normal activities in safety , it , it 's really frightening .
A: That 's true .
B: And , uh , I really , you know ,
B: they 're coming down on the principal ,
B: but I really don't know what they can do .
B: I mean , it 's just in so much of society with the violence
B: and the kids having access to weapons and drugs
B: and I , I really don't know what , what can be done .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I just , I just don't understand how , of course , in my little world , how guns could be so available .
B: Well I don't either ,
B: but apparently they just really are .
B: Uh I mean , to me , in Plano you would think that would be about , you know , about as innocent as you could get for for being in a , a large area .
B: But , you know , my son comes home and tells me that , you know , he hears kids talk about having guns
B: and uh , someone came to his football practice about two weeks ago with a gun .
A: Oh , my heavens .
B: And , I mean , it just scared me to death
B: and , you know , they called the police
B: and , and nothing happened ,
B: but my goodness you know , it , it could have easily .
A: Well , maybe that 's the answer to crime is getting more prosecution .
B: Maybe so .
A: You know , because I don't ,
A: now I , somehow I feel we 're living in an impartial society as far as people seeing something happen , you know , across the street , or seeing someone get mugged , or unfortunately , raped ,
A: and people don't do anything .
B: Yeah .
A: A woman was raped in Richardson , I read in the paper oh , about a two weeks ago now .
A: And all the neighbors said they heard her yelling for help .
B: Oh , no .
A: But nobody , nobody did anything .
B: I just ca n't imagine that .
A: You know , I mean they heard someone calling for help .
A: Nobody even called the police to say , you know , I hear a strange screaming
B: Right .
A: I 'm afraid , you know , if you ,
A: I don't blame people with today 's society about going out to help themselves .
B: Right ,
B: well , I can see , you know , especially if you heard screams from a house or something , not going over there maybe , because , you know , it could be dangerous ,
B: but certainly I ca n't understand not calling the police .
A: Yeah .
B: I ,
A: I just , you know ,
A: it 's , it 's really frightening that we 're not , we 're trying to live in our own little cocoons
A: and probably one of the best things we could do for crime is to participate ourselves in its prevention .
B: Right .
B: Well I , I think you 're right there .
B: I guess people just kind of keep their noses pointed in their own business ,
B: but I think that 's real dangerous
B: and , uh , I don't know .
B: I try to tell my kids just , just kind of be aware of what 's around them , you know
B: and if you see a situation that looks like it could be trouble , just get out of it or call for help , whichever .
A: Yes .
B: But , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , you know , the call for help is what scares me now because it , it just ,
A: I don't know ,
A: people just don't ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I ca n't say they don't care , because people just have to care about another person .
B: Yeah .
A: But it 's that not getting involved , that impersonal society , I think we live in today .
B: Well , maybe this thing with with the child at school , maybe that will make people think a bit more and , you know , take some steps to , to correct it .
B: I don't know ,
B: it 's , it really is , is frightening .
A: Yeah
B: I , uh ,
A: Let me ask you ,
A: getting back to your son 's football practice because it really sort of astonished me that police are n't doing ,
A: he did n't have a license for the gun , correct ?
B: I don't know .
B: I mean , I don't know the details .
B: This was not a child that was on the team .
B: It was someone that , uh , you know , just kind of showed up at the field .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , it was a , a student age person ,
B: but I 'm not even ,
A: Tell me what you like to do .
B: Well , I , I collect antique tools , uh , for one thing , I well , I 'm sort of in an antique business ,
B: but it 's a little sideline , part time thing .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: wonderful .
B: And , uh , I 'm building a , a log house at a farm that I have in East Texas , which is a hundred miles from here .
A: Oh .
A: Wonderful .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's really neat .
B: And , uh , uh , course I 've been working on it for five years ,
B: but , you know ,
A: Oh , but how wonderful .
A: Are you close to getting it done ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's getting real close to
A: Oh .
B: you know , of course there 's still a lot of work to be done ,
B: and then when you get it completely , you know , the shell finished , uh , you still have a lot of stuff to do inside ,
B: but , uh ,
A: Are you going to move your whole family over there then ?
B: No ,
B: actually , uh , I 'm not even sure ,
B: I may ,
B: I 'll probably always have a place here in Richardson or Dallas
A: Uh-huh ,
A: kind of your getaway place .
B: Yeah ,
B: escape .
B: But it 's beautiful ,
B: it 's , you know , it 's Eastern Hardwood , uh , forest ,
B: there are a lot of pine trees ,
B: but it 's mostly oaks
B: and .
A: Oh , how beautiful ,
A: and it 's pretty flat there ?
B: Well , it 's kind of , hilly ,
B: but , it 's , you know , low hills ,
B: it 's not , uh ,
A: See , I 've only been to Texas once .
A: I have two sisters in Texas now , um , one in Austin , one in Dallas ,
A: and the one in Dallas is the one that got me to doing this
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , I thought Austin was beautiful
B: You ,
A: I liked the hills and the trees ,
B: Yeah ,
B: in
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's really different because that 's kind of the , you know , that 's the chalk hills down there , limestone hills ,
A: Oh , and you 've always , lived in Texas , have you ?
B: Yeah ,
B: except for time in service .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Born and raised Texan , huh .
B: Yeah . At , at which one ?
A: Well , I had never been there ,
A: that 's pretty neat .
A: My sisters both seem to like it pretty well .
A: My brother-in-law works for the University , um , in Dallas .
A: He 's admissions director .
A: Uh . University of Texas in Dallas .
B: Oh , okay
A: Yeah .
B: it 's just north of me here .
A: Yeah ,
A: well that 's , he 's got a job there
A: and this is his first year ,
A: so , it 's been a real interesting thing for them
B: That 's great .
A: But they seem to like it okay .
A: I think they 're too far away from me ,
A: but maybe some day they can get closer ,
B: Well , yeah ,
A: we 'll see .
B: Pretty good trip .
B: So what do you , what kind of hobbies are you in ?
A: Well , I 'm mother of four ,
A: so basically I 'm just , real busy with my kids right now in sports ,
A: and we have a little Halloween talent show tonight ,
A: and , I substitute at the schools part-time .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: Well , I am a travel agent at heart ,
A: and my hobby is just ,
A: I love traveling and , and being involved of that and finding out more , uh ,
A: but , it 's real hard to work in the summers and holidays and weekends when you have four children and a husband ,
A: so I reluctantly gave that career up and am just substituting at the school ,
B: No , kidding .
A: so I 've been librarian all this week , which has been real interesting ,
A: and I 'm enjoying it .
A: I 'm around my kids
B: That 's pretty easy substituting is n't it ?
A: yeah ,
A: it 's great ,
A: it 's great ,
A: and what else do I do ,
A: I do lots of cross stitching when I have time
B: Ooh .
A: and I enter things in our little state fair ,
A: and that 's pretty fun .
B: That 's great .
A: Well , but , actually my hobbies is mostly is my sports . Tennis ,
A: I play tennis .
B: Ooh , I love tennis too
A: Ooh ,
A: do you ?
B: and I ski , ski ,
B: do you ski ?
A: Yes ,
A: we snow ski .
A: We snow ski at Mount Bachelor mostly in Oregon ,
B: Uh , that 's great .
A: have you ever been there ?
B: No , uh ,
A: Wonderful place .
B: I 've skied in Colorado
B: and we usually go to New Mexico because it 's a little cheaper , you know .
A: Ooh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Where in Colorado ?
B: I 've been to Telluride which is on the west side and , uh , Copper ,
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
B: Copper is kind of my favorite up there . Breckenridge and Keystone .
A: Really .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I guess those are the only places I 've skied up there .
A: I would love ,
A: I can hardly wait to get up there .
B: Me , too .
B: You guys , are you guys getting snow ?
A: We ,
A: it is snowing right now .
A: We 're to get one to three inches tonight .
B: Oh , gee ,
B: I heard Aspen got three feet .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: well we 're , we are on the dry side of the mountains .
A: Seattle is only about two and a half hours ,
A: so of course I 'm a real Seahawks fan
B: Yeah .
A: and , um , going over that pass is just a real nightmare .
B: I can imagine , my lord .
A: And , um , so , and we 're on the colder side ,
A: they 're on the rainy side ,
A: we 're on the snowy side
A: and , um , we , we ski .
A: My , my children all ski
B: Oh , super .
A: and we 've , we have been to Whistler in Canada , which is just a marvelous place ,
A: Whistler and Black Home is in Canada ,
A: and then we 've gone to Sun Valley several times ,
A: that 's a , just a great place . But no not in Colorado
A: since I was in college , since I went to school ,
B: What about Utah ?
A: Have n't been there ,
A: I keep hearing these marvelous things about Deer Valley and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: have n't either .
A: um , to don't , Adam , talking to um City ,
B: Always want to go to Canada Canada to Banff or somewhere like that
A: Ooh , yes .
A: And your kids all ski ?
B: Uh , not all of them
A: Uh-huh .
B: My , my kids are all grown .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But my youngest son is a skier .
A: Really ,
A: that 's great .
A: Well , my boys are at the point where they scare their mommy to death .
B: Uh-huh .
A: When they 're skiing they 're fearless ,
A: and they go off ,
A: Okay .
A: When they first said the subject , my mind went kind of blank .
A: I thought , Gee , I have n't taken anything back for a long time .
B: Well , I have n't either , uh ,
B: I , I hate returning things .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , I , I have a friend who , if she likes something , is n't sure what size somebody might need , will buy it in every color and size and , you know , take everything back again
A: Yeah .
B: It 's , you know , it 's a game to her ,
B: but I , I do not like to do that
B: I consider it kind of a , a waste of my time .
B: And so I 'm usually , uh , pretty careful when I shop
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I also , you know , usually have , have checked over things , you know , if it 's like an appliance or something to make sure , uh , it has the features in it that I want .
A: Right .
B: Now we 've had one lately , um , oh , a , uh , a Dustbuster Plus that we bought ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we 've had it for a while ,
B: but all of a sudden it just was n't working ,
B: and it looks like there 's a part missing from it .
B: My husband opened it up and whatever ,
B: and of course we don't have the receipt any more ,
B: so we ca n't take it back
A: Of course ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Uh , but , I think a lot of goods are made not to last real long
A: Right
B: uh ,
A: right ,
A: just to get you by five years
A: and then you 'll throw it away rather than have it fixed
B: Yeah .
A: We 're , we 're a wasteful society , for sure .
B: Well , that 's true ,
B: and lot of times though , it is , it costs so much to get something fixed that you almost are just as well off buying another one you know , if it 's ,
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: And you usually get what you pay for .
A: We bought some walkie-talkies a couple of years ago for Christmas ,
A: and they were like ten dollars ,
A: and we expected them to work nice for the little kids ,
A: and they did n't work worth anything
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we took those back ,
A: and that 's about that
A: all that were taken back in ages .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I think a lot of times , if you get a brand name uh , you know , if it 's a , a good brand ,
A: Yeah .
B: I , you , I think there 's , there can be a lemon in anything but , uh , I think more often than not ,
A: Right .
B: you , you pretty well know what you 're getting ahead of time ,
B: and , uh you know , if you buy a good one , you should n't have any , you know , too much of a problem with it ,
A: Right .
B: I mean , we , we had a car once that we tried to have declared a lemon under the lemon law which is extremely difficult to do .
A: Oh , really .
A: It 's hard .
B: We never could get it declared a lemon ,
B: and the car would go
B: and , without any warning whatsoever , you could be going down the freeway at sixty
B: and it would stop
A: Oh , wow .
B: and I ,
B: there was just ,
B: you know , and , oh , we went round and round with the manufacturer and , and everything ,
B: and they got it finally semifixed ,
B: but it was such a hassle
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and it just pertained to that
B: yeah ,
B: yeah
B: it , it really is , uh ,
B: but , gee , this is , of all the topics I have had , I 'm doing this thing , this is kind of the strangest one .
A: I , at first I thought of food , you know , because that 's what , mainly what I buy ,
A: it seems like ,
A: and , uh , you know , I still don't have any , anything to do there ,
A: but , But I , I think , too , a lot of people don't buy their warranties either because they know that when it 's that old they 're going to buy a new one ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so .
B: Well , I think that 's true ,
B: and I , uh , now we generally don't buy a warranty , because you think , you know , at least for the first couple of years , nothing should go wrong with it .
A: Yeah ,
A: my husband is really good at fixing things , too ,
A: so he usually , be able to fix anything that 's minor ,
A: and and that has saved us thousands of dollars , you know , from to mechanic to anything like that
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , but , it was interesting to ,
A: I don't know if they 're making them better or not ,
A: I , it 's hard to say .
A: Some , I think they more of their parts plastic , which , you know , makes things break easier ,
A: but I think the technology is better .
B: I think technology is better ,
B: I 'm , I 'm not sure .
B: I think you 've got a good point with the plastic and that .
A: About quality .
B: I don't think necessarily that , things are being made better uh , you know ,
A: Right .
B: I , I ,
B: everything is so automated , uh ,
B: and things can be made without , I think a human hand ever touching it , you know an awful lot of things ,
A: Yeah ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I think that certainly makes a difference from , back from the time when somebody handcrafted something and , you know , had some pride in it .
A: Right .
A: Well , people are n't willing to pay those prices very often , so , you know , for a handcrafted something ,
A: so
B: Well , yeah ,
B: that 's that 's true .
A: so .
A: So , if we get what we what we deserve
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I , I do , uh , you know , craft work and sell stuff at shows
B: and that , and uh , uh , you know , it 's , it 's , it 's a real eye-opener as far as , you know , why people charge what they do to , you know .
A: Well , you keep up with current events ?
B: Um , somewhat .
B: Yeah ,
B: somewhat
A: Not ,
B: not as well as I would like to probably
A: Is that right ?
B: but that 's the way it goes .
A: Yeah ,
A: where , whereabouts in Pennsylvania .
B: What ?
A: Where in Pennsylvania ?
B: Um , State College ,
B: I go to Penn State .
A: Oh , do you ,
A: well , great .
B: Yep .
A: How 's , uh ,
A: well no ,
A: we 're not supposed to talk about that .
A: We 're supposed to talk about current events .
B: Right ,
B: exactly , uh .
A: Well , I 'm a current event junkie .
A: So I , I watch , I try to watch the news ,
A: and I read the newspaper ,
A: and I like to read TIME magazine and PEOPLE magazine to keep up with what 's going on in the world .
B: I see .
B: Well , what particularly are you interested in ?
A: Well , I just , pretty , uh , little , you know , about everything .
A: And , not and then again not everything ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but you know , I like to know pretty well what 's happening .
A: Political things don't interest me a great deal , except I do like to stay informed enough to , feel like I halfway vote intelligently , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , other than that , uh , I just , you know ,
A: just the events that happen around the world interest me . Stay in touch with it and know , feel like I know what 's going on .
B: Yeah .
A: Now I have to say all three of my children , none of them are too interested in current events .
B: I see .
A: But I always have been
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I stay up with it .
A: But , uh , how do you , how do you , uh , stay aware of most of the current events . Uh , newspaper ? T V news , or what ?
B: Um uh , well , some of both .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I read , I read the newspapers sometimes
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I watch C N N , that sort of thing occasionally
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good .
B: and I read magazines , and such .
A: Well , you stay up with it pretty well , then .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I mean , not , not that badly anyway ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I am , I am interested in what 's going on ,
B: and I 'm particularly interested in certain things of course , like all the news about Haiti recently because I 've been down there
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yes ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Oh , you 've been there
B: and , yeah .
A: well , you would be interested in it then .
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
A: Yeah , uh ,
A: I follow it , you know ,
A: I don't just read everything about it ,
A: but I 'm always aware of what 's going on like that
B: Yep ,
A: and , uh , because it is , it 's interesting
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I don't know ,
A: I feel sorry for those people down there ,
A: they 've just been so terribly mistreated for so many , many years , you know . I mean , through Papa Doc ,
B: That 's true .
B: They 've never really had a good leader ,
A: I mean he was a terrible tyrant
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I think it 's been better since he died ,
A: but it 's still been bad
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh , even that priest that was in control there for a while that they overthrew , uh ,
A: I 've read some things about him that he was , he was n't too good himself .
B: Oh , yeah ?
A: Yeah ,
A: he was pretty , pretty much a ,
A: he did n't mind having people bumped off for certain things , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , It 's , one of the reasons the U S was n't so , you know , did n't do more than they did at the time because they were n't all that excited about him , although he 's probably better than a lot of them ,
B: I see .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , but then again , who , you know ,
A: those people are so used to it
A: I guess it 's the only thing that works .
B: Yeah ,
B: so what do you think about the quality of news coverage in America ?
A: I think it 's pretty darned good ,
A: I think we 're lucky to have as good a coverage as we have
B: Uh-huh .
A: I really do .
A: Now , I , they sometimes they jump on it and , and , and go a little to the extreme ,
A: the media does ,
A: but , uh , but , that 's kind of understandable , because , you know , of course if you watch it more , more than once a day , I mean , it 's the same thing over and over and over and over ,
A: and I listen to the radio
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: so I , you hear so much ,
A: you get a little tired of it ,
A: but then again , so many people you got to understand only catch it once a day , maybe
B: Yep .
A: but I think the quality of our , uh , our news is just , uh , I don't believe it could be better
B: Uh-huh .
A: I really don't .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , you know , I think it probably could be , it always could be better ,
B: but I , would agree that it 's pretty good .
A: I don't think so .
A: I don't think our news could be better .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I mean , I mean , what else could they do to make it better .
B: Um .
A: I don't see anything that they could do .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I think that , um ,
B: I don't know .
A: Well , you always want to think everything can be improved upon
B: The , um ,
B: Right .
A: I understand what you 're saying ,
B: Right ,
B: I think that ,
A: But by trial and error over the years , I think they got it about as good as they 're going to get it .
B: Well , that may be so ,
B: yeah .
A: Uh nothing is perfect .
B: I think that I 'm not always satisfied with how dig they deep into the how deep they dig into things and such .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , that 's true ,
A: I understand what you 're saying ,
A: and then again , I understand why they ca n't dig too much deeper ,
A: that 's why we have C N N .
B: Right .
A: C N N has the time , since that 's all they do is news to dig deeper .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: Uh , well , I , I guess it 's a subject I have n't thought too much about .
A: Uh , I don't know if there 's so much wrong with the public schools , uh , as much as , we 're expecting too much out of them .
B: Uh , that might be a lot to do with it .
B: I know a lot of it here in my state ,
B: I 'm from Mississippi ,
B: I 'm not sure where you 're from .
A: Minnesota , Wisconsin .
B: Minnesota ,
B: okay .
B: Well a lot of it in Mississippi here has got to do with funding .
A: Yeah .
B: Problems with our educational system , a lot of it 's due to money .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they 're trying to spend money where we don't have it
B: and there 's a lot of things we need that we just ca n't afford .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , it 's , it is getting very expensive to run schools ,
A: so .
B: Well it is .
A: They 've got computers now that you got to train on .
A: There 's just so much , uh , more and less money to do it with .
B: Right .
B: That 's true .
B: And a lot of it , lot of it has to do with , uh , salaries too , speaking of money .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: Cause if you ca n't pay the right people , you know , they 're not to be able to do , they 're not , not going to get the people that can do a good job .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I , I , I guess that in , uh ,
A: talking on a lot of the things as far as the discipline in the schools , I , I think they 're expecting schools to discipline the kids
A: and , uh , I think it should go right back to the parents . If you don't train your kids right then
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: I feel the same way .
B: A lot has to do with how the kids were raised at home .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: And then when the kids get to school , they try to take away a lot of things that they can do to discipline the kids .
B: I mean , they 've so severely limited
B: what disciplinary action you can do .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I , I know when I , uh , was going to school it was n't uncommon for a teacher to strike a student that was misbehaving .
B: Exactly .
B: Right .
A: I mean they do that now
A: and they could probably lose their job
B: Lose their job and big lawsuit and all that .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
B: I feel that 's got a lot to do with it .
B: People are n't as afraid of misbehaving as they used to be .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: Yeah
A: It seems that 'd be a subject that I , I don't have much to say on
B: Really .
B: We , we 've talked some about it in my state because we 've had a lot of , uh ,
B: our governor that just got thrown out of office was trying to be real big on education
B: but he was n't .
A: Yeah .
B: And a lot of his problems had to do with money mostly .
B: I know a lot , a lot of ,
B: if you have more money it 's just logical that you can provide a better school system .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , unfortunately , there 's not many places to get that money .
A: Yeah
B: Then if you don't have qualified teachers in the different ,
B: I know one of my physics professors at college has addressed this .
B: That most of the teachers at the elementary and high school level are n't scientists ,
B: they 're teachers .
B: And they may not know a lot about what they 're teaching .
B: Where they may have just had a teaching major and then had some social studies courses
B: and they 're trying to teach social studies .
B: And they don't know a lot about that
A: Right .
B: Where maybe a physics professor ,
B: he , my professor was a physics professor
B: and he said a lot of teachers teaching physics today have no background of physics at the high school level .
B: So therefore , they 're teaching from a teacher 's point of view and not from a physicist point of view .
B: And that causes a lot of trouble .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: I don't know ,
A: maybe they should sit back and , and kind of , uh , decide on where the money 's best spent .
A: I know in a lot of cases , uh , different districts like to have nice fancy schools .
B: Right .
A: And maybe they should be a little more , uh , uh , concerned with paying the right people to teach and , and be , uh , satisfied with maybe a little older school .
B: Exactly .
B: Because , I mean , here in the town I went to high school ,
B: one of the , there were four high schools in my county , one of the high schools was blown away by a tornado .
B: So when they rebuilt that school , they had a , a top of the line , high tech school there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the other schools were built back in maybe the fifties or early sixties
B: and then when , uh , the evaluation committees came through , they praised the school that had been rebuilt while they were down grading all these other ones . Telling them what they needed to do to fix up this building
B: and this and this and this and so it kind of would make you think that we 'd all be better off if all the schools were blown away by tornadoes and we had to rebuild them .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Well I , I know , uh , where I came from . We did n't have a very , uh , rich community
A: and , uh , high school that I went to was very old
A: and , uh , as far as I know , it 's still there .
A: They 've expanded on it
A: but they 've never built a new one
A: and it 's probably fifty , sixty years old or , or better
A: and I don't foresee them , uh , building a new one for a long time because they ca n't afford it .
B: Right .
B: Exactly
A: Okay ,
A: uh , so what do you think about the school system ?
B: Well , I think they 're , they 're having a lot of trouble right now .
B: I know my son goes to a private school ,
B: but , uh , I think they 're , big city public schools by definition are having a , a tough time right now just from , uh , probably from budget cuts and , and everything else going on .
A: Uh , why did you choose a private school ?
B: Well , I had one that was needed to be able to be moved along at a , at a pace a little faster than he was going to be able to be moved in public school ,
B: so he 's , he has been going to private since kindergarten
A: Public school .
A: Oh , has he ?
B: So ,
A: Then how does he like it ?
B: Oh , he 's loved it .
B: He is a senior in high school this year
B: so he 's ,
A: So he 's been there all the time .
B: Yeah ,
B: he 's done it the whole twelve and , uh , so many years
B: and it 's been , uh , it 's been really good for him .
A: How big of a school is it ?
B: Uh , overall on campus about twelve hundred , but in the upper school , upper four grades , uh , about four hundred and something
B: so it 's maybe a hundred per grade .
A: A hundred per grade , that 's a good size .
B: Yeah ,
B: it really is .
A: Kind of gives them the , you know ,
A: I get a little leery of the real small ones that they don't get much interaction with kids
A: but , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that was , we were kind of looking for one that would be a mixture
B: and he 's done , he 's done really well ,
A: So they don't ,
A: That 's good .
B: and just , he was just ahead at an early age
B: and I did n't feel like , uh , in , what was available , particularly in the first three grades
A: Uh-huh .
B: and even in the fourth grade where they started what they called reach was still a pull out one day program .
A: Huh .
B: And I just did n't think that was going get it .
B: I thought he needed to be exposed to a situation where he could push ahead , uh , every day . But yet still be with his peers age wise .
A: Right .
A: Still enjoy the ,
A: Right .
A: Uh , one thing I think I 've noticed is , uh , my oldest is in kindergarten ,
A: so I 'm in a little different ballgame .
B: You 're just getting started .
A: I 'm just , starting her ,
A: but , uh , seems to me that , uh , kids these days , uh , can really get away with murder
A: and the teachers don't have as much , are n't respected as much
A: and , uh , they have to be so careful of the things they do and say .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know .
B: That 's a big problem .
A: And , uh , makes me a little nervous that , uh , students don't seem to show that respect
A: and ,
B: We would n't have thought of crossing a teacher when we were in school .
A: No !
A: Heavens ,
A: no .
B: Would n't have thought of it
B: and and they 'll stand there now with them toe to toe
A: No ,
A: you would n't .
B: and ,
A: And , uh , the things they can say and do to a teacher and they do from what I understand , uh ,
A: I think that 's wrong .
A: I think we need to get back to the , show some respect
A: and , course , I guess the teacher used to warrant that
A: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: but a lot of times it 's not being taught in the home anymore like it used to be , basic respect for for elders and adults and particularly in , in responsible positions have not , uh , I don't think have , had that basic upbringing in a lot of cases
A: Right .
A: For other people
A: and ,
B: and so then you wind up with little brats on your hands .
A: Well , how do you think that that 's happened ?
A: You think our society 's just , uh , stopped talking out ,
A: or this , uh generation 's just kind of changed a little bit , uh ,
B: I guess , I ,
B: Well , the world changes ,
B: so I mean , obviously , kids are not the same now as they used to be .
A: Right .
B: I mean they 're exposed to a whole lot more things .
B: They have a whole lot more , uh , variety of things they they 're , that they see and do at an earlier age ,
B: so life is not maybe as simple as it was at one time ,
B: but , but still , I think it goes back to a commitment by the parents to , to teach , uh , basic values and basic , uh , respectful of , uh , of authority .
A: Right .
B: And I just don't think that this does n't always get emphasized anymore , uh ,
A: That just is n't coming through is it .
A: No .
A: I mean , I remember , uh , well , it was a big thing when they let girls wear Levi 's .
A: We used to have to wear dresses
B: Yeah ,
B: had to wear dresses , did n't you ?
A: and then you had to , go to dresses ,
A: they had to be a pantsuit
A: and it was polyester
A: and it had to be matching
A: and ,
B: And when it was skirts , it was like , get down on the floor
B: and we hold the ruler up here
A: Yes .
B: and it 's no more than so many inches above the knee
A: Exactly .
A: Yes .
B: Because it was mini skirt time back there at one time .
A: Yes ,
A: so it 's really changed .
A: It 's , uh , really kind of gone the rounds ,
A: so I think that maybe that 's effected it to some degree .
A: They say you kind of act how you 're dressed a little bit ,
A: so I ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that probably does have , have something to do with it ,
B: and it 's also ,
A: Do , uh , does this school your son goes to , do they , uh , require to wear a uniform
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: they do not do uniforms , although one , where he was between like second and eighth grade did .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: there are quite a few of your
B: Okay
A: Yeah .
B: Well , considering you moved here from California , I guess , the rain for the past few weeks has been different than what you have down there .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have , uh , in California ,
A: I 'm in I lived in central California .
A: We have rain couple times a year
A: and other than that , you know , it would be maybe October and then in the spring
A: and then other than that there would n't be any rain . So ,
B: Especially the last few years .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: It 's kind of , it 's kind of been a drought out there has n't it , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: there has .
A: So here , I know that , uh , last year there was some ice storms while I was out of the state
A: and I 'm glad to see there have n't been any this year .
B: Yet
A: Yeah ,
A: yet
A: Still could come ,
A: huh .
B: Generally if we 're going to get them , it 's not going to happen , uh , prior to January one .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You may get a cold snap or two or some rain or something like we 've been getting in December ,
B: but usually the bitterest weather , if we 're going to have any , comes in January and February .
A: Yeah .
A: Um .
B: Then by March things are getting warm again ,
B: so we really don't have , as long a cold season , I guess as people up north .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
A: it 's so hard to predict here .
B: It 's been eighty degrees on Christmas day here before .
A: Yeah .
B: Lots of times .
A: Well , today it 's not bad out there .
B: No ,
B: it 's nice .
B: I just came in from outside
A: Uh-huh
B: and it 's , it 's really pretty .
B: It 's kind of nice to have it dry all the ground out before it rains again .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm a , I 'm a scoutmaster
B: and so I wind up going out camping with , uh , a bunch of boys at one time
B: and so , it 's better for us if it has n't been this totally wet before we go
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: So you do that even in January , huh ?
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: we camp year round .
A: Yeah , oh ,
A: that 's interesting .
B: But , uh , It 's , uh , it 's definitely different .
A: Uh-huh
B: And then , I guess you 've been through a couple of summers here , too , right ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I have
A: and they 're not too pleasant
A: It gets so humid .
A: To me it 's humid here .
A: People that I know that come from , uh , like Georgia or North Carolina , Yeah , they say , it 's ,
B: Oh , it is .
B: It 's not as humid . As Houston , say , or Atlanta ,
B: but it , But more humid than Arizona
A: Yeah .
A: But I find it ,
B: and California for the most part .
A: Right .
B: Were you northern California ?
A: I was central California .
B: Central .
A: Central valley .
A: It 's very dry there .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , it 's pretty hot in the summer .
A: It 's in the usually , you know ,
A: for a good three , four weeks we have over a hundred degrees .
B: But it 's a drier ,
A: But it 's a dry heat , yeah .
B: Hundred when you have a hundred here , everybody 's dying
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I know . Well , I lived in Africa for a couple years in Cameroon
B: Oh .
A: and that 's a tropical climate
A: and it really feels similar to this during the summer .
B: What types of , What type , what type of business takes you to those climates
B: or was that just vacation or something ?
A: No ,
A: I was , uh , working with , uh , I still work with Wycliff Bible Translators .
B: Oh .
A: It 's an organization where we are looking to translate the BIBLE into languages of the world that are n't yet written .
B: Not so much still trying to translate old texts as just trying to translate modern versions into other languages .
A: Right ,
A: languages that don't have anything written yet .
A: So this is like the first thing that 's written down
A: or you know , first an alphabet is developed
B: Oh .
A: and then , uh ,
B: That 's interesting .
A: So ,
B: You don't think about that as a career , a normal career , uh , when you 're thinking of things that people might be doing .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it 's based here ,
A: uh , the international headquarters for Wycliff Bible Translators is right here in , in Dallas .
B: So you 're , you 're with the home office now
A: Yeah ,
A: right now I am .
A: That 's what brought me here ,
A: yeah .
B: Well , the , uh , I think , uh , all in all there are a lot worse climates than Dallas , uh ,
B: the weather you know , does change fast
A: Yeah .
B: and things do happen severely a few times a year ,
B: but there 's an awful lot of good weather , too , in between .
A: Yeah
A: I agree ,
A: I agree .
A: I , I thought the fall was really nice .
B: Yeah ,
B: and usually a lot of the spring months are really nice , too . After the last freeze
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and when it begins to be in the sixties and seventies most of the time , uh , I like that . Particularly if I 'm going to be outdoors and doing , uh , outdoor activity , hiking and things .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's nicer .
A: Yeah ,
A: you probably do a lot of that with scout scouting .
B: Yeah ,
B: I do quite a bit of that
A: Uh-huh .
B: Think we 're going in just a couple of weeks out to the , east Texas ,
B: and it is a little more humid out there than it is here ,
B: so I guess we 'll ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: the only thing you have to watch out in this part of the country is during the change type seasons is the really severe storms that occasionally come through out here on the plains .
A: Uh-huh .
B: There 's not much between us and the North Pole
A: Yeah .
B: And then when you get one of those tornado type systems through or severe hail or thunderstorms
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then ,
A: Okay .
A: Uh , do you live in a home ?
B: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We , we , it 's a house we bought , uh , about two and a half years ago now .
A: Oh , did you ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: First house .
A: We 've lived in ours for about six years .
A: We had it built , actually .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , uh , it 's our first home , too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: So what do you think of , of owning a home as opposed to , to renting somebody else 's ?
A: Um , well before we built our home we were managing some apartments that we were living in ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , that was quite an experience
A: I , I much prefer having my own home and , and , uh , just the space and , and more privacy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Do you have , is it a fairly large house ?
A: Um , it 's , uh , uh , it 's like twenty-four fifty square feet .
B: Oh , that 's pretty good size .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's a two story .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: How about yours ?
B: It 's tiny .
A: Is it small ?
B: It 's not much bigger .
B: Actually we had an apartment , two bedroom apartment that was about as big as this house is .
B: So .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , uh , it 's only like eleven hundred square feet .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Do you , do you have children ?
B: Just one .
A: Just one .
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: But , it , it , uh , all the rooms are small , I mean ,
B: but it ends up giving us three bedrooms , which we wanted . And , uh . Use an extra one for an office which is handy .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'd rather have , have more rooms and less space in each one I guess . Rather have lots of rooms and lots of space ,
B: but , uh , that ends up costing me .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Well , like , um , how does it compare to the ones in your neighborhood ?
B: Well , they 're , it 's pretty typical , I mean , it 's a very , very middle class neighborhood .
B: Uh , lots of , lots of young couples with , you know , oh ,
B: I 'm sure that virtually everybody in the neighborhood , that 's their first homes
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: and , uh , lots of kids and stuff ,
B: and , so it , it fits well , in the neighborhood .
B: It 's , it 's certainly not a real upscale neighborhood ,
B: but on the other hand , it 's clean and kind of suburban little bit more than I want .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Is , is yours also pretty much in conformance with the neighborhood
A: Uh .
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it , it , it does , it , it seems about , oh , probably average . Um .
B: or is it ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: But our neighborhood has a , just a wide variety of , of , um , people ,
A: and , you know , there 's older people here , and , and , um , people that are our , our age ,
A: we 're in our thirties .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , there 's a lot of kids , a lot of kids .
A: People across the street have eight .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: wow , eight kids ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , my gosh .
A: Yeah ,
A: their home just burned down matter of fact , and , um , last summer ,
B: Ooh .
A: and they 're just rebuilding
A: and , um , their house is going to be really big
A: It 's .
B: I 'm sure , with eight ,
B: gosh .
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're building a lot bigger .
A: He 's , uh , um , uh , oh , not an obstetrician , an , an orthopedic surgeon .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , so since the house did burn , they 're , they 're going ,
A: it 's quite different than it was before ,
A: and it 's it 's a lot bigger .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: And , um , but ours is about ,
A: it 's , you know , it 's a nice home ,
A: it 's definitely not one of the , the smaller ones ,
A: and , um , it 's not the biggest either .
A: But .
B: Yeah ,
B: new ones , I mean , they , they tend to , to be real tiny , but that uh , especially in newer neighborhoods ,
B: my , my brother just built a new house .
B: He lives in Wichita , Kansas ,
B: and the , um , the neighborhood actually fought him on it ,
B: because he , he was , um , the house was going to cost less to build than any other house in the neighborhood .
A: Oh .
B: Now , that 's because he was , he 's doing a lot of it himself and , you know , for example , landscaping and , and lots of the other stuff ,
A: Yeah .
B: and his house actually ended up being nicer than lots in the neighborhood ,
B: but but they were , they were pretty touchy on it .
A: Yeah .
A: You .
B: He was a little surprised .
A: You know , that 's interesting
A: you say that , because we do have , we have those architectural codes here
B: Uh-huh .
A: and when we , um , put out house in , um , they wanted us to have ,
A: there was one ,
A: we have part siding on , on the two story part and then on the back ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , they , there was one side where our chimney was ,
A: and just the chimney was going to be brick ,
A: and they wanted us to have more brick ,
A: so we ended up having to go halfway up
B: Uh-huh .
A: which , it does look nicer ,
A: and , you know , we would have like to have had all brick ,
A: but , of course at that point we could n't afford it ,
A: and , but , it 's funny that you 'd say that , because there were homes in here that did n't have any brick at all .
B: Right .
A: So it 's kind of like , they were .
B: Kind of depends on when they get in , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: and , I , and so it was kind of like it 's they ,
A: ours is the last street that they built on .
A: So the houses actually on our street are a little bit , they 're kind of gone a little bit nicer .
B: Oh , they have ,
B: it 's gotten ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , just they , you know ,
B: Yeah ,
B: oh .
A: it 's like the second phase
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and so they 've kind of changed the , the codes a little bit ,
A: and so that 's kind of why , I guess , they stuck us with more brick when there were other homes that did n't have any .
B: Um .
B: Well , see , my sister kind of got in the opposite end of that , because they , they moved into a neighborhood and bought a , a real nice stone house down in South Austin .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: And , uh , and , the , what the builder apparently plans to do , is they , they do phase one ,
B: and they kind of give it a very upscale and very tightly controlled , uh , codes and , and , and stuff ,
B: and then they come back in ,
B: and , and then they sell ,
A: I , uh , spent four years as a university professor .
B: Oh really ?
A: And ,
A: Yeah .
B: I , I spent three years ,
B: I 'm teaching in public schools and elementary school .
A: Oh , do you really ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's great .
B: I taught in Utah ,
B: and , uh , Did you teach in California ?
A: No kidding .
A: I did .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I did , uh ,
B: You sound pretty young for a university professor
A: Well , I was pretty young .
A: I was , uh ,
A: I had never intended to do it
A: and I was , uh , uh , given the opportunity after I 'd started a management consulting firm to teach in , in , uh , uh , one of the business schools in the California State University system .
B: Uh-huh .
A: At any rate , uh , the topic is fascinating because one of the things I 've done for the past few years is , uh , research the problem from the point of view of , uh , uh , what appears to be working best and how you can explain it theoretically .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You may be familiar with cooperative learning .
A: Have you ever ,
B: Well you can , you can tell me a little bit more about it because I don't think we did that in Utah .
A: Well , the cooperative learning is a technique that was tried initially to integrate the public schools .
A: And , uh , what , what it involves , basically , is the use of peer groups
A: and the , uh , teacher becomes a , uh , a sort of a consultant , resource person to the cooperative learning , uh , to the learning cooperatives , I guess they 're called .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And there are , uh , some fairly sophisticated approaches that are used in the high schools with point systems and things like that so that people , uh , gain a competence with respect to the material .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I think that the combination of , uh , technology and techniques like that together with marketplace forces will bring about a revolution in the way we learn .
A: Uh , I think there is a direct threat to vested interest in the public school system , uh , that will stand in the way of that progress being a little faster .
A: Uh , school systems are , in too many states , dominated by administrators
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: and , uh , both teachers and parents , uh , complain about the , uh , uh , the cost and ineffectiveness that results .
A: So my feeling is that , uh , the , the problem is , is , uh , significant .
A: There are plenty of good people , uh , available to , uh , offer people educational experience ,
A: but that we just have to reallocate and reorganize the resources to do it
A: and , uh , I think certain techniques and technologies will influence all of that as well as research , uh , uh , of the sort that people like me do looking at theories of behavior and how they can be used to improve performance , particularly , uh , accelerate the , the pace of learning .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , my feeling is that , uh , those kinds of things will solve the problem eventually .
A: I don't know what form it will ultimately take .
A: Uh , uh , but , I think that the future is pretty bright because people recognize that we 're paying an enormous price for , uh , inferior quality when the people involved really are n't inferior ,
A: so it must be the way we 're managing the process that , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I see what year saying ,
B: yeah ,
B: I totally agree .
A: I , I don't , I don't think it 's , it 's a matter of , of , uh , talented people to do it , both as , quote , unquote students and as teachers ,
A: but clearly what 's happened in this country is the school system 's been asked to assume a great many responsibilities in the past thirty years that were n't existent , uh ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: you must see kids with real significant problems , uh , in some cases .
A: Uh , course , I always see the ,
A: I don't know how hard , how hard is it , uh , in the public school system in Iowa City ?
A: Is it , is it , uh , deteriorated a lot .
A: Do the people say ,
A: are they pretty happy with it ,
A: or ,
B: Well , I , I have n't taught in Iowa ,
B: but I 've taught in Utah ,
B: and , uh , people there were saying that the way that the schools were going , a lot of people were going away and going to private schools , or else going to home , where they taught their kids at home . Or , you know , anything but the public schools and the ones that did have , you know , the kids ,
A: Right .
A: Even in Utah .
B: Yeah
B: well , Well , uh , maybe it was the area I was in ,
A: Well , Utah 's a place where you would n't think that problem would be very severe .
B: but a lot of schools had a lot of transient , uh , families and a lot of families who were on the poorer side
B: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: you , so , you saw a fair number of troubled kids .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean , like you said , how they were , the schools are doing more things for the kids , they thought , than they were thirty years ago .
B: I mean , they were , the school I was teaching at , the , the year I left , they were considering providing hot lunch for or hot breakfast for the kids .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: As well as hot lunch
B: and ,
B: Well , as far as I 'm concerned and it 's probably apt that your call 's at this time because we just got through watching , uh , REASONABLE DOUBTS . Which had a , you know , capital case in it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I personally have , uh ,
B: my own feelings about , uh , capital punishment is I think it should be mandatory upon a third conviction felony .
A: I do , too .
B: Mandatory , I mean , summary execution , on the steps , that day .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: well , I think , you know , I 'm , I 'm in that same ,
A: I think if it 's , uh , if it 's a if it 's a convicted , uh , felon on parole uh , and he goes out and , and commits another crime or kills somebody , I , you know , I , I feel the same way ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't think , I think that person is , is beyond , uh , rehabilitation
A: and , and he should be taken out
B: Well , I , I also firmly believe that no one is beyond reclamation .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , I do know that some people , almost all people usually die before that point .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They just get too old .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , as far as capital punishment , on , on it 's own merits , I have the trouble with the way it 's applied .
B: I think it should be applied , on a little bit more fair manner .
B: Uh , and I 've , I 've said this very often
B: and I believe it to be the , a very true axiom ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: Kill you . They will kill you .
A: Yeah .
B: And if you 're black and you kill a black guy , you know , it 's , you know , two hundred hours of community service .
A: Yeah ,
A: you don't hear , you don't hear too much about , of those cases .
B: Well , it 's a social disease that we have called one upsmanship , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: We 're the majority ,
B: so we can do whatever the hell we want to do .
A: That 's right .
B: And you 're the minority
B: and you 're stuck with it .
A: Huh .
B: But , uh , you know , we had this in the Vietnam war , you know ,
B: we had you know ,
B: population of blacks among military people in Vietnam was about eighty percent .
A: Right .
B: But the population of blacks in the military was about twenty-two percent .
A: Huh .
B: The handwriting 's on the wall there , is n't it ?
A: Yep ,
A: it sure is .
B: You know , but that 's another issue altogether .
A: Yeah
A: it 's ,
B: As far as capital punishment , I think that , uh , ten years on death row is cruel and unusual punishment .
B: I think the guy should have ninety days
B: and if he ca n't produce evidence not argument , but evidence ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: See , the only thing I don't , you know , I don't understand , I guess I , I don't understand our judicial system , uh , as it is right now
A: because I , you know , if somebody has been convicted and has been sentenced to be put to death , how is it that they can appeal and appeal and appeal and get stays of execution ?
A: I mean , how , you know , is there ,
B: Well ,
B: that goes back to when , uh , America was a , a colony of England .
A: Uh-huh .
B: In England , you went to court , you were assumed guilty until proven innocent and once they found you guilty , you know , judge said , he 's guilty , kill him .
B: Well , there were some people that , uh , that had a problem with that . Because they found out later on that , jeez , you know , a guy will lie rather than get killed .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: And he 'll say , you know , hey , that guy did it , you know , not me .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , or he 'll have somebody lie for him .
B: You know , people lie ,
B: it 's a strange thing ,
A: Yeah .
B: but they do that ,
B: and to prevent that kind of misuse of power , they wrote into the Constitution a protection against judicial mishap .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh .
B: And the judicial mishap in this event would be , hey , you got the wrong guy .
B: Look at that guy , uh , at E Systems .
A: Yep .
B: They were they convicted him of a robbery that he could not physically have been able to commit .
A: Yeah .
B: He was too far away when it happened .
B: He had witnesses that were , you know , they were n't dope dealers , they were n't drug fiends , they were employees of a , an establishment that had a very high level of security sense , too . And these were really responsible people .
A: Huh .
B: You know , and they convicted this guy because somebody says , well , he looks like the right guy .
B: They all look the same to me , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: Big lips , flat nose , yep , that was him .
A: Yep .
A: What do you think about , uh , uh , convicted , uh ,
B: Well , this is an unusual topic .
B: What do you think about it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I , at first I ,
A: it took eight times to find you
A: so I told my husband , uh , you know ,
A: what should I say
A: and then he reminded me ,
A: but , uh , uh , in his family , uh , what they usually do , on his dad 's side , his mom or , uh , the aunts will send out little postcards , like , two or three weeks before reminding everyone where the , the , where to meet and , you know , just , to bring anything ,
A: and so they just notify everyone by mail ,
A: and then they just meet at , like , a park or something to have like a , a short , uh , or a small , uh , dinner type thing .
B: Well , that sounds great , Ellen .
B: How far away do they come from ?
A: Uh , they come from , well , they all meet in Portland
A: and they come as far as , oh , Seattle
A: and , and sometimes we 've gone
A: and we were we were living in Utah at the time .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And , uh , the , his , his dad 's family is all around the area
A: and his mom 's side of the family , they all , uh , have their family reunions in southern Utah
A: and people would come from Seattle to there and , uh , let 's see , Nevada and in that area , Washington and Nevada to southern Utah
A: and they would , uh , assign a different person , each time they had a reunion they 'd assign a different person to be in charge of notifying everybody .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: that makes sense .
B: Nobody 's out of a lot of trouble more than once .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
A: and the people who are down there , like , they 'll assign one person in the Utah area , one person in the Washington area
A: and that person can call , you know , beforehand and just make sure everyone knows , too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then they just sort of do like a little program or , you know , something like that so that everyone 's sort of involved .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's interesting .
B: You sound like you 've had a lot of experience with this , then .
A: Oh , well , that 's my husband 's side and my mom , my mom 's , or my family , uh ,
A: we all live in southern California
A: so we just have to either or , give a formal invite
A: and we 're all there
A: so ,
B: Southern California 's still pretty large .
A: Yeah
A: well , I mean L A , Orange County area .
A: I mean everyone 's , you know mostly not farther than an hour away .
B: I see .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , my experience , uh , has been limited pretty much lately to my mother 's side of the family .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , years ago there was a big dispute on my dad 's side
B: and , uh , they have n't had a reunion since then .
B: They just show up at funerals and weddings .
A: Oh
B: It was pretty serious and lot of yelling and all that ,
A: Wow .
B: but , anyway , my mother 's side we had our , our first real reunion that I 've ever gone to last summer
B: and they had people come in from out of town
B: and they took some rooms down at a Holiday Inn
B: and , uh , they had some activity ,
B: they had a nice dinner planned and all of that stuff
B: and people got up and talked about various parts of the family tree
B: and , you know , a lot of that sort of thing .
B: Since it was the first one that we 'd had that , you could do that once .
B: Now next time we have one ,
B: we 'll have to think of something more creative to do .
A: Well , you know , that 's interesting because one thing that always brings to my , uh , husband 's mother 's side together is , uh , they talk about the genealogy of the family tree every time
A: and , uh , inevitably everyone is just very interested
A: and , and they always have , you know , two or three new ones to add to the list , you know , someone 's been born or someone passed away or , you know , something like that
B: Oh .
A: and so everyone has to update their little books or whatever .
B: Well , have have you , do you have an interest in genealogy ?
A: Uh , I do , but not to , very much compared to my mother-in-law .
B: Not a passion , huh .
B: Uh , I suspect we 'll do quite a bit more genealogy
B: and I , I suspect we will do more of it .
B: Uh , I found out some , about some of the relatives I did n't , you know , I , I did n't even know their names , some of the two or three generations back and some of the aunts and uncles
A: Um .
B: and , uh , there 's a lot of things there you have to stop ,
B: they 're really kind of fascinating .
B: I found out my grandmother was one of a twin .
A: Oh .
B: And we don't even know where the twin ,
B: we have virtually no , no background on , on her on the twin .
A: Really ?
A: Is it your , your grandma 's own sibling
A: and she ,
B: My grandmother 's , uh , sister who would be somewhere in , in West Virginia .
B: I 'm sure she 's , you know , dead now , because my grandmother died in , about twenty years ago .
A: Oh , I see .
A: Oh so ,
B: I 'm , I 'm quite a bit , I 'm probably a lot older than you are . Uh ,
A: Well , maybe , uh , they just moved away and then sort of lost contact .
B: I don't know .
A: Okay .
A: Um , what type of magazines do you have ?
B: We take several at home .
B: I , I take , um , SKIING MAGAZINE ,
B: and I take , uh , DISCOVER magazine , and also , uh , C D AND STEREO REVIEW and NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC , I think and BOYS LIFE
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , .
A: Oh , good .
A: That 's a good one , I like to get
A: Um , so I take it that you like to ski .
A: Do you , do you , um , receive a lot of information on skiing through the SKI MAGAZINE ?
B: I presume that I do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I suppose that puts me on some mailing lists and so forth , because I do get things from ski associations and things , uh , at , during the year .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , uh , and do you receive discounts and things like that ,
A: do you think
A: or ,
B: Uh , not so much that , I , uh , more likely to see those at a ski show or something ,
B: but um , made with I just enjoy reading about the resorts and where you can go and , and new equipment that 's come out and so forth .
A: Oh .
B: Some fashions are always in there too .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So would this vacation you 're taking ,
A: did you receive information from your skiing magazine ?
B: Probably not .
B: Uh , we already knew we wanted to take one ,
B: and we just started looking around .
B: I may have referred to a couple of them ,
B: but we went to the ski show and looked at all of the resort information , picked up a lot of brochures and just decided to go to Crested Butte .
A: Oh .
A: Oh .
B: We have n't been there before .
A: Um , that sounds nice .
B: Kind of away from the crowd is why we chose that one .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's supposedly low lift lines .
A: Oh .
B: But I have n't skied Utah yet ,
B: but I want to .
A: Oh , well , you need to come out
B: I 'd like to go to Sundance and Park City and some of those .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I understand Deer Valley is nice , too .
A: Deer Valley ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: they are ,
A: it 's wonderful snow
B: Well , how about you ,
B: what , what magazines do you have at home ?
A: Uh , I am currently taking DECORATIVE WOODWORKING , and , uh , COUNTRY LIVING ,
A: and , let 's see , we do have NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC ,
A: and then we have some church magazines ,
A: but I really enjoy the DECORATIVE WOODWORKING .
A: I 'm heavy into woodworking and tole painting and things like that ,
A: so the DECORATIVE WOODWORKING has just been a great , great help .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Does it have , uh , articles on how to do things as well as equipment that you can buy and so forth ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: they do have , uh , mostly they have , uh , the ads on the equipment ,
A: but the whole magazine is just filled with , uh , pictures and projects that you can make yourself ,
A: and then it has all of the patterns and instructions that you would need to make a wood project , and , and then how to paint it with the tole paintings ,
A: and so , it 's really a fun one .
A: I like that .
B: Well , that 's good .
B: It 's good to get use out of one .
A: Uh-huh
B: I 'm not sure that , um , in the case of NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC ,
B: I mean , I read it ,
B: but then they just sort of gather dust for a long period of time ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but then eventually there 'll be a school project or something where my son will need to refer back through forty-eight back issues to find you know , France or something or whatever it is he 's looking for .
A: Uh-huh
A: Yeah .
A: Yes .
A: I 've , I 've noticed that , too ,
A: but they have been nice to have around .
A: Every once in a while they come in handy
B: I used to take SMITHSONIAN too ,
A: Oh .
B: I liked that magazine
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it was , I was , just found myself not ever getting around to reading it .
A: Oh . Uh .
B: You get so many coming in ,
B: and by the time the next round comes in I 'm still not through reading the first round .
A: Oh , that .
B: Oh , SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN comes to our house , too , I forgot ,
B: and that 's mostly my son 's ,
A: Oh .
B: but but I do read it , too .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , well that sounds like .
B: And he takes GAMES MAGAZINE GAME MAGAZINE , which has puzzles and things that he likes to solve , you know , crosswords and various logic puzzles and things like that
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: he likes to try that ,
B: so . He does , uh , does get to be a lot of paper though ,
B: after a while if you don't keep them weeded out , they almost take over .
A: Uh-huh
A: They do , they can do that .
A: I found that they 've been fun for my little girls ,
A: they 're five and four years old ,
A: and they like to go through
A: and ,
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: they 're just kind of getting started now .
A: Uh-huh . They like to cut the pictures out and paste them on ,
A: and so we 've found good use for those .
B: Mine is a senior in high school ,
B: so he 's , we 're kind of at the end of that trail .
A: Oh .
B: You 're just sort of beginning to think about first grade .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's fun .
A: Well , I do have a boy in junior high , too ,
A: so
B: Oh , okay ,
B: so you got a little bit of a gap there between ,
A: so we 're kind of running the gamut
A: Yeah .
A: Okay
A: what , do you do artistic painting ?
B: Uh , I do tole painting .
A: Oh , you do ?
B: Uh-huh ,
B: I really love the tole painting .
B: Uh , I have n't done any of the oil or watercolor .
B: I would like to learn that someday ,
B: but right now my passion is tole painting
A: Do you do a lot of it ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I took one class about , I guess three or four years ago
A: and I 've done a little , uh ,
B: Oh .
A: But it takes a lot of time
B: It does ,
B: it is real time consuming
B: and ,
A: do you sell your projects ?
B: Uh , mostly I have just given them away as gifts .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I 've done , uh , perpetual calendars and cookie jar lids and , oh , on and on , you know , just things like that ,
B: but uh , I would eventually like to make enough to sell and quit my job
A: Uh-huh .
A: Where do you work at ?
B: I just work at Stop and Shop out there in , in Ogden
B: so ,
A: Now do you ever send any of your stuff to the boutique ?
B: No ,
B: I 've wanted to do that , uh , but just have n't , just have n't mass produced enough to do that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I have five children of my own ,
B: so it 's
A: That keeps you busy .
B: they , they keep me busy
B: and tole painting is just a , you know , something I do in my spare time
B: so
A: Uh-huh .
A: Have you tried any of the ,
A: well , do you cut out your own projects ?
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: I have my own saws
B: and so I really enjoy doing that .
A: Huh . Do you , uh , ever spray your projects with the , I mean a base coat first
A: or do you brush it on ?
B: I brush it on ,
B: yeah ,
B: I have n't tried a , a spray varnish .
B: I use just a wood sealer .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I just bought a spray gun , one of those airless , uh , not airless , high volume , low pressure spray guns .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: And I do a lot of woodworking
A: and that 's what I bought it for .
B: Do you ?
B: Oh .
A: But I have n't used it yet .
B: Oh , well that 's that 'ud probably give you a smoother finish , would n't it ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah .
B: Now what type of woodworking do you do ?
A: Uh , fine furniture .
B: Oh do you ?
A: Yeah .
A: That 's why I brought , bought the sprayer is to finish my projects .
B: Oh .
A: That 's my worst , worst part of my woodworking .
A: I get so sick of making
B: Oh , but it 's hard to finish it , huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: but spraying does put on a nicer finish .
B: Oh , well , that is interesting .
B: So , what kind of equipment do you have ?
A: For woodworking ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , let me see ,
A: table saw , scroll saw , band saw , lathe , routers ,
A: and about it .
B: Boy , it sounds like you 're really into it .
B: That is nice .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I just have a scroll saw and a jig saw
B: and I am really anxious to get a band saw and a router
A: Yeah ,
A: the band saw is really nice .
A: I have an Inca .
A: I don't know if you 've ever heard of those .
B: Oh .
A: But it 's nice to have the right equipment .
B: Yeah ,
B: that is , that makes it easier , does n't it ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , have you sold any of your furniture
B: or just ,
A: Uh
A: not ,
A: mostly I do like you do , give it away as gifts .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , Making my own furniture .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , that 's interesting .
B: Do you , uh , did you take classes to learn how to do that ?
A: Uh , just in junior high
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then I just kept on through high school and then got my own equipment , kept up with that .
B: Oh , so yours is mostly just a hobby , too , then .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , that is interesting .
B: Oh , I would , I really would love to go take a class in woodworking and learn how to .
B: I don't know if I necessarily want to do furniture ,
B: but mostly , uh , just do more ,
A: Like the shelves and ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: the woodworking .
A: For your tole painting .
B: Uh ,
B: Yeah
B: Yeah ,
B: so , it 's fun
A: Good .
A: Well I guess I 'll let you go now .
B: Well , they come on ,
B: we 're supposed to talk until they come on and tell us
A: Oh , they do ?
A: Okay ,
A: so this is my first one .
A: You 're probably a veteran at this .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , it has , it has been really fun .
B: I 've enjoyed this . Uh ,
B: like I say , I 've made a couple of calls to Texas , and just talked to all different kinds of people
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I think you 'll enjoy doing it .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's fun .
A: Sounds fun .
A: Where do you buy your tole painting paints at around here ?
B: Uh , you know , there 's a shop in Roy that I really love .
B: Uh , and it 's there by the , Copper Mill restaurant , used to be the Hayloft .
A: I am not
A: well , we live in Roy
A: , but , we
A: is it on nineteen hundred ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , let 's see ,
B: I 'm trying to think of the name .
A: I know where fifty-six hundred south is .
B: Uh , I don't right off .
A: Is that Ben Franklin then ?
B: Ben Franklin ,
B: okay .
A: Okay ,
A: you want to start ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I might as well .
B: Uh , one of the things I 'm very concerned about the air pollution , is the , uh , this , this , the ozone layer , uh , uh , issue .
B: Uh , I used to own a heating and air conditioning business and handled lots of different types of freons ,
B: and that , uh , rather bothers me that , uh , I was in , in effect , uh , contributing to the delinquency of the , the environment , so to speak .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's stuff we never even thought about three years ago .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: and one of the reasons they fixed up the freons eleven , twelve and thirteen , in , in , in that area was because they were inexpensive ,
B: uh , they could be made , uh , you know , inexpensive and lots of it , uh ,
B: and in that , and its properties were great , uh , with , uh , the machinery , did n't have to have lots of expensive machinery to , uh , get your heating and cooling cycles to work .
A: Um .
B: So .
A: Have they stopped that practice now ?
B: Well , course there 's a , a tremendous number of refrigerators and excuse me , refrigerators and freezers , both commercial and residential , uh , utilizing freon twelve ,
B: and of course , the new cars , I guess starting with nineteen ninety-three will not have freon twelve in their systems .
B: But , uh , there 's , you know , the ton of after market machines , and et cetera , et cetera .
A: Yeah .
B: And that 's got me very , you know , highly concerned that , uh , that 's going to be quite a while before we can , uh , undo this .
B: Now , that could spawn several good industries and help , pull us out of this recession ,
B: but you got to have people that can make , you know , earn a salary to pay for this conversion .
B: So , so I see us in a kind , somewhat of a catch twenty-two unless we , unless the banks or industry and or the government go together and , and come up with a way to , uh , have us as a part of the unemployed society be able to be gainfully employed again converting all this freon twelve stuff into the new nonpolluting , uh , compound .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Because as I say , there 's a , there 's a
B: well , how many , uh , uh , families own a refrigerator ,
B: and then do , you know , that number , and then how many a , a freezer separate from and how many people , especially here in Texas , own cars and trucks with air conditioning .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah
A: yeah .
B: I mean , this is , there , there are people that , that make it , have a thriving business , uh , that do nothing but heating and air conditioning on , on automobiles and trucks ,
B: and , uh , the only reason I did n't , uh , get into that more , when I was , had my little business , was because , uh , most of your , uh , air conditioning in , in , on vehicles tend to be greasy and dirty to the N-th degree
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I mean ,
B: so , uh , that 's why I stayed in , stayed more towards , uh , uh ,
B: and that 's a polluting type deal too , is the excessive , um , you know , uh , petroleum products in your engine bay and so forth , and the dirt and grit and those two mixed together with , with water and , uh , like knocking on a really make , uh , make a mess .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I hate to see a car going down the street , or even a truck or bus for that matter , that 's putting out a lot of dark smoke ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I know there 's a lot of pollutants we ca n't even see coming out of cars ,
B: Right .
A: but that , that particular bothers me .
B: Well , most , most , most of the time when you see bus , uh , you know , the busses with the diesel that 's , uh , those are carbon particles , and carbon dioxide and water vapor , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: because when you , when diesel is burned it 's it ,
B: you know diesel fuel is burned in a , in the diesel engine
B: it 's burned so completely , that you don't have any , uh , nitrous oxides , uh , or oxides of nitrogen , uh , to , uh , form because of , by virtue of the very combustion process of the diesel engine , because diesel oil is , uh , is not very volatile . You know , where gasoline , if you leave a little pail of gasoline out before long it 's gone .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Diesel is going to be around , because it does n't evaporate easily ,
B: and it 's got ,
B: well , you know , its latent heat is high ,
B: but it 's slow burning at , at , uh , normal pressures .
B: That 's why your diesel engines have such high compression ratios as the , as the air is heated , you know , by virtue of the compression process to like one to nineteen or nineteen to one ratio
A: Oh , I see .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so if the car sucks in , uh , fifty degrees ,
A: Well , how do you feel about trial by jury ?
B: I feel very uncomfortable with trials by juries recently . Uh ,
A: In what way ?
B: In that it seems to me that they are swayed more by emotion than , uh , by evidence that 's presented .
B: I have , uh , very little regard for the law presently practiced .
A: Oh , do , do you feel they are swayed more toward , are you talking about with criminal or civil suits ?
B: I was thinking primarily criminal cases .
A: So , do you think that , I mean the the stereotypical bleeding heart juries where they feel sorry .
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's a concern of mine .
B: Uh , I would feel more comfortable in many cases I think with judges . Uh , you know , doing the sentencing .
A: Uh-huh .
A: The other thing , the only thing that really bothers me about that is I think you know , that a judge can be
A: I , I like the idea of juries of your peers uh , in that you , you , you get more personally more than one person making the , making a decision .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And second of all , you get a wide variety of background
A: so that ,
B: Yeah ,
B: my question I guess are they really your peers ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 'd agree with that .
B: Uh Uh , too often I think they are not
A: That 's definitely a problem .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , when you , when you are selecting a jury and you are doing it partially if , if not entirely on the basis of which color representation you have you know that is a matter of concern to me too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I think that , uh , in such cases , uh , they are not really looking for unbiased people , but rather for biased .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , now I happen to know several judges
B: and there is one that I would feel uncomfortable but has doing sentencing without the jury I would feel a little bit uneasy about
A: Uh-huh .
B: but the other two I feel , uh , would give either you know , the plaintiff or for the defendant the the full benefit of the law .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I guess that 's what I am concerned with .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I , guess I , I definitely agree with you ,
A: but the
A: well , what I don't like about , uh , sentence , the jury doing the sentencing in that I think it becomes a lot less ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: the , the same crime gets unequal sentences .
B: This is very true .
A: I , uh , I think there is more of an ability of you know , you know for selecting a jury , two different juries that would most of the time come up with the same idea , uh , the same idea versus you know whether he is guilty or innocent
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , I think , I think there would be a large variation in , in trying to gage the the severity of the crime and an appropriate punishment and have that that measure stick across the board .
B: Yeah
B: and you do see such uneven sentencing you know , evidence of it in the newspapers and such , I mean where , uh , it would appear the crimes were very similar
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: but one individual got twenty-five years
B: and the other one was sentenced to life .
B: So ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh ,
A: Of course a lot of that 's also the ability of , of the defendant to , uh , get a good lawyer .
B: Is n't that the truth
A: Uh-huh .
B: There are times when is it , uh ,
B: oh goodness , my mind has gone blank it 's , uh , Othello .
B: You know where he says kill all the lawyers
B: Every now and then one is tempted to see what , what .
A: Yeah ,
A: I agree
B: But , I , it 's taken me a long time to understand that , uh , lawyers are concerned with the law and not with justice as we think of , you know , as , as novices tend to think that , uh , attorneys care about justice .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I , I agree with it
A: yeah .
A: They will admit to you that they don't have the benefit of being able to you know , of , of , letting , allowing themselves to believe their clients that are guilty
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's more of the game plan of how do they convince the judge or jury through argument .
B: And they are very effective too .
A: That the
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , even ,
B: I have been involved , uh , just slightly in a case where I know the person is guilty
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , his attorneys gotten him off .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , the city has dropped their charges against him because their , the attorney has presented enough evidence of doubt to convince the judge .
B: So I don't know
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , this is a little bit of the subject ,
A: but one , one thing that I really dislike , uh , also that 's , that 's new is the , uh , is that I have heard that there are federal sentences ,
A: I ,
A: you know , actually in this modern day and age , it seems like , uh , uh , we have more and more leisure time because , uh , we have so many convenience , appliances and whatnot .
A: We don't even have to cook dinner anymore .
B: Yes .
B: Yeah ,
B: really .
A: Uh , but I , uh , I 've heard , I don't know this for a fact , but I 've heard that a lot of families really don't spend a great deal of time together .
A: That the kids maybe on the average get , uh , something like thirty seconds of quality time with the parents .
B: That 's what I 've heard too . Uh ,
A: It seems bizarre to me .
A: I don't quite understand it , although I think probably the , the worst thing that 's happening in the world , at least the modern world today , is television .
B: Yeah .
A: Not so much because , uh , it 's bad per se , although there is some pretty crappy programming
A: and I there 's also some , uh , I think , uh , poorer lifestyles illustrated but simply because it dominates so much discussionary time .
B: Right .
A: It 's so darned easy to turn the thing on .
B: I know it .
B: I 've , I tell myself sometimes , just sit down after work ,
A: So I refuse to have one in the house .
B: Oh really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Well good for you .
B: Good for you .
B: A lot of people , I talk to a lot of people about that
B: and I 've thought about it myself
B: and I though about it a lot
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I still have n't done it yet .
B: Well that 's good .
A: Well I 'll tell you .
A: Television sure makes child rearing easy on you .
A: I mean the kids can be a real pest , uh ,
A: and turning the T V on is almost like magic , you know ,
A: it 's like sticking , uh , an electrode into their pleasure center
A: and you don't have to worry about them .
B: That 's true
B: I 've noticed that .
A: But I don't think it 's too good .
B: I don't think so either .
A: Uh , so , you know , I don't know ,
A: I take advantage ,
A: I don't have a great deal of time to spend with the kids ,
A: but I take advantage of , um , dinner time .
A: We always eat together
A: and , you know , whenever you 're with your kids , you want to interact with them rather than just ignore them .
B: Do you keep your kids , uh , active in sports or anything
B: or ,
A: Uh , I guess our big outlet is music . Uh
B: Oh , okay .
A: our thirteen year old son plays violin
A: and our , nine year old daughter plays cello
B: Okay .
A: and , uh , when our son started playing violin , I took up violin
A: and when our daughter started playing cello , I took up cello .
A: So there 's plenty of , plenty of interactive time in , uh , practicing . Although neither kid likes to practice .
A: I guess that 's not a big surprise .
B: No .
B: Not for kids
A: But I I imagine with infants you are , most of your time is sort of spent taking care of them rather than interacting with them . Although ,
B: Yeah .
B: Well I , I try and read to them
B: and I take them to the park and stuff
A: Oh , you know , reading is so good .
A: I , uh , I took great pleasure in reading to my kids when they were little
A: and I still try to read to them , although our son is not liking that anymore .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , they get to that stage .
A: Uh , but I read , you know
A: there 's this DOCTOR SEUSS sleep book .
A: Have you ever seen that yet ?
B: Sleep book ,
B: no .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's called a sleep book
A: and , uh , you ought to get it .
A: I tell you I read that book to my kids so many times I almost have the thing memorized .
A: Uh ,
B: We 've got quite a few of DOCTOR SEUSS ' books .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I think , I think his sleep book is my favorite .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , yeah
B: I like to , I like to do it
B: and they enjoy reading .
B: I 've , actually I never read a lot growing up
B: and I never read until a few years ago
B: I just started picking up books
B: and so I 've found that , you know , it 's really important to me to get to read .
B: To , I like to get away in a book , you know ?
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And so I 've put a lot more emphasis on that , on my kids to try and ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: So how much time do you think you spend with your kids on the average per each day ?
B: Oh , I probably spend an hour or two .
A: Oh that 's great .
B: My wife works at night ,
B: so she does , uh , Tupperware ,
B: so she 's gone a lot at nights
B: and so I spend a lot of time with them
A: Oh , I see .
A: how old are your kids again ?
B: They 're two and one .
A: Two and one .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: so you have your hands full with them ,
A: that 's for sure
B: Yeah
A: I , uh , try to stay away from cars as much as possible in terms of repair .
A: Actually , uh , that is really a sore spot with me .
A: I , I think perhaps the automotive industry is improving
A: but , uh , like ten years ago , uh , reliability of automobiles , at least U S automobiles was pretty dismal
A: and not only that , but the , uh , repair capability of , uh , service departments and dealerships was equally dismal
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it seemed that the only way I could reliably take care of my car was to repair it myself which is not my cup of tea .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , I ,
B: So do you have a car ?
A: Pardon ?
B: Do you have a car ?
A: Well , at that time , actually , I had a Volkswagen Rabbit
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it was , it was a real lemon .
A: Uh , subsequently I got a , uh , Buick Century
A: and it was n't as bad .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , last year I bought a Honda Accord
A: and I take it in once every seventy-five hundred miles for its periodic maintenance
A: and that is it .
A: And it 's wonderful .
B: Yeah .
B: We used to have a Honda Accord
B: and they 're good .
B: They 're really good cars .
B: Every time I get taken to an auto repair place , you know , every time I go , I get taken .
B: Bad you know .
A: Huh .
B: Woman goes in
B: and they go all right , we got a sucker .
B: Let 's see how much money we can get out of her , you know
A: Huh .
B: That 's what happens every time .
A: Huh .
B: Uh , so ,
A: So , what do you have ?
B: I have a Pontiac Six Thousand .
A: All the more reason to , uh , have a , a Honda .
B: Yeah .
B: But our Honda just got old and just wore out .
B: It was , let 's see , eleven years old
B: and it just , just out of it
A: so you bought a Pontiac ?
B: huh-uh .
B: My uh , ex-husband 's ,
B: this is , just happened a couple of weeks ago .
B: He 's my ex-husband
B: but just a few months ago when he was my husband , uh , his father gave us this car
B: and everything is wrong with it .
B: I mean , the power steering fluid leaks , the oil leaks , the brake fluid leaks , you know ,
A: Now
A: how old is the car ?
B: Uh , eighty-seven .
A: Huh .
B: And he just does n't take care of things
B: and but I was awarded the car
B: so . There is a man in my church that is a mechanic
B: and I can trust him .
B: So he is trying to get , you know , things fixed on it .
A: Huh .
B: But it 's just , you know , leak , leak , leak everywhere .
B: But , uh , you know , I hate to go into a , a repair place because they 'll tell me something is wrong with it and it 's not , you know , and charge me twice as much .
B: The last time I took it into a repair shop ,
B: the man told me I needed a master cylinder .
B: So I said okay .
B: And he charged me a hundred and thirty something dollars
B: and then , uh , about a month later , a man was looking at my car
B: and he asked me ,
B: you know , not a man , not a repair man , but just a friend
B: and I was telling him that I just a new master cylinder put on
B: and he looked at
B: and he said that 's not a new master cylinder
A: Huh .
B: and I did n't even know what one was .
B: And , uh , he showed it to me
B: and it was old , rusty , just awful .
B: It was no more new than nothing .
A: So apparently it was the same one that was on there .
B: Uh , more than likely .
A: Apparently just , uh , uh , probably filled the , the brake fluid up
A: and that was it .
B: That was it , probably .
B: It was
B: I was so irritated .
B: And that 's happened to me more than once or twice . just , just about every time I 've went in somewhere .
A: So what 's the solution to that ? I guess find a reputable service ,
B: And , and you can hardly find one , you know .
A: Huh .
B: The guy that 's doing most of my , my car now , uh , goes to my church
B: and that 's the only reason , you know , I go to him because I know him
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I know he will tell me the truth .
B: Because he does n't even charge me for , for doing it
B: so he 's not going to , you know , take me .
A: Right .
B: I just pay for the parts
B: and he does it so .
A: Well that 's wonderful .
B: Yeah .
A: You 're lucky .
B: Yeah ,
B: I am ,
B: so , I don't know .
B: I don't know what the solution to that is because the place where you buy your car , they 're usually the worst one of all .
B: We took our Honda to the Honda dealership
B: and they ended up telling us we needed a brand new engine for our car .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah .
B: And so , idiots as we were , neither one of us knew much about cars ,
B: we , you know , they told us we just had to have one
B: and we bought one .
B: We did n't no more need no new engine ,
B: give me break , you know .
A: Huh .
B: So it was , it was not good
B: and , uh
A: Uh , I think , uh , actually I 'm fairly pleased with the benefits that we have at the , uh , working for a large corporation .
A: And , for me , there 's absolutely no question what 's the most important benefit I think it 's health care .
B: Right .
A: It 's what ,
A: I think everybody would say that .
B: Oh , and if you try to get it outside of your corporation , you 're going to pay an arm and a leg .
A: Right .
A: Belonging to a group is the , belonging to a health group is probably the most important protection you can have after you ,
B: Right .
A: Uh , the , uh ,
A: sometimes I think it 's more important than salary .
B: Uh , do you also get dental ?
A: Yes .
A: And , uh , I don't know if I would rank that second
A: but , uh , since I have three boys , uh , it , it can turn out to be important .
A: Yeah ,
A: you know
B: Oh , I know .
A: in a , in a given year , dental dental expenses can really kill you .
B: Now my husband is with , uh , Northwest Airlines
B: and he gets , uh , you know , the full health and dental
B: and , uh , we have four children
B: and what you pay just to have teeth cleaned is outrageous .
A: Right .
B: And I don't know how people that don't have it can afford it .
A: Right .
A: It 's , uh ,
B: Or maybe they don't
A: Right ,
A: uh , and then , uh , uh , if the cleaning does n't get you , the orthodony will .
B: That 's right
B: That 's right
A: Uh , I guess that would be up there .
A: Uh , I 'm not sure if I would rank , uh , how I would rank that next to , say compared to retirement
A: or , uh , uh , uh , pretax savings was another thing that I think is a a great , a great benefit .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And I , I think it 's really something that the , uh , the government ought to encourage more because , uh , there are all these complaints about how we 're not a saving country and where the average savings rate is something like four percent in this country and fifteen percent in , uh , Germany and Japan . Uh ,
B: Right .
B: Well , it 's a lot easier to , to save it when you don't get your hands on it first
A: Right .
A: When you have the , when you have the , uh , the economy to scale and everything that a large corporation has , and you can , uh , offer some incentive
A: and if the government goes along by not taxing it when you put it aside you can really build up , uh , the savings and the , that you would n't otherwise do
B: Right .
A: and ,
B: Uh , what about , what about , uh , lesser , uh , benefits perhaps for you but for , for the women in the , in the corporation .
B: For example , uh , oh ,
A: Leave ?
B: Yeah .
B: Do they even , do they have father leaves or anything like that ?
A: You know , I , I don't think so yet .
A: They may have , uh , just plain parental leave , which either one can take .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I , their , uh , I know their maternity leave is on the order of six weeks which I think is too short . Uh
B: Oh , I do too .
A: uh , uh , I really think that we need to get into the mold where we talk about years rather than months or weeks .
B: Oh , I think , I think it 's just a crying shame , uh , for a mother to have to go back to work at six weeks .
A: Right ,
A: and , uh ,
B: She is n't recovered
B: And , uh the infant needs her desperately , at that point and time .
A: There ,
A: There ought to be , uh , uh , some compromise that could , where , uh , where the person would be guaranteed a , uh , career type position but not necessarily a continuation of exactly the same position uh , in exchange for a longer period of time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: I agree .
A: It 's , uh , it 's so important to families then
A: and , uh , and yet anybody who 's gotten far enough to get a good salary is really reluctant to give that up .
B: Oh , sure .
A: Uh ,
B: Especially in this day and age .
A: That ,
B: You don't want to start over again anywhere .
A: Yeah ,
A: you 're right .
A: I think you 've put your finger on the one benefit that I , that I would most like to see , uh , changed Uh , the , uh , parental leave .
B: Well , I think they 're at , they 're they 've come a long way . Uh , at least some companies . Some of them , uh , my girlfriend , in particular , that works for a , a rental car agency
A: Right .
B: and , uh , as manager and , uh , they have a very , very poor leave policy
B: and , uh , I just don't know how , how women do it .
B: Particularly , single parents who don't have the support at the other end . Uh ,
A: Right
A: They do it by shortchanging their kids .
A: There 's no other way . I mean uh , unless they 're part of some extended family which is unlikely . Uh
B: That 's right .
B: That 's exactly right .
B: Right .
A: people moving as much
A: And , uh , they just , it 's just a terrible choice ,
A: you should n't have to make it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh you 're right .
A: And , uh
B: One of the benefits we get , of course , is travel
A: Oh , right .
A: Boy ,
A: would I like to have that .
B: It 's wonderful
A: Yeah .
B: The only trouble is that you can afford to go anywhere
B: but you ca n't afford to stay once you get there
A: Oh , listen I have friends in a lot of different cities .
A: If you just fly me there ,
A: I 'll take care of that
B: That 's right .
B: You have to have an awful lot of fun
B: just , just getting there , is , has to be half the fun .
A: Right .
A: So and , uh , I guess the ,
A: And you say you have some strong feelings about , uh , the issue ?
B: Uh , yes
B: I do as far as , uh , as far as , uh , as far as immigration as a whole goes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think that , uh , we simply must start accepting everybody in the world .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I ,
B: there just is not going to be room for all of us .
B: We don't have jobs now .
B: I , I think , uh , I think when we come to a time of recession that it 's particularly important that we shut our doors at that time .
B: Uh , I hope you 're one of the employed right now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I am one of the unemployed right now .
B: I was a systems analysis and programmer for an oil company
B: and , uh , I applied for one set of jobs with a company here in Dallas that they had two hundred openings
B: but they had two thousand applications .
A: Yeah .
B: And I know that there are a lot of foreigners , uh , here , you know , doing my line of work .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , of course , I 'm not perfectly happy about not having a job .
A: Right .
B: So , how do you feel ?
A: Well , I 'm a little bit ambivalent .
A: The problem with , uh , and I think one of the problems with immigration policy is like any other political problem is that people are not willing to discuss it , uh , in , in terms of what , uh , really is driving it .
A: They 're not willing to tell the truth . The same way with , uh , issues of , uh , race and things like that
A: I mean right now , uh , I believe there are two policies that , uh , that the government uses to modulate immigration . Three actually .
A: One is at the high end , uh ,
A: they always want to be able to , uh , do some brain draining .
A: They always like to be able to attract the , uh , Einsteins or the Professor Chou
A: or , you know .
B: Right
A: They 'd like to be able to get the top people in any field
A: and so they can almost always find room for someone like that .
A: At the bottom end , they , uh , are always willing to , uh , let in cheap labor if it lowers the cost of doing business in some particular area and has strong support from the , powerful people in that area .
A: Those are two things that I think are going on . Although they , I , I don't think the politicians would tell you that .
B: Okay
B: and I think you 're right in both cases .
A: And then the , third thing is , uh , the political aspect of , uh , uh , letting steam come out from under the lid in Mexico
A: They can not close off the Mexican border . Not because it 's physically impossible but because the explosion that would take place in Mexico would be , uh , uh , would spill over to this country
A: so they keep allowing , uh , the pressure cooker to let off steam .
B: And I think probably it 's pretty important right there .
B: How do you feel about Haitian immigration ?
A: Uh , that 's one of the few things I guess I found myself in agreement with Pat Buchanan
A: I think they 're a very difficult group to integrate into , uh , society .
A: They 're very difficult , uh , group to find jobs and , uh , and , uh , places for .
A: And so , uh , uh , I don't deny that we may have been involved in causing the problem that , uh , in that they 're pretty miserable where they are .
A: But I 'm not to sympathetic about , uh , letting large numbers of Haitians in .
B: Actually , actually I feel that if we accepted these people that we would eventually have almost the total population here .
A: Yeah .
B: And it would have nothing to do with political situations .
B: It would have to do with poverty .
A: Right .
A: But if you let them , yeah . If you let them in a million at a time , it would n't make that , you know , it would n't make that big a bulge in the population . But politically and economically .
B: Oh , my gosh .
B: Have you been , have you been to southern Florida ?
A: Yeah ,
A: well I know about it .
A: Uh , I mean it 's , it is now with Haitians the way it was with Cubans , uh , twenty years ago .
B: Well , I mean and the two of them together .
B: I mean we can ,
B: it 's just as well you know ,
B: it 's hardly America anymore .
A: On the other hand , you know , the ironic thing about this is that there 's nobody more full of the entrepreneurial American spirit than our first generation immigrant
A: So there 's , uh , there 's a lot to be said for having a steady stream of people who know how it is someplace else coming in .
B: But there 's some differences in the immigrants , that , that we 're getting now .
B: Well I particularly have a problem with the illegal immigration .
A: Right .
A: Sure .
B: I think , probably your , a great deal of what you say is true about the legals .
A: Right .
B: But , uh , the majority of the illegal immigration we 're getting now , they do not come here to blend into America .
B: Uh , they , they don't bother to learn our language
B: and , uh , first of all , they ,
B: I 'm sorry , this , I really feel strongly about this .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We send a lot of money to Mexico .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Why don't you start ?
B: Oh , I don't know .
B: I , uh , I refinished a couple of old , uh , dressers that were handed down .
B: You know , nice it 's nice tongue and groove , uh , uh , construction .
B: Uh , that 's been , I 've been pretty successful with that .
A: Things you already owned or things that you 've picked up just to do that ?
B: What ?
A: Are they things you already owned or you pick them up just to do that refinishing ?
B: No ,
B: I 've done some other things too . Uh , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: I 've done both
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , uh , my wife has picked up a couple of things saying , uh , boy if we could refinish that , that would be a beautiful piece of furniture
A: and , uh , we 've done it a couple of times .
A: I guess that we 've been fairly successful with those .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: That 's , uh , that 's a kind of low risk sort of project , is n't it I guess .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's a good way to get started .
A: Uh , I have a , a , uh , really nice desk . A nicer desk than I could afford . Which I got because my sister who worked in a hospital , uh liberated it after a fire
B: Uh-huh
A: and , uh , we stripped it all the way down and refinished it
A: and it turned out to be really nice , uh , a nice desk . Maple top I think or or something of that sort .
B: Uh-huh
B: Uh-huh
B: Yeah .
B: I , I , uh , put together a , a , up rolltop desk from scratch .
A: Oh , really ?
B: You know , a kit .
A: Oh . I 'm jealous .
B: Yeah .
B: Still had to cut it and everything ,
B: but it was fun .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah
A: I , I do do things , uh , that might be too crude to be called woodworking .
A: I 've built my own deck and , uh things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I 've done the same . You know , like the trim around the house you know the baseboards and things like that .
A: And , uh I definitely have begun to accumulate tools too .
A: My , I , uh I picked up a bunch of Craftsman tools from the forties that my wife 's father owned when he was alive
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so I do have a band saw and a router and , uh , things like that out in the garage .
A: But I ca n't say I use them very often
B: Um . Yeah
B: , I 'm looking at trying to get a router right now .
A: They 're handy , uh , they they come in handy at the most unusual times .
A: Putting doors in is the time when I 'm ,
A: uh , I bought myself a , uh , template for making mortices and doors
A: and that 's a whole lot easier than doing it with a chisel
B: I 'll bet .
A: But I 've , also , I 've also used them for building drawers where you , uh , for rabbeting and , uh , because , uh , rabbeting on my table , on my , uh , radial arm saw is a little bit uncertain
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I got one for Christmas a few years ago and used it quite a bit for the first eight months I had it
A: and now I use it twice a year maybe
B: Yeah .
B: My my brother 's used it a lot for making drawers .
B: I don't know ,
A: The big ,
B: what , what 's your opinion of what a good router is like ?
B: You know I ,
A: Uh , I guess it ,
B: Because he was tell me like the ones that you dial in are n't all that great .
B: They 've plastic parts and stuff .
A: The ones that what ?
B: That you dial in on the side .
A: Uh , I have never even I have never even looked at one closely .
A: Uh , the , the little use that I 've gotten from my router , I would say , uh , I would spend my money on the bits
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I have a , I 'd guess you 'd call a medium quality Craftsman router
A: and the , uh ,
B: How strong is it ?
A: It 's strong enough for any job where you don't try to take more than say three-eighths of an inch at a time .
A: But the problem is that the , uh , as with
A: any , any time you buy a , a tool with a , a , as a , as a package the bits that they give you are low end .
B: don't they ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So the price of a good set of , uh , carbide steel , uh , bits is probably , uh , I mean , a , a good set of bits is probably going to run you a hundred dollars
A: and , uh , uh , if you 're going to use for a lifetime I suppose it 's worth it .
A: Because uh ,
A: I imagine if I go and sharpen them myself , uh , they wo n't last
A: And I 've never had the bits sharpened
A: So . That 's a thing to consider is to ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: They , they really get hot don't they ?
A: Yeah .
A: And they , they dull after awhile .
A: Especially , I did some cabinets in , uh , ash and oak
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , that , that wears a bit down .
A: We remodeled and saved a bunch of really nice ash cabinets , uh which had been in the original , remodeling of our kitchen .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And I saved them and built an oven cabinet out of one and another cabinet out of another by using the faces and so forth
A: And , uh , routing hardwood will , uh , take the edge off a cheap bit pretty fast
A: So .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've cut some one by eight oak before
B: Boy was that fun .
A: Right .
A: That 's , uh ,
B: Big solid pieces of oak are just tough .
A: And then you take the blade to the to get sharpened , right
B: Well , that was , you know , with a , with a circular saw .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like , oh my gosh .
A: Right .
B: Is this going to be fun
A: Yeah
A: Well I 've used mine on treated wood
A: and now all my blades need sharpening . Because , uh , treated wood will also chew them up .
B: Yeah .
B: Treated wood can really make you sick too .
A: Okay ,
A: so , um ,
A: yes
A: we do keep , uh , well we started out keeping a budget about two years , ago ,
A: we have a computer , here at the house ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I made a Lotus spreadsheet and went through the year using all of our , our checkbook to figure out what we spent each time and whether we were over or under for each month
A: and then basically since then what I 've done is , is keep track of it through the checkbook
A: so that based on whatever we 've got coming in , the check coming in , then how much I 'm spending each half of the month and then trying to also
A: because our house payment is once a month ,
A: that 's our , our biggest , uh , expense
A: so I take half of that amount out of my checkbook each , with each paycheck , even thought it 's really still there , so that I can keep , uh , uh , good balance , a running total , yeah through the month ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: A running total .
B: Yeah .
A: What do you all do ?
B: Uh , we 've , we 've , uh , taken how much we have , you know , write down how much we have coming in each month
B: and then , uh , we 've ,
B: at the beginning of the year we sat down and determined how much we could spend .
B: We sat made up different accounts like , you know ,
B: we 've set a budget for each , you know , household expenses , or food , and clothing and entertainment and then our , our own fun money and just stuff like that
B: and then we write down each , each time we spend something , we write down in a book
B: and at the end of the month we tally it up to see how close we , you know
B: we , we try to stay within a certain budget ,
B: so .
A: Is it , is it hard to keep track of it
A: or does it work out pretty well ?
B: Um , it takes some , it takes some dedication to do it ,
B: but it , it works out real well ,
B: so .
A: And , and you 're staying within your budget and everything is working pretty good .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I stay I have to stay within it ,
B: so I , you know ,
B: and then we have that , you know ,
B: if you ca n't stay , if something comes up and you ca n't stay within it then we have , uh , you know , a budget for , you know , like we call our slush fund or something
B: and an unexpected comes up , then you 're not , you know , you don't feel it so strapped .
A: You don't have to go out and borrow it somewhere and do that .
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: because we don't , you know , we don't charge anything that we ca n't pay off by the end of the month .
A: That 's a good choice ,
A: we 've been trying , we 're trying to , uh , do that this year .
A: We 've budgeted the money that we used to spend , we were spending on a CODA account with T I and then money we were also buying stock with for that year ,
A: we 've taken that this year , and said we 're going to pay off all of our credit cards
B: to someone else in the You 've got paper under your table .
A: and , uh , we have , uh , another loan with the bank ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so we hope by the end of this year , that by doing that we 'll be free , and clear .
B: To be out of that .
B: Free .
B: Yeah ,
B: the only thing we have , it to pay off is our , is a automobile loan and our house payment ,
B: and that 's the only thing we ever ,
A: That 's good to be in that kind of shape .
B: We try to stay out of debt
A: What are you all trying to do long term .
B: Huh . Oh it 's long term .
B: We just ,
B: he you know , his retirement plan and then to CODA and stuff like that , that 's all we ,
B: and you know , we just have our life insurance for right now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , we don't have any long term , you know , in stocks , or anything like that right now ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: mostly what we 're doing , we 've worked , we 've done the , uh , CODA account with T I where they , we put in so much a month ,
A: and then they , or so much a pay check and then they match it .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's what we 're doing .
A: So that 's , that 's worked out pretty good
A: and then , I used to work for T I
A: and I have ,
A: when I retired from there , or left , I took the money I that I had in mine and put it in an I R A
A: and we had an out , we had an existing I R A
A: so we have , both of us have some money in an I R A that we 're also trying to figure ,
A: to , put it , we 're putting it in C D 's right now ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then we 're also looking at it in possibly getting a mutual fund .
B: Yeah ,
B: when ever we get enough saved we stick it in a C D for a while
B: and , then , uh , you know and then when , if we need it we wait until it , it 's expired
B: and then so ,
A: Yeah .
A: The other thing that we 've done , that , that was really nice to see , we had one of the financial companies , um ,
A: uh , John Hancock company came out
A: and their agent did a long term analysis based on salary and , uh , what we were what , what our , uh , goals were on a long term budget in terms of retirement , kids college , paying off the house , buying a different house , um , special thing , buying land and building our own house
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they did an analysis for us based on what we were putting in and the time frame that we wanted to look at , and then gave us a good idea back , you know , some good information back on whether or not we were going to achieve those goals , and , or not , and what we needed to do so that we could achieve them and the money we could put in at what time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: or not ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That sounds interesting ,
B: we 've never done
B: we have ,
B: you know , just our , our life insurance guy has come out , you know ,
B: and he 's set up , uh , you know , determined how much we need to , you know , we need if something were to happen .
A: Yeah ,
A: that , that 's the other financial thing I guess that we 've done is with our life insurance is , since I 'm at home now is , is figuring out , uh , what we would need if something happened to my husband , or what he would need if something happened to me ,
A: that 's a , a big thing to think about .
B: Right ,
B: yeah , you know ,
B: if , I would sell the , you know ,
B: if , he , something would happen to him , I would n't stay in Texas ,
B: I would , uh , sell the house and move back home , you know , to my home town ,
B: and , and , uh , I would n't stay here in Texas ,
B: so you know , I don't know what he would do .
A: Okay ,
A: I guess that 's most of my , um , financial plans right now .
B: Yeah
B: mine too .
A: Is , is there anything you 'd like to add ?
B: No ,
B: that 's about all for mine .
A: Well it 's been nice talking to you .
B: Nice talking to you too .
A: Bye , bye
B: Bye , bye .
A: How do you usually keep up with current events ?
B: Normally I listen to C N N or HEADLINE NEWS about an , hour a day ,
B: and then I supplement that with , uh , radio news from my car radio and from a news magazine once a week , and a newspaper if I have time .
A: Do you ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't usually have time to read the newspaper everyday ,
A: so I try to listen to the radio in the morning and , and try to catch one of the morning talk shows ,
A: and then I usually end up flipping through C N N and HEADLINE NEWS during the evening .
A: I always try to read the Sunday paper just because it usually gives a summary of the , the week 's hot events .
A: So , I try to , I try to catch that , if nothing else .
B: That 's true ,
B: and , and how do you rate the , uh ,
B: are you pleased with the news coverage that you 're receiving ?
A: For , for local news I think we do real well where it 's ,
A: we live in a kind of small town ,
A: but I think we get excellent local coverage , um ,
A: and I like the national news that we see ,
A: we , we watch N B C
A: and I think they do a real good job .
A: So , I 'm , I 've been real pleased with the quality of the news we get ,
A: how about you ?
B: On the whole , I 'm pleased when I have an opportunity to hear just the facts .
B: I would much prefer that they keep their analysis to themselves . Um , since I don't necessarily agree with it or it tends to be extraordinarily trite .
A: Right .
B: Uh , I think I 'm fed up with trite .
B: There seems to be more and more of it ,
B: and I understand the void that , uh , comes naturally with both radio presentations and television presentations
B: and as expensive as they are to produce , they certainly don't want any dead airspace .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: but I think there 's enough news out there that they could pass on more factual information to us ,
A: and like you said , save the commentaries because I 'm going to listen to the , the news and draw my own opinions .
A: I don't really need their help to do that .
B: I , I , we 're certainly in agreement there .
A: I don't think radio is as bad to do that as T V is .
B: Radio seems to have a full platter or full plate of different things that they need to get done .
B: They 're , maybe they 're a little more efficient , or have more to do over that same time frame .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: I don't know which that answer is .
B: Uh , I think the , my greatest complaint about news programs is programs like SIXTY MINUTES .
B: Do you watch that ?
A: I used to ,
A: but I don't anymore , maybe once or twice a year .
B: Well , I used to watch SIXTY MINUTES until they did two programs , uh , that I knew both the people and the incidences ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I knew that they had presented an extremely slanted viewpoint , that was , in my estimate , nowhere near truth but was much better for ratings .
A: Really ?
A: Yes .
B: And it , ever since that time I just don't watch . Uh ,
B: so , I guess we have the , the same reaction whether we came about it from the same place or not .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I had heard a couple of people , you know , that I had talked to about certain programs say that , you know , they had read other things besides what SIXTY MINUTES presented and that they did n't present it nearly the same way as the , you know , news articles or whatever they had , they had already been familiar with .
A: So , I started questioning just how , how bias they really were ,
A: so .
B: I don't know I don't know how old you are ,
B: but it seems to me like the last , uh , newscaster that presented news in just the nice simple factual way that I wanted to hear was Walter Cronkite .
A: Huh .
B: So , I don't , I don't know if you 're familiar with him or not .
A: No ,
A: not really , you know ,
A: in the last few years just his kind of informal segments I 've seen
A: but I never got to see his actual nightly news .
A: I liked ,
A: I , I did grow up with David Brinkley . Uh ,
B: Well , Brinkley was sort of trying to be in the mold , of Cronkite
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he did a , a pretty good job .
B: THE HUNTLEY , BRINKLEY REPORT was quite excellent , over the years .
A: Yeah ,
A: we , we used to watch , um , him and I guess , John Chancellor .
A: And I always liked David Brinkley
A: and and I used to enjoy John Chancellor 's style of reporting ,
A: but on the nightly news , now , he goes into his commentary
A: and that 's where I get , get into the problem with , with him .
A: I frequently disagree with his commentaries ,
A: so .
B: Well , once they 've reported the facts , all they can offer is an opinion anymore .
A: Right .
A: What did you think of the news coverage of the war ?
B: Well , I almost felt like it was too much .
B: Indeed , I found myself restricting my viewing to a couple of hours a day , one in the morning and one in the evening .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I spent a number of years in the service as an intelligence analyst ,
A: Really ?
B: and I don't need their fill-ins , you know
A: Did that help you understand a lot what was going on your , your prior experience with the military did ,
B: Yes ,
B: but I , I think it helps me everyday in trying to review the state that the world is in and try to guess where we 're going .
A: I wondered if it would help you sometimes fill-in the gaps or recognize discrepancies that other people , people like myself might not pick up on .
B: Well , I , I think , uh , my background is probably what absolutely turned me off with SIXTY MINUTES .
A: Okay .
A: What weekly , um , magazine do you look at ,
A: is it ,
B: I like U S NEWS and WORLD REPORT .
B: At one time or another I 've taken them all for a year .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I believe in giving anything a chance .
A: Sure .
B: Uh , but I keep coming back to that one ,
B: so , I , that 's kind of my favorite .
A: Does that give a pretty good overview of everything
A: or like , does it give , um , I guess , little encapsulated reports and , and then a few big stories ?
B: It 's primarily , um , a few big stories and then lots of high-level reports .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , here 's what went on in Asia over the past week ,
B: and there 's maybe a page of that , little brief paragraphs , unless that was one of their , the focus of their main stories .
A: That sounds good if you were short on time , you could get a summary real quick .
B: Uh , it too is one those
B: in the interest of efficiency we all have to find ways ,
B: and I do most of my reading in the bathroom .
A: Right .
B: Um , and it 's one of those that I can read either an article or a couple of pages of those brief excerpts in the time frame that I 'm going to spend in there .
A: Right .
B: And it just seems to fit nicely , so that I can get it read in about three days .
A: Well , we 're working on a NEWSWEEK , uh ,
A: for the last couple of months we got , you know , an introductory subscription ,
A: so , we decided to try it because prior to that all we got were things like GLAMOUR or SPORTS ILLUSTRATED .
A: So , we decided to try to bring one in that was a little bit better for us , so to speak .
B: Well , to broaden your horizons , make you think about different things anyway .
A: It ca n't hurt ,
B: Well , anytime that we stop and think it ca n't hurt .
A: No .
A: I , I even , I enjoy reading T NEWS ,
A: I try to catch it because it 's another example ,
A: they just , they just show you the words and the facts
A: and they , they don't offer any commentary ,
A: and it gives me a quick chance to , to be caught up during the day . Because , you know , we don't listen to the radio at work at all .
A: So , I don't like to go the whole day without hearing anything .
B: Oh , I 'm with you ,
B: I have to check T NEWS every , every day .
B: It 's my noontime dose of facts .
A: Yeah ,
A: and the other thing we have that I like to check sometimes is , um , TALKING FINGERS ,
A: do you have that ?
B: No .
A: You have different telephone numbers that you can dial ,
A: and then you dial in an access code
A: and it will , depending on what topic you called in to hear about whether it was the news or the weather or a soap opera update , it will give you , um , updated information .
A: So , that can give you , you know , current news updates , current weather updates , things like that
A: and it 's , it 's offered through the local phone company free of charge .
A: So , that 's , an interesting alternative occasionally that I like to use .
B: Huh .
B: Well , it does sound very interesting ,
A: It , It really is , yeah , it really is nice , I mean , because it gives you a wide variety of things you can call and talk , and find out about .
B: maybe our phone company out here will get around to , offering something like that .
A: So , that is something you might keep your eyes open for ,
A: I think it 's , it 's catching on throughout the country
A: Well , how do you feel about it ?
B: Well , uh , I don't have any strong convictions about it ,
B: that 's for sure .
B: Um , I know I have n't done any Peace Corps service ,
B: and I don't know anybody in my immediate family that has , or , you know , has ever even thought about it .
B: Do you know , uh , do you know anybody that 's been it ?
A: No ,
A: the , the only people I know that have done anything remotely like that are people that have gone to be missionaries ,
A: and that 's only because I went to Baylor ,
A: and a lot of students from Baylor go and , and serve as missionaries during the summer .
A: But I think , I think that 's a terrible idea .
A: That 's like forcing someone to donate to a charity .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , and it 's nice to , to try to teach young people some , some , uh , uh , civil , uh , consciousness , but forcing them to , to donate basically their time and efforts ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's definitely up to the person , uh ,
B: so , I 'd have to say that , uh , it , you know , the people who do it , well , some feel it 's rewarding .
B: I don't know , you know ,
B: but , uh I don't know how we got the subject , .
A: You have to ,
A: I don't either .
B: I have nothing to say about this .
A: I don't either .
A: I was , I almost hung up , because I thought , well , gosh , I don't , I don't really have an opinion except for no ,
A: I think that 's dumb .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh ,
B: Well , how long you been in San Antonio ?
A: I 've been here for , um , just almost , well , no , almost four years .
B: Um , okay .
A: And I lived with Dana in school .
B: Oh , okay .
A: That 's how we know each other .
B: And , uh , you , you were just up there then , huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: last weekend . We went to Six Flags Saturday .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Had a good old time .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: Well , back to the topic at hand .
A: What other types of community service would they be talking about .
A: I mean , the , the recording mentioned the Peace Corps .
B: Well , it sounded like , I mean , this is like major long term commitment , like a year or six months ,
A: Yeah .
B: or , so you 're looking at the Peace Corps or sabbatical maybe ,
B: or , you know , I don't know ,
B: I mean , but , uh ,
A: I mean , I 'm all for donating my time to worthy causes ,
A: like I do some volunteer work here and there ,
A: and every once in a while I 'll do , uh , a , uh , local Big Brother Big Sister thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Or I 'll go , you know , do a .
B: But that , that time is minuscule compared to what , what , they were referring to .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I could n't possibly commit a year or two of my life to , to go do something .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: they could n't cover my hourly rate
B: I could n't afford it .
A: No kidding .
B: But , uh ,
A: I have this thing against bugs , too .
A: And seems to me like the Peace Corps ,
A: they send you someplace that there 's a lot of bugs .
B: Yeah ,
B: Africa .
A: Yeah ,
A: have to live in a shack with no air conditioning and no medicine and no anything .
A: I 'd probably catch a terrible disease and die .
B: Yeah ,
B: well . I doubt that ,
B: but , you know how it is .
B: I , I mean , it would , it would have to be tough going somewhere you don't know the culture , usually , I guess .
A: Yeah .
B: I think that maybe that 's why some people do it is , uh , to see the other cultures or , you know and some of that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , to do that , I don't know ,
B: I 'd have to be ,
B: I don't know .
A: Oh , I don't know either .
A: Growing up , all I knew was you go to high school , you , you know , you work , you go to college , you get out of college , and you get a good job and you work .
A: And , and none of this , you go spend two years in the Peace Corps to to broaden your horizons .
B: Uh-huh . Well , you know , uh , I know American Express ,
B: I 'm I 'm working at American Express now ,
B: and they ,
B: after a certain amount of years of service , these employees can take off like six months or something , for some type of sabbatical or some , you know , some , something like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they 're allowed to take that time off and then come back where they left off .
A: Oh .
B: So , it is something that I think , uh , you know , even the larger organizations will support .
B: Uh , it 's , it 's really for the community to give , you know , to , to give back to the community type of thing .
B: I don't know ,
B: it 's for , I think , at the same it 's for some people to , you know , help them grow in other areas ,
A: Kind of like joining the military .
A: Well , I mean , in that respect a lot of people join the military to , to grow up and to decide what they want to do ,
B: Yeah ,
A: and the Peace Corps or something like that is probably useful as , as that kind of a time .
B: Yeah ,
B: maybe a little bit in that perspective ,
B: but , uh , and a lot of people have gone in the military , I mean , you know , when they 're in the college .
B: Sometimes it 's to help support college , you know , the money .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , others , people don't know what they want to do .
B: But as far as , uh , you know , the Peace Corps . I guess , I suppose there 's a few people that have done it at that point in their lives .
B: But I think a lot of it 's , you know , when people get older , they 'll do something like that .
A: I 'd probably have a different perspective if I actually knew someone that had gone into the Peace Corps .
B: Yeah .
A: But I don't .
B: I , I , I don't .
A: and none of my ,
B: Did n't mean to cut you off there .
A: Oh , that 's okay .
A: and none of my really close friends in college went off to be missionaries or anything .
A: So I don't really know anyone first hand that 's , that 's committed a chunk of their life to do service work .
B: I ,
A: Everybody I know has been ,
A: well , I 'm going to go get a good job and make some money and buy a nice car .
A: So .
B: Yeah , or , or try to make a living .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I , I have no , I don't know anybody that 's done that either .
B: So , I , I ,
B: it 's interesting we got this topic because I , I , I don't know what I marked off to get this ,
B: but .
A: I certainly did n't mark off anything to get this one .
A: I , I ca n't imagine ,
A: and the switchboard 's been down for several days ,
A: and the last time I called it before it went down , I had this topic ,
A: and I did n't feel like talking about it ,
A: so I hung up ,
A: and I guess they , they keep you on the same topic until you actually talk to somebody about it .
B: So you had the same one , huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , well . Well , you 'll , you 'll get it over with here
A: I know .
B: How many times have you talked ?
A: Oh , probably five or six .
B: Yeah .
A: Not a whole lot .
B: Oh , I 've done maybe four or five .
A: Yeah .
A: Did Dana sign you up for this ?
B: Well , she just sent me the information out .
B: I , I got a hold of it , you know ,
B: I just sent it back in ,
B: and .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's ,
A: she stuck my name on some list ,
A: so they mailed me the information that I filled out .
B: What other topics have you had ?
A: Um , I 've talked about camping with someone .
A: I 've talked about the weather .
B: Great ,
B: great .
A: That one was interesting because I talked to a man in , in Washington , D C ,
A: and it was hot here ,
A: and it was snowing there .
A: So that was pretty interesting .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I talked to someone about the , uh , the , uh , education system .
A: I forget exactly what the focus was on that one .
A: But that was fairly interesting .
A: And I talked to somebody about credit card usage .
B: Yeah .
A: And I talked to this person who I gathered from speaking to her , that , that she and her family just did n't have much ,
A: and they did n't have much credit available to them .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so she basically did n't use credit cards and did n't know very much about them and how they work , and , and how you can use them to your advantage , and , and how , you know , you , you can do certain things with them .
B: Huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I always , I use everything with my Visa ,
B: and I pay it all off .
A: Yeah .
B: So that 's a good deal for me .
B: I get free money for thirty days .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's the way I use them , uh
A: Yeah .
B: I try , I try to make sure I don't get in debt .
B: So .
A: Yeah ,
A: well that 's always a good plan .
A: I ca n't think of anything else that I 've talked about .
A: All that most of the ones on the list , I checked off stuff like football and , and stuff that I can , I , I would enjoy talking about
A: and I have n't gotten a one of them yet when I 've called .
B: I had , uh ,
B: let 's see ,
B: I 've had fishing ,
B: and , uh , I ca n't remember , me and , I think me and Dana had football .
B: Yeah ,
B: we did .
A: Oh , how funny .
B: Yeah .
B: So we talked about the Cowboys a little bit .
B: And , I 'm out here in Phoenix ,
B: so we talked about Cardinals .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , so , so that one was all right .
B: And then what else did I have ?
B: I think I had some other , uh , like staying in shape or working out .
B: This other guy , I got this guy from New York ,
B: so .
A: I had to talk to someone about hobbies ,
A: and the switchboard called me ,
A: so I was caught a little off guard ,
A: and I could n't think of anything at all .
A: So I started making stuff up .
A: I told this woman that my hobby was gardening ,
A: and I ca n't even I ca n't even grow an ivy .
B: And you 've probably never gardened in your life .
A: My grandfather gave me a plant once ,
A: that told , and he told me when he gave it to me that it was impossible to kill ,
A: you could freeze it ,
A: you could , you could dry it out ,
A: no matter what , you could n't kill it .
A: Well , I killed it pretty quick .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't have too much of a green thumb either .
B: So .
B: I do have one plant here ,
B: it 's been hanging out for a while ,
B: but I think it 's one of the easiest plants .
B: I ca n't , I don't know the name of it ,
B: but I 'm not too much into ...
A: Where do you live ?
B: Uh , in the Houston area .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I used to .
A: I lived there for a long time .
A: But I 'm now in Palo Alto , California which is , I think , the recycling capital of the world .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: So , we have many recycling activities
A: and I 'm , and in full , uh , support of all of them .
B: Oh , we are too .
B: Our community is , uh , just starting to get organized about it .
B: They just opened up a recycling center where we go and donate our , our things and dump them off ourselves .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it ,
A: Well , that 's something
A: but it , it seems to me that we 've gotten a whole lot better , um , cooperation out here , uh , by setting it up so that we pay just a little bit extra , uh ,
A: actually I don't think we pay very much extra at all too ,
A: but the , uh , garbage men , come by , uh , on your regular garbage day and pick up the recycling out at the curb .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think that 's great .
B: There 's a few places in Houston where they 're trying that out .
B: I don't know if it 's , the , if they 've done it citywide yet or not where they have the color coded , uh , bags and , uh , bins .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have burlap sacks ,
B: Oh .
A: and they give us one for aluminum and , uh , steel , one for metals , and one for glass ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then you can either bundle your newspapers or put them in grocery bags .
A: So , we have , we leave three little piles , that they need out on the curb every Thursday
A: and the garbage men come by and , uh , collect them and leave us new bags when ours get old and ratty or leave the ones if they 're still in good shape .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: And , the , it really pays for itself because , oh , then the city , gets the money from the recycling .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: we 're , we 're all for it .
B: Our , um ,
B: we 've got several bins in our , on , in our garage where we , uh , you know , sort things out and , and take it to , to the appropriate places .
A: Yeah ,
A: the one thing I wish we could recycle is magazines .
A: But they claim that because of the way they 're bound they , uh , it 's too expensive to recycle them .
A: At my office , we have two big cardboard boxes in the library where everybody goes to pick up their mail ,
B: Yes .
A: and they 're , uh ,
A: one 's for white paper
A: and one 's for colored paper
A: so anything like manuscripts or computer paper or things like that goes in those boxes ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but we get tons of catalogs and things like that and magazines ,
A: and there 's no way to get rid of them .
A: It just seems like such a waste .
B: Oh , it does .
B: It does .
B: But I 'm sure that they can , uh , find some sort of , uh , use for them if , you know , you know , there ,
B: I 've seen talk about , uh , using garbage for , uh , energy .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so , you know , you could also apply the magazines toward that .
A: Well , that would be a help .
A: I wish they would do that here .
A: We have got so little landfill space left that we 're going to run out before the end of this decade .
B: Yes .
A: And it 's really going to be a mess when they have to start hunting for places to put the things .
B: Oh , I know it .
A: We did have , uh , another novel , uh , experiment start this year .
A: Now we can put all our yard clippings out .
B: Oh .
A: You can , you buy these super giant heavy-duty paper bags ,
A: they 're about four-feet high .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you get them for I think it 's about fifty cents apiece at the grocery store you , um , usually buy them by the dozen .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then you put all your yard clippings and , uh , leaf rakings and anything that will be compostible .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: And those and they , the garbage men also pick those up on Thursdays .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: And then the , uh , they take them to a special part of our dump where composting is now in full swing ,
A: and at the end of every year , uh , they sell all the composts to nurserymen and to local people who want to put it on their flower beds
B: Right ,
B: well , that 's a great idea .
B: I wish we were that , uh , involved in , uh , or that our city was so involved in , that involved in recycling , like that
A: Yeah .
B: because , you know , I 've talked to many people
B: and we would n't mind going its extra effort to do it . Uh ,
A: If they make it so that it 's not a horrendous inconvenience , I think most people would .
B: Yeah ,
B: oh , yeah . You know ,
B: and I don't mind , you know ,
B: at first it was the , the little extra money that you got , you know , returning the cans in and stuff like that .
A: Right .
B: But now , you know , I don't mind as long as things are getting recycled , you know , that we don't get reimbursed .
A: No ,
A: I think it 's , it 's , to me more of a convenience to have them come pick it up , then to get that two cents when you take it to the store .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , I , oh , I know it .
A: We still have bins at the grocery stores where you can turn in bottles and cans , for cash .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But so few people , uh , have enough to make that worthwhile you 'd spend more in gas getting down there then you get back .
B: Right .
B: Yes .
B: And then the , plus the time that you waste standing in line is valuable also .
A: Now do the grocery stores in Houston have recycling for their paper bags and plastic bags ?
B: We have ,
B: I know of one that , the one that we use , uh , has , uh , recycling for the bags .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , and they 're promoting the cloth bags . You know , the reusable cloth bags .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , we can get a nickel apiece for any paper bags that we bring back to be reused .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: They just take it off like they do a coupon .
A: They can just subtract it from your bill ,
B: Oh .
A: and they have a giant bin by the front door for the plastic bags ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they say , as long as it 's clean they don't want a plastic bag that 's full of goop
B: Yes .
A: Here they don't want your rotted tomatoes .
A: But they want any clean and dry plastic bag
A: so I keep ,
A: and the thing is , I hardly have room now for all the things that we 're saving it to recycle ,
A: so right outside the back door , I 've got the two burlap bags hung up for the cans and bottles ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there , right outside the , that place where the garbage can is we have the bag for the newspapers ,
A: and now we 've got the bag for the plastic bags
B: I understand , uh ,
B: my husband about once a weekend he 'll go , uh , to a couple of areas where he knows that the people just throw cans out .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And he 'll go pick them up because he just ca n't stand that .
B: He , he ,
A: Well , how nice ,
A: that 's great .
B: And , uh , it 's so , you know ,
B: he , we have all our piles of , of recyclables also .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I remember at Christmas the , the only thing that I 'm ,
B: when you were talking about the composting , the only thing that our city did that was they uh , provided a place for us to take our Christmas trees . Uh , to for them to mulch . For , for city use .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , that 's ,
A: they just put all our Christmas trees in the regular , uh , compost , pickup
B: Uh-huh .
A: so they did say that you had to put it out within , I think it was , uh , three weeks after , Christmas .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , otherwise you would have to treat it like you would any other lawn refuse .
A: It would have to be cut into four-foot lengths .
A: So , you know , if we have branches or something , they have to be cut in four-foot lengths ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but otherwise , uh , they have to be in one of their paper bags .
B: Well , that sounds like you all really have a , a great system worked out there .
A: And they even picked up our , uh , Styrofoam packing materials .
A: They brought , uh , the week after Christmas they left a plastic bag on everybody 's front doorknob with a little note on it saying , we 're trying something new next week only , if you have any , uh , of those little , uh , Styrofoam peanuts that , any of your Christmas presents were packed in , put them in this bag and leave it out with your recycling
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we 'll , uh , take all of those back and try to recycle them .
B: Right .
B: Well , see that 's one ,
A: But I ,
A: that 's not going to be a regular feature .
A: That was just a one time thing right after Christmas .
B: Well , the ,
B: but , uh , something does need to be done about the Styrofoam that , uh ,
A: Well , those things must take up a huge amount of space in landfills .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I mean , they don't , uh , uh ,
A: They don't mash
B: No .
A: They don't compress at all .
A: And they stay forever .
B: Right .
B: And I 've seen where some places have taken a plastic and , uh , they 're recycling them into other plastics . And the Styrofoam also into insulation and things like that
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I think that would be great if they could get something organized along those lines .
A: Yeah ,
A: I do too .
A: The difficulty with that is that very few people have enough to make it worthwhile .
A: It , they really have to rely on businesses that generate a lot of that stuff .
B: Right .
A: Uh , because otherwise , uh , you know , they 're not going to go house-to-house collecting it ,
A: and you 're not going to bother if you have one bag full , to drive all the way to some recycling center to turn in just your little plastic peanuts
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right
B: Oh , I was thinking about , you know , like the , uh , the Styrofoam used at , uh , the fast-food restaurants , that if everybody , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: and so ,
B: yeah ,
B: I know like our cafeteria here uses a lot of Styrofoam
B: but , uh ,
A: Now we quit that about two years ago , no , three years ago when we got china mugs for everybody .
B: Huh .
A: So , and the only difficulty with that is that we 're in the middle of a five-year drought
A: and so it 's a real difficult choice whether we want Styrofoam cups to fill up our landfills or , uh , china cups to use up our water
A: But at the moment we 're using the china cups ,
A: and everybody gets one at the beginning of the year ,
A: and then , uh , your supposed to keep it recycled every day .
B: Well , that 's good .
B: That 's a ,
A: Yeah .
B: they should last awhile
A: Well , let us hope that everybody 's going to be paying more attention to this and that we will get , uh , better reuse of things
A: because ,
B: I believe we are .
B: I I have to believe everybody is starting to pay attention and take heed of what is happening .
A: Yep .
B: And so it will , it will be good , in the long run .
A: It sure will .
B: Well , I enjoyed it .
A: Well , good to talk ,
A: Yeah ,
A: the question was , uh , what kind of books do you read for entertainment , uh , uh , I guess ,
B: Oh , I just read for escape .
A: Okay
B: Well , I mean it 's ,
A: With two little kids I can understand that .
B: Yes .
B: It 's that 's simple .
B: I read to escape ,
B: and I don't read any PARENTS magazines either .
A: Oh
B: So .
A: What , uh , what kind of ,
B: Well , I just finished , just , I just finished one last night . A great book .
B: It , it 's very , a typical for my reading though but a great book , one called , THE THINGS THEY CARRIED by Tim O'Brien .
A: Huh .
B: And it 's , uh ,
B: God
B: I don't know if I would call it a collection of Vietnam war stories or if I 'd call it a collection of Vietnam love stories .
A: Oh .
B: Strange book . Beautifully written .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Just beautifully written .
A: By , uh , somebody who was there
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: a guy who was there as a , uh , foot soldier .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , he considered himself to be , you know , a , a true Vietnam soldier .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , any of the guys that were ground
A: yes .
A: Yeah ,
A: I can imagine .
B: Yeah .
B: So , what 's the latest one you 've read ?
A: Well , I tell you what ,
A: I 'm a kind of , uh , a history nut .
A: I 'm trying to think back now ,
A: I read an awful lot of , uh , periodicals and , uh , you know , almost what you call reference books .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , the last , uh , I 'm embarrassed to say the last , you know , honest to gosh , cover to cover book that I read , I can not , right offhand , I tried to read , uh , one of the , the Michener , uh , LONE STAR or the , the TEXAS HISTORY BOOK .
B: I have never been able to make it through any of Michener 's work .
A: Oh , well , I 've had similar problems .
A: It does tend to , to ,
B: Have you , are you a Civil War buff at all ?
A: Yeah , as a matter of fact ,
A: yeah
B: Because I finished one ,
B: I think this is like two years ago ,
B: and somebody had given me one of these dinky do , crappy women 's novels set in the Civil War , John Jakes with ,
A: Yeah .
B: and the novel did n't do that much for me .
B: But , boy , the period of time was fascinating .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I then read , was it BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: or ,
B: yeah ,
B: I think it was BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM .
A: BATTLE CRY OF FREEDOM .
B: It 's kind of like a historical compendium , of the Civil War ,
A: Yeah .
B: and it 's not a story of the Civil War ,
B: it 's a story of all the politics and , uh , lobbying and just basically state by state events , that lead to the events that brought about the Civil War .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's fascinating because I had always , you know , been raised on this , you know , Emancipation Proclamation with the Civil War .
A: Uh-huh .
A: There was a lot more to it than that , were n't there ?
B: There was a lot more to it than that .
B: As a matter of fact that was a very minor part that kind of become like an afterthought .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it was a political move .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: It was made to placate some of the northern support but not completely alienate all the southern support because , you know , it was , uh , if you read it , it only emancipated those who were in areas , uh , in rebellion against the United States .
A: All the other areas which would , I think at that time would have included West Virginia and , oh , may have been Kentucky , a few states , you know , that were not part of the South but still had slaves .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They did n't emancipate them .
B: Well , you know what else really surprised me , now
B: I 'm married to a native Texan
B: and I 'm not .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh ,
A: I 've got the same problem
B: yeah ,
B: I 'm glad you put it that way .
B: And I have two native Texan children too .
A: Yeah .
B: My husband is always , you know , talked about Texas being a , uh , rebel state .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , oh , my God , all this Civil War pride .
B: I kept waiting for ,
B: where 's some reference to this goddamn State of Texas and the role that they played either leading up to or in the Civil War .
A: is n't much there , was there ?
B: They might as well have not even been there .
A: Right .
B: You know , they were n't a state
B: and the only , the only way that they had any part in it was after worth as to , you know , who 's going to be going there .
B: And I keep telling my husband that ,
B: and he keeps saying , oh , no .
B: I thought , okay .
A: They supplied some , uh , you know ,
A: they were some groups of it , the Vicksburg ,
A: if you ever get a chance to go over to Vicksburg , the battleground at Vicksburg , uh , there 's an area there where there was , uh , some Texas , uh , groups
A: and they had an interesting time there .
B: Oh , I 'll bet they did .
A: And down there at Sabine Pass , uh , I ca n't think of the guy 's name
A: but he held off , uh , you know , just he and a handful of guys managed to hold off the whole Union navy for a while from coming up the Sabine River which was of no consequence but still is an interesting story .
B: Well , you know , why they actually held them off ?
B: None of the Yankees wanted to listen to their kind of luted grammar
A: That could be it could be it .
B: Now , you did n't hear me say that .
B: Outside of , uh ,
A: And then the last Civil War battle was fought at Val Verde , you know ,
A: over there on the Texas border you had a lot of , of groups heading for Mexico
A: and they were cut off at the pass more or less , at Eagle Pass .
A: And they did n't get across the river there
A: so they 're , the last ,
A: and that was actually after the war was over
A: but it was the last , organized battle between the two units was in Texas ,
B: Yeah .
A: so .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah ,
A: Texas participation in the Civil War was , uh , minor at , uh ,
A: it 's been ,
B: Boy ,
B: don't tell that to a native Texan though ,
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , my god , they fought and won the whole thing .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , my wife 's from Galveston ,
A: so .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I 'm from New Mexico
A: so , you know , I was
B: That 's a beautiful state .
B: That 's a beautiful state .
B: See I was raised in the Midwest which , you know , hell , we did n't even , you know , we did n't even know where the Mason Dixon Line was ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and besides , you know , if corn did n't grow there , it did n't matter .
A: Huh .
A: It sounds like Iowa or something .
B: Iowa and Nebraska .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yep .
B: And then I had probably lived the last eleven years in Massachusetts
B: so , you know . What does that make me , an honorary Yankee
A: Uh-huh .
B: or , God knows what .
A: Yeah ,
A: on ,
A: yeah .
A: Oh , well , my sister 's living in Illinois right now ,
A: so
B: Well then , she 's going to come out well rounded .
A: Yeah .
B: But outside of those kind of things , you know , the other thing that I 've really gotten into reading ,
B: and I think this is because the kids are getting to me , is science fiction .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 've always kind of enjoyed it .
A: I , I used to read a lot more than I do now .
B: Well , I 've gone to the point where my husband , my husband travels , I get out like , you know , two or three books .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I , I 'm trying to think of , oh , Isaac Asimov , ROBOT series .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , I think I 've read all four of them
B: and I understand that there 's a fifth .
A: Uh-huh .
B: In the last six weeks he 's been on the road a lot .
A: I just turned around and looked at my brief , at my briefcase , my , uh , bookcase up here
A: and I see ARMAGEDDON up there .
A: And , uh , the SHADOW OF BLOOMING GROVE and TWO THOUSAND AND TEN and GRANT TAKES COMMAND and THE WAR IN THE YEAR oh , SPACE that was the one I was trying to wade through was SPACE , James Michener . Did n't get very far on that .
B: You know , I think I read HAWAII , when I was about ten years old
A: Yeah .
B: or so .
A: Yeah .
B: Which is about the developmental level that , you know , you need to be at to read those things ,
B: and I still even then I was so , so disgusted with it I , I tried to read , I don't remember which other one it was ,
B: whatever one it was it was such a blockbuster seller .
A: Yeah .
B: And I just , I got about like a hundred pages through it and realized I had like a thousand more ,
B: I thought , I ca n't do this .
A: Yeah ,
A: it really
A: the , the books are kind of , uh , imposing to say the least .
B: Yeah .
A: No ,
A: let 's see ,
A: here 's one called GHOST TOWNS AND MINING CAMPS OF NEW MEXICO
A: now , not too many people have read that one
A: I don't think .
B: No .
A: And there 's THE HISTORY OF YOAKUM COUNTY , TEXAS there .
A: I 've got , uh ,
B: Is that a big , thick book ?
A: Yeah ,
A: and I 've got , yeah , and I 've got a HISTORY OF KINGSLEY , IOWA .
B: What the , what the hell for ?
B: Why Kingsley , Iowa ?
A: Well , because that 's where my folks all came from .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And they had a centennial here awhile back .
A: I read the GRANT TAKES COMMAND ,
A: that was pretty good .
B: Well ,
A: That was part of that trilogy that , uh , Bruce Canton did .
B: Now that 's one that , That 's one
B: I don't know .
B: See , I had never really been into science fiction that much until , uh , somebody gave me MIST OF AVALON probably about five or six years ago .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know if I 'd call it science fiction or fantasy .
A: Sometimes it 's awful hard ,
A: some of those get very philosophical
A: they can be in any setting ,
A: they just happen to put them in a futuristic setting , you know ,
A: the ,
B: Well , I loved that novel .
B: And then somebody said , oh , God , this would have been even long ago because I was in Boston
B: and it was raining all night ,
B: and I had a hole in my roof
B: and I was waiting for the whole house to collapse , and , uh , I was reading DUNE . Which seeming rather ironic .
A: Oh .
A: Yeah .
B: And I read the whole damn book while I was home hauling out , you know , like ten-gallon buckets of , of water and waiting for the roof to collapse and , reading about these guys wearing their little free man still suits
A: Uh-huh ,
A: you 're reading DUNE .
B: and , I think that 's probably my favorite of , of any piece of science fiction that I 've ever read .
A: That was a movie too , was n't it ?
B: And the movie was awful .
A: Was it ?
B: Oh , yes ,
B: it was just terrible .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'd , I did n't see it
A: but , uh ,
A: yeah .
B: It was , it was beyond , uh ,
A: Patrick Stewart was in that .
A: I guess the guy that 's on the new STAR TREK series was in that thing , uh
B: I don't know ,
B: I just remember Sting was in it .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and if you were trying to follow any type of , uh , plot , it , it
B: even having read the book , and I 've read that book probably three times , watching that movie , I could n't figure out , what they were talking about , at all .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Could n't ,
A: Yeah .
B: I was real disappointed in that .
B: Well , I 'll tell you another good book ,
B: do you like scary things ?
A: Um , well , some history , books are pretty scary ,
B: Have you ,
A: but ,
A: yeah
B: That 's true .
B: Have you read , THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS ?
A: No .
A: Somebody who , saw the movie here the other day told me it was the most terrifying thing they 'd ever seen ,
B: Oh .
A: they did n't sleep all night .
B: Well , see I , I am debating whether or not I want to go see the movie after having read the book .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean the book is , is chilling .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have ,
B: Just chilling .
A: no , uh ,
A: I don't have the foggiest notion what it 's about ,
A: so .
B: Then I wo n't tell you .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah
A: But ,
B: It 's just that if you 're ever , ever really want to just be scared out of your wits ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's the one .
B: That 's the one .
B: Yes .
A: Even better than JAWS and some of that ?
B: Yes ,
B: because the the , the character that is so horrible is another human being .
B: And you 're just drawn into his , his horror , of him that you , begin to kind of like him .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: I mean ,
A: A , a Freddy Kruger type , huh ?
B: No ,
B: no .
B: This guy 's smart
B: and he 's suave
B: and he 's all the all the , characteristics ,
A: Oh the worst kind ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: yeah ,
B: all the characteristics ...
B: Okay .
A: All right .
B: Um , I , I understand that it 's being proposed as a requirement , for , uh , young people to be , to go into public service .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think ,
A: Yes ,
A: all , all young Americans , they did not specify , you know , exactly what young means .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: I think that it probably would be a , a good program .
B: I think probably two years is too long .
A: Yeah .
B: I think maybe a year would be , the longest .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: you 're probably right ,
A: two years might be a little too long .
B: Yeah ,
B: and there will be a lot of rebellion in that
B: and when you get people who have no desire to be there in the first place , I don't think that they 're going to be serving anybody .
A: That 's right .
A: That , that would be the problem . Sure would .
B: Yeah .
B: So I think it would be a good thing though , to encourage other people who are n't even aware that they can do such a thing . to get out there and do so .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: or maybe offer them , you know , some sort of an incentive to do it . Uh , you know college credit , you know , something , you know ,
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: I 'm not sure what
A: but ,
B: Right .
B: College credit is a good idea because ,
A: I 'm not sure they need to be , you know , paid , you know ,
A: a super do salary of any kind .
B: Right .
A: but that , that kind of takes away from public service .
B: That 's right
B: Yeah ,
B: they probably could n't do anything monetary ,
B: but I think , giving , giving some kind of college credit ,
A: But , just , you know , to receive a letter in the mail , that says , you know , you need to report somewhere by next Monday , you know you need to report somewhere by next Monday , you know .
A: I 'm not sure that would be a terrifically good idea .
B: No ,
B: I don't think so either because a lot of people , um , depending on how the public service programs are set up
B: and I 'm not that familiar with them to know ,
A: I 'm not either really .
B: But , you know , if , a , a lot of people flat ca n't afford to .
A: That 's right .
B: You know ,
A: That 's right .
B: and most kids these days have gotten themselves into , uh , financial situations , where they have to be working all the time .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
A: Absolutely .
A: They need , young families , whatever ,
B: So , it 's , it 's a really tough question .
B: That 's right .
A: they just could n't , you know , take off to do that .
B: Yeah ,
A: Oh ,
B: and , if you put them in public service right out of high school , then that , that postpones their college , for a year
A: That 's right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and that would upset a lot of people too , because they just want to get on ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: it sure would .
A: It would have to be a lot of , you know , thought given to something like that , I would think .
B: Yeah .
B: I , you know , I think it would be good for a lot of people to get involved in that kind of program ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I , I think it ca n't be something that 's mandatory .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: it has to be something that 's voluntary . You know , which is pretty much the way it is now .
B: They might ,
A: That 's right .
A: I 'm not even really sure at this point in time , you know , what , what programs are out there .
B: Yeah ,
B: and that 's the other thing is that , you know , instead of making it mandatory , they maybe need to publicize it a little bit better . and , uh , you know , go to the schools and do programs , and tell them that we need your help , and , you know , uh , volunteer for such and such a time ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you 've a choice of where you want to go .
A: Yeah .
B: and , and that way , handling it that way they could probably get some results out of it .
A: Yeah ,
A: like maybe if , if there was something they could do in their own , own , in their own town or city , yeah , and not have to pull up roots and , you know , go somewhere half way around the world , or something .
B: Yeah ,
B: in their own community ,
B: right .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true
B: Most of them probably would n't do something like that . Although there are a lot of kids who would do it just to get away from their parents
A: That 's right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's true too .
A: That 's true too .
B: But , they would have to be supported in some way ,
B: and I 'm not sure that those programs are available to do that .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Me neither .
A: And , you wonder , you know , what kind of quality job would they do , you know , Just sit around for their year ,
B: Right .
A: or would they really , you know , make a contribution of some kind .
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's tough .
A: It 's tough .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is tough .
B: It 's ,
B: and I don't know who 's even proposing it , or , or how they plan on implementing it , if they do .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I 'm not sure either .
A: But , I think , there would have to be a lot more , you know , information , you know , disseminated , before you say , let 's do this , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I think going to the schools would be the easiest for them .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , it be ,
B: it would n't take up much , much , it would take up more time than anything
B: but it would n't take up a lot of money .
A: Yeah .
B: They would n't have to spend money advertising and things like that .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right .
B: You go to school
B: and you have a kind of a captive audience ,
B: get them all in the auditorium ,
A: Yeah .
B: and you , you give them your speech and maybe a little slide show or something ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , I think , that they could get some results from that , because there are a lot of people who are volunteer and community minded ,
A: Right .
B: but they don't know where to go to , to , to do anything .
A: That 's right .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's a real waste too .
A: It really is .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
B: It really is .
A: I don't really see the emphasis on things like Peace Corps , like we , you know , we saw back , I guess , in the Carter administration ,
B: Right .
A: that was , that was a big thing with him .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And , I guess even back to Kennedy , as a matter of fact , I guess Kennedy may be the one that actually started the thing , or was , you know , really interested in things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I just don't hear much about it anymore .
A: Like I say , I don't even know what programs are , are even ongoing now , you know .
B: I don't either
B: That 's one ,
A: Anyway , it 's a tough question .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is a tough question .
A: Okay ,
A: well thanks for your time .
A: I enjoyed talking to you .
B: Sure ,
B: same here .
A: Okay ,
A: take care .
B: you too .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
A: Well , how about you .
A: Do you use P C
B: Oh constantly .
A: Yeah .
A: You and me both .
B: It seems everything I do is computer related .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And if it goes down , then we 're stuck all day .
A: Yeah .
A: And so I like the I B M P C , personally .
B: Huh-uh .
A: But that 's pretty much everything I 've worked with
A: and , uh , I 've become so accustomed to it that , uh , it 's second nature .
B: Yeah .
A: What do you use ?
B: Well , I have an , I , I B M P S two , model thirty .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's kind of , kind of getting too slow for me ,
B: but my job , I 'm an E D P auditor ,
B: so I audit , uh , computer applications both on the personal computer and the mainframe level .
A: Oh , huh-uh .
B: And I use my personal computer constantly ,
B: not only do I do P C type things like , uh , using lotus or word processors ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: I also use my P C to emulate a mainframe terminal for our I B M mainframe and also to emulate a deck terminal for our deck machine .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Oh , okay .
B: So all I have on my desk is my P C ,
B: but I 'm , I 'm getting , not only our local area network ,
B: but I 'm getting two separate mainframe machines , also .
A: Oh , okay .
A: So we , um , we use , it 's an I B M P S two also .
B: Huh-uh .
A: And , um , you know , every now and then the file gets so big , that , you know , it moves slower than I 'd like
B: Huh-uh .
A: but I , uh , I do mainly graphic work on it . And , uh , a little bit of word processing and then lotus applications to it .
B: Huh-uh .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I don't know ,
A: I just , I enjoy working with them .
B: Yeah
A: There 's so many capabilities out there ,
A: I mean , the things you can do are endless .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've become kind of the P C guru in our audit department because it 's mostly financial auditors with an accounting back ground ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: And there 's three of us E D P auditors
B: and one of the three of us has an accounting background
B: and so she 's not real proficient in P C 's
B: and the other just has , not used P C 's that much ,
A: Yeah .
B: so I ended up taking on the load of making sure everybody knows what they 're doing
B: and I 'm the administrator for our local area network .
B: And I need to keep that going
B: and , So , I , I 'm , I could n't live my life without a P C .
A: Huh-uh .
B: I don't have one at home ,
A: We have one at home ,
A: but I just don't find the time that I can use it .
B: Yeah .
B: Right now I would rather not have one at home , because I would work at home .
A: Yes .
B: Um , we 've got a couple of portable lap top P C 's at the office that I end up bringing one of them home a lot , to do work .
A: Huh-uh .
B: If I had a machine already installed at home I would probably work just about every night
A: One of the reasons why I got mine , was before I went on maternity leave ,
A: they did n't know how they were going to do without me at work because , I am pretty much the , like you said , the guru , in the office with the different programs and any trouble shooting that there is ,
B: Yeah .
B: Huh-uh .
A: and , um , so they did n't know how it was going to work ,
A: they knew they were going to have to get a modem so that we could , in the decks machine so that we could , in my home , so that we could make it through this eight weeks or so .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , you know , it 's , uh , it 's almost like we could become too dependent on them .
B: Yeah .
A: And oh , I , we use a lot of free lance .
B: Huh-uh .
A: And , uh , that 's , uh , pretty much takes up a lot of our day so for as producing transparencies and things .
B: Yeah .
A: And , um , it ,
A: uh , compared to the way the things have upgraded , Have , uh , really ,
B: Right .
A: what 's the word I 'm looking for ,
A: I 'm just totally drawing a blank
A: But , uh , the way things have changed over the years with the P C and the different programs is just great .
A: It 's remarkable the things we can do now , and compared to , you know , a few years . Just the power ,
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm , I 'm trying to , uh , get an updated machine .
A: Mine , uh , is just putting along
B: And it 's not fast enough for a new four eighty six chip ,
B: but , uh , I don't know if my boss will spring for it .
A: Yeah .
B: But I 'm determined to brake mine
B: so he has to get me another one .
B: We think about that a lot .
A: Yeah
B: Well , that 's what I do .
B: We had a printer , a Hewlett Packard Ready Writer .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And we had about ten people sharing this printer
B: by , it was attached to like a central P C
B: and you had to take your diskette to the P C to print something .
A: Um , now that 's awful .
B: So the first thing has when I started working at this bank , is , I said , well , now first of all we need to all be able to share this P C without getting up .
B: So I talked my boss into investing in a , it 's not a , uh , a uh , real elaborate local area network ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: but we can share the printer
B: and we can , uh , send files to each other ,
A: Okay .
B: And we can mail , send mail messages to each other , which is good enough ,
A: Oh , okay .
B: it 's what we need .
A: Right .
B: And then I talked them into buying a H P Laser Jet .
A: Oh , yes .
B: And that was a major ordeal to get him to buy it .
B: But once he bought it , he has been so pleased .
B: It 's , it 's fast ,
B: it 's quite ,
B: oh , it has good copy .
A: Right .
A: The copy that you can with one of those as compared to one of those dot matrix printers .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've got a little , little , uh , I B M Pro Printer on my desk ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , and I can use either the Pro Printer
B: or I 've got my P C configured to where I can use either printer . The one that 's on the network or my own .
A: Huh-uh .
B: So if I just need something real quick , and I don't feel like getting up and going and getting what I printed ,
B: I can just print it in my office .
A: Um , we 're just trying to talk ours into getting a laser printer .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , it 's just so ,
A: the budget restraints and things like that , it 's , makes it difficult
A: and , uh ,
B: They have gotten really cheap .
B: Hewlett Packard makes , it 's actually a dot matrix printer
A: Huh-uh .
B: but the quality is almost laser quality .
A: Oh , huh-uh .
B: And I think it 's called the desk jet
B: and they 're , you understand , I think they 're about five hundred dollars now .
A: And we , uh , got a quote on some laser printers the other day at six hundred dollars .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't remember what kind they were ,
A: but , uh , we do a lot of transparencies .
B: Huh-uh .
A: Sometimes the color would take too long to plot out .
B: Yeah .
A: So they just want black and white , which see we can just run them through the laser printer real quick . Because it will only take a minute to print one of those out and then run a thermal copy of it .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , it , uh ,
B: So that 's all you need for like charts and stuff .
B: You don't need them in four colors .
A: No ,
A: huh-uh .
A: If it was a customer presentation then that would be different .
B: Yeah .
A: We would want to razzle-dazzle a bit .
A: But , uh , it 's , uh ,
A: yeah .
A: We have one in the office
A: and if we want , well in our area , if we want to use it , we have to , you know , like you said , you had to change it , put it on a disc , And carry it over to there , and see if they 're not using the printer ,
B: You use the system .
A: Right
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , wait for an opportunity to use it .
B: Yeah ,
B: we you 'd have to just sit and wait while someone else was using the printer .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Until they got off the machine .
A: I know ,
A: I know ,
A: I understand .
B: That was ,
B: I was amazed when I came to work ,
B: I worked at the , uh ,
B: well , it used to be the largest bank in San Antonio until N C N B came up and bought the rival
B: and now N C N B . And now N C N B 's got a little larger market share ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: but it 's the only , uh ,
B: well , it 's part of the bank holding company and that bank holding company of the ten largest banking holding companies in Texas .
B: It 's the only one that 's still alive .
A: Oh , huh-uh .
B: Any way , I work in a big prestigious place .
A: Right .
B: And I could n't believe when I walked in the door on my first day and here 's the audit department of this , this huge holding company , sharing a H P Rugged Writer
B: I was going oh , wait a minute
B: Come on guys ,
B: this is crummy .
A: So how are you supposed to expect to stay number one when you 're behind the times in technology .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: We 're pushing real hard though .
B: We 're , we 're trying ,
B: well , see , the entire bank is not like that .
B: We ,
B: the , the bank philosophy is one of innovation and , Lead the market .
A: Huh-uh .
B: It 's just the audit department happened to be just a little behind the times because the , uh , the senior vice president , over audits , is cheap .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And it 's real hard to pry money out of him to , to do these things ,
B: but I was , I was able to convince him that it would be cost effective and that our board presentations would be much better
B: and ,
A: Right .
B: Um .
A: We find it hard to believe sometimes , or hard to understand when , uh , we work for a computer company , and , uh , how are we supposed to present the imagine that we 're supposed to present with equipment that 's outdated , That 's obsolete
B: Yeah .
A: and the guys that , some of the guys that run this place are very tight
A: and it 's like , Well , why do we need this ,
A: ca n't you do that with , you know , what we have ,
A: and when we try and then they complain about , this does n't look good .
B: Yeah .
B: Unfortunately , the , the , uh , computer equipment and , and related peripherals are changing and improving so rapidly ,
B: like for instance , we bought a have ...
A: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: that made a nice ugly sound .
B: So ,
A: Your name is Lynn ?
B: Linda .
A: Linda .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So , sounds like you like to read .
A: Yeah ,
A: I read quite a bit , probably don't read as much as I would like to .
B: I don't read as much as I would like to either .
B: I 'm , I 'm a single mom ,
B: but I have always loved reading .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What do you like to read ?
A: Um , well um , I 'm a , I 'm a counselor , a therapist by trade ,
A: so most of my books are , um , I guess what you 'd call self improvement type of books .
B: That what I 've been reading lately a lot of .
B: Um , my interests switch around dramatically .
B: I used to read just , mainly fiction ,
B: and now I , like a said , I 've read a lot of self , self help books .
A: Uh-huh .
A: What kind of things have you read ?
B: Oh , I read all kinds of things for , um , helping people survive a divorce .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , THE ROAD LESS TRAVELLED was probably one of my favorites .
B: Have you read that ?
A: Uh , I have n't gotten through it yet .
B: You have n't ?
A: No .
B: Okay ,
B: what would you recommend ?
A: Um , as far as dealing with divorce ?
B: Oh , I 'm kind of getting that one past me , but a good self help book .
A: Good self help .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , um probably the best one that I , I know of and I work with all the time is called SEARCH FOR SIGNIFICANCE by Robert McGee
B: Um , that sounds good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's one that we use in our work .
A: It 's probably one you 'd find in like a Christian book store .
A: I don't know what the chains are down there . Maybe in the mall family book store , something like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm writing it down .
B: That does that 's sound really good .
B: Um , what kind of counseling do you do ,
B: or should we stay on the topic of books ?
A: Um , probably should stay on the topic ,
A: but that has a little bit to do with some of the things that I read
A: I 'm a therapist for Rossa .
A: It 's a Christian treatment organization
B: Oh .
A: and because of that I see , uh , work with adolescents specifically ,
A: so I see a lot of kids with , with various problems .
A: Right now some of the things I 'm working with are kids that are dealing with sexual abuse ,
A: so a lot of the books I 've been reading have to do with helping them get through those issues .
B: Oh , I would imagine helping them feel good about themselves
B: they 're at a bad stage anyway ,
B: and then to have to deal with sexual abuse would be terrible , as a teen .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's , uh , that must be a wonderful feeling to be in that profession and be able to make a contribution like that .
A: Well , sometimes it 's rewarding ,
A: and , and sometimes it 's a struggle .
B: Oh , I 'm sure ,
B: I 'm sure .
B: Uh , what
B: is , is that just the only type of reading you 've been doing ,
B: or do you , have you read any good novels lately ?
A: Um , I guess I 've got so many books like that that I need to read
A: it 's , it 's hard for me to do a lot of , uh , reading , yeah , reading just for enjoyment .
B: just joy reading .
B: Yeah .
B: I hear you there ,
B: that 's for sure . Um ,
A: In fact ,
B: I guess , the last book I 've read ,
B: my oldest daughter had to read LOST HORIZONS for her English class ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I just realized I had never read it growing up .
B: So , I just finished reading that for enjoyment .
A: Um , that 's neat .
B: And it it was good .
B: Um , she , she 's not , did n't enjoy it much ,
B: so I did n't get much satisfaction trying to discuss it with her .
B: But I thought it was real interesting .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've always wanted to go back and read some of my literature texts from college um , because I enjoyed some of those stories so much ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I never seem to have the time to do that kind of reading .
B: I know .
B: Yeah .
B: Um , I trying to think of some of my other favorite books ,
B: but , I , I keep lists ,
B: I must have a list of , oh , two hundred , three hundred books that I want to read .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Just like , I want to read that and I write it down .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've got a stack next to my bed
B: So do I .
A: I tend to get a little bit of ways in a book
A: and then I , I get distracted , and , or have to start on another one ,
A: it 's pretty tough to keep up with .
A: I was trying to think of ,
A: I , I 've got a copy of THE ROAD LESS TRAVELLED
A: but I was trying to think , there 's another Scott book that I 've got that I had read .
B: Uh , He , he also wrote PEOPLE OF THE LIE .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's the one I was thinking of .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I bought that one ,
B: and I did n't get into , involved in that one as well .
B: There 's another one he wrote that even sounds better ,
B: and it 's kind of the whole concept of global peace , you know , like , and communities building communities .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Someone just recently said something really neat about that .
B: Uh , I got involved in , uh , Beginning Experience Weekends ,
B: and , uh , it was of the people from there that said that .
B: His latest book , and I ca n't recall the name of it , is just excellent ,
B: and his whole idea is , we can build a better world if people get involved in good community building projects .
B: And he did , uh , mention Beginning Experience Weekends as one of the , you know , one of the places .
A: Uh .
B: So , I 've um ,
A: That 's interesting .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it really was .
B: A real fun bunch of books that I read , uh , the beginning of last year were , um , the author of JONATHAN , JONATHAN LIVINGSTON SEAGULL
A: Uh-huh .
B: I ca n't think of his name .
A: Is it ?
B: Pardon me
A: ?
B: uh , no , uh , oh ,
B: it 'll , it 'll come to me ,
B: but he wrote , he wrote the ILLUSION , and A BRIDGE OVER A BRIDGE TO FOREVER .
B: Those are mind expanding books
A: Um .
B: His concepts are so different than what I would have ever dreamed of .
B: I ca n't think of what his name is right , right off the bat , though .
B: But , uh , they , they were fun .
B: They were real just books for fun .
A: Uh-huh
B: Have you been involved on the Switchboard long ?
A: Um , not very long .
A: I really just started .
B: Uh-huh .
B: How did you get involved ?
A: My wife has been working for T I .
B: Oh , I see .
B: I 'm a former T I-er .
B: I just recently quit .
B: And so , uh , I got myself involved in a sales job ,
B: and right now , my list of books to be read have to do with , uh , the art of selling .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: So .
A: It 's just , I was just thinking , at , at Rossa
A: they tend to come out with a new book every couple of weeks just to help us deal with all the things that we have to deal with .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I keep getting stacks of books I need to read ,
A: and , I don't know when I 'm going to get to them all .
B: Never ,
B: never
B: there 's never going to be enough hours in the day .
A: I don't think so .
B: Even if you took speed reading . Huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't think so .
B: So , well , I 'm trying to think of what other kind .
B: Do you like to read mysteries .
A: Yeah ,
A: a little bit .
B: Do you like Ken ?
A: Um . Trying to think .
B: He writes , uh , spy novels , THE EYE OF THE NEEDLE
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I 've , I 've really , I really have found his books enjoyable
A: I like that kind of stuff .
A: I think the last novel I read I read , I guess , in conjunction with my wife over vacation last year .
A: It was a , um , last name 's ,
A: it 's called PIERCING , no , it 's called THIS PRESENT DARKNESS .
B: Um .
A: It 's , uh , kind of unusual book .
A: It 's a lot about spiritual warfare and some things like that .
B: Oh that sounds interesting .
B: like phone knocking against It sounds really good .
B: Hey , you should make yourself a promise that you 'll , you 'll read one novel in the next six months , just for you .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , it 's , it 's so easy to get caught up on reading just for your work , or , you know , self improvement ,
B: and you kind of forget the fun of reading
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: Yeah ,
B: very easily .
B: So
A: Well , I guess we 've covered the topic pretty thoroughly .
B: I think so , too .
B: And I thank you for calling .
A: Yeah ,
A: nice talking to you , Linda .
B: And , uh , I 'll have to check out that book you , told me about .
A: Okay ,
A: great .
B: Okay ,
A: Hope you like you it .
B: Thank you .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You take care .
A: You , too .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay , Deanna , uh ,
A: on capital punishment in our state , they give the death penalty for shooting of a policeman ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I believe also in shooting of , uh , rape , I mean killing a rape victim . I mean someone in the process of rape ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I don't know what I don't really remember what else .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But .
B: How do what do you think about it .
A: I think it 's justified .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Very much so .
B: I agree , I , I , agree , you know ,
B: I ,
A: I think it should be in other cases other than just shooting a policeman
B: Yeah ,
B: oh , I do too ,
B: I do too .
A: I mean , I think they 're doing their duty ,
A: but I think if they 're going to come out and kill somebody else then they deserve it .
B: They ought to get it for killing a civilian just as easily as a policeman .
A: That 's right ,
A: I agree .
B: Yeah .
B: I agree .
B: Uh , I heard something on the news the other night they were talking about , uh , oh , I know what it was ,
B: it was in our , in our little local paper , our little Lewisville paper that comes out twice a week on the front page every week , uh ,
B: there 's a little thing at the bottom
B: it 's like a call in survey that says , you know , do you think so
B: and so , and then you call this number
B: and you press like one for yes and two for no .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And one of the things , the questions the other day , this last paper , and I have n't seen the results of it , I 'm anxious to , was do you think that , um , capital punishment ought to apply to drug dealers . Which I thought was a real interesting question
A: Oh I think ,
A: Right ,
A: right ,
A: did you see SIXTY MINUTES tonight , by any chance ?
B: No ,
B: I did n't ,
B: huh-uh .
A: Well , they were showing a segment on a man in Philadelphia that 's going after the drug dealers .
A: He 's just a civilian ,
A: he 's a black man ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he just got fed up with it .
B: Uh-huh
A: And he said he 's had his house broken into and windows smashed and his car stolen three times and everything , trying to keep him quiet ,
B: Uh-huh
A: but he 's organizing people ,
A: and they 're going out and marching on the corners and taking back their territory
B: You know , I think that 's what it 's going to take , though .
A: I think so ,
A: I think ,
B: I really do .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: it 's going to take , uh , you know ,
B: the police , I think , I don't think can do it , can do it alone , you know .
A: That 's right ,
A: I think you 're right .
B: It 's going to take , uh , it 's going to take all of us getting together ,
B: I 'm sorry , I 'm trying to ,
B: my kid is asking for a kiss and a hug so he can go to bed
B: It 's going to take all of us , you know getting together and just saying , we are not going to take it any more .
A: Right .
A: We wo n't allow this in our neighborhood .
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: And it said they 're going to other neighborhoods from there ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then quite often they 'll get shot , because they 're horning in on somebody else 's territory .
B: Uh .
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right , uh .
A: I think they said forty-one had been shot out of one church in the last year .
B: Oh my gosh .
B: The only thing about the death penalty and , and I know that , that they try to be careful
B: and they try to be sure
B: but these people are on death row for like twenty years , you know .
A: Right ,
A: I know it .
B: you know
B: if , if , you know
B: I , I think to be , you know being convicted is one thing , you know ,
B: and that 's , and that 's great if they 're if they 're sentenced to death ,
B: to me you could not sentence them to death unless , the case was for sure .
B: I mean it
A: Well it goes all through the it goes all through the state supreme court system before they 're ,
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: by the time it gets there
B: and they 've been convicted
B: and then they 've been sentenced to death ,
B: they 're sure .
B: I mean there 's no doubt ,
B: I mean , I ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: then it should happen ,
A: yeah .
B: there can be no shadow of a doubt in my mind ,
B: there has to be no shadow of a doubt to get that penalty .
A: That 's right .
B: So once , they 've gotten the penalty and there is no doubt , do it , you know ,
B: just ,
A: Right .
B: I I guess , I mean that may sound , that sounds cold ,
B: but gosh , you know , we 're keeping , you know we 're , we 're keeping these men in prison for fifteen or twenty years on death row , and not doing anything with them ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's right .
B: and it 's costing us a heck of a lot of money
B: and that 's terrible to look at it that way ,
B: but .
A: Yeah
A: it is ,
A: I know
A: but that , that 's the way it is
B: if the crime was bad enough that they were sentenced to death , then do it , you know , uh .
A: We had one in Virginia that was sentenced to death
A: and the execution was to have taken place a few weeks ago ,
A: I don't know if there was anything in your paper about it .
B: I did n't notice it ,
B: huh-uh .
A: And there was a lot of protest ,
A: even Robert Redford , you know , was protesting this guy 's execution .
B: Gosh ,
B: yeah .
A: So the governor backed down
A: and I was so mad .
B: Oh , man .
A: The crime was horrible , his crime was just horrible
B: Yeah ,
B: and those kind of people , I 'm sorry , you don't reform them , you know ,
A: No ,
A: I don't think ,
B: I really
B: you don't .
A: Huh-uh .
B: If they 're the kind of people that commit these excuse me , grotesque crimes and have done it over and over and over again , you don't reform those kind of people .
A: Huh-uh ,
A: and being under the influence of drugs is no excuse to me .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: and I don't know ,
B: the same thing goes with some of these insanity pleas , you know .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: Well , if you 're insane enough that you can go cut twelve people up into little bitty pieces and bury them in your back yard , then are can , can you be helped , you know ,
B: I have , I have my doubts , you know .
A: That 's right ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I do too .
B: I , you know , I don't know ,
B: I think there 's a point ,
B: some of these plea bargains and all this kind of stuff that they do , it 's just , it just gets out of hand ,
A: Right .
B: and I understand that , you know , that , you know ,
B: my husband and I ,
A: Was n't it Lewisburg that had a lot of , uh , bad things happening just in the last couple of weeks ,
A: or was it not .
B: No .
A: No .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: it was , I think it was the south east area , from Dallas .
B: Oh , really .
A: My daughter , my daughter lives down in Rowlett
B: Yeah .
A: and she was telling me about it .
B: Oh really .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , I ca n't remember what the town was , some little area .
B: We 've had several here lately
B: and , it ,
B: there were several of them in North Dallas
B: and then it started kind of happening a couple of places in South Dallas
B: and that 's maybe what you were talking about .
B: Men breaking in , uh , to houses and taking , or a man ,
B: they , they think it 's the same person , taking , uh , little girls right straight out of their beds at night . And , you know , breaking in , obviously watching them in the house , because they 're breaking into the right window , you know , the little girl 's bedroom . And taking them out , putting them in a car and driving them out and taking them out and molesting them and then bringing them back and throwing them back in their own front yards .
A: Oh gosh .
A: And that 's the last they
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , gee .
A: Is that right .
B: Yes ,
B: that is happened ,
A: I had n't heard about that .
B: I think there 's been , I think there 's been like six or seven of them , over the last like probably eight or nine months .
A: Gosh .
A: They don't kill them ?
A: They just
B: They don't kill them ,
B: no .
A: Gosh .
B: They 've
B: and they 're all like , um , like anywhere from nine to twelve years old , I think is what they 've been .
A: Gosh .
B: And he 's taken them and , and raped them and then brought them right back and just kind of thrown them out of the car in their front yard .
A: Boy that 's scary , is n't it .
B: Oh , can you imagine , because it , it happens in the middle of the night ,
B: so the parent , you know , these parents did n't know this , the , the kid was gone until the kid is knocking on the door screaming , let me in .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , boy .
B: You know , can you imagine .
A: Yeah ,
A: you would n't even dare put these signs in the little emblems in the window saying child in this room , in case of fire , you know .
A: Have you seen those ?
B: I , you know , I 've got one of those in Brian 's room .
A: Yeah .
B: I never even thought about that .
B: God , maybe I 'll take it out .
A: Yeah
B: I had n't even thought about it
B: That 's terrible .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
B: Well it 's really bad that you have to be , you know ,
B: we , we were over at a neighbor 's tonight
B: and , my little boy is is just a little over two
B: and their little boy is like five , you know ,
B: so there 's a big difference ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they were playing in the back yard
B: and we were getting ready to leave
B: and I went out in the back yard to get Brian
B: and the boys were gone
B: and the back fence was open .
A: Oh , gosh ,
A: oh gosh .
B: , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: And she did n't act like it bothered her at all , oh ,
B: this happens all the time .
B: And we walked through the fence out , the alleys , come to the back of the house , you know .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: And and I looked down both directions of the alley
B: and I saw neither one of them
B: and , uh . And she was like oh God , he does this all the time , you know , where are you you know , screaming , J D
A: Oh .
A: Oh boy
B: And you know , my heart was in my throat , you know ,
A: And he 's five ?
A: Shoo , I guess so .
B: and , uh , he , Brian was two houses down . You know ,
A: Gee .
B: and he , you know ,
B: I don't know ,
A: I know .
B: Parents around here just let their kids run everywhere ,
B: and I just ca n't do that .
A: Yeah ,
A: there was a little girl picked up in Rowlett from , uh , from her front yard
A: and her dad was working in the back yard , and had just left her few minutes in the front yard
A: and somebody apparently drove up and took her
A: and they never saw her again
B: Oh , man , this is too scary , that is just too scary .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I let Brian play here in the back yard
B: and we 've got , there 's two gates that go into the back yard
B: and we 've got one of those big eight foot privacy fences .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And one of the gates has a padlock on it
B: and then the other gate just has one of those slide bar things ,
B: but it 's on the inside ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's ,
B: you know , you 'd have to like come over , they 'd have to come over the fence ,
B: they could not open a gate , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I still feel a little uneasy about him playing back there .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: You know , I mean , if I don't hear him playing , I mean , I , I get up and come out and look out the window real often , you know ,
B: so .
A: And watch ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah
A: I don't blame you .
B: It 's really scary that you have to be that scared about your kids
B: but , I mean you do ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: better safe than sorry .
A: And if they find who 's doing that to those little girls , as far as I 'm concerned he could , fry
B: He could fry .
B: Yes ,
B: to put it very bluntly , he could fry ,
A: Yeah .
B: yes ,
B: yes .
B: Because sometimes there are crimes worse than murder .
A: Right .
B: You know ,
A: Yeah .
B: I , and I believe that ,
B: and this is one of them .
A: Yeah .
B: Because these little girls will never be the same .
A: Huh-uh ,
A: that 's terrible .
B: Never be the same ,
B: so , I don't know ,
B: it 's it 's really scary
B: and I don't know what to , I don't know what needs to be done , you know
B: it seems like there 's no room in jails to put them in jail
B: and when they do put them in there , you know ,
B: I 'm taking a business law class at night
B: and the guy that teaches it is a practicing criminal attorney
B: and , so he comes in and tell us all these bizarre cases , you know
A: Oh , gosh .
B: and he said you can pretty much , you know if you ever get on a jury , you know , you 're not told this , but if you ever get on a jury you can pretty much guess , whatever you sentence them to ,
B: they 're going to serve about a quarter .
A: It 's going to be reduced ,
A: right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: They 'll serve , they 'll serve a quarter of it ,
A: Yeah .
B: so , if you want them to stay in prison for fifteen years , don't sentence them to fifteen years , sentence them to a hundred .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , because then they 'll serve fifteen or twenty , so . Which is really ,
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know ,
A: It 's just not , it just does n't seem right .
B: No ,
B: it does n't , it does n't .
B: They just get out , you know ,
B: there was a thing on ,
A: Well what are we going to do about it ?
A: How , I mean how can it be changed . Unless the legislature will do something
B: I don't know .
A: and they don't seem to ,
B: That 's the thing ,
B: we 're just going to have to adopt a completely different attitude ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we 're going to have to say , if you commit this crime and if we 're sure you commit this crime , you are going to be sentenced to death period , period ,
A: Yeah .
B: and do it , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: And if you commit this crime , you will be in prison for the rest of your life .
A: Right .
B: We 're not going to say we 're going to put you there for the rest of your life and let you out in fifteen years ,
B: we 're really going to do it , you know .
B: It 's just the system has just ,
B: and I understand they 're doing it because the prisons are full ,
B: but somewhere we 've got to come up with some money to build , to build more , you know , and keep these people in them , you know .
A: Right ,
A: I think so .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think it would be worth it everybody
B: Well , I was watching a show about this the other night
B: and , you know , they were like in a , I think it was on FORTY-EIGHT HOURS .
A: All right .
B: Um , there was a crime here in McKinney , uh , a rather heinous murder .
A: Uh-huh .
B: There was no um , remorse shown by , uh , at least one of the perpetrators .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And yet , for whatever reason , um , his crime was not considered a capital crime .
A: Uh-huh .
B: An , and quite honestly I , I feel very strongly that the , man the has no redeeming social values
B: and if , if and when he comes , gets free again , he will have no compunction but to complete that , that same kind of lifestyle , I mean continue that same kind of lifestyle , and perhaps do the same thing again .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , it really bothers me that there 's not a way of getting him out of the way forever .
A: Really ,
A: I think that ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I I don't think our prison system is n't set up , where we , um , rehabilitate , or , you know , restore anybody .
A: I think it 'll only make them worse ,
A: but , I , I believe that God can come in and change a person 's heart and genuinely change it ,
A: but , that does n't negate that you do reap what you sow .
A: And if you do kill a person and it is , you know , you 're found to be guilty , I believe God establishes the authority of our court system
A: and I believe that , you know , that I do believe that capital punishment is , uh , alternative .
A: Even , you know , God can still change your heart
A: but that does n't mean ,
A: like the alcoholic that charges up all the bills on the credit card , or the shopaholic , you know you get your life right with God
A: but you still have to pay your Visa bill .
B: That 's , that 's right
A: You still have to , you know ,
A: so , but God sent us his grace
A: and they give pardons
A: but I believe if it 's a genuine conversion , there 's a genuine ,
A: and those prison people know , they know a genuine turnaround in a person 's character ,
A: they see that .
B: But ,
B: yeah .
A: And , I , I worked in a prison in Fort Worth .
B: Did you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I have a degree in social work .
A: You see it , you know the ones that have a genuine character change .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It is obvious .
A: And they know that .
A: They 're , they 're not going to pardon someone from the governor ,
A: you know what I 'm saying ,
A: they 're not going to go , without going through every channel of authority in the prison .
A: So I feel like you know , that 's is , there is occasions where there are , they do spare lives
A: and , you know , I leave that with the governor , who , of course , is going to go through every authority because they want to be be reelected ,
A: so
B: Yes
B: but , my concern is , first of all that not all , all persons who I think , should be receiving capital , uh , whatever , capital , uh , uh , uh , hum , punishment ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Punishment .
B: thank you , I 'm sorry , I just got home from work
B: and I 'm just kind of spaced out a little bit .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's okay .
B: Uh , that , not all of them are being convicted of it , that , that , the , the , they 're not even being charged with that
B: I agree with you that , that , a person 's heart can be changed ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but the same God that can work that miracle also established the laws that said , um , for certain kinds of sin , certain kinds of , of , uh , breaking of the law , there would be a capital punishment .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Right then it was , it was , uh , almost immediate .
A: Uh-huh .
B: As soon as , as the trial was over , then it was stoning .
A: Right ,
A: but , in , in the Old Testament ,
B: We don't have a speedy trial ,
B: we don't have speedy , um , punishment
B: and so it kind of loses its meaning , if you sit on death row for months and years and so forth
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
A: Right ,
A: we don't ,
A: well , yeah
A: we definitely have lost the Judeo-Christian ethic of the judicial system for sure ,
A: but the the base is still there , the foundation is still there , though , of the system ,
A: but , I know what you 're saying , uh ,
A: but also , they 're under a law , because we have n't been removed from the law
A: we 've just been taken out from under , under a law .
A: Because under the law if your child back talks you , he would be stoned .
B: That 's correct .
A: He , under the law he would be stoned ,
A: so we 've been removed from the law , of from being under the law
A: but we 're still , you know , we 're still accountable to it .
A: We don't need to back talk ,
A: but , you know , it 's like God changes your heart to not do that .
A: He changes your heart not to look upon a woman in lust .
A: Because in the Old Testament , they could look all they wanted , just could n't do it .
A: But in the new , he 's looking at your heart
A: and so , I guess that 's what , what I mean by their character changes and , you know , what I mean , it 's like looking beyond what they 're doing and looking at a heart and seeing what is the heart , what 's the character showing me here .
A: And , those , and then any of ,
A: if I don't think see , if I don't believe that there 's not a character change and the authorities agree , that this person needs to be excused , I believe for murder , uh , rape , I even believe incest , things that will permanently damage , uh , the character of the child .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I believe crimes against children should be punished by , by death . I believe , sexual crimes , unless there 's a true change of character .
B: I tend to agree on that , very strongly .
A: And that 's where we just have to , to trust the authorities .
A: And they 're not going to excuse people , if it was , was run like that ,
A: I don't ,
A: there would probably be very few exceptions to that
A: and if it was done quickly and done swiftly
A: and , but it 's not , because the judicial system has rejected , they 've rejected the answer to all these problems they have , pretty much .
B: Plus the , all the judicial system is overloaded with , all kinds of , um , problems , and crimes and so forth and then all of the , um , civil things that clog the courts ,
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and having sat on both , uh , uh , criminal and a civil , uh , jury , some of what goes through our courts is a total waste of time .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Because we 're suit happy .
A: Yeah .
B: But , but back to the , to the capital situation , sounds like you and I have a lot of , of , of , uh , common ground at least as , as far as , as capital punishment is concerned .
A: Yeah .
B: I would like to see some , some kind of reform , or some kind of streamlining so that , if a person is , um , convicted , and sentenced to , to death , that that automatic appeal which goes in could be more quickly dealt with .
A: Uh-huh
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: And , and go ahead and get the punishment phase out of the way , because it does n't do the criminal or the victim 's family , any of us , the taxpayer any good to have him sitting around for months and years .
A: Yeah .
A: Anybody ,
A: yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: An , an ,
B: him could be a her .
A: Right .
B: But .
A: I know in Jamaica , uh , it think it 's Jamaica , I think it 's Jamaica , I know that they have , you know , crimes punishable by death ,
A: and I 'm sure they hit a few every now and then ,
A: and I would n't want to be one of them , that are not guilty .
A: But , I know that they have like , uh , their , crime rate ,
A: it 's not Jamaica ,
A: I don't think ,
A: I ca n't remember which ,
A: it 's , uh , one of the Caribbean Islands
A: and , and they , Singapore , is it like that ?
A: My husband 's going Singapore .
A: And they don't have a lot of the crime because there is a law
A: and the law is enforced .
A: And that 's what , when you have lawlessness ,
A: I mean the law 's not being enforced
A: and all that does is lawlessness .
A: We were , we went on a mission trip to Manhattan and to the Bronx and stuff , two years ago ,
A: and all these kids were up on there getting arrested for crack
A: and everyone was out ,
A: uh , we were across from that big bus station ,
A: I forget what you call it ,
A: but anyway , and everyone , they had like fifteen people lined up on the fence
A: and within two hours , there were fifteen boys sitting there doing the same thing .
B: Um .
A: And , you 'd see the same kid who were back out there in two days .
B: That 's sad .
A: Because , there 's no , the answer is not being given to them , in the court system
A: and I think initially , when our country was set up , it was set up with God
A: and it was really an integral part ,
A: and no ,
A: you ca n't , you ca n't force people ,
A: but I think people are hurting
A: and they 're out doing crack sitting on the street .
A: They were the kind of people that ,
A: I think mostly , we would want to receive it .
A: If it was presented to see .
A: I don't know ,
A: I guess , I 'm kind of frustrated that , you know , we 've gotten away from the Christian basis that our court system was founded upon .
A: I mean , it reeks of the BIBLE , just , the whole thing , the whole system .
A: And , so I feel like if that was presented more openly , and not just relying upon , and para-church ministry to come in and do it , that , that the system itself ,
A: you know , you know what I mean .
B: Yeah .
A: I feel like that might be better , if it was run on a more scriptural basis , which would include , you know , you know , and expediting the penalties and just getting it over with .
B: However , certain uh , very liberal minded groups who do not , um , subscribe to the same ethical system that you and I do , such as the , uh , civil liberties unions and so forth , will lobby against that and hold that out as long as they have breath . Which is most unfortunate because we all lose out , when people go so far out to the extreme , on either side .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Because too , too often , there can be extremism that , that hurts from , from any direction , regardless of whatever you 're arguing or concerned about .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know , you 're right ,
A: they would lobby that
A: and , and I see that ,
A: and that 's why , you know , I 'm like , okay , what 's my role in this thing , you know , what 's my part ,
B: Yeah .
A: because I don't think the system is going to get fixed .
A: I think it 's crippled ...
A: Okay .
A: Do you go camping very much ?
B: No ,
B: I 've have n't gone camping in years .
B: But it 's is something that I 've done in the past .
B: How about you ?
A: Uh , we try to go once , maybe twice a summer . Uh , we , uh , just , you know , for like a short weekend or something .
B: That 's , that 's pretty average to me
A: We don't go for the long , you know , week long thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But we usually go to , uh , a lake area , you know , where the campsites , are and do that . Uh ,
B: Right .
B: Do you tent camp
B: or do you have a camper ?
A: Oh no ,
A: no ,
A: no
A: a tent .
B: That 's what I you know ,
B: that 's how I camp too .
B: That 's how I define camping
A: Me too
A: You 're really roughing it .
B: The rest , the rest of that is really not the same .
A: Yeah .
B: As a matter of fact , my , my , you know , the majority of the amount of camping I 've done has been really roughing it .
B: Um , as a little girl I 'd go with my dad and my uncle and my brother ,
B: and we went to the Boundary Waters area in Minnesota .
B: So , that 's , that 's really wild .
A: Oh .
A: Yeah .
A: Are you here in local Texas ,
A: I mean ?
B: Yes ,
B: I 'm in Austin ,
B: where are you ?
A: I 'm in Garland .
B: Oh .
A: Right outside of Dallas .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we , um , we have a five year old ,
A: and we started taking her , she was pretty young when we started , uh , camping with her .
B: Oh , the kids love it .
A: I know .
B: I mean , they just love it .
B: It 's wonderful for them to be outside .
A: I know ,
A: and then they , and they , you know ,
A: there 's no T V ,
A: and they don't have all these modern toys ,
A: and they have to use sticks and rocks and stuff like , that to play with .
B: Exactly .
B: Yes .
A: And I like that .
A: It 's pretty fun .
B: Well , how it ,
B: it 's really is a , is a good , good family thing , to do .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: And ,
A: We , we try to , uh , go with another couple that have children also .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , that makes it a lot more enjoyable .
A: Plus , you know , we don't have to go out and buy all the equipment and stuff , you know ,
A: we kind of split it up . Uh ,
B: Good planning
A: Yeah
A: Because it gets , it really does get expensive if you , if you don't want to rough it all the way .
B: Exactly .
A: You know , even the sleeping bags , those are running , you know , a good thirty dollars a pop ,
A: and , and so we 've built that up .
B: You 're right .
A: But ,
B: Do you have a boat ?
A: No .
B: No ?
A: Want one bad .
A: Do you ?
B: Oh , well , actually , I would , you know what I would love ?
B: I would absolutely love a sail boat .
A: Oh .
B: That does n't go along with camping ,
B: but , now that , that , that 's what I would like , to have .
A: Yes
A: Yeah ,
A: I would too .
B: Yeah .
A: Would too .
A: We usually ,
A: uh , let 's see ,
A: we try to go to a lake .
A: My husband and this , uh , other couple that we go with , her husband , um , kind of likes , um , is it scuba dive ?
A: And , so we 'll go to a lake and , uh , where they can go do that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We 're close enough so they can do that ,
A: and the girls can play on the beach area
B: And I would play on the beach area too .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's what I would do .
A: Yeah
B: Yeah .
A: That 's fun .
B: I 'm just sitting here listening to your accent and thinking what a good time the computer is going to have with that .
A: Really ?
A: Am I pretty Texan ?
B: You 're pretty Texan .
B: Yes .
B: But you know , you know what 's really funny ?
B: Um , I 've had people tell me that I have a Texas accent ,
B: and , and I mean , there is just no way I 've not picked one up .
A: No ,
A: you don't , you don't sound like it to me .
B: I 've only lived here about six years .
A: Oh , have you ?
B: So , if I have one , it must be very , very slight .
A: Yeah .
B: The Yankees can hear it .
A: Yes .
A: Oh , that 's true ,
A: that 's true .
A: I , see I don't think I do ,
A: but , uh , but a lot of people do say I sound like ,
A: I guess , I have , I guess more of a twang , to my voice almost a
B: Uh-huh .
B: Are you a , a native Texan ?
A: I sure am .
B: Oh .
A: I 've lived here all my life .
B: Well , good for you .
A: But , any way , uh ,
B: Have you ever been to Austin ?
A: Yes ,
A: yes
A: we went last summer , actually .
B: This ,
B: how was ,
B: I 'm wondering , I 'm really not that not familiar .
B: I know there are some good places to go camping along the , uh , the lakes .
A: Or is there ?
A: Okay ,
A: well , we did n't go camping ,
A: we just , uh , we did like , uh , we drove down to Houston to visit friends ,
A: and , we went to Galveston and , uh , to San Antonio and then up to Austin . And , and kind of , uh , you know , doing the sight seeing type stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we did n't go camping .
A: That would be fun though to go .
A: That 's one thing my husband wanted to do , was , on this summer 's vacation was to go and camp wherever we went .
A: And I said , Well , I 'd love that
A: but ,
B: It takes a lot more planning .
A: It does ,
A: and , and ever once , you know , on my summer vacation , you know , my week-long vacation , I , want to be a little bit pampered , you know , by a , hotel and a waiter
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Exactly ,
B: exactly ,
B: yeah .
A: So , we 're hoping to do like a three day weekend .
A: There 's , um , a thing called Pfeiffer Rim .
A: I don't know if you have ever heard of it ?
B: No ,
B: I have n't .
A: It 's , uh , there 's a town called Glenrose .
A: I think it 's around two hours from here .
A: And , uh , it 's , it has like dinosaur tracks , and stuff like that
B: Oh , that sounds , That sounds great .
A: and it 's got one of those wildlife parks .
A: Yeah .
A: I think that 'll be fun .
A: So we 're going to try to do that like on a three day weekend , go there
A: and ,
B: Have you ever camped out of state ?
A: No ,
A: I have n't .
B: You know , where you should try , sometime is Colorado .
A: Where at ?
B: It is beautiful .
A: Is it ?
B: Absolutely beautiful .
A: I 've just been up there skiing ,
A: and , well , we 've driven through ,
A: and , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , but not , you know , camping or anything .
A: But I would love to camp , in the mountains .
B: Yes .
B: Estes State Park is fantastic .
A: That 's what my girlfriend says .
A: Yes ,
A: she loves that place .
B: See , you need to go there .
A: She loves that .
A: She says that where we need to go sometime .
B: It is . It 's , you know , it 's , it 's high canyon
B: and , uh , and there 's this little mountain lakes
B: and it 's very peaceful .
A: Oh .
B: And , um , in , in the early fall time ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , I ca n't remember what type of trees they are ,
B: but they , all the leaves turn yellow ,
A: Oh .
B: and it 's just brilliant .
B: And ,
A: I love that .
B: Yes ,
B: you would .
B: You 'd like it very much .
A: That 's neat .
A: That 's neat .
B: I know you would .
A: I used to go camping all the time as a , a Girl Scout .
B: I was too
A: All the time . I got real used to it then .
B: Yeah .
A: I felt like we roughed it then
B: Uh , well we did , you know ,
B: we really did .
B: I mean , I just don't understand these people that think taking an R V , and parking it and sitting inside and watching T V , and having your microwave
A: Right .
A: Yes .
A: Exactly .
B: It 's not camping .
A: I mean , we had to make the fires and dig latrines and everything .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: I mean that is it
A: You have to get poison ivy and all that good stuff , to really be camping
B: Right .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah .
A: Well do you , you , you say you have n't been in years ?
B: No ,
B: I have n't .
B: I 'm , um , I 'm a struggling single mom .
A: Oh , gosh , bless your heart .
B: and , uh ,
B: thank you .
B: Um , it 's , you know ,
B: time is precious ,
B: money 's precious .
A: Yes .
B: Um , and it , it ,
B: I think I have n't been able to do it ,
B: and , you know , what , that was one of the things I really thought I 'd like to do with my children , you know , again .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And I 'm a little bit fearful of trying that just women .
A: I don't blame you .
B: You know ?
A: I don't blame you at all .
B: I hope ,
A: Years ago it would have been fine
A: but ,
B: Yes ,
B: I , I really now ,
B: I , I have gone on one little vacation , just the girls and I .
B: We drove down to Port Aransas , and rented a little efficiency , you know , and , and had a marvelous like two nights ,
A: Oh .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: and that was great .
B: And even at that , it , it was like the first time that I ventured , you know , out of the city by myself .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and , you know , I , I stayed in a nice place .
B: But it 's still , it 's real different not to have another adult with you .
A: Yes .
A: I
B: You know .
A: I can imagine .
B: I 'm just a chicken .
B: I know lots of women would do it all the time .
A: No
A: I don't blame you , not nowadays .
B: I have n't quite adjusted , you know ?
A: Yeah .
A: Now are you with T I down there ?
B: Well , I , I was with T I until January .
B: I , uh , I left T I in January hoping to strike out and find a job where I could make some money .
A: Good .
B: So , well it 's , It was a good plan but I have n't yet
A: Have you ?
A: Okay .
B: I got into sales ,
B: and , I 'm selling , uh , telephone systems .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , that 's neat .
B: And it 's , it 's fun
B: and it 's interesting ,
B: but it 's also , um , pretty challenging ,
B: and I have n't , I have n't started making money yet .
A: Um . It 's hard is n't it ?
B: So , yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's hard
A: Now , how old are your girls ?
B: Eleven and fourteen .
A: Oh , goodness .
B: Yeah .
B: So I 'm old
A: No ,
A: you 're not old
A: Who is You 're not old at all .
B: Well , excuse me just second .
A: Sure .
B: speaks to Honey , I 'll be
B: yeah ,
B: go ahead .
B: voice , There 's someone at the door .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Do you need to go ?
B: Well , um , I 'm going to listen .
B: We always check and see if we should answer the door , at night .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's very smart .
B: Yeah
B: so , well , I 've enjoyed this .
A: Yeah ,
A: me too .
B: And , uh ,
A: And good luck .
A: How many have you made so far , calls ?
B: I , I have n't made any .
B: I 've been just a recipient
A: Oh , have you ?
A: They 're all ,
A: this is only about my second one I 've ever made .
A: I 've been a recipient on the others .
A: How many have you had so far , do you know ?
B: I think I 've had about four .
A: Four ,
A: that 's good .
B: yeah .
A: Very good .
B: That 's four each .
B: Well , you know , when I had to
B: this is my , my Gemini nature , you know ,
B: it 's like what are you interested in ,
A: Yes .
B: and it 's like virtually anything .
B: I 'll talk about anything to anybody
A: Yeah .
A: I don't ,
A: yeah ,
A: you bet ,
A: you bet .
B: And it 's , it 's been real interesting , the different personalities That I run across .
A: I know .
A: Yes ,
A: I always try to find out where they 're from , you know ,
B: Exactly .
A: cause , because it is neat .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It really is .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well then , I guess I 'll let you go so you can go get the door
A: and ,
B: Well , thank you .
B: And , um , I enjoyed talking with you .
A: You , me too .
B: You have a good time camping ,
B: when you go next time , think of me
A: Thanks .
A: Okay .
A: Thank you .
B: All right .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Go ahead .
B: Oh , um , uh , I usually don't get to hear any of the current events probably until about the ten o'clock news .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , you know , being , uh ,
B: I mean , by the time you get off work , go by and pick up the , uh , baby from the baby sitter , it 's , you know , after six
B: and by the time everything is settled in ,
B: it 's ten o'clock before I can catch up on anything .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess that 's the way I am too .
A: I , sometimes I hear some things on , on the radio .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: oh yeah .
A: I only get the newspaper on the weekends
A: so
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: Oh , I don't even have , time to read the newspaper except in passing ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , I 'll look over my husband 's shoulder and see what 's going on .
A: I , I guess occasionally I 'll hear someone at work say something though .
B: But , uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: We have , uh , a news thing on the computer that , uh , that I 'll , I 'll try to look at every day .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it , it 's pretty much headline news .
A: Yeah .
B: Which is n't , you know , pretty much what we look for anyway .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh . I , do you think that the quality of the , uh , the , you know , the news events that you get are ,
B: what do you think about it ?
A: Well I , I guess it 's pretty good .
A: And , and like the Dallas area ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I , I guess when you 're in a big metropolitan area like this ,
A: there 's , I guess , a lot of pressure in that business to , borderline at that .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , you know , there 's a lot of competition in the media .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And sometimes I think it too much trying to figure out who 's going to get the best headlines . And that they 'll run a topic into the ground .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh . You know , they try to play public 's opinion . Which I think is awful , because it usually works .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: true .
A: I 'll bet that was the case of the , the war in the Middle East .
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh .
B: That ,
B: uh , lots of new , uh , newsmen were created during that
B: so , it will be interesting to see what happens .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: true .
A: Trying to think what else is , is current .
B: Right .
B: Uh , uh ,
A: Well , um , I don't know what to say
A: Uh , that 's a bad one ,
A: they , uh ,
A: looks like we 're going to have an income tax in Texas ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I hate to see that ,
B: but it 's , uh , that , you know , if what it 's going to take ,
B: well , you know , we can deduct that from our income tax , our federal income tax .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , you know , but we need good schools .
B: Uh , we 're more involved in that now .
B: And , I , I , I , I think it 's better for everybody if we had better schools .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: So ,
A: I would think they could find a better way to fund it though ,
A: but they have n't for ,
B: No .
B: You know , I wish they could have gotten a lottery .
A: Well , they 're struggling with it .
B: Yeah .
B: I think , you know , the lottery could have helped , with that .
B: I mean , it would n't have been as painful as what we would 've paid in state income tax .
B: I mean , probably would have paid the same amount
B: but , you know , it 's not the idea of your paying , uh , income tax .
A: Uh-huh .
A: True .
B: So ,
A: I , I 'm not sure there 's a positive solution for that .
B: No .
B: It 'll be interesting to see what happens .
A: Trying to think what else is current .
B: I , you know , I have n't seen the news in a couple of days .
B: So it , uh ,
B: I 'm a little behind on things .
A: Well , the other thing I can think of is , uh , what is still going on in Iraq and the Kurd refugees .
B: Yes ,
B: that 's , that 's sad .
B: Yeah .
B: They , uh , yeah , they had to choose between the better of the two , two bad situations ,
B: and , uh , I don't know what I 've would have done in the situation .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: it begins to make you wonder why we did n't go ahead and go on in and , finish the job while we were in there .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: But I understand why Bush , you know , does n't want to go in and , and uh , take sides .
B: I mean , because that would definitely look like another Korea ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he 'd have all these people jumping down his back , even though I 'd agree with it .
B: I think he ought to , should 've gone in there and blew them away .
A: Seems to have helped him though , popularity wise .
B: Yeah , it , it , it did a lot .
B: He did a real good job I believe .
B: I have , uh , in-laws that live in Saudi Arabia that stayed there during all of it too .
A: Hm .
B: It , uh , it , uh , you know ,
B: we , so we kept very much abreast of what was going on .
A: Yeah .
A: Were , were they in any of the areas where they , some of the Scuds ?
B: Yeah ,
B: they were on the , the , near , uh , Dahran . On the , on the east coast .
A: Um .
A: Um-hum .
A: Yeah .
B: They were just north of it . Probably about a hundred fifty miles , hundred miles from uh , the Kuwaiti border .
A: Um .
B: Uh , and they stayed active was the , uh , the military there . Taking supplies out to them in the desert .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It was , it was a new situation .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'll bet .
B: I don't really have much more to say
A: I don't know anything else that 's current other than the weather
A: and ,
B: You 're right ,
B: and that 's , that 's awful in Texas
A: Have , have you all been getting rain storms down there ?
B: We got some awful rain , uh , the other morning .
B: And today 's just been real drizzly .
A: We did , we did last night . Uh , some real massive thunderstorms .
B: Yeah .
A: Apparently , I , I don't know if it was just the strong winds or some small tornadoes up this way too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Caused some damage .
B: It did ?
A: We may get some more tonight .
B: Oh , well . We , we 've just got slight chances of rain .
B: But , uh , we had the , we had the hard thunderstorms the other morning .
B: Course while everybody was getting ready to go to work . Making nice traffic jams .
B: So
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well the , the ground here is so flat ,
A: and it 's all saturated now ,
B: Oh
A: we 're getting some flooding .
B: Right ,
B: uh , when was it , last week , we had all the rain ?
B: But , uh ,
B: we , I think we had about eight inches .
A: Hm .
B: It was between six and eight inches here where we are .
A: Goodness .
B: And , uh , it , you walk out on the ground ,
B: I mean you ,
B: I mean , it 's awful .
B: It 's just so soggy .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's a lot more humid down that way .
B: Yeah
A: In fact , miserable .
B: Well , today it was , I mean , the air was just so sticky , so damp .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think there were places around downtown Fort Worth last night they got three inches in a real short period of time , like an hour or so just , a bunch .
B: Goodness .
A: Well , I guess that 's it
B: Right .
B: Well it 's ,
A: That 's about as much as we can do with current events .
B: Right .
B: Well , it was nice talking to you .
A: Good talking to you , Michelle .
B: All right .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay .
B: The public school systems , well everybody 's has known they 've needed renovation for years , but never really had a clear direction on which way to go with it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The first direction that I can see , or I wish , I would love to see them go with .
B: Kids learn at different rates
B: and for too long they 've kind of lumped everybody together .
B: You 'd learn at this rate
B: and that 's the only way it 's going to happen .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's true
B: You 've got some kids that 'll pick up on it in the first three minutes you 're talking about it ,
B: and the the other fifty-seven minutes you 've been talking about a subject , you 've bored them .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's very true .
A: Um , I guess I can relate to that , because I have two kids that are opposites like that .
A: Uh , one picks up real quick
A: and the other one does n't .
A: And you 're right , they do get bored , uh , really fast , if they already know what you 're talking about .
A: What do you propose that they do ?
A: What , what is your suggestions ?
B: The educators need to be a little bit more open minded as well as innovative in dealing with , uh , the various students to get the maximum potential out of the person .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Out of each child .
B: Out of each child .
A: Each individual child .
B: Some kids are going to be great with mechanical stuff .
B: Other kids are going to be really into math ,
B: some are really going to be heavy into reading .
A: Right .
B: Instead of pushing the scales too far either direction , I mean it 's great to be well rounded and be exposed to all this stuff .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's ,
B: But why not hit the points the kid 's really interested in ?
B: Because if he 's interested , he 's going to study it ,
B: and he 's going to learn it ,
B: and he 's going to remember it .
A: That 's true .
A: The only , I think the only thing that they would argue about that , is that , you know , every child needs to learn every subject .
A: I mean , that 's , that might be the only thing .
A: But , I mean , I , I definitely agree with you . Uh ,
B: They need exposure to every subject .
B: They don't need to be masters of it ,
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: That 's true . Uh ,
B: Everything I learned about ancient Rome has not helped me anywhere in , my adult life .
A: Yes ,
A: I definitely agree .
A: There 's no doubt about that .
A: I , uh , I , I mean , I can relate to that because I 'm , I 'm going to college right now ,
A: and I feel like , I mean , I 'm taking this history class .
A: And , I mean , it 's so boring ,
A: and I just hate it .
A: And I think , why do they make us take this stuff ?
A: I mean , what does this have to do with getting , you know , a computer science degree or whatever , you know ?
B: What , what type of history class is it that you 're having to take ?
A: Uh , American History .
A: We have to take , um , like this is like early seventeen hundreds through , I don't know , I think like mid eighteen hundreds .
A: And then we have to take another one that 's mid eighteen hundreds on up , to basically present .
B: Well , the early ones they could actually combine two , two , levels of it , the one from seventeen hundred til say , the end of the Civil War .
A: Yeah .
B: Combine that into one . And then from eighteen sixty-five to present ,
B: and make that your second step because , To a point , to a point the bottom , you know , the early parts of it , you 're giving the foundations of the nation
A: Yeah .
A: That 's , well that 's , basically what they 're doing .
B: and , but even then they 're skimming over ,
B: they 're very , almost trivial with it .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , yes .
A: Definitely ,
A: I agree .
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's ,
B: You know , I mean , if they really wanted to get to the meat of the matter , I mean , there 's , they make all these people out to be , oh ,
B: they were great men ,
B: and they 're the father of the country and all this .
B: He had just as much dirt on him as anybody else .
B: If not more .
B: The man was not a saint .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's true ,
A: yeah .
A: Any way , this , this , um , school system thing ,
A: I , I tell you , I saw something on the news , oh , I don't know , maybe two weeks ago .
A: And they were talking about ,
A: I don't know where you 're from ,
A: but I 'm from the Dallas area .
A: And they were talking about the Plano school system , that , they had one school that , uh , if the students did something wrong , I mean , whether it was behavioral or , uh , you know , they were n't learning properly or something . They took these students and put them basically in a closet . With no windows .
A: They had , a , a table , or not a table , but a desk in this closet ,
A: and they had to sit in there by themselves .
A: Well , parents were getting really angry about this , because they said , Why is my child being put in this closet .
A: Well , how is that helping my child , you know .
A: And , uh , the , the thing , you know ,
A: they said , Well , we 're giving them isolation time
A: and this helps them to think .
A: But a lot of kids ,
A: I mean , if a child has , uh , claustrophobia , I mean , that 's just going to terrify him , you know
A: and ,
B: If , if the isolation concept really works that good , why are our prisons overcrowded ?
A: Uh , that 's true .
A: That 's true .
A: But , no ,
A: I mean , they were , uh , I mean ,
A: I definitely agree with parents .
A: I think that is a very wrong way to handle , uh , disciplining a child .
A: Putting them in , I mean , they were , they were they called them their quiet rooms or their isolation rooms .
A: They did n't call them closets .
A: But they showed these rooms on , uh , you know , on the news
A: and , I mean , they looked like a closet to me . You know , with a desk in it , a real small .
A: But they said that one of the solutions they came up with was to take the doors off of these isolation rooms .
A: I said , now what good does I mean , how is this helping ?
A: I mean , either way . You know , I , I definitely had to disagree with that .
A: I think that is , that 's not the way to handle a child , you know , discipline a child by putting him in a closet
B: the as a part of the revamping of the entire education system on that the public school system I want to see changed too .
B: When I was brought up , if you crossed the line and you broke a rule bad enough , you were going to get spanked .
A: Right .
B: Well , then the extreme came in ,
B: and now we can no longer , spank them ,
A: Right .
B: so we now isolate them .
A: Yep .
A: Uh
B: Okay ,
B: we 've swung the pendulum both ways .
B: Let 's find a middle ground .
B: Instead of , there has to be some sort of discipline ,
B: and there has to be some sort of punishment . Short of physically isolating the child , and short of physically hitting the child .
A: Right .
A: Well ,
B: Let 's put him into a situation where , okay , you crossed the line , you broke the rule , you 're going to have to pay for it .
A: Right .
B: But , it 's going to tax you physically .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I , I don't ,
B: Have I mean , instead have them pick up around the school yard , have them weed a flower bed somewhere on the school Do something to beautify the school property .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: But you cut , you know ,
B: the , the kid 's having to give up his , quote , play time to pay his debt for what he did wrong .
A: Well ,
B: But he 's seeing something constructive come out of it .
A: um , I have to ,
A: I think one of the positive things , I mean , one of the things that can come out of , uh , is not just discipline , okay ?
A: But , okay ,
A: for instance , one of the things they do at , uh , my kids school , uh , they have what they call , uh , caught being good slips .
A: And when the kids are in halls and stuff , and if they 're being really good , I mean , just being excellent , they 're not , you know , cutting up and so on .
A: They 're just standing in line , doing whatever they are supposed to ,
A: they get one of these caught being good slips .
A: And then , when they collect them at the end of each week , they get to go to this little , what they call their caught being good store ,
A: and then they get to spend these like money .
A: Well , see , to me , that 's positive reinforcement , is much better , much better than trying to find ways to discipline kids , because they 're going to be good and try and earn those things , you know , to get the positive part of it .
A: I mean , they 'd much rather go in the store and buy something than be spanked .
A: So , they 're definitely going to work towards being good , you know , rather than trying to act up and be bad , you know .
B: I think that not only applies inside the public school system , but in society itself .
B: We 've been too long , there 's been too much negative reinforcement .
B: How much , like , the caught being good slips .
B: How about , just the John Q citizen out there on the street ?
A: Yeah ,
A: well that 's true . I think , I think , really though ,
A: I mean , that 's one thing that , I mean , my kids definitely get spanked when they need they need to be spanked .
A: But I really do try to use positive , uh , reinforcement with them at home , also .
A: And it really helps .
A: And I mean , they , they don't get spanked very often ,
A: but they , they do when they deserve it , you know .
A: But , uh , I don't think any kid should be exempt from being spanked .
A: I mean , I , I think I would n't mind if a teacher spanked my child .
A: But , you know , that 's just my personal opinion ,
A: and that 's not going to ,
A: I mean , I don't think that law will ever change .
A: They are never going to let a , a teacher spank a child again .
A: But I don't think ,
A: I mean , some kids don't get don't get spanked at home
A: and some kids need to be spanked at home .
A: I mean , don't you think ?
B: I , most wholeheartedly agree .
A: But I don't know .
B: I mean , there 's a point of over kill ,
B: but somewhere in , you 've got to find an even line .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: Well , there 's so many parents that say , you can deal with a child without spanking them . Which is true , you can .
A: But there are times when a child needs to be spanked .
A: I mean , they do things that they need that .
B: Need that shock effect , where they equate the shock of being spanked with the actions they did to get spanked .
A: Right . ends with no further
A: Okay .
A: Um , I guess what , I guess my task .
A: I usually ride my bike .
A: I have , uh , a stationary bike and , uh , a regular bike .
A: And when I can , I like to ride my regular bike outside , because it 's so much nicer .
A: The stationary bike is , is so , uh , boring .
B: Boring .
A: But I have head phones ,
A: and I , plus I have it , uh , in the living room
A: so I either watch T V , or we have a fish tank ,
A: so I watch the fish , you know . Whatever I can do to keep myself occupied .
A: If , I like to have the T V on , because that usually keeps me , um , more occupied .
A: It kind of takes the time away
A: and I don't realize , really , that 's really the only time I ever watch T V , is when I 'm on the bike .
A: But , and then usually after I 'm done riding the bike , just to cool myself down , I usually take a walk , you know ,
A: and that just kind of gets myself , uh , gets me , you know , to where I 'm not quite as tired I guess .
A: But it 's definitely a task .
B: You think so ?
A: I ca n't say that I really enjoy it .
A: I wish that I did enjoy it more ,
A: but I do it because I have to not because I want to
B: I bought a stationary bike ,
B: but I find that if I sit on that seat too long , it hurts .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: And I have n't figured how to get that soft ,
B: and I tried even tying a pillow to it .
B: But two years ago , I joined , well , it 's not quite two years , it 's almost two years , I joined the Cosmopolitan Lady here in Plano .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I love it .
A: Really ?
B: I just love it .
A: So is it just women that go there ?
B: Yeah .
B: It 's totally women .
A: See , I think that 's what 's my biggest problem with going to a place , uh , a , a health club .
A: Because I don't feel like having a bunch of other people watch me exercise .
A: You know , so I have tried to just do stuff at home
A: and , uh , I just feel conscious about it .
A: I mean , I 'm not big , you know , or anything ,
A: but I still don't like other people watching me .
B: I like to be able to sweat , have my hair a mess . Uh , feel that , okay fine , if my bathing suit slips a little bit I don't have to be conscious of it being a little bit too low .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: And I , my bathing suit 's just one piece ,
B: so there 's no big deal all the way around ,
B: but I don't have to be conscious of what I 'm doing or how I 'm doing it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's , uh , oh , it 's just , I don't know , it 's , it 's a total free relaxation .
B: Because , hey , you can do what you want .
B: You 're a female ,
B: and no one is staring at anybody else or worrying about what anything else is doing .
A: That 's what ,
B: And they 've got such fantastic equipment in there .
A: Really ?
A: That 's , that 's great .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: How ,
B: And I love the water aerobics .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so , I went to Hawaii and then to Australia and Japan and China ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Did you go on the Barrier
B: did you see the Great Barrier Reef and , and go snorkeling ?
A: I , I , actually I did n't go diving .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I 'm a diver
A: and so , that 's , that 's actually been another of my favorite vacations has been taking little diving trips
B: Oh diving .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh ,
A: no
A: I did n't get to the Great Barrier Reef .
A: I drove from Sidney down to Melbourne and over to Adelaide .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's gorgeous , absolutely gorgeous .
A: The coastline was just incredible .
A: It 's huge .
B: Is it really ?
A: Australia .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Uh , but ,
B: Did you have shrimp ?
B: I 've seen in , you know ,
B: they , they show all this wonderful seafood and , and great big prawns , you know the big shrimp
B: and ,
A: I don't remember if I had shrimp .
B: No ?
B: Did n't have shrimp there huh
A: I don't think so .
B: I remember food
A: Oh , I like that too .
A: But , uh , in fact I did n't eat out that much there because I was traveling by myself in a car ,
A: it would have been , I think , much more fun to do it like in the van , with a bunch of people .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh ,
B: Oh you 're adventurous .
B: You went by yourself .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Really .
A: And I was by myself in China too .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh wow .
A: China was a little bit more , uh , of a challenge .
A: But , it , it was n't more of a challenge in a sense because I hired a guide all the time ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so I never , you know , got out by myself , or not much ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Was it very expensive ?
A: No ,
A: actually I paid about either a thousand dollars or a little bit ,
A: no
A: maybe it was about a thousand dollars , maybe a little bit less ,
A: I don't really remember , for ten days including all my meals , a guide , a car , the airfare
A: and , but this is from Hong Kong ,
B: You 're kidding !
B: No kidding !
B: Uh-huh .
A: because I was already in Hong Kong
A: and , um , but it only cost you about a thousand dollars to go there
A: and I went to Beijing , Shanghai , Chengdu
A: and actually then I took a train up from Shanghai to a little , Quingdao I think is the name of it .
A: It 's a little , uh , sort of getaway retreat village not far from Shanghai .
A: It 's just a train ride .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that ,
A: I had two internal , one , yeah , two internal plane flights and a couple of other things .
A: It was really ,
B: All for a thousand dollars ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Wow !
B: That really surprises me .
A: Around a thousand .
B: I guess I relate it to , to Japan where things are very expensive , are n't they ?
A: Oh , Japan 's ridiculous .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And I stayed , I did n't stay in the top of the line hotels
A: but I stayed in ,
A: they were all completely clean ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , they were newly built
A: and they were sort of the lower end of the top of the line , hotels , because they said you ca n't stay in the cheap stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and you don't want to stay in the very , very , very exclusive , because you don't really even get a flavor of the country if you 're ,
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Wow .
A: Uh , but
A: yeah ,
A: that was ,
A: I highly recommend that way to go .
A: If you 're ever interested in going the route , I dealt with this woman ,
A: her name was Rita at China Tours in Boston
B: Oh really .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , and a friend of mine who had gone for a business trip to China
A: and she just gave me this woman 's name to contact
A: and it would really be fun , I think ideally with like two couples because you have a car and a driver and a guide
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then ,
A: Well I grew up out in the country and , uh , was used to having , uh , guns around the place
A: and , uh , I 'm , uh , not for gun control , in the strictest sense of the , uh , word .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I , I think I 'm kind of bent towards middle liberal of the bridge myself .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I have quite a collection myself
B: and , you know , I 'm a good hunter
B: and I started hunting when I was twelve years old .
B: Of course , my parents made me take hunters safety classes
B: and , you know , I don't want to see them ban guns completely
A: Yeah .
B: but I don't want them to completely turn loose of their controls either
B: so ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well I , I feel that its , uh ,
A: I think the what was National Rifle Association , uh , had this bumper sticker a few years back if , uh , about if you outlaw guns ,
A: only outlaws will have guns then .
B: I believe that .
A: And I believe that too because the person that is wanting to , commit a crime is going to find a way to get a gum , a a gun , a knife , a , a rock , a stick , whatever it is , to commit a crime with ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's the honest citizens like ourselves that are responsible about use of guns , uh ,
A: we can handle it
A: but there 's an element that ca n't .
B: Yeah
B: and it 's , you know , it 's got to the point now where even our , our police departments and our D E A agents and everything have to carry automatic weapons
B: because everybody that 's in drug trafficking has got them .
A: They have got them outgunned .
B: You know . Yeah .
B: So .
A: There was a an article in the paper just this week where I think it 's , uh , one of the gun companies , I ca n't remember which , was developing a ten metal , ten millimeter automatic pistol for the F B I which would give them additional firepower .
B: Um .
A: It had , held like a fifteen shot clip , which , uh , would be able , they would be able to put down anything that came at them ,
B: Yeah
B: Yeah ,
B: that would be ,
A: but you figure you got some drug guy out there that 's got an Uzi machine gun , uh , a thirty-eight , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's ,
A: Smith and Wesson revolver is n't going to do you much good .
B: No
B: it 's sure not .
B: Huh-uh .
A: Yeah .
A: I have lived in , uh , Illinois at one time
A: and they , they passed a , uh , it was n't really gun control
A: but it was , you had to register as a gun owner ,
A: you did n't have to list your guns ,
B: Yeah .
A: but you had to have this card ,
A: it was like a driver 's license card that you had to have it in order to buy ammunition
B: Um .
A: and that was the first , uh ,
A: this was twenty years ago .
B: Yeah .
A: But they had that so that they were trying to control it a little bit in that respect .
B: See in California they , In California they make you register when you buy ammunition .
A: Pardon ?
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You have to sign a , you know ,
B: they take your name and driver 's license number , hunter , hunting license number and all that good stuff , before you can buy any big ammunition . Especially for handguns ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: now rifles are n't too bad ,
B: but , you know , any kind of handgun at all , if it will fit in a handgun and a rifle you would still have to buy it , or sign up for it ,
A: Yeah .
B: so .
A: We lived in Tennessee for awhile
A: and I bought a pistol there
A: and there was a fifteen day waiting period .
A: You had to fill out an application and , go down to the sheriff 's office and get fingerprinted
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , then you had fifteen days while they checked to see if you had any kind of criminal record before that you could pick up the gun you were purchasing .
B: Gee .
B: Gee , that 's not a bad idea .
A: No ,
A: I think that , uh , you know , a , a waiting period , uh , can make a difference
B: Yeah .
A: but again it 's going to be the law abiding citizen that 's going to comply with that .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: it is .
A: So there 's , I don't , think there 's any way to control the criminal element as far as guns is concerned because ,
B: No .
B: the only way they could do it I think , would be to stiffen the penalties on anybody using a gun .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: You know , I think if we kind of stiffen them up a little bit , course ,
B: I , I feel kind of weird about that anyway ,
B: I think if somebody shoots somebody , they ought to be shot .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm ,
B: So .
A: We , we 're getting into capital punishment now
B: Yeah ,
B: but , you know .
A: But I , I agree with you there that , uh ,
B: It would definitely be gun control
A: Yeah .
A: The , uh , the , again the purpose of gun control is to control how it is being used is what the purpose should be .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's not to keep people from buying a gun that need one for a specific purpose , legal purpose but to keep the guy that 's illegal from getting his hands on one .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And I 'm in favor of keeping the , the illegal guy from getting one in his hands
A: but , the legal person or lawful person should not be penalized because there is the criminal element .
B: Myself .
B: Yeah .
B: Well and they 're actually a necessity in life , you know .
A: Oh yes .
B: They 're not , you know ,
B: not everybody needs a gun
B: but sooner or later I need one .
B: You know , whether I 'm out hunting or you know ,
B: I 'm never had to protect my life or ,
A: Yeah .
B: well I did in the service but not , you know , not on the street
B: so I don't really need one in the , in the aspects ,
A: You don't have to carry one in your car or your , uh , or your pocket all the time .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: Yeah .
B: No .
B: So mine are , you know , I use mine for recreation ,
A: Yeah .
B: I don't ,
B: and I enjoyed my guns .
A: Yeah .
B: I have a good time with them
B: so ,
A: Well I know what , uh ,
A: I took my kids out and taught them out , how to shoot a gun .
A: My wife the same thing , uh , she knows how to shoot any weapon that we have not that I have an arsenal or anything ,
B: Yeah .
A: but we have several guns around the house
A: one of these days my grandkids probably .
B: Probably .
B: Yeah .
A: But I think it 's , uh ,
A: you got to have , have the
A: living in Dallas there 's not that many places to go shoot
A: but , uh , still I think they ought to know how to use one and that it 's not just a toy and that when , it 's not like on T V when someone gets shot , uh , they get back up .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: If someone gets shot with a , real gun they don't get back up .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I had to explain that to my ,
B: I 've got a six year old now
B: and he , you know ,
B: I have a fifteen year old and a seventeen year old , well
B: they understand now .
A: Yeah .
B: You know I 've taken time to teach them
B: and now the young boy wants to know
B: and , you know , like I told him , you 're a little bit young for a gun . Let me go out here and , you know , we would start with the B B gun deal , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: so he started with the B B gun and shot a couple of holes in a couple of windows
B: and I took it away from him ,
B: I said now , you know , so he 's learning the hard way
B: but at least it was a B B gun not a twenty-two or a four ten or something
B: so ,
A: I remember I had an old uncle up by Tulsa , Oklahoma that took me out and , uh , showed me .
A: This was , it was not my , it was my mother 's uncle ,
A: this was a gentleman in his sixties ,
B: Um .
A: and he took me out with him and , uh , single shot twenty-two , and taught me how to shoot .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We went squirrel hunting
A: and , and , uh , he taught me how to shoot , uh , a old single shot twenty-two
B: All right .
A: and , I was probably about twelve at the time ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I thought that was the neatest thing
A: and , of course Uncle Sam took me out , took me hunting with him
B: Yeah .
A: and he let me shoot and showed me how .
B: All right .
B: I think there is a lot of responsibility on any of us gun owners to make sure that whoever is around us is at least safe and knows how to use one .
A: Right .
B: You know , I don't want to get out there deer hunting and have some guy blow me away ,
B: so .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Well that 's about all I ,
A: we agreed pretty well on this I think .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think so .
A: Okay .
A: Well it 's been real nice talking with you .
B: All right ,
B: have a good one .
A: Okay ,
A: bye .
B: Bye-bye
B: Do you have children ?
A: Uh , yes ,
A: yes ,
A: I have a daughter .
B: Do you .
A: Yeah .
B: How old is she ?
A: She 's only about , uh , uh , a little less than two years old .
B: Uh , I guess you have not reached the stage where you need to , uh , promote a college or anything , huh .
A: No .
B: I 've got one that 's seven and one that 's three ,
B: so , we , uh , we started saving ,
B: but that 's all .
A: Yeah
B: So , do you , is there , are you planning to , like , encourage your children to go to a particular school ?
A: Uh , no , uh , um ,
A: no particular school .
A: Uh , I think that 's really a decision that ,
B: That you are going to let them make .
A: They ,
A: well , help them make in terms of , you know , what they are , they are wanting to do .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , that , that 's a big influence , I think and , You know what , not only what you can afford , but what , what 's going to be best for them in terms of what their career goals are .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , you know , you need to go to a school that handles whatever it is you want to do .
B: Yeah .
B: Where did you go to school ?
A: Uh , University of Mississippi .
B: Oh .
B: Was that local or , uh ,
A: Uh , well , it was , well , it was within the state .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it , it was not necessarily local , it was ,
B: Yeah .
B: But I , I mean , so what 's , ,
A: What 's the criterion for choosing to go there ?
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , well , at the time , I was , uh , thinking of going pre med
B: Uh-huh .
A: and in the state , uh , they had the best pre med uh , curriculum for the , uh , state institutions .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It was choice between there and , uh , a private college that , uh , was a bit more expensive .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: At the time , we really could not afford it
A: so I ended up going there although it was quite a drive away for me .
B: Yeah .
A: It ,
A: uh , I enjoyed it .
B: So you , did you commute everyday then
B: or ,
A: No .
B: Oh , okay .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: it was a six hour drive .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: when you said it was quite a , quite a way away , I did not know it that meant you had to drive like an hour
B: or ,
A: I was , uh , it was like another world .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Basically , it was a , no it was a ,
A: did not get home that often , you know ,
A: and at that age it 's , uh , it 's kind of , kind of difficult sometimes .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Especially , if you have not been away a lot that extended
B: Yeah .
B: So , did you go there , like , straight out of high school ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , see I did not get my degree until later on ,
B: so I just finished mine a couple of years ago .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , you know , I guess , you know , when you have to do it that way , it makes , makes your choices a lot easier
B: but ,
A: Uh , that 's true .
A: Yeah ,
A: that , that 's like , you know , when I went on to get my , my master 's I , uh , basically was , you know , it was where I was at the time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: You know , I was not going to try to pick and go somewhere else because I was pretty much settled
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: and I was trying to work .
A: But , uh , so when you are first going to school that , you kind of have the luxury of being able to have some latitude in choosing the place to go .
B: Exactly .
B: Yeah .
B: which group do you work in in T I ?
A: Um , uh , the computer science center .
B: Oh , uh , where is that at ?
A: Uh , north building .
B: I see .
B: How long do you work for T I ?
A: Uh , about three years .
B: Did you work somewhere else ,
B: like sounds like you got your master 's before here
B: or ,
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: I have , uh , uh ,
A: no
A: actually , I mean I came straight from school to here .
B: I see .
A: So , cause this was the first , first real job after getting my degree .
B: Uh-huh .
B: After your master 's or after your ,
A: After my master 's .
B: I see .
A: My undergraduate degree was not in , not in what my master 's was .
B: I see .
A: So I made a career change basically .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I see .
B: Well , let 's see
B: I , have not you know ,
B: there 's a lot of pluses and minuses for different schools , you know , just like you said .
B: Uh , depending on what they want to specialize in and what you can afford , different things like that ,
B: so I , I have not really made up my mind , you know , whether to encourage them to go different places
A: Yeah .
B: or ,
A: One day I would like to , uh , you know , the , uh ,
A: I , I like the school where I went .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , and I would not hesitate at all to , to encourage her to go there there if she wanted to .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: Or the school where I got my master 's at , which , which was a different school .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , I liked it almost as well .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , but , uh , you know , that , I 'm not going to hold them to that just because I went there .
B: Right .
A: I , you know , think that 's
B: Yeah .
A: If they want to , that 's fine , but otherwise not . Although I uh , would get quite a break on , on tuition
B: Yeah .
B: Um , because you went there .
A: Yeah ,
A: because they , uh , allow for , uh , uh , tuition , uh , break for out of state students who children of alumnae .
B: Um .
B: I did n't know that .
A: Well certain schools do it .
B: Yeah .
A: This school does .
A: So , uh , It 's , it ,
B: Huh .
A: I , I was involved in some , uh , oh , alumnae recruiting , uh , here in town , uh , recently , uh , well last year
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and it was kind of fun , because you are trying to to , trying to get people interested in your school , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they were ,
A: this was a college night at a , at a high school in Richardson .
A: And it was ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: And there were a bunch of kids , you know , and a bunch of schools .
A: There were a hundred schools , probably there all competing for the same kids .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's kind of interesting to , to , to talk up , you know , your , school
B: Yeah ,
B: your own school ,
A: And , I was surprised by the number of kids that came , came by and had heard of , you know , our school . And , and were interested in it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um .
A: Uh , you know , we , uh ,
A: situations like that , you don't realize , you know , until you start thinking about it , the kinds of advantages you school may have over others .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so , I , I was real , real pleased with that .
A: That worked out so well .
B: Yeah .
B: So did you drum up any interest then
A: I think so .
A: I don't know offhand
A: but , uh , it seemed like there were quite a few kids that were definitely interested in going there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , there , There was one mother who , uh , came by right , even , before we started , who , who obviously was , uh , very interested in getting her , her daughter in or , or having gotten her daughter in or something
B: And that ,
A: and she was wanting some more information .
A: But she was , her , her daughter was , uh , a , a , a majorette or something . You know , a baton twirler or something
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she was she was , letting us know she , how , how good her daughter was .
A: She had cards printed up , actually describing , you know , business cards describing her daughter 's , uh , you know , she had won several different twirling awards , and all this ,
B: Oh , really .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she was , had these business cards she was passing out
A: and it was quite a production .
A: I think some parents go a little bit overboard .
B: Yeah
B: it sounds like it .
A: Yes .
B: Well you know I think Richardson is probably you know one of the places that would definitely
B: Okay ,
B: well the topic is selecting care for the elderly .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I don't have elderly parents , yet but not that far in the distant future .
B: What about yourself ?
A: Well , my parents are both in their seventies .
A: My , my mother and stepfather , and my father and stepmother are all in their seventies .
A: And , my , uh , uh , father and stepmother are not in very good health .
A: So this is something that is ,
B: A concern of yours right now .
A: Yes ,
A: it is .
B: Are , are they living independently , right now ?
A: Yes ,
A: they are .
B: Oh .
A: They are .
B: Have you looked at any homes for them or talked to them about that ?
A: Not for them , my , my mother and stepfather have , have , uh , set up an arrangement where they have a large home and , uh , two of my sisters and , and their families , one of them 's husband and then all the children are living in this home .
A: Its got a lot of bedrooms and bathrooms
A: and , and , uh , they all share the same kitchen and dining room and den and kitchen .
A: And , and , uh , my father bought this , uh , my stepfather bought this thinking of a time when one or the other of them might need care
A: and they felt like that would be their alternative to a nursing home .
B: Oh , that sounds the ultimate .
A: Unless , unless they were so ill that they needed nursing care that could not be given in the home .
B: Well , even at that point , most care can be given at , in the home .
B: That sound like just an excellent solution .
B: You must feel real good about that .
A: Well , I , I felt good about it because that 's my personal feeling also .
A: I , uh , I read a lot
A: and then I know people then have visited nursing homes and , uh , have had great , grandparents in the nursing homes
A: and it was not a happy situation for , for any of them .
A: And , and , uh , we have a very active nursing home here in Plano that , that has , uh , activities going all the time
A: and they have , uh ,
A: even the people that are wheelchair bound and , and really are , are incapacitated . Go and , uh , participate in olympics
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they make their crafts and sell them at a big fair that 's held annually at a big mall here
B: Right .
A: You know , so there are a lot of , a lot of activities going on all the time
A: and this is a nursing home ,
A: it 's not a senior citizens home .
A: So that the people are really , uh ,
B: Really in need of a nursing home .
A: Right .
A: They need , the nursing care ,
B: Right ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and , and , but it 's a very expensive solution .
B: Well , it 's , you know ,
B: I think we just , you know , listen to , is the fact that there are good solutions both inside and outside of nursing homes .
B: It 's just a matter of finding , a good home .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: And , and then , of course , there is always the problem of being able , able to afford either of those solutions .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that , I think is what is scary ,
B: and I also feel that that 's where some of the bad images of nursing homes come from . Is when people have to put people in a nursing homes
B: and they really can not afford the best .
A: Right .
A: And that 's right , I , well I took my husband one night to an emergency room when he was in an emergency situation
A: and , uh , they brought in a very elderly man from a nursing home who had , had , uh , apparently inhaled some chicken he was eating .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , he had apparently had not been in the home too long , just a week or so ,
A: but when they , the family came in to see him , they had not been made aware ,
A: I was in the room when the emergency technicians brought him in from the ambulance
A: and I overheard their conversation .
A: And when the family walked in , his wife and daughter and son-in-law , they were not even aware of what had happened .
B: Oh , goodness .
A: So , I told them he strangled on some chicken
A: and , uh , they said , the , the woman , the wife said he was not even supposed to be eating any food like that that would require chewing or , so , you know ,
B: Oh .
A: and I thought
B: What a shame ,
B: they put him in the home so that he could be cared for
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: and then they could have done that well at home .
A: And then she was upset ,
A: he had on two different shoes , one of which was not even his .
A: He had on a pair , of slacks ,
B: Oh .
A: and the wife said `` these are not his slacks ''
A: and she said `` I just took two pair over yesterday for him that were clean . ''
A: And ,
B: You hear these stories , all the time .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Well , I , this was just something that I was , I witnessed to .
B: You happened ,
B: Right .
A: And , and , uh , at no point did anybody from the nursing home come in .
A: And we were there in the same room with the man for a half hour
B: Oh .
A: And , with just a curtain , of course , between us and , and , uh ,
B: Right .
A: they revived the man and cleared out his airway and so forth ,
A: and he was definitely ,
A: just by looking at him and the way he acted , you could tell he was in need of , of nursing home care ,
A: but the family were all talking about , uh , putting him in another home .
A: They said he will not go back to that one .
B: Well , good .
B: Good ,
B: I 'm glad they have a solution . To do that ,
A: I 'm glad they the option .
B: yes .
B: I know .
A: I , I would hate to be in a position where that was all I could afford
A: and there were not , there was no choice .
B: Exactly .
B: My , uh , my ex-husband 's grandmother had been in a nursing home now for , oh , it must be seven , eight years ,
B: and , uh , and , uh , It 's just her , her condition deteriorated , deteriorated instantly upon getting into that home .
A: Oh , my .
A: Um .
B: As the situation is so sad because it just takes all the dignity away from , from people who have been independent all their lives .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like this was a really neat vital woman
B: and you get in a nursing home
B: and the first thing that happens you have to share your , your whole living space , with someone that you have never known before in your life .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: And oh I , I do not know what the answer is ,
B: but I do know that there are some wonderful places out there
B: and it , I think it does ,
B: a lot of it goes down to just money . And family support ,
A: That 's right .
B: uh , if you , you know , have family that , uh , you can live with .
A: Visits everyday .
B: Right .
A: Right .
B: Right .
B: I , I really ,
B: I think the way of selecting a nursing home would be similar to the way you would select child care , you know .
B: You would do your research
B: and you would go visit .
A: Visit ,
A: right .
B: And , uh , hopefully , they would have , they would have it so that you could go there anytime .
A: Right .
B: Because if you could not go there anytime , then that would make you , a little bit
A: Suspicious .
B: right .
A: You know , I , I , my , I remember my , my grandmother many years ago when she was in a nursing home before she died
A: and I guess there was not a name for what she had at that time ,
A: but I guess Alzheimer 's would come as close as anything ,
A: she really was not aware of what she was doing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I I can remember she had several strokes
A: and the nursing home was right next to a hospital
A: and they would rush her to the hospital and revive her and just bring her back to the nursing home in a couple of days .
A: And it was , she was , it was just like keeping something .
B: Well , we 've talked a little bit about the Plano school system .
B: Um , I , I really have been pleased with Plano .
B: I have a child who , uh ,
B: my son is learning disabled ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I thank God every day that I have the resources that we have tapped into .
A: Now , is he the elementary school ?
B: He 's in elementary school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And he 's not severely learning disabled .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , you know , he just , He 's being helped .
A: But he is being helped .
B: He , he was in resource from second grade till fourth grade in math ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they recently released him from , resource , which I 'm , I was thrilled ,
A: Oh , great .
B: I really was .
B: I , I just thought that was so neat , that they got him over that hump .
B: And , um , he 's in the Herman Method of Reading .
B: I don't know if you 're , familiar with that .
A: No ,
A: that 's something new to me .
A: I 'm ,
B: It is something new ,
B: and basically what they do is they start right from the beginning relearning the sounds of letters .
A: Oh .
B: Um ,
A: I think I read about that in the paper .
B: It 's wonderful .
A: Doctor Haggard is , is heading that up .
B: Yes ,
B: and it 's wonderful .
B: He did n't have a problem with reading .
B: As a matter of fact , he 's reading on level .
B: The problem was his spelling .
B: And , you know , in , in watching the way he has struggled ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's interesting , because I 'm convinced I have the same learning disability , or had , that was ignored .
A: Oh .
B: And ,
A: Right ,
A: so you worked , you learned how to solve your problems on your own .
B: That 's right .
B: And , and so it 's , you know , it 's not an intelligence problem .
B: It 's just a problem with learning .
A: Has , has he had this since kindergarten ,
A: or is this something that maybe learning phonetics ,
A: and then he just did n't learn the right way ?
B: Well , you know , it 's funny .
B: When , um , when he was in first grade , he had trouble with , with spelling ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I would say to the teacher , you know , it 's amazing .
B: He will be able to ,
B: you 'll say to him , spell cat ,
B: and , you know , he 'll say C A T ,
B: and then he would go to write it ,
B: and he would write C O T .
A: Okay .
B: And I kept saying to the teacher , something is wrong here .
B: Something is wrong here .
A: You 're right , right .
B: And the teacher kept saying , oh , he has a May birthday .
B: He 's just immature .
A: Right .
B: Well , second grade it was ,
B: I will ,
B: these teachers as far as I 'm concerned are absolute saints , because in second grade , it was about the second week of school , I went up there ,
B: and I , I requested a conference and , because all year long they kept telling me I was crazy .
A: Good ,
A: good ,
A: that 's great for parents to be involved .
B: Well , I was ,
B: and I , and I went up there the second week of school
B: and I said , you know , something is wrong ,
B: and thank God the the head teacher , the team leader , was a special education major .
A: Oh , how great .
B: It was , it was
B: and , She had picked it up ,
A: So she , she was able to zero in .
B: yep ,
A: Oh .
B: she had already picked it up .
B: And she said , you know , we , we were going to call you if you had n't called us .
B: We think there 's a learning disability
B: and we think he needs to be tested immediately , because , you know , once the first report card comes in , they , have all these people being tested ,
A: Huh .
B: and she said , I think we can get him real fast .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And sure enough , they tested him
B: and , you know , he qualified for , for the help ,
B: and it 's been great ,
B: and I , and I thank God I 'm here , because I , I know I have a sister who has the other extreme .
B: She has a , a child in Connecticut who is extremely gifted ,
B: and because of the cutbacks in the economy they have nothing for her .
A: Right .
A: Oh , no .
B: And , and to me that 's the same thing .
B: It 's , it 's like having a child who has a learning disability that 's being ignored , this poor gifted child is being ignored .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: but that 's something that parents , I think , are able to help the gifted child in the home more than they could help the learning disabled child .
B: That 's true .
A: So , because , that 's something you can do by just enrichment types of things in the home
B: That 's true .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but learning disability , unless you are schooled in the types of things and ways to help a child like that , then it makes it real difficult
B: Uh-huh .
A: and this is , this to me is the benefit I see in public schools is that , that , uh , you do have government money to fund , the kinds of programs that these students need ,
B: Yes .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: and I 'm not sure that the private schools or parochial schools address that problem , they test kids before they take them ,
B: Exactly ,
B: and , They don't take them ,
A: and if they 're a behavior problem , they 're out .
B: that 's right .
A: That ,
A: and , and , uh , this is kind of a rejection type of thing ,
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and we get it even at our level in , in ,
A: I work a nine ten school ,
A: and we get students that come in that have been kicked out of the , uh , parochial and and , uh , private schools
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , they come in
A: and their attitude is , `` I 'm a bad boy , '' and proceed to prove it .
B: Really ,
B: really .
A: So I , I really hate that for them .
A: I , I , would rather they not have that attitude ,
B: Yeah .
A: but that 's ,
B: Well , when comparing test scores ,
B: I know recently I was in a discussion
B: and they were comparing test scores between private schools and public schools ,
A: Right .
B: and that was one of the points that I made , is that you 're not comparing apples to apples .
A: That 's right .
B: You know , you ca n't say , um , you know , I know Steven probably would not be accepted because he has a learning disability and , into a private school . And , um , which is , which is too bad .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But on the other hand , I , I ca n't necessarily blame them , you know , they , they are a private school
A: No .
B: and they , can do whatever they want .
A: That 's right ,
A: they can be selective ,
A: right .
B: And they they ,
B: that 's right ,
B: they have the ability to be selective .
B: But you ca n't say then , well , public schools are , are not as good .
A: Right .
B: Perhaps they are , because they 're , they 're ,
A: If you choose the select top group out of the public schools and tested them , and then compared them to the to the private school group , then I think you would have a more equitable way .
B: You 're right .
A: And I have a problem when they compare the kids in Japan or Germany to the kids here .
A: In , in , in , uh , honesty , the kids in Japan are , they have to try out to even get into , to which kindergarten they 're going to get into ,
B: Oh , really ?
A: and then after , uh ,
A: and if , if you only ,
A: the , in fact , they 've had cases in the past where parents have committed suicide because their child has not gotten into the top kindergarten , which means they probably wo n't get into the top elementary and , and high school ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if they don't , then when they reach a certain age , they just , that 's the end of their schooling .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and , uh , they don't ever really go on .
A: It 's only their top ones that go on , like ours do .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And , and , uh , so that , that creates a problem .
A: And , and you ca n't compare , because they go so many more hours .
B: Yeah .
A: The other thing is that the priority in the family is that child 's education , and is that child .
B: Right ,
B: well , you see that with the foreigners that come here .
A: That 's right .
B: Um , I , I was talking to somebody recently or read somewhere where they , where they said that , you know , these children , they , they had to be the best ,
B: and they put off all social life , all everything , you know .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
B: Well , is that good ?
B: Yes ,
B: the child is very bright ,
B: but on the other hand , I feel like my children , who are kind of middle of the road , have , are more rounded , you know .
A: Better coping skills .
A: Yes .
B: Sure ,
B: sure ,
B: I think it 's real important to have friends .
B: I think it 's real important to play sports .
B: I think it 's real important to be part of a team .
A: Right .
B: And so that 's why I said , their childhood is extremely different from mine .
B: We did n't do all that you know .
A: Right .
B: We certainly did n't carpool and run the way I do . Um ,
A: Well , and you don't , you don't see the parents , uh , encouraging those students to get on athletic teams or , drill teams or band ,
B: No .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: it 's strictly stick to the educational ,
A: and it 's interesting to see them as they get older , uh , then that is the type of adult they are .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um .
A: Okay ?
B: Yes .
A: Well , this is a very timely topic inasmuch as we 're going to a family reunion this weekend .
B: Oh are you really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Where is it going to be ?
A: Down at Lake Texoma lodge .
B: Oh .
A: Yes ,
A: this is one that 's , uh , the Baker family reunion
B: Uh-huh .
A: and this has been going on at least , uh , I would say , at least twenty-five years or thirty , something like that .
B: Oh , that 's marvelous .
A: Maybe longer than that , I 'm going to get back into the fifties sometime .
B: Uh-huh .
A: First time , I , I married into the family ,
A: and the first time I went was about fifty-seven , I think .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , this one has been well organized
A: and in fact it used to be at Lake Brownwood ,
A: and now it 's Lake Texoma , because that 's more central location for people from Oklahoma and Texas to come to .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm sure location 's really important as far as figuring out where one ought to be .
A: Very important , because , uh , you 'll start losing people if it 's too far to go .
B: Uh-huh .
B: We have factions , when it 's one part ,
B: we , I have one reunion on my mother 's side ,
B: and we found that if it 's in a certain part of Texas , some people come ,
B: and if it 's elsewhere , other people come
A: Yeah .
B: we never get them at both of them
A: Never get them at both places ,
B: it seems like ,
B: so I think we need to find a new place
A: Right .
A: Well , listen , they 've , uh , they 've had this one ,
A: well it just ,
A: of course , over the years it has , uh , built up as far as the organization is concerned
B: Uh-huh .
A: but now they , uh , have a golf tournament on the Saturday .
B: Um .
A: And then they have generally a show or an auction or something on Saturday night to help raise funds to cover the costs of such .
B: Oh , that 's a neat idea .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh , everyone , uh , they get the community building there at Lake Texoma lodge ,
A: and everyone brings in food
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then for the Saturday night dinner they bring in like Kentucky Fried Chicken from Durant ,
A: and uh it really , uh , has worked out .
B: Uh-huh .
B: How many people , Jim , are involved ?
A: Uh , generally , uh , I think it 's been as high as about a hundred and twenty people .
B: Wow .
A: I think normal 's about sixty or seventy .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I guess , um , ours probably is n't that big .
B: Our family is dwindling , for one thing .
A: Oh
B: And I often feel funny because I 'm in a branch that 's all but died
A: Oh .
B: I just have one aunt and my family .
B: So sometimes when these other families get together , they 're really pulling in aunts and uncles and grandkids ,
A: Yeah .
B: and we 're kind of off on the sidelines .
B: But it does remind us that we have family and roots .
A: Right .
B: So we keep going even though we 're not a real big part of it .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , our family reunion started out my wife
A: and I were the kids , the newlyweds , so to speak
B: Uh-huh .
A: and now we go , our children go ,
A: and our grandchildren are going now .
B: Oh that 's great .
A: So it 's , uh , wound up that , uh , we 're the old folks now .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: But , um , they have various organized ,
A: they have generally a volleyball net set up and horseshoes , uh , to pitch ,
A: and they organize a baseball game for the kids
B: Uh-huh .
A: and several people bring boats ,
A: and there 's a place they , they take the kids up to the lodge and go swimming up there in the afternoon ,
A: so it it 's a full day .
B: So there 's lots to do .
A: Some of the people come down on Friday afternoon and spend the whole weekend ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and some just come in for Saturday
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , it , uh , has worked out quite well ,
A: and it 's a chance to see some of the relatives you don't see all year long except that once a year .
B: Uh-huh
B: that 's true .
B: Well , that 's neat .
B: I think , think they 're really fun .
B: We go to mine regularly ,
B: and then we go to my husband 's occasionally down in Temple ,
B: and he has a large family ,
B: so it 's , it 's fun when we go to that one .
A: Yeah ,
A: my side of the family is from back in Ohio and West Virginia ,
A: and I think we 've been to one in thirty-five years or something like that ,
A: so , That 's just too far away .
B: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: that , that is a problem with the distance .
B: The people that we have that don't come are out El Paso way
A: Yeah .
B: and it 's just too much for all of them , all of that group to travel .
A: It 's an , all day drive just to get to this area .
B: Right .
B: But then we have the same attitude when it 's out , there , although this year we 're going out .
B: They 're going to have it at Fort Davis
A: Yeah .
B: and we thought that would be fun to kind of tie it in as a vacation time as well as reunion .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have ,
A: each year , of course , they elect officers of the family reunion
B: Uh-huh .
A: and a number of years ago , back in the early eighties , my wife was president .
A: We discovered how much work it is just to organize and get it together . And it takes a lot of planning , and assembling of stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And choose , some place that everybody 's going to like as far as food and all that
A: Right .
A: That 's correct .
B: That 's a heavy burden .
A: Yes ,
A: it is ,
A: I tell you .
A: I don't really care for her to be president again .
B: No
A: But that is , uh , it 's , it 's a lot of work ,
A: but it 's a lot of fun .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We 've enjoyed it ,
A: and the grandkids really enjoy it because it 's the only time of the year they see all their cousins from Oklahoma .
B: Well , I think ,
B: Yeah ,
B: and it 's , it 's good for kids to know that they have other family .
A: Yeah ,
A: and this year they 're all excited .
A: The show this weekend ,
A: this weekend 's going to be a rock and roll show
B: Oh , boy .
A: my two grandsons and one of their cousins are , are going to dress up and lip sing to a rock song you know , in jeans and t-shirts and such .
B: Oh , what fun .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , it 's , uh , it 's going to be exciting for them , and for us too .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Probably lots of laughs .
A: Oh , yes ,
A: there have been some really wild shows put on there .
A: They , uh , really get , uh , into it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , it sounds like you really have a good structure and have it going along .
B: Ours , ours is still kind of loosely organized ,
B: and the same people usually get stuck with doing it .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , Oh , that generally happens .
B: And , they do it as a labor of love .
A: Yeah .
B: So , the officer idea is a good idea .
A: Yeah ,
A: well we 've , uh , had various things over the years , uh , to raise funds for it
B: Uh-huh .
A: and again , it 's not , it 's not cheap to rent the lodge up there or the meeting room down in the cabins and such ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh they 've come up with ,
B: Uh-huh
A: they 've tried passing the hat ,
A: and they 've had auctions and various things to raise funds ,
A: and , uh some people do
B: Uh-huh .
A: and some people don't
B: Yeah ,
B: and it 's not fair that everybody not contribute ,
A: Excuse me . But , um , anyway , that 's the family reunion story .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay .
B: Well , thanks a lot I enjoyed talking to you .
B: Bye .
A: Been nice talking to you .
A: Bye .
A: Okay .
B: All right .
B: Well , I am , uh , the product of , uh , I think as much the changing roles of women as anyone ,
B: my mother , uh ,
B: we come from a ,
B: my mother and I were , uh , really , first generation divorce in our family .
A: Yes .
B: My , uh , mother was divorced in nineteen , uh , fifty-seven , when I was seven years old .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , was , I was the first one , of anyone that , that anyone had ever known , to have a divorce .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Of course , now fifty percent divorces in the United States , uh ,
B: my mother , uh , was treated very badly , uh , in a , by a lot of people , family members , um , especially from my father 's side of the family ,
B: and also , uh , uh , uh , we were , uh , ostracized by his family , uh , basically just , you know , uh , we just kind of dropped off the face of the earth .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: And , they all felt that there was never an issue that my father was the , was the cause of the reason for the split up , even though he had impregnated another woman and forced the divorce .
A: Oh , mercy .
B: Uh , it was always my mother 's fault , she was not , uh , sufficient , you know , she just was not good enough .
B: What was wrong with her , was she not attractive enough , did she not take good enough care of her man to keep his interest .
B: It was that kind of an attitude .
A: Yeah ,
A: that , that 's too bad .
B: So , uh ,
B: yeah
B: it was too bad ,
B: it was really rough .
A: Um , um , that 's sad .
A: It really is .
B: Uh , so , you know , that 's so changing ,
B: some of the changing roles of women in that respect , I have been a product of .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I think that there are people that , I think that , uh ,
B: I was I was first generation going to college in my family .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , first , my mother had always had a quote career , but always a career as a , uh , uh , in a secretarial position .
B: She did rise to the highest position that a woman could rise to in a secretarial profession in Des Moines , Iowa .
A: That 's , that 's wonderful .
B: She was a secretary to , uh , uh , the to , uh , a circuit court judge , federal judge .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it was a lifetime appointment for her as well as for him .
B: So , that was a really high , high status position .
A: Well , that 's wonderful .
B: She made over thirty thousand , a year .
A: That speaks , well of your mother .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: she a real hard
A: She had high standards .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: hard driving lady with a steel rod up her back , you know .
A: Oh , bless her heart .
B: But , uh , so I went to college and now since have completed two master 's degrees
B: and I am the director of music in a church .
B: Um , and but it 's interestingly enough , I am still , everyday , confronted with ,
A: Challenges .
B: Absolutely .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Challenges that have to do with my sex .
A: Right .
B: Uh , for instance , uh , well , you know , I am just not taken as seriously , you know , at professions , as many of the as many of the men who are doing the same job I do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , the choir members treat me differently because I am a woman , they expect me to be more motherly ,
B: they question my authority more , uh , than they ever would a man .
B: And I have experience with this , because I work at both , both as a director of music and also as an associate under a man .
A: uh-huh .
B: So I am pretty , I am pretty pretty I mean , I am pretty aware of what goes on uh , in the church .
A: Surely .
B: So , basically that 's , that 's ,
B: well I am done talking .
B: Do you want to talk ?
A: Well , I think that you carried forth your subject matter very well , uh , Nickie .
A: And I can , uh , relate to that , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , I think it 's , it 's the image that the woman has and , uh , in the world , as , uh , the lesser of the two .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , always .
A: And , uh , I think things are changing ,
A: but the changing is taking a long time longer than we would like it to , like it to take .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I think we are progressing at a snail 's pace ,
B: Indeed .
A: but we are progressing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , that 's the main point is that we are going ahead .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I think that , uh , in the long term that women are going to be able to have the recognition that they deserve .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , men , uh , have , a lot of them have , uh , come around and have seen , the error of their ways .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But there are a lot of die-hards out there that will never change .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we have to , uh , face that reality also .
B: I have never been able to figure out why they can not ever change , why they can not bend . I mean , why they can not just accept , you know , competent women ,
B: I , I have never been able to understand that .
B: I guess it 's fear
B: I mean what ,
A: It could be , if they are they are not sure of themselves .
B: Sure .
A: The ones that , uh , go along with that , they are sure of themselves .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they know that they can , uh , you know , uh , be on the same level .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they do not have any , uh , ego , uh , problems that they are fighting .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I think that we are going to be , uh , on par with them in salary and in recognition , in the long term .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and I , what I would like to see happen futuristically , is what we are discussing , is that yes , uh , we each have our , uh , jobs in life , and that we should recognize that . And that we should support each other .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I think our problems would be fewer , if we supported each other . And just looked at each other as equals and none lesser , because we are equal .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Men have a lot of trouble with that though .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They , in their , in their own peer relationships , they do not treat themselves equal ,
B: and so it 's really difficult for them to treat women as equals .
B: They are , they are really much more comfortable with somebody being the boss and somebody being the follower .
B: Uh , it just seems that , it seems , it seems that they are more comfortable that way .
B: And I do not know if that 's , I mean , that 's , it 's a militaristic point of view I guess , you know ,
B: somebody can not be colonel
B: and everybody else is infantry ,
B: but it 's just really interesting to me .
B: I am married to a wonderful man , you know , who treats me very , you know , with a , with as ,
B: I think probably is as enlightened as anyone can be at this particular stage in their life time .
B: But , when he gets angry , it 's always over control issues , it 's always over power issues , it 's never over , you know , it 's always , you said you were going to do something
B: and you did not do it . As if he is the boss
B: and I am the , you know , and I am the slave .
A: uh-huh .
B: And it ,
B: those are the only , only issues we ever fight about .
B: I think it 's just , I think it 's just difficult for men to , uh , to accept women equally ,
B: even if they want to , they are more comfortable when somebody is the boss
B: Uh , dictator , dictatorships are real efficient .
A: Well , I guess we would have to go back to the way that the Lord made us .
B: Um .
A: And , uh , the women when they are married , they are to be subjective to their husbands .
B: Um .
A: And I believe that strongly .
B: Um .
A: And , uh , but I think that they should be in harmony with what they are , with what the subject matter is .
B: Um .
A: And I think the issue should be settled before there 's a conflict .
B: Huh .
A: Uh , and I think that can happen in a very wonderful way .
B: Huh .
A: And if we , men and women , would do as the Bible said , that we would esteem each other higher than ourselves .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Can you picture that ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , if your husband did that to you , and you did that to your husband , you would always be trying to please each other and not yourself .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's true .
A: And , uh , that 's really the , the divine answer , and , and the right answer
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , uh , that would be a beautiful relationship .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: it would be .
A: And I think there are some people that have done that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I have seen it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it 's , it 's just marvelous ,
A: and I am just in awe to see this ,
A: Um , I don't ,
A: I am only twenty-eight
A: and I have n't had much experience with nursing homes .
A: I don't , I have never visited any of them
A: and , uh , I don't think I 've ever even been in one .
A: Have you ?
B: Um , actually I have , um , I 've , I 've been in them but , um , just visiting
B: and , uh , we used to when we were like in , in our teen ages
B: we 'd go on Sundays and visit , you know , the older people .
B: But , um , I have an elderly grandma that lives with us .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And she 's lived with us for like five years .
B: So I kind of know how it is to , how to decide if you want to put somebody in a rest home
B: or , um , like we , I mean we 've had those discussions , you know , about should we put her in or because she 's pretty senile
B: and
A: And it , it takes a lot of care
A: like twenty-four hours a day someone , has to be , Well , there 's someone in my , my fiancee 's family .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's
A: His grandmother too and they 're , that her son , his uncle , whatever , you know , anyway .
A: He , he has , he 's recently retired
A: and so he 's the one who she moved in with when she had a stroke
A: and , and all the other children are working or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 're all my parents age .
A: And , uh , so he 's got , you know , his retirement though is really twenty-four hours a day .
A: They have a day care two days a week .
A: They call it senior citizen day care .
A: But she goes in the senior citizen center .
B: Oh , really ?
A: So he gets a break two days a week
A: but it 's only for like two or three hours at a time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , you know , just , you see a lot of things like you , you know , was a great golfer and wanted to play golf when he retired ,
A: and you know that a lot of the things he thought he would do when he retired he 's not able to do now .
B: Right .
A: But he refuses to consider any other ,
A: I don't ,
B: To put her in a rest home ?
A: Yeah ,
A: and is that how your parents feel
A: or ,
B: Um , well , see it 's more my grandma that feels that way .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She says that when her husband died that he said , oh , that my uncle had said that he would never put her in a rest home .
B: So it 's kind of , uh ,
B: I don't know .
B: I mean , I don't , I don't think my parents would
B: but she is getting pretty bad
B: like she has to have like a little toilet right by her bed
B: and , it 's ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my mom has to take care of her pretty much
B: so it gets ,
B: I don't know .
B: It 's , it 's a hard decision ,
B: but I don't think I would do it to my parents personally
A: I know at this ,
A: I know I feel like I would never do that with my parents either , you know .
A: But I , I really feel bad for the people I see not very ,
A: I 'm not really , really experienced
A: but like I said I just have that one family ,
A: and I just really feel bad for the guy who his whole life is different now
A: and , than he thought it would be .
A: But ,
B: When he retired ?
A: Yeah ,
A: and he 's got , you know , seven brothers and sisters
A: and , and , uh , he 's the one because he 's the one that is n't going to work every day and that she moved in with when she needed to move in with someone .
A: And ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's like that good for us just because my uncle and my , and my mom switch off like we have her for three months
B: and then he has her for three months .
A: Oh , well , that 's great .
B: So that , that works out good .
A: That 's a good idea .
A: We ought to ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and maybe when the other brothers and sisters retire or whatever , I don't know what they 're going to do .
A: It 's really not my family .
A: It 's my fiancee 's
A: so I don't , I ca n't say much .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I always feel like I would never put my parents in either
A: and I wonder , I 'm going to be the only sibling that is n't going to have children
A: so if my parents do need to live with someone , it will probably be with me because all my brothers and sisters will be having teenagers around and everything to care for . You know ,
B: Really ?
A: and I 'm , I ,
A: that 's fine with me .
A: my fiancee and I both figure that 's what 's , we 're going to end up with both of the parents or whoever .
A: If
A: You know what I mean ?
A: We feel like , it 's our responsibility ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I feel like I would never put them in a home .
A: But I wonder how much , you know , if one of us is going to have to quit work someday or retire early or something .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You think about it
A: and it 's really ,
A: I don't know .
A: This country kind of takes the worst care of the elderly of any other country .
B: You think ?
B: I , I I 'm not really familiar with how other countries ,
A: And , It 's really more of a , um , like a respect issue that the older , older people in other countries that I 've been to seem to really have a lot more respect for the elderly people
A: and , and they really seem as wise
A: and , and in this country nobody really , Yeah , nobody really pays attention
B: They 're seen as senile
A: and they , oh , the old-timer made with the old way
A: and nobody respects the traditions .
A: And , you know , it 's I ,
A: I 'm not saying that I do either
A: but you know , it 's just funny
B: Right .
A: and , and we really don't have any that don't have the Social Security
A: and everything really is n't that much for elderly people to live on .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , even if they 're in good health it 's incredible .
B: Right .
A: They don't have any ,
A: they don't get special treatment and maybe they should , you know because we 're all going to get old someday .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I know .
A: And so it 's a , it 's kind of a depressing topic though .
A: How old are you ?
B: Um , I 'm twenty .
A: So it is , yeah , and it must be rough for you too to see your grandmother .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it really is
B: but , and she , she drives us
A: Why don't you go ahead and say what you feel ,
A: and then I 'll respond .
B: All right .
B: Well , I 'm , uh , I 'm very guilty of , of not doing my part with recycling , I 'm afraid .
B: We , um , recently moved here from North Carolina ,
B: and they had curbside recycling ,
B: and it was very easy to , you know , to put everything out there ,
B: but we don't have it in , at least in our neighborhood right now
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , so , I 've been very guilty about not making the effort to , to take things where take things where they belong .
A: Well , how long have you been here ?
B: Well , we 've been here since January ,
B: so we , we still feel very new ,
A: Well ,
B: but , uh it 's working up to a year now ,
A: Yeah .
B: so , I guess we 're old timers compared to some people .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that 's a good excuse .
A: You need to get into the the system a little more and know where to take things .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: We 've been here probably two and a half years ,
A: and , and we did n't recycle at all before we came
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I think we 're doing well .
A: We , we save most of our aluminum cans and glass and newspaper right now .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , where do you take those things ?
A: Well , the , um , glass and the newspaper we usually take to Walmart .
A: They have , um , in behind Walmart they have bins
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then we usually save up our cans and , and change them in for money .
B: Well , where do you do that ,
B: because we 've been saving cans for my daughter 's choir um ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I did n't know where to take them .
A: Um , there 's a place on Parker Road , um ,
A: it 's just over the overpass before you get like to K-Mart .
A: I think there 's a , a service station there .
A: There 's usually a semi truck that has a , a person there that will weigh them
A: and , Now they are n't worth much right now ,
B: Oh .
A: but it 's better than nothing
B: Yeah .
A: so
B: Better than nothing ,
B: right .
A: and what I hear a lot of neighborhoods do have the , the pickup now ,
A: and we , hopefully we 'll be getting them in the month of October .
B: Yeah ,
B: I ,
B: it seems like ever since we 've moved here we 've been hearing that , you know it 's coming in a couple of months ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and , I think it 's been delayed .
B: but
A: I think it was originally scheduled for February ,
A: but the trucks that were supposed to do it , there 's been some problems with from what I 've read in , you know , the mail that we get
B: Oh .
B: Right .
A: and I ca n't wait for that ,
A: that will be easy .
A: I get tired of newspaper littering the garage
B: Yeah ,
B: it gets to be a bit much to haul it off ,
B: but .
A: I feel guilty we don't recycle our , our milk containers because they seem like a big waste .
B: Well , they , yeah they , they 're a lot of bulk , anyway
A: Yeah
B: yeah .
A: yeah ,
A: they fill up the whole kitchen garbage can
B: Right .
A: so , I 'll be glad when the bins do come ,
A: and I think that 's when I 'll , I 'll start doing the plastic , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was real easy with the bins ,
B: it really was ,
B: it was just no effort at all , um , no more trouble than taking out the garbage ,
B: so , um ,
A: Yeah .
A: I 've gotten used to washing the , you know , the , um , salad dressing bottles and things like that ,
B: Right .
A: it 's not that big of a deal ,
A: and it 's nicer to just throw them out ,
A: but we can do our part take an extra minute or two .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , how much do you earn on the cans ,
B: I , I did n't know what kind of an idea to give her for ,
A: Oh , when we first were , were here , it was like we 'd take maybe a , oh , a grocery sack full or maybe two grocery sacks full ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it would be like two dollars but since last time we 've gotten more like a dollar .
B: Yeah .
B: So it 's gone down .
A: Yeah
B: Yeah ,
A: which is understandable ,
A: I think , more people are are recycling .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's something we , we don't really make any effort to ,
A: and whatever pop we drink , we used to take the boys out for a bike ride , and pick up the litter , you know , the , the cans
B: Uh-huh .
A: and that was kind of fun ,
A: but we have n't done that for a long time
B: Yeah .
A: so .
B: Well , that sounds like a pretty good project .
A: Well , the boys think it 's fun , plus you get your exercise
A: and you do get to stop once in a while when there is a can to rest
A: so
B: Oh .
A: but .
B: Well , I 'll have to keep myself and , and get on it .
B: My neighbor across the street , um , is so careful about recycling ,
B: and so I keep telling myself , I 'll , I 'll get it organized ,
B: but , may , maybe they 'll beat me and , and do the city wide first .
A: Well , hopefully the bins will be here in this month
A: and that will spur you on ,
A: so
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: I wo n't have any excuse then ,
B: that 's for sure .
A: All right , well , it sounds like we 're doing our part and at least starting , Trying
B: Thinking about it , anyway
A: that 's all you can do
B: Yeah ,
B: but , Well , um , have you ,
A: so .
B: do they time this thing for us ,
B: or do we ,
A: Um , yeah ,
A: you can do it as long as you want .
A: They , you know ,
A: if it 's been long enough , five minutes is , is when they cut in and say , say , we don't have any more room for recording
B: You ca n't chat all day , huh
A: So we can say good-bye now .
B: Okay .
A: It was good talking to you ,
A: and maybe we 'll get on line again .
B: Okay .
A: Thanks , Sherry .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Well , do you have any pets ?
B: Yes
B: I do .
B: I have a dog named Grisly , who 's a ten year old , uh , mixed breed between Golden Retriever , Afghan Hound and Chow .
A: Oh .
B: And I have a pair of box turtles .
A: Oh ,
A: I used to have box turtles , um , well , years ago , when I was growing up
B: Yeah ,
A: I , I really like them .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I do , too .
B: Lucky and Spot , that 's their names
A: Oh .
B: and they live in an aquarium without water in my family room ,
B: and my dog thinks he 's a mother turtle , and always has his nose all around my turtle box ,
B: so do you have any pets now ?
A: Yes ,
A: um , we have one dog , a Bichon Frise .
A: Um , our friends in Houston bred the dogs .
A: I had never heard of them
B: No ,
B: I have n't either .
A: they 're , um , they 're all white
A: and they 're small , and , um , and fluffy ,
A: they don't shed .
A: I guess they 're distantly related to a poodle ,
A: but they 're not very well known in this country ,
A: and they 're not , um , high strung or over bred um .
B: Oh .
B: And how big do they get .
A: Ours is , uh , on the small end ,
A: and she 's about ten pounds ,
A: and they range from probably ten to sixteen pounds
B: Oh , that 's interesting .
A: and they love people , um , and kids
A: and that was something we were looking for , um ,
A: our , our love is Golden Retrievers ,
A: and that 's what we had intended to get in Houston ,
A: but we had a small yard and a pool
A: and knowing how they love to dig and love the water , um , and we thought that was kind of a tough climate
B: the water ,
B: yes .
B: Yeah .
A: so , uh , we ended up getting this ,
A: and , uh , my son would rather have a Golden Retriever , though , I think
B: Oh .
A: now he wants a , a good size dog
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well , we 've got a good size dog ,
B: and we were considering getting a puppy , a small house , lap top dog for him , because he likes other animals and for me , because we used to have a miniature Dachshund ,
B: and I miss having a little one you know , around .
A: Oh .
A: Yeah .
B: The kind you have sounds very interesting , though .
A: Well , they really are , um , they 're really sweet dogs .
A: We 've , uh , we thought probably our neighborhood in Houston had more of this breed than any other place just because of , um , the family that had them and , and bred them .
A: They had five litters of puppies ,
A: and and a lot of them stayed in the neighborhood
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: because , um ,
B: And how do you spell that breed ?
A: It 's B I C H O N F R I S E .
B: F R I S E .
B: And how do you pronounce that ?
A: Bichon Frise .
B: Okay .
B: I 'm writing it out phonetically ,
A: Yeah .
A: They 're , uh ,
A: and they don't shed
A: so they 're , they 're good dogs for people with , with allergies ,
B: Yes ,
A: and they love people ,
A: and they 're ,
B: Do they bark a lot ?
A: Um , no ,
A: not really .
A: Ours , um , ours barks more than , um , than some , because she spent a lot of time at our friends ' house .
A: We used to swap back and forth dogs .
A: they have three dogs .
A: They had a Cockapoo , and , and two Bichons um ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she did n't bark at all until she spent time there
B: Oh .
A: and , uh , now it 's funny .
A: She 's , she 's a good watch dog
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if there 's , she 'll bark that way ,
A: but she also talks a lot ,
A: she um , has a definite personality
B: Yes .
A: and so , if we 're leaving her , she barks at us , because she does n't want to be left . Um .
B: Oh .
B: Does she ever mess in the house ?
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: and they 're , um , they 're very smart dogs .
A: The circuses in Europe used to use them um , for the acts .
B: Oh .
A: They , uh , oh , they 'll dance on their hind legs each
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , gee .
A: um , but they 're very easy to train
B: Uh-huh .
A: and ,
B: And about how much are they ?
A: Well , they range ,
A: I 'd noticed up here they 're a lot more expensive it seemed to me from the ads in the paper .
A: They run anywhere from two hundred to four hundred dollars , I think which I thought was a lot .
B: And how about the , And how about the person in , uh , Houston ?
A: Well , she 's no longer breeding them
B: Oh .
A: but , um , because her dogs , um , the , the second one that she has was one of the puppies from the litter ,
A: and , uh , the one male that she used had a tooth problem
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so she only bred that dog once because it had the tooth problem , and did them strictly as , um , pets , you know they were n't , were n't show quality .
B: Oh , yes .
B: Just pets ,
B: Yes ,
B: that 's what we 'd rather have is just a pet , instead of
B: we used to show Saint Bernards when I was a little girl .
B: We did that every weekend ,
A: Oh , but , yeah , takes a lot of time .
B: Yes ,
B: and it 's very expensive .
A: Yeah ,
A: um , but she might have some contacts here ,
A: I know I know that the dog 's grandmother , um , was from Plano ,
B: Oh , that 's where I live ,
A: Oh , that 's where I live , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm at Coit and Legacy ...
B: So , what do you think about it ?
A: Well , I found it interesting that they started off with a problems of immigration in America and then went back and said , well , if there is a problem , what should we do about it ?
B: Right
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess that 's so .
A: Do you feel there 's a problem with immigration in America ?
B: Um , uh , I think there 's some problems ,
B: but they 're not really big ones .
B: I think that , um , in general the whole immigration policy is n't quite as open as it should be .
B: That it 's really pretty hard for people from other countries to get in here even if they 're educated and will be a good asset to America .
B: It 's often hard for them to get in and get on the track towards citizenship unless they marry a citizen or something like that .
A: Okay .
A: That 's interesting .
A: I was , I was wondering what your response would be .
A: I 'm a first generation American .
B: Okay .
A: So I 'm , from immigrant parents Or an immigrant mother anyway .
B: Uh , where did you come from ?
B: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: so where did your parents come from ?
A: Uh , Poland .
B: Okay .
B: And ,
A: And that was , you know , prior to World War Two .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it 's interesting that , you know , with the topic I think I agree with you .
B: Yeah .
A: There needs to be more of an open policy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you know we have to remember the Chinese came here and were our labor , you know , for the railroad , Transatlantic Railroad
A: and , our Irish came and , you know , built the towns and , did labor .
B: Yep .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But what do you think ,
A: are you from Texas
A: or ,
B: I 'm from Pennsylvania .
A: Pennsylvania .
A: Okay .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , that will be interesting .
B: Right ,
B: and , uh , a lot of ,
A: Because we have just , had a Naturalization Act where the Mexicans that were residents in Texas , I 'm from Texas and have become citizens now .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: What do you think about that ?
B: Um , I think that 's all right .
B: I , um ,
B: at least on the surface it sounds like a good thing .
B: Do you have an opinion about it ?
A: Well , I agree with it wholeheartedly .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The only thing is I 've got to share with you , my background is from New Jersey .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , when you were giving your answer I was thinking , is this a Texan I 'm talking to ?
B: No ,
B: okay .
A: Because Texan philosophy is a little different .
B: Right .
B: Well , a lot of the experience that I have with this problem has to do with my brother-in-law who 's Chinese and immigrated from China .
B: And , um , you know he , um , got a green card is , and is in good standing in America and China , but only because he was always nice to the Chinese government , and all that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he was always on pretty good terms with them .
A: Yeah ,
A: well we ,
B: But , um , their ,
B: my sister just had a baby
B: and they 're trying to get permission for his mother to come to America to like help care for the kid and that sort of thing .
B: And it 's turned out to be sort of a horrible problem .
B: It 's just very difficult to get a woman who does n't have a lot of assets or whatever out of China even temporarily to visit here .
A: Oh , well , then you have first in the experience on immigration .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , that is interesting .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I wonder , you know , even with those that were involved with Tienamen 's Square .
B: Right .
A: You know , did we really protect them ?
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , and I think that 's pretty crazy , because I mean those students who were in America when that was happening are almost certainly going to be in trouble if they go back ,
A: Yeah .
B: and aside for that , they 're the best and brightest of China
B: so it 's certainly in our best selfish interest to keep them here if we can .
A: That is true .
A: That is true .
A: Well , what do you think about ,
B: Yeah .
A: we have in Texas a large Vietnamese population that has been brought in .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: What do you think about that ?
B: Um ,
A: And these are not the brightest .
B: See , these are refujees , you mean ?
A: I mean we we 're talking boat people .
B: Okay .
B: Right ,
B: okay .
A: We have a lot of boat people in Texas .
B: Right .
B: Well , um , I don't have any problem with that . Um ,
A: You 're a true liberal heart-to-heart .
A: Good for you .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess so
A: I was ready for a fight on this one
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: No ,
A: I agree because ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: um , interesting , my , when my daughter was in high school , one of the custodians was Vietnamese
B: Yeah .
A: and with his limited English they found out , you know , that , she was in student council ,
A: and they found out that he was a medical doctor ,
B: All right ,
B: so , we started recording already ?
A: Uh , I guess ,
A: I don't know .
A: It 's the first time I 've made a phone call on it .
B: Oh , so you pressed one ?
A: Right .
B: Okay .
B: So , I guess we 're supposed to start talking .
B: Uh what kind of books do you read ?
A: I read , uh , a lot of Steven King , Dean R Koontz , uh some Danielle Steel .
B: Uh-huh .
A: My aunt got me hooked on those
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I ,
B: So it 's mostly all novels ?
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're all novels .
B: Okay .
A: I 'll read some , uh , classic , too .
B: Oh , like what ?
A: Uh , like THE GRADUATE by Steinbeck .
A: I 'll , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I like that .
B: I like Steinbeck a lot .
A: A , A ROSE FAMILY by Faulkner . That 's one of my favorites .
B: I have never read a lot of Faulkner .
A: Oh , and this , this is more of a play or something that , that it was from , that , that I saw
A: and I read the book from that .
B: Oh , cool
A: And , by the way , my name 's Bill .
A: I 'm from North Carolina
B: I 'm Doug ,
B: I 'm from Pennsylvania .
A: Uh , I ,
A: let 's see .
A: What kind of books do you like to read ?
B: Uh , well , a bunch of stuff , I guess , uh , fair number of novels , but mostly shorter ones .
B: And , like , I don't really like the , you know , six hundred page long Stephen King novels and all that .
A: I really have to be in the mood .
B: Right ?
A: I , I read one , like maybe once a year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm not as ,
B: No ,
B: like , I like , say , uh , Richard Broudigan a lot . Uh ,
A: I 've never read anything by him .
B: Okay .
B: He 's , uh , he 's dead now ,
B: but he was really a pretty amazing writer .
B: He wrote books that were , like , pretty short and pretty easy to read , you know , like written at a third grade level or whatever .
A: Yeah .
B: But they were still very heavy and philosophical , also very funny .
B: Like , He wrote TROUT FISHING IN AMERICA .
A: Okay .
B: So that 's , anyway ,
B: and , uh , I read a lot of non fiction books , too .
B: Uh , let 's see ,
A: I like to read a lot of non fiction history when Civil War era and , and that kind of thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I found that real interesting .
A: I 'm reading THE LION AND THE WIND right now .
A: And that was on T V .
B: Now what 's that ?
A: It was , uh , during Teddy Roosevelt 's time . And , uh , about a American woman that got kidnapped in , uh , Morocco .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , this is when they were having their revolution or whatever
B: Uh-huh .
A: and Teddy Roosevelt sent troops over and really portrays him as a , kind of a crazy man , you know .
B: Yeah
A: Surprised me .
A: I had no idea that he was like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: What , how crazy ?
A: Well , just like some , one quote that he had was that he thought the America 's emblem was stupid because it was an eagle ,
A: and it should be a grizzly bear because
B: Oh ,
A: you , you know , like the grizzly and stuff like that .
A: So it 's ,
A: I saw the movie
A: and that 's what made me want to read the book .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Candice Bergen was in the movie .
A: I 'm a real big fan of hers
A: so ,
B: Yeah .
B: Cool ,
B: see , I also read a lot of books about music because I 'm interested in that and fair number of stuff about science and also philosophy things .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I like , I like to read some of the philosophy stuff .
B: Like ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Like , let 's see ,
B: and even like reading some new age things , things that I don't quite believe in ,
B: like here on my shelf I have a book called JOURNEYS OUT OF THE BODY .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that ,
B: It 's all about how to have out of body experiences and all that .
A: I 'm fascinated by that .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm fascinated by that .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yep .
A: That ,
A: and , and , uh , even stuff about , not like ghost stories , but real encounters with ghosts and supposedly haunted houses .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I like ,
A: I 'm kind of a doubting Thomas
A: and I like to read stuff like that .
A: Some of it really freaks me out
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh
B: Right ,
B: definitely
B: Uh ,
A: And I like to read , uh , I like to read some self help books like , uh ,
A: I read DIANETICS once , once I got past all the gibberish on it .
B: Uh , did you like it ?
A: It was okay .
A: It , it , it , it took me a while to really get into it .
A: It , it did n't help me that much
B: Uh-huh .
B: I see .
A: But , uh , I think once you 're set in your ways , you 're set in your ways .
B: Yeah
A: Uh , then I ,
A: one real interesting book I read recently was , when I was looking for a job ,
A: I read , HOW TO GET THE JOB THAT YOU WANTED
A: and , it , it had real good tips
A: and it ,
A: and I got the job that I wanted by applying the , the methods that , that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: you want to go ahead and tell me your favorite team , or who you think will be doing well this year .
B: Uh , well , where I 'm from the Atlantic coast conference is a very big conference
B: and , course , we have Duke University that was the national champions last year ,
B: so I 'm kind of hoping that they 'll repeat again this year .
B: They have a lot of the same players back .
A: Are we talking about , is this the N B A ?
B: No ,
B: this is college basketball .
A: This is college , College , okay
B: Right .
B: We have like Carolina , and Duke , and Georgia Tech , and N C State , teams that are normally ranked in the top twenty .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , hopefully we 'll have a good year .
B: I don't really follow the N B A very closely .
A: And see that 's probably all , all I saw .
A: I , we have moved in the last couple years from Utah to Texas
A: and there 's so many colleges and universities in Texas , we have n't really followed them too much
A: and none of them are our , our alma mater
A: so , that seems to help .
B: Do you like professional basketball ?
A: Uh , I , I follow it especially around the playoffs ,
A: so , course , I was real familiar with the Utah Jazz ,
A: and the Mailman or Karl Malone was , you know , pretty big thing
A: and , the Lakers have always been amazing to watch .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I did keep track a little bit of the Mavericks .
A: They 've not had any good seasons for a long time , and have a lot of problems with , with Tarpley
A: and , maybe now that that 's over they 'll , they 'll come out of it
A: but ,
B: Well , that 's an up and coming team , though .
A: Yeah ,
A: I hope they do something .
A: They need to
A: or they 're not going to have any of the team left at all .
B: That 's somebody you can get behind and , be patient .
A: Yeah .
A: Kind of like the Cowboys I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: they seem to be kind of not having a very good few seasons .
A: Yeah ,
A: they , coming out of it this year .
A: We 'll see if it 's held on .
B: But , I think Chicago will probably with the N B A again .
A: The Bulls ?
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: They 'll probably be pretty good .
A: Course , the Celtics are always really , really good , too , with their players .
B: That 's true .
A: Be interesting to see how the Olympics does this year with all the , the N B A players playing on the Olympic team .
B: That 's true ,
B: it will be interesting .
A: So ,
B: It will certainly be different
A: Yeah .
A: I don't know , how close I 'll follow them , though .
A: And the season has n't started yet .
A: I 'm usually more the end of the season person ,
A: and we need to talk about baseball
A: and so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: oh , my Atlanta Braves .
A: Well ,
B: Well , I really do , uh , you know ,
B: the basketball season 's supposed to start in the next couple of weeks .
A: It 's ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: It 's a long season .
A: It is , it is ,
A: and that 's why I 've ,
A: I guess my mind went blank .
A: It 's like last season was so long ago
A: and I have n't really even started thinking about basketball yet
A: so ,
B: Yeah .
A: But , this was n't a good subject ,
A: but , We 'll see how our predictions come true .
B: It 's a little early .
B: We definitely will .
A: Okay ,
A: it 's good talking to you .
B: Good to talk to you .
A: All righty ,
A: bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Uh , I guess my personal opinion , I , I don't mind paying taxes necessarily .
A: I , I just sometimes wonder if our money is being used in the best way .
B: Right .
A: Uh , sometimes when I hear what , what they 're , even what , even what the politicians are making , you know , when they 're getting a hundred and fifty thousand plus benefits and that , uh , I think that 's just a bit too much to be paying them , uh ,
A: and that 's all tax money .
A: When you figure out how many politicians and each one getting that much , it 's just billions of dollars
A: that 's , I think is just being thrown away .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: And then when you read about that they 're spending all the money on , you know , these studies that have no relevance whatsoever , that kind of ticks you off , too .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , somebody , somebody was telling me the other day that they heard some senator say that what we 're paying , it 's not that we mind paying taxes , it 's that we 're paying too much for a lousy government .
A: Yeah .
B: And I , I , I tend to agree with that
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm not really into what they 're doing per se ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I think there 's just too many , too many levels of bureaucracy .
B: I think it can be , can be managed by less , uh , less levels .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Well , I know any time there 's , there 's a big , uh , budget cut , you know ,
A: I work with the state ,
A: and any time there 's , there is a budget cut or crunches , it 's always the small guy that , that gets hurt .
B: Right .
A: It 's never the , uh , the person that 's making a hundred thousand there .
A: It 's always the person that 's making the least amount ,
A: and uh , and sometimes we 're running around there .
B: Right .
A: I see these , these , uh , supervisors running around , uh , having meetings .
A: I , I really don't know what they do .
B: Right .
A: I sometimes wonder , are , are they really doing anything ,
A: or ,
B: Right ,
B: well , I think we 're going to see a streamlining in the government .
B: I just , you know ,
B: I , I don't know what kind of , uh , I don't know what , what level , or what , how long it will take for , you know , our country to start , the public in general to start saying , Hey , this is too much . We 're not going to pay any more . You know , we 're not going to pay for this ,
B: and you 're out , you know .
B: I think we 're starting to see it a little bit now ,
B: but I think , uh , I don't know what , what kind of input we 're going to get from the public and how they 're going to go about doing it .
B: Because I think , I think we 're just getting taxed way too much .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , right now we 're getting taxed probably , probably around thirty-five percent , or more .
B: And that 's , that 's , you know , that 's me not making a whole lot of money .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , they got so many hidden taxes , that it 's really hard to figure out how much you are paying , because , go to a grocery store , something like that , and you 're paying a little tax here
A: and you
B: Right .
A: so .
A: Gas , I don't know about you guys ,
A: but there 's probably at least about twenty-five to , to thirty cents of different taxes on , on our gas .
B: Right .
A: And you don't realize ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we got a sales tax .
B: Our sales tax is like eight percent ,
B: and I don't know what our gas tax is .
B: I think it 's somewhere around twenty five cents a gallon .
A: Yeah .
B: So . I mean , they 're hitting us up ,
B: and they may not raise it , you know , federally as much one year ,
B: but then they 'll raise it somewhere in the state or the sales tax or property tax or whatever .
B: It 's just , I mean , you can see that your money is just not going that far .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I know they say like with Reagan , they say no new taxes ,
A: but they changed the , uh , deductions on you ,
A: and that just raises your taxes , you know , they just get it a different way
B: Right .
A: so , I mean , to me , it did , uh , raise my taxes .
B: Right ,
B: well , I mean , you could tell just by , just by how much money you have left over ,
B: and all of a sudden , I don't know it 's just , it 's eating me alive .
A: Yeah ,
A: I heard someone say that , uh , if they would just , something about with the , uh , the defense budget , all that extra money they 're throwing back , if they cut back by so much percentage , it could throw back about six hundred dollars , on an average , six hundred dollars ,
A: Okay ,
A: I 'll let you start this time .
B: Well , how much do you like lawn and garden work ?
A: Well , uh , even though it 's totally out of my , uh , my degree training , I 've been working as , as , in the horticultural aspect , so the last , I don't know , fifteen , twenty years , so Uh , I 'm ,
B: Oh .
B: Oh , for goodness sakes .
B: What do you do ?
A: Well , I work for the state as , as a grounds keeper .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well , that 's interesting .
B: Um , so , at this time of the year are you doing much garden work ?
A: No ,
A: mostly snow removal , which we 've had a lot of ,
A: but , uh , I don't know ,
A: I , I guess , uh , growing up on the farm and , and that , I , I 've always had a big interest , uh .
B: Right .
A: I have a , uh , when I have an area to do , I , I always had a big garden and enjoy working on lawns and , and everything .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well I love to work outside , really ,
B: and I enjoy flowers and stuff .
B: I don't do a whole lot of it , um , at this exact point in my life , um , because I have two teenage boys ,
B: and so they do all the lawn all the lawn care
A: Okay .
B: but I still take care of the , you know , flower beds and things like that .
B: I was even planning to go out and to , uh , dig up some hibiscus plants that will not make it through the winter here , but , you know , were planted in the ground since last spring
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I was going to dig them up for a friend and for some starters for me ,
B: and lo and behold , about five days ago , we had a freeze down to about , oh , twenty-three degrees or something
A: Uh-huh .
B: so the hibiscus plants no longer exist
A: Oh , that 's terrible .
A: Twenty-three
B: And I really feel bad about it ,
B: it 's a plant that we 've had for probably twenty-five years that these were cuttings off of , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So , they 're all gone at this point .
B: Gardening in Texas is really interesting , though .
B: I grew up in Illinois
A: Yeah .
B: and , um , Texas is just so hot in the summer and so dry ,
B: why , you know , everyone that lives in town and has yards practically has uh , watering system .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so with that , why , our lawns do stay , um , you know , pretty nice all summer , if you water .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But in the winter , we have Bermuda grass
A: Uh-huh .
B: and in the winter it turns as brown as a grocery sack
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: and and I just think it 's ugly
B: When I go back home to my parents in Illinois in the winter , you know , and their grass is fairly green .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's one , one aspect of a lot of those grasses , they go dormant .
A: I think the Saint Augustine and , uh , Centipede grass is another one you have quite a bit of down there
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: yeah ,
A: those two .
B: Yeah .
B: Some people have , I think it 's fescue that stays green all winter ,
A: Yeah .
B: but they really have a heck of a time keeping it going in the middle of the summer .
B: They have to water an incredible amount .
B: But , um , those those lawns look nice during the winter ,
B: but , you know , they almost stick out like a , I guess not a sore thumb , a pretty thumb .
B: But , you know , when you look at the neighborhoods and they 're all brown except the one , you know ,
B: it 's sort of like , well ,
A: Well , I know my folks live , uh , in Arizona there ,
A: and , uh , you know , they just grow rocks
B: Right .
A: So . I know I was in , uh , Houston when I was working for a company once ,
A: and we were taking care of lawns out there ,
A: and , uh , that particular year they had just tons of rain , you know ,
A: it was raining continuously .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then , I know with all that moisture , a lot of the lawns get a lot of disease problems .
B: Yes ,
B: that 's true .
B: Yeah ,
B: Houston is a lot , um , a lot wetter than , than Dallas , Dallas area ,
B: that 's where Plano is ,
B: and , um , and just humidity you know , just all the time , it 's an awfully lot more humid .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Are , are you , uh , able to get , uh , sometimes a double crops of , of certain things in your garden ?
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: I think people do .
B: Yeah .
B: I don't have a vegetable garden ,
B: have n't for , I guess I never have here , actually ,
B: but , um , but , yes ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: we have Neil Sperry talks on the radio ,
A: Okay .
B: So what do you guys having up there ?
B: I have n't been up there since , oh , Lord , forty-eight , I guess
A: Forty-eight .
A: That 's a long time . Uh .
B: Well , no ,
B: it was n't forty-eight ,
B: it was , it was , uh , let 's see , yeah , it was forty-eight .
B: I was in the Air Force .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We did an air show out at , uh , out at , uh , Boone Greene , no out at , uh Andrews ,
A: Andrews ?
B: yeah .
B: So what 's it been like up there ?
A: Well , for the past week or two it 's been cold and wet
B: Uh-huh .
A: but before that , for most of the year , it 's been hot and dry .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , like September was hot and dry ,
B: October .
A: Um , September really was ,
A: I 'm not sure about October .
A: I think for about twelve months through September the , the average temperature has been higher than normal each month . Um , lots of ninety degree days during the summer .
B: Really ?
B: Huh .
B: It really has been strange here this year ,
B: I mean , this whole course this whole year has been a different year in more ways than one .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , we had , uh , you know , all these , we have all these , uh ,
B: somebody said , you know , you 're either a stranger or a fool to try to predict Texas weather ,
B: but . Well , always , they were saying it was going to be the hottest summer ever ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we had all this rain ,
B: and it really is not a bad summer at all , really cool .
B: But all of a sudden , in , in , uh , in October , uh , September , October it got real hot and dry and just stayed that way for a long time .
B: And , uh , then the end of October it started rain almost a week without stopping , just pouring down , you know .
B: There were flash floods everywhere , that kind of deal ,
B: and then uh , into of November , the first , like the second week , uh , you know , the first week actually , we had , we had a freeze ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the average , you know , the average , uh , first frost is like the fifteenth of November here
A: Oh , if you had it early .
B: but usually it 's not until later
B: It 's really strange .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think we usually have a frost in October .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , but , you know . We really need the rain that we 've been getting ,
A: and it has not today ,
A: but the last few days it 's been , been pouring most of the day .
B: Is it , is it , is it flooding anywhere ?
A: Flooding anywhere .
A: I have not heard of it , any problems of it flooding anywhere ,
A: I mean , that 's occurred certainly at times in the past ,
A: but , uh , no ,
A: I 've not heard of any particular problems this time .
B: It 's just kind of , uh ,
B: we 're supposed to have a chance to get some rain the next couple of days here , uh , which will be , you know , a little bit more typical , uh , autumn weather . But really it 's strange .
B: We have n't really had an autumn .
B: It 's like we went into winter
A: Yes .
B: you know , the poor trees , said what
A: Yes ,
A: yeah ,
A: we had summer lasting long
A: and then it , then it , then it became winter like , uh today it 's , today it 's sort of change to warmer to sort of more typical autumn day .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , it 's ,
B: Yeah ,
B: there , you , you know ,
B: usually there 's , uh ,
B: I have a farm a hundred miles east of here in East Texas ,
B: and you know , all these huge trees just like the eastern hard wood belt all the way up to Maine , you know ,
B: it 's that same trees , pines and , and hard woods , you know hickories and oaks and stuff ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , I was up there last weekend ,
B: and there are trees that , that still have their leaves on ,
B: and they 're green ,
B: but they 're dead
B: You know , the , the freeze just got them .
B: They , they were n't ready for it at all apparently ,
B: and , and we have n't had a typical fall at all .
B: Not much color , you know , changes have occurred at all .
B: Really weird this year .
B: I 'm not sure what that , what that means .
A: I don't know .
A: Yeah ,
A: our leaves are , are all on , on the ground now .
A: I think it was an especially good winter for fall colors .
B: So you , you all actually had some color , huh ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: It kind of crept in
B: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: we , we did , for a time .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's usually beautiful up there is n't it ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Gorgeous .
B: That 's , you know ,
B: I think you could drive along in Maryland and look at the sweet gum trees on each side and the , and the pines and what not ,
B: and you could , you know , you could be driving along in East Texas and looks just the same .
B: It 's almost , you know , identical kind of country .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Beautiful .
A: Been that this year for the trees for the leaves .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I was up , I was up there cutting some firewood this weekend ,
B: so .
A: Um .
B: Little , little oak tree that was dead , and cut it up and split it .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's because it , it ca n't tolerate a freeze this early .
A: Is that right ?
B: Well .
A: If it would came later it would be all right ?
B: Uh , it , there 's some trees
B: like the oaks , like the white oaks seem to be pretty hardy .
B: There 's ,
B: nothing bothers them .
B: Their leaves are still green ,
B: and some of the other oaks . There are a few oaks that have lost their leaves .
B: Um , what I notice mostly is the red maples , that the leaves are just dead , the dogwoods still look , still look , you know , they got , uh , bit on the ends of the leaves a little bit ,
B: but they still look pretty good .
A: Um .
B: It just depends on the , on the , uh , on the tree .
A: Okay .
B: Well , it 's not often you get , uh , many women interested in football
A: Oh well
B: Do you follow football very much ?
A: I 'm sorry , what ?
B: Do you follow football very much ?
A: I don't ,
A: no ,
A: I have n't recently , um .
B: Well we can talk about something else .
B: Do you have any , uh ,
B: you married ?
A: No ,
A: I 'm not ,
A: no .
B: No ,
B: well , I guess kids are out .
A: What 's that ?
B: Kids are out .
A: Yep
A: Are you married ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I 'm married .
B: Got two boys .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah .
A: Wow .
A: So do you like football ?
B: Oh , I follow the , uh , the Cowboys
B: but that 's about it , uh .
A: The , the same here
B: Yeah .
A: Do you live in Dallas ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I , I am a pretty big Dallas fan , been for a long time
A: Yeah .
B: but I have n't been to any games recently .
B: But , uh , I try to catch the game every weekend that I can .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah .
B: Have you ever been to a Cowboy 's game ?
A: I have n't ,
A: huh-uh .
B: Um , it 's pretty nice .
A: We we decided just to watch them at home
A: But .
B: That 's good .
B: At least you , uh , follow the game a little bit .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , yeah ,
B: I 'm not a fanatic about it .
B: I don't know who played when and who does what like some guys are .
B: I just like to watch ,
B: and , and hopefully they win
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's about the extent of it .
A: Yeah .
A: Right now I 'm in , um , college ,
A: so I 'm more into college football than professional , I think .
B: Oh , I see .
B: What , uh , school are you going to ?
A: Um , I 'm at B Y U .
B: B Y U ,
B: okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: so .
B: Leslie , what are you studying ?
A: Nursing .
B: Nursing .
B: Great .
A: Yeah .
B: My mom 's an L V N .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah .
B: So , what are you planning to go into ?
B: Do you want to be an R N
B: or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Um , I have n't really picked a field .
A: I have n't , I , I don't know , I 've thought a lot about labor and delivery
A: but I don't know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Try that .
B: That 's what my mom does , labor and delivery .
A: Oh , really .
A: Wow .
B: Yeah ,
B: she loves it .
B: She , she really , uh , enjoys .
A: Is she a nurse in Dallas ?
B: No ,
B: she 's a nurse in San Antonio
A: Oh .
B: but , uh , she 's been , she 's been working a , uh , on a late shift .
B: She works the , uh , I guess the graveyard 's what you 'd call it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She works the graveyard shift .
B: And she 's worked that for , oh , years , when I was small .
A: Um .
B: Uh , I guess probably going on twenty years now .
A: Wow .
B: And she really enjoys it .
B: She likes the quiet that you have at that time of the night
B: and , uh , and , uh , she 's , uh , she just started a new job at a different hospital , closer to where she lives
A: Uh-huh .
B: and she 's really enjoying herself .
B: She really likes it .
A: Well , that 's great .
B: Well , good luck to you in pursuing your nursing degree .
A: Oh thanks
B: Hope you 'll like it .
A: Yeah .
B: Do you plan on staying in , in the Dallas area ?
A: Um , I 'd like to come back to Dallas .
A: Right now I 'm in Utah , of course .
B: Oh , uh-huh
A: So , um ,
A: but , my family 's there ,
A: so ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 'd like to go back .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , I think Texas , San Antonio in particular , has got a large , uh , base of hospitals .
B: Uh , I don't know about Dallas .
B: I think Dallas is pretty scattered .
A: Are you in San Antonio ?
B: No ,
B: I 'm , I 'm in Dallas
A: Oh , okay .
B: but I 'm originally from San Antonio
A: Um .
B: and they 've got large medical , uh , center down there .
B: They 've got the U T Health Science Center out there also .
A: Right .
B: So if ever wanted , you know , pursue anything more than your nursing degree , that , that 'd be the place to do it .
A: Yeah ,
A: my brother-in-law , um , is in the medical profession , I mean , he 's at medical school in San Antonio right now .
B: Oh , great .
A: So .
B: Great .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , like I said , good luck to you .
A: Thanks .
B: All right ,
B: well , um , take care ,
B: and maybe we 'll meet up again some time .
A: All right .
B: Okay .
B: Bye-bye .
B: Hello .
A: Hi .
B: Hi .
A: My name is , uh , Donna Donahue ,
A: and I live in Plano , Texas .
B: Hi .
B: My name is Lowell ,
B: and I live in Raleigh , North Carolina .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Um , do you want to start
A: or should I start ?
B: Go right ahead .
A: Okay , um ,
A: I would say that our home is a very typical home for the area that we live in .
A: We have , um , three children ,
A: and , um , they attend the public school here and are very active in a lot of the sports , soccer and baseball
A: and , well , my little girl goes to tap dance ,
A: and my little one goes to preschool
A: and , um , I 'm home with the children , just do a lot of running around .
A: It seems like a lot of my neighbors kind of have a similar type , I don't know , life .
A: Um , what about you ?
B: I 'm , I 'm single ,
B: and I , I live in a town home here in Raleigh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's pretty typical of the other town homes in the area
A: Uh-huh .
A: Okay .
B: we , we have a lot of town homes here as well as single family homes ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and at the time that I bought this one it was just a , a much better arrangement for me personally .
B: I 'm not home a lot .
B: I travel a great deal with my job ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so it was easier to have a home that did n't exactly that somebody else looks out for the maintenance .
A: Was sort of maintenance free .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: well , um , that , that sounds , that sounds pretty good for
A: I know my husband takes an awful lot of time on the weekends , not so much now , but to , um , maintain the lawn and the edging and the flower beds ,
A: and it 's a lot of work , owning a home with a little bit of property attached to it .
A: It 's
B: It certainly is .
A: sometimes I think , um , it would be nice to have a town home , with not having all that responsibility .
B: Well , if you ever get one , be sure the walls are good and thick because if they 're not you can hear .
B: I , that 's the main thing when I was shopping for one ,
B: I wanted to make sure I could , I could n't hear my neighbors
B: and that was
A: Right .
B: so I bought one that 's more like living in a ,
B: once you 're inside , you don't know you 're in a town home .
A: Oh , that sounds lovely .
B: It is .
B: They 're kind of built on a catty-cornered instead of like side by side
A: Uh-huh .
B: so you don't actually hear anybody next door to you .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So in , in your area then there 's probably a lot of , um , career type people that have those type homes
A: and
B: Yes ,
B: definitely .
A: uh-huh ,
A: and , um , the area that we 're settled in is , um , definitely young , young families with , with kids .
A: They 're still doing , um , a lot of building in the neighborhood .
A: So the people that move here seem to move from all over the country , which we 're from , um , the northeast ,
A: and , um , seems like a people just don't , or also don't have any family around .
A: So it , um , also gives you a common bond when you don't have a lot of relatives visiting your neighbors ,
A: and you know , um But , um ,
B: Well , we also in this area seem to have a lot of retirees people who don't want the heat of Florida but don't want the heat of the , the cold of the northeast
A: Uh-huh .
B: so they settle sort of in-between .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Now it 's , um , is it very wooded around where you are ,
A: there lots of pretty trees and ,
B: Yes
A: Yeah .
B: as a matter of fact this is a , uh , this particular community that I live in is very wooded .
A: Oh , how pretty .
B: It is nice .
A: I do miss that .
A: Around here in Plano there are very few trees
A: and it 's pretty flat and , and kind of barren
A: and that 's the only thing that we don't like about living in Texas , is we miss all the beautiful trees and the Fall
A: and , and , um , uh , the landscape is much different here in Texas than it is , you know , in the north . Um , or even where you are .
B: Uh , we definitely have a lot of trees here .
A: A lot of leaves to rake up too , I bet .
B: Yes
B: but fortunately the home owner 's association does all that .
A: Does that ,
A: well , see , that 's another plus .
B: Yes ,
B: I don't have to worry about that
B: and this is the time of year we 're starting to lose ,
B: they 're all falling now .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right ,
A: they are .
A: I 'm going to get the kids to get outside with the other neighbor kids and do the little bit of raking that needs to be done .
A: We just have a few trees in the front and a few in the back but , not , not much . Just , just a little kind of just in more of a make a little bit of a mess for a few weeks
A: and if you did n't do anything about it , then they 'd probably the leaves just blow away
B: Right .
A: It 's not too bad .
A: Okay ,
A: do we have to speak for a certain amount of time ?
B: No ,
B: I don't think so .
A: Okay .
A: Okay .
A: It was really nice speaking to you .
B: It was good to speak with you too .
A: Okay ,
A: and have a happy Thanksgiving .
B: Thank you ,
B: you too .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: The way ,
A: I 'll go ahead and start
A: the way I work , uh , the way I dress for work is , uh , this year , nineteen ninety-one has been really suit and tie ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: or I should n't say suit , but coat and tie every day .
B: Uh-huh .
A: A , a year ago , I changed jobs from being a researcher to doing marketing for the research group .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Which means kind of a , I guess it 's a different set of standards , I guess .
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , I , I dress almost the same every day .
A: I mean , pretty much it 's a white shirt and slacks and shoes and a coat .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , it was very different before .
A: How do you dress ?
B: Well , I 'm a drafter ,
B: so I just wear blue jeans and tennis shoes
B: and I have sweatshirt on today .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's pretty much the norm for me .
B: If I come in in a dress , everybody 's shocked
A: Yeah ,
A: I understand .
B: They ask me , you know , what are you doing in a dress
B: and it 's usually I have n't done my laundry lately
A: Right .
B: Ran out of jeans
A: I understand ,
A: that 's funny
A: So , does it change ?
B: No .
A: Your dress ,
A: no .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: So , or , I guess , do you have things like presentations to do or anything like that ?
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: So , back in my old job , up until through nineteen eighty I would usually wear blue jeans and pullover shirts and the like ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , probably once a month or so , there was some reason that I would have to put on a suit . For a customer presentation or something .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Every now and then I 'll get dressed up and come in ,
B: but that 's for my husband 's job and not mine
A: Oh , I see ,
A: I understand .
B: I have to go to a business meeting once a month with him ,
B: but So ,
A: Oh . Well , that 's interesting .
A: Let 's see , uh , what else about this , uh ,
A: it , it seems like T I is pretty cut and dried with two , like , two or three levels .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That there 's the upper management that always wears gray suits . And the people that don't , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I would , if you , if I want to say don't have power or don't have authority or whatever like I used to be in that research
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I guess you are .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That we dress in the jeans
A: and then there 's kind of the , the branch manager level or marketing people that kind of do that middle thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But there 's not much ,
B: middle of the road .
A: It 's nice that there 's not a requirement for it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Sometimes I think there should be .
B: Some of these women around here look like they came off of Harry Hines .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: right
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess you see those once in a while .
B: And you know the , they have the no shorts deal ,
B: and some of these mini skirts , you know , are worse than shorts ever thought about being .
A: Sure .
B: But , uh , You know , that 's , I guess that 's one of the things you got to put up with when you don't have a dress code .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
A: I guess they 're , the , is n't there a dress code , something about spaghetti straps ,
A: I 'm not even sure what they are .
B: Supposedly and backless things
A: Oh , backless ,
A: all right .
B: but , I 've seen those , too ,
B: but ,
A: Okay ,
A: so this was n't necessarily a big conversation ,
A: but , I think we , we did it
B: Uh , yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: and , and your name was Lisa .
B: Lisa .
A: Great .
B: Are you the Expressway sites ?
A: I am ,
A: yes ,
A: and I work in the north building .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Uh , well , thank you .
B: Thank you .
A: All right ,
A: good day .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Uh , advice on son or daughter going to college .
B: Right .
A: Uh , that 's advice that I will need in time future for my children , rather than one that I have , uh , personal experience with
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I suppose I would ask what the child wants to do in life and what the child hopes to , to get out of college and what sort of college would best meet , meet those needs .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: uh , let 's see ,
B: when I , when I went away to school , I 'm trying to think my criteria .
B: I guess when you 're , when you 're eighteen or so , uh , it would be important to know if it was a coed college
B: That was a , a strict requirement for me .
B: Uh , again what , uh , how serious a person is according to , uh , uh , you know , what , what they want to get out of school , and , uh , I guess they 'd have to consider how expensive the college is and how close to home , if they could handle being away for real long periods of time or if they need to be somewhere where they can drive home when they needed to get home .
B: Uh , let 's see , uh ,
B: now what was the question ,
B: what , what 's the criteria for picking a college ?
A: What advice would you give ?
B: What advice .
B: Oh , okay , uh ,
A: I guess one clear-cut piece of advice is by all means visit the college campus .
B: Yes .
A: Uh , stay in a dormitory if you can .
A: Go to classes ,
A: talk to faculty members and students .
B: Yes ,
B: and also , uh , depending on how , uh , uh , adjustable your child would be , or , or flexible , I guess it would be , uh ,
B: if , if they chose a college in a different part of the country that maybe the , they were unused to their , that , the way they run things ,
B: I mean , the , the northern colleges are very different than the southern colleges , I think .
B: The people are different
B: and , uh , you have to be more flexible and more willing to , uh , uh , adjust to other people 's mannerisms and customs or ways of doing things .
B: You know , you have to be a flexible person to be able to go all the way across country to something totally different than what you 're used to . Uh ,
A: Yes ,
A: I 'm thinking what , what problems my children might have in that , uh ,
B: You think so
A: but I agree with you .
B: Uh , let 's see ,
B: what else .
B: Uh , well , climate would be ,
B: you know , you 'd have to
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , is somewhat ,
B: if , uh , if it 's something different than the one they 're used to , I guess , uh ,
B: if they 're used to the northern weather then the southern weather they might kind of feel like they need to go out and play all the time , not be in studying If you 're in Florida or California . Uh ,
B: I , I 'd also advise them that , uh , if mom and dad paid for their college , that , uh , if they decided to drop a course or decided that they need another year , then they 'd have to get a loan to continue .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , course it , it is a big factor in having an understanding of how much parents will pay and how much has to come from other sources and your willingness , one , to , to work during the summer or , or part time . And two , uh , to , to take out loans to assume , uh , debt after college .
B: That 's right .
B: There 's ,
B: The , the responsibility of that .
B: And , uh , uh , uh , they could , they could work and earn money towards college .
B: Also if they stay within their state , you get a lot more financial aid
B: or it 's a lot cheaper if you stay within your state than if you go out of state to a private school , uh ,
A: Yes .
B: and , like I said , if they was willing to work , uh , in the summers and also maybe then the parents could pay a third
B: and then maybe they could take out a loan for a third depending on how expensive it is .
B: By the time , I have an eleven year old is my oldest ,
B: so , it 's not too far away ,
B: but it 's ,
A: Mine is twelve .
B: Oh , okay .
B: But it 's getting there ,
B: I mean , we still have , definitely can put away the money for college now .
B: Uh , I would advise that , that they did not have a car at college .
B: They would ,
A: That 's my gut feeling , too .
A: I ,
A: my son is certainly not persuaded of that
A: Hello ?
B: Yes ,
B: I 'm here .
A: Oh , yeah , uh ,
A: yes ,
A: I did n't have a car in college .
A: I think it 's more an a burden to , to provide for .
B: No .
B: I think so , too .
B: I think , I think because most kids don't have a car at college , the ones that do get taken advantage of
B: and , you know , there is just , I think it 's just trouble waiting to happen .
B: So I would advise they did n't , they did n't take a car
B: and , uh they did n't take a television
A: Is it ,
B: and they did n't take a refrigerator
B: Maybe that ,
A: Uh , I did n't do any of those , though ,
A: I feel less strongly about the T V and refrigerators .
B: No ,
B: I , I ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we did n't have ,
B: Well , let me see ,
B: what have you seen lately ?
A: Well , uh , CITY SLICKERS , and STAR TREK FIVE .
B: FIVE ?
A: Yeah
A: yeah .
B: only , only five ?
A: Yeah .
A: I thought I 'd better see that one before I go and see six .
B: Well , no ,
B: did n't need to .
A: No ,
A: I found that out
A: How about yourself ?
B: I just saw the latest one .
A: How is it ?
B: It was fantastic .
A: Oh , I ca n't wait .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's ,
B: the lines in there were just perfect .
B: I mean , it was classic TREK .
A: Now , does the old STAR TREK guys meet the new guys ?
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: No ,
A: it 's just the old guys still .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was just a rumor that that would happen this time .
B: However , the rumor is , is that it will happen next , happen next time
B: so ,
A: You know , that I read in PEOPLE or somewhere , no , it was U S A TODAY
B: Uh-huh .
A: that they said they were n't going to do anymore .
A: That was it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But ,
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , except that the rumor is , is that they still might ,
B: but it may not include the entire crew
B: and it will be a next generation meets this generation
A: Huh .
B: So ,
A: I 'm not sure what the difference in light years between the new generation and the , the old guys was .
B: I think it 's a hundred years .
A: Huh .
B: Somewhere in that range .
B: Considering that Spock was on an , uh , you know , couple weeks ago and that the , the very first episode of NEXT GENERATION , they had McCoy .
A: Oh , that 's right .
A: Is that right ?
A: He was a doctor still ?
B: And ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , you know , he was rear admiral , whatever , you know ,
B: and he just kind of hobbled down the halls real slow .
B: Vulcans age a lot better
A: Well , yeah ,
A: he did n't look too bad , did he ?
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
B: Matter of fact , he looks just as about as old and the , uh , NEXT GENERATION as he does in the latest STAR TREK
B: Imagine that .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's amazing .
A: But , did they have some pretty good special effects ?
B: Oh , excellent , excellent special effects .
B: But I think the script was , you know , just incredible compared to the last one .
A: Yeah ,
A: FIVE was , the script was bad , bad , bad
B: Well , you know why ?
A: No ,
A: I don't .
A: Why ?
B: Uh , William Shatner wrote it .
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: And even worse , he directed it .
A: Uh ,
A: Leonard , Nimoy , he does a lot better .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: he , in fact , uh , he did n't direct this one .
B: He produced this one
B: But he directed the one before , uh , I think STAR TREK FOUR , something like that .
A: IN SEARCH OF SPOCK , or , no , JOURNEY HOME , I think that was .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Are , you 're a real life Trekkie ?
B: I think so
A: I really like them .
A: I , I would n't go so far as being a Trekkie ,
A: but
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh ,
B: Well , I 've gone to , you know , one for real live Trek Convention
B: but ,
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I saw James Doohan , you know , the guy that plays , uh , Scotty .
A: Huh , did you get to talk to him ?
B: No
A: It was crowded .
B: Not in a crowd like that .
B: Huh-uh .
A: No .
B: It was like , uh , want an autograph , want to stand in line for about four hours .
A: Yeah .
A: Wow .
B: It was a pretty crowded place .
A: Huh . They have some good management principals in this NEW GENERATION .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I ,
B: it 's , it 's kind of funny .
B: I , uh , was reading in , uh , a book . Uh , trying to think ,
B: I ca n't quite remember the name of the book ,
B: but it was , it was saying don't do STAR TREK management style .
B: And they were referring to , you know , Captain Kirk ,
B: every time he left the Enterprise , everything went to hell .
A: Oh .
B: And nothing got righted until he got back up on the ship
A: Right ,
A: so he kind of was a cowboy type , too .
B: Uh-huh
A: Made all the decisions
A: but , uh , Jean Luke does more of a , a , committee type of management .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: uh , it 's definitely a lot better A lot more realistic really .
A: What other movies have you seen ?
B: Uh , saw THE ADDAMS FAMILY last week .
A: Oh , how was that ?
B: It was pretty good .
B: Uh , there were a few things different than the old series ,
B: but on the , on the whole , it was pretty similar . And , a lot of fun .
A: Lots of little funny spots , huh .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Did they have Thing
A: and ,
B: Oh , yes ,
B: in fact , Thing has a big , much bigger role than he does in the series .
B: I mean , you know , there is lots of areas where Thing saves the day .
A: Really ?
B: And he runs around a lot .
A: How did ,
A: I 've always wondered how he gets around .
B: Uh , you know , just finger hopping .
A: But he 's in a box , right ?
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: in fact , it 's funny .
B: He never did , does come in out of a box , I don't think .
B: Yeah ,
B: he was just kind of walking around .
A: Did n't he used to ?
B: Not really .
B: He was always in the box before .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , that 's , yeah , that 's , okay .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what I was thinking .
B: Well , do you do any recycling ?
A: Uh , we do here .
A: Uh , see , what do we recycle ?
A: We , they recycle ,
A: they have bins
B: Yeah .
A: and they also have centers where you can take aluminum cans and , uh , plastic bottles
A: and I think that 's all they have .
B: Oh .
A: What about you guys ?
B: Well , we , uh ,
B: there is a lot of things that you can recycle down here , although the only thing I guess I wind up recycling religiously is , uh , aluminum cans .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , we 've got a , we 've got a couple of different things , uh , places , uh ,
B: they 're like unattended aluminum can smashers
B: And you can go up there and , and , uh , redeem ,
B: we 've got one that gives you like a penny a can ,
B: so if you ,
A: Really ?
B: Yeah
A: For smashed cans ?
B: Well , actually , you have to give , put them in there unsmashed .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , when you do that it , it basically crushes them and then drops a penny down a little shoot .
A: Oh , can you , can you hold on for just a minute ?
B: Sure .
A: I 'm going to try pressing one again to make sure that I pressed it hard enough because , okay , just succeed
B: Okay .
B: Okay ?
A: Oh , okay ,
A: well , I guess , I guess ,
B: Well , I heard it that , I heard it that time
A: Yeah
A: Okay ,
A: well , anyways , you guys only get a penny a can .
A: Well , when you buy like , uh , canned drinks and stuff like that , do they charge you for the deposit ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: you probably get charged like a nickel or something like that .
A: Yeah .
A: Exactly
A: and so it 's like they charge you for the deposit ,
A: so when you turn in the cans unsmashed , you 're just , like , reimbursed .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Type of thing .
B: Okay ,
B: no ,
B: they don't charge us that extra nickel .
A: That 's sort of nice , though
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it really is .
B: Really what happens is we just get a penny a can back off the , off the price , if you want to think of it that way .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So when we get like , uh , uh , a twelve pack , then that 's like twelve cents back .
A: Yeah ,
A: so you guys can actually get ahead
B: Yeah
A: But , uh , they have sort of like , uh , things that you you 're not like reimbursed for or paid for .
A: Like we can recycle , uh , clear glass , brown glass , green glass . Uh , and milk jugs and , uh , newspapers , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: everyone does newspapers .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: everybody does newspapers .
A: But , that , that kind of stuff .
B: Yeah .
A: But they , they said they ca n't be smashed or else , uh ,
A: it does n't fit in their little containers
A: and they 're not reimbursed by the , the people who are over them or something .
B: Well , shoot , maybe what we ought to do is start sending unsmashed , uh , Pepsi cans and whatever up there
A: Yeah
A: Exactly ,
A: yeah ,
A: send it to this address ,
A: no
A: But , uh , let 's see ,
A: they said that , how , ways , can encourage recycling , uh ,
B: I , I , I tell you what , what really works , uh , at least down here is , if there is , if there is some , even some money basically to take care of the gas to recycle it , you know what I mean , then people tend to do it . Uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's ,
B: In other words , taking care of the environment is , is all well and good
A: Uh-huh .
B: but if it 's going to cost you to take care of the environment , they 're not quite as , uh likely to do it as if , uh , if you get something back for it . You know .
A: As likely to do it .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: And , uh , so , you know , if there are some energy savings or if there is some significant savings , anything that they can pass on to the consumer , you know , it kind of reminds me of using an A T M card , you know , to get money or doing your banking .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , if it 's free , people will use it ,
B: if it costs them something , then they 're not as likely to use it .
A: Yeah ,
A: exactly .
B: You know .
B: But , uh , I know we had a problem down here with , uh , oil , people taking oil out of their cars and just putting it down the you know , the the drain sewer .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , all that , because there was ,
B: apparently a lot of people , you know , every time they change the oil ,
B: they just dump all the their old oil down there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Now they 're starting to recycle that stuff .
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: Uh , another thing I thought of , I guess , to recycle would be like clothes , because I mean everybody gets rid of their clothes sometime or other .
A: And one way that we do it sort of in , in Iowa is that we can take some of our clothes to the consignment shops .
B: Yeah .
A: And that way , you know , you don't get near enough as , as much as you bought it for ,
A: but you , you got the use out of it
A: and what you 're going to basically donate to a Goodwill or whatever , anyways , you can get a little bit of money for .
B: Yeah .
A: And so that 's something that I 've never ,
B: Yeah .
A: I , we 're , we 're new to Iowa
A: so that 's something that I had n't , you know , looked into before .
A: But that 's one way to sort of get money and still recycle , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know a lot of places , they , uh , uh ,
A: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: I guess we 're ready to start .
B: Well , I guess , what part of what part of the country do you live in ?
A: I 'm in Dallas , Texas .
B: Oh , okay .
A: What about yourself ?
B: Well , I 'm also in Dallas .
A: Okay .
B: The reason that I ask is the two conversations I 've had , have been out of state .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , have you always lived here in Dallas
B: and ,
A: No ,
A: I 've lived here for almost five years now .
B: I see .
A: And I 'm a , uh ,
A: before that I was at school in Rochester , New York
A: and I 'm originally from Boston .
B: Oh , well , you are seeing quite a different climate and quite a different neighborhood .
A: That 's right ,
A: but I like it .
B: You probably have enjoyed getting away from the snow .
A: Well , I missed it at first ,
A: but now I go back there
A: and I 'm a real wimp about the cold
A: So I like it here .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's nice .
B: Well , that 's good .
B: I , I have lived in Texas essentially all my life .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Around in Texas
B: and , uh , I have traveled up in the northeast and around and have enjoyed it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I don't know ,
B: I 'm not sure I would want to take on those winters .
B: I 'm getting older and , uh , not sure that 's something I want to do .
A: I know .
B: I live , uh , over in the Lake Highlands area if you 're familiar with that .
A: Uh , tell me where that is , uh ,
B: Okay .
A: I , I probably do know ,
B: Uh , you ,
A: but I don't know it by that name .
B: This is pretty well where L B J and Audelia , Skillman cross .
A: Okay .
A: Sure .
B: We 're just north of , uh , White Rock Lake .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: yeah ,
A: I know that area .
A: That 's a nice area . Oh , that 's quite a range .
B: Well , we have some very nice homes here in this area .
B: Uh , my particular ,
B: I guess they want us to describe the area ,
B: so , uh my particular area , the homes run anywhere from about sixty-five , eighty thousand dollars on up to probably half a million .
B: Yes ,
B: uh , the homes that were here earlier were smaller .
B: Now they 've gotten larger and larger as , as they have developed the land .
B: And , of course , it 's pretty static right now
B: and all the values over here have dropped off because of the economy .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , I am , uh , I 'm , gosh , I 'm barely in Dallas .
A: I 'm just north of Addison Airport up on the tollway .
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: And , I guess we have a similar situation .
A: I mean , we 've got houses two streets away that are probably around seventy , eighty thousand
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then we 've got Bent Tree right across the street
A: so I don't I don't even know how high those go ,
B: Okay .
A: but some of those are pretty big .
B: Yes ,
B: those are over a million .
A: Yeah
A: So , it 's , that 's the strange thing about , I guess , Dallas because back where I 'm from , you would n't have that sort of a variation at all .
A: They 'd all be pretty similar to one another within a , a couple miles .
A: So ,
B: Well , we have suffered from real lack of land use planning in Dallas .
A: Yeah .
B: Not as bad as Houston ,
B: but , exactly what you 're describing is what happens all over .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 've noticed that .
B: Well , now , do you live in a , a home , or zero lot home ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: or ,
A: Uh , we 've got a house ,
A: let 's see ,
A: we moved in about four years ago
A: and it was , it had previously been unoccupied ,
A: but it had existed for three years .
B: Okay .
A: This is a whole block of homes that , uh , a builder built all of them
A: and , I guess he , he did some crazy thing to get some extra money from the bank and then ran away , type of deal
A: So the whole block was all foreclosed .
B: Oh .
A: And , so , some were vacant for quite a while before they , you know , they finally sold them because there were so many .
B: Well , your , was your house in good shape ,
B: was it damaged ?
A: Yes ,
A: no ,
A: the only thing that we were worried about was the air conditioner because they 'd have it just running constantly with the doors and windows open
B: Oh , it was ?
A: But ,
A: yeah .
B: Oh .
A: So we just , you know , we bargained to get an extra warrantee on that .
B: I see .
A: And , uh , we 're really , we have n't had any problems
A: and , you know , we had originally thought we 'd have to get a fix up special or something because being from the northeast we figured we could n't afford anything .
A: But the prices are much lower here
A: and this was definitely not a fix up special ,
A: but I 'll tell you ,
A: it takes all my time
A: Between , we put in our own sprinkler system
A: and I just finished repainting the exterior and , you know , making drapes and buying furniture ,
A: it 's just a money pit . Really is .
B: Yes ,
B: I am familiar with that .
B: I , where I live is a house that 's seventeen years old when I bought it .
B: And we bought it from someone who was in it ,
B: but before they had it , I found out after I had been in the house , it , it had sat empty for the better part of a year .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 'm not sure what happened ,
B: but I do know the folks that we bought it from had done virtually no maintenance for , for about four years .
A: Oh , no .
B: I , I , I found a lot of things ,
B: but ,
A: I say Arlington , Texas now because I talked one night to somebody in Arlington , Virginia .
B: Oh , my ,
B: yeah .
B: Well , and Plano , Texas rather than Plano , Illinois .
A: Oh , do they have one ?
B: Yes ,
B: they do .
A: Oh , I did n't know that .
A: Well , I learned something already
B: Yeah .
B: Well , let 's see ,
B: the three questions are what , uh ,
A: How much time do you spend with your children ?
B: Very little . Because they 're grown .
A: Oh
A: What ?
B: They 're grown and gone .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: well , mine is , uh , down at U T Austin at college
A: and the other one is in high school .
B: Huh .
A: So you do spend less time then ?
B: Yeah
B: because they don't want to know , they almost don't want to know us .
A: They want to be with their friends .
A: How old are your kids ?
A: Are they married or what ?
B: Uh , yes ,
B: I have , uh , two married , two and then two almost married
B: and the other two , I 'm not sure .
B: Well , Two two , two , uh , uh , for sure are single .
A: Oh , boy , you have a lot of kids .
B: Yeah ,
B: we have , between the spouse and myself we have six .
A: Oh , well , that 's kind of nice , though .
A: You you should n't be lonesome on a holiday , huh ?
B: Because I came with a split family
B: and she had ,
B: Well , no ,
B: there is so much of them are gone
B: and they 're doing their own things
B: and and a lot of times they , they 've got , you know , uh when the holidays ,
A: Well , that 's true .
A: They have to see their other parent , I guess too .
B: Yeah
B: and sometimes they want to do their own thing ,
B: so sometimes it 's just spouse and me .
A: I know .
B: And , and you know what ?
A: What ?
B: Sometimes that 's okay .
A: I know
B: Because ,
A: That 's what my mother said one time .
B: You know , right ,
B: because who says that they just must got to come over to see us all the time for the holidays .
A: Right .
A: No ,
A: that 's true ,
A: and if they force them to , you know that 's not good either .
B: Yeah .
B: That becomes a drudgery
A: Well , do they all live in the area ?
B: got , of the six , we 've got four around here .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: oh , wow .
B: Uh , you know , well , we 're talking like north Texas .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then , one is in Vermont , uh , Montpelier Montpelier , Vermont
A: Golly .
B: and the other one is in Everett , Washington .
A: How did they end up so far away ?
B: Well , that is , that 's , the , the , my little pair . And my second marriage .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and , uh ,
A: Those are the youngest ones ?
B: Yeah ,
B: well , the
B: the , the , the , the fourth and fifth child of the of the , of the , uh , six are the two that are scattered like that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Boy , that 's , those are a long way .
B: And , Well , they wanted to go , uh ,
A: How ,
B: J R , my , my , my last son or my middle son , excuse me , fell in love with Washington state
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the , the , the , third daughter fell in love with , uh , uh , Vermont .
A: Vermont .
B: So ,
A: So they wanted to make their homes there .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's where they 've gone to make their homes .
A: My goodness .
A: Are they , are those two married ?
B: No .
A: They , uh , just working up there or going to school or what ?
B: Well , uh , let 's see ,
B: yeah ,
B: I guess you 'd say J R is working , going to trying to go to school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I wish to God he would go back .
A: Oh , they do . Especially if they , if they 're meant to , I think .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I certainly hope so .
A: I mean , I 've got a daughter that 's a sophomore at U T
A: and I 'm , I 'm going to U T A right now myself
A: so it 's never too late .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , it 's , oh , I agree it 's never too late .
A: Right .
B: And ,
A: Especially in some of these schools around here , I think they have about twenty percent older students .
B: Yeah ,
B: and when you 're saying older , we 're talking fifty up .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I 've seen some people that are really quite up there you know they look like in their very late sixties
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I say that 's great , why not , you know .
B: Oh , my ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yes ,
B: why not because that 's a , a lot of times , well , it 's ,
B: I believe that , uh , we in that category ,
B: and I 'm not in that category quite yet
A: No .
B: but , we are seasoned minds .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: you 're really ready to learn finally .
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I mean , I don't know why I even went to college when I was seventeen .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was ,
A: It was a complete waste of money .
B: Yeah ,
B: settle down ,
B: we know what we 're wanting to , to , uh , study
B: and , uh we know our limitations .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: We ,
A: Right
A: and , uh ,
B: And we don't try to burn the candle at both ends and in the middle altogether .
A: No .
A: We don't go out drinking beer till three and try to go to class in the morning
B: At seven ,
B: yeah .
A: We 're past , yeah , we 're past that age
B: Yes ,
B: we 're , we 're smarter now .
A: We know what we can do
B: Yeah ,
B: right ,
B: uh , so let 's see .
B: So mine I don't spend a whole lot of time because they 're not here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so the second question , forgot what the second question ,
A: What was it , uh ,
A: what do the trends in families
A: and do we approve what other , families do .
B: Well , uh , the trends in the families were to spread apart , do your own thing .
A: That 's right .
B: But I have seen lately , yes , I am seeing , I 'm seeing a change that , whoops , government ca n't do it ,
A: A change ?
A: I was going to say the same thing .
B: schools are not able to
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and between a person 's religion , uh , their , their faith in their maker whether , you know , uh , whether you 're Christian or Jewish or whatever , uh ,
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: and the family
A: Are going to have to solve some of the problem , huh .
B: those are the two that can , that , that have the wherewithal
B: and , of course , Judeo-Christianity , uh , and of the Jewish folks , too , believe that the family unit is the one that was given the , uh , uh , mission by the Lord to do this very thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So when another group of , of , uh , people step in , try to do it , they 're , they 're tromping on our territory , so to speak ,
B: so
A: Oh .
B: I firmly believe that , uh ,
A: Okay .
A: You think you 're getting your money 's worth ?
B: Uh , never
B: Uh , the only thing I 'm , I 'm thankful of is that we don't have to pay any income tax in , in Texas .
A: Well , that 's probably the next year 's agenda .
B: Yeah .
B: Boy , I tell you what ,
B: I sure hope they don't pass something like that .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: They 're finding a way to tax you every time you turn around ,
A: and I , I think one way or the other , we 're going to pay for the bureaucracy , I guess .
A: Uh , it 's one area that is really , I , I think hurting the economy more than anything .
A: I think the taxes have just , every time you turn around they , they have taking more bite out of the dollars that are available for spending for any kind of products ,
A: and I , I , I think that is probably as big a item fueling the recession as anything right now .
B: Well , I , I tell you , um ,
B: I remember every time , it seems like , we turned around , they 're adding another nickel or a few more cents onto the price of gasoline .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: And actually , that one , the , the , the taxes on gasoline don't , don't bug me as much as , uh , uh , what are we , eight and a quarter percent sales tax ?
A: Yep ,
A: that 's right .
B: And every time you go to buy anything now , uh ,
B: even , you know , they , they tax food .
B: That 's the one that really kind of bothers me .
A: Well , I think that , uh , that the problem with the sales tax , of course , is it 's an unfair tax across the board , uh , as far as ability to pay , which allegedly , allegedly taxes are supposed to be directed towards .
A: But , uh , now people with the lowest income pay a hundred percent almost of , you know , taxes on everything they buy , and where people that make , you know , two hundred , three hundred thousand dollars a year , certainly a portion of that , they are n't going to be paying taxes on , you know .
A: And , uh , that 's the unfair equity , inequities of sales tax as a main source of revenue ,
A: but I don't think it is anymore , not in Texas anyway .
B: Oh , I got you , because people that , uh , don't make very much money wind up spending it all .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
B: Yeah ,
B: whatever they spent it on , they have to pay tax on .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
A: And that 's the unfairness of the thing ,
A: but , uh , I think taxes generally are unfair
A: so
B: what do you think of that new luxury car tax , anything over ten or thirty thousand dollars ?
A: Well , you know , like other things , if they don't affect you , you don't worry about them too much .
A: I have trouble buying a twenty thousand dollar car still ,
A: so it does n't ,
A: I , I think , uh , you know , generally the prices of cars have gotten out of line , which is , uh , you know .
B: Oh , sure .
A: And , uh , I guess if people got thirty , forty thousand bucks to spend on a car , uh , that 's their prerogative , you know
A: I , I , I don't have a whole of sympathy on that .
A: You , maybe you buy that , you know ,
A: and I don't mean to be knocking , uh ,
B: No ,
B: uh , no ,
B: I have n't ,
B: but it , it to me it seems really interesting that they come along and add another ten percent tax , uh , on top of it .
B: And there 's an awful lot of cars that cost more than thirty thousand .
A: Yeah ,
A: there are ,
A: there are .
A: And the idea of that kind of taxation is to have people think twice on putting their money into that , I guess , you know , unless they really want it , buy something that , you know ,
A: more , well , it , it 's just like having taxes on , or exemptions for kids , you know .
A: It 's a way of increasing the population , that , that was one of the initial ideas of , you know , giving exemptions on kids , on , on federal taxes .
B: Yeah .
A: And where you exempt things , like , uh , uh , one of the best things I heard on taxes to stimulate the economy , someone , brilliant deductor , probably Lloyd Bentsen , said that all , you know , if they gave back the deductions on credit cards on your federal taxes people would probably be , you know , spending more money using their credit cards .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: Now , I don't know if that 's true or not ,
A: but if you look on all interest things , not just credit cards , but on your cars and , you know , any kind of interest that you 're paying , from a personal point of view , that might make certain sense in stimulating consumer purchasers .
B: Sure .
A: So that 's a lot of the games that politicians play on where they want to go , you know , tax things that they don't , you know , to a degree , well , like booze , you know ,
A: example , they keep raising the taxes on booze ,
A: it gets to the point , you know , it makes drunks sober , you know
A: They quit buying it .
B: Well , what , what about the taxes on cigarettes ?
A: Well , tell me about your home .
B: Okay .
B: Uh , right now we 're living in ,
B: well it 's me , my wife and , uh , two young boys .
B: And , uh , right now we 're in a , uh , I guess it 's either a zero lot line or a garden home . Which you might call it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So we don't have a , a big yard . Uh ,
B: but , uh , when my wife and I first moved in , it was just the two of us .
B: So it was enough .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and it 's , uh , I guess what they call a story and a half .
B: Because it 's not a full two story . Where , you know , everything on top is on bottom .
A: Yeah .
B: So , it 's got real high ceilings on half the house
B: and the other half is just standard sized ceilings .
A: Huh .
B: And , uh , it 's about a five year old house now .
A: It sounds nice .
B: It 's , uh , pretty nice .
B: Unfortunately , the builder who built it went out of business already
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: Yeah .
B: It was a ,
B: Landmark is the one who built it .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , you know , these guys that gambled high lost big you know .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
A: And , uh I 'm insulating myself from that problem .
B: Exactly what happened to them .
A: I 'm building my own house .
B: Oh , that 's nice .
A: And as I look out the window of my trailer , I can envision all the insulation that 's going up today
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah .
B: Are you doing it yourself ?
A: Yeah .
B: Wow .
A: I used to be a builder .
B: Oh , that 's nice .
A: And I retired about five years ago and started college .
B: Oh , I see .
B: Huh .
A: And now I 'm a college educated builder
A: There 's still no work , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , you know , I decided this summer that , uh , you know , we had enough credit on the credit cards to buy the materials
A: so I did .
B: That 's great .
A: And , uh , see the , the , the state has a law that says you can not borrow the money to build your own home .
B: is that so ?
B: I did n't know that .
A: You can borrow the money to pay somebody else to build your house
A: but you ca n't borrow the money to build your own .
B: Well that sounds kind of dumb .
A: Well , it 's to protect the , the banks from guys that say yeah I want to build my own house and go out a build a spec home
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then it does n't sell
A: and then the bank 's holding the bag .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Well .
B: Huh .
A: As , as you know , anything that involves the government is , works half as well as it 's supposed to costs three times as much . Right ?
B: That 's right
A: Hence the savings and loan problem we have .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: But , uh , you know , my home is , uh , fairly simple .
A: It 's designed to be added on to .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's good .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I figure it 's just me and my wife
A: but , you know , I like to do stuff with my hands and whatnot ,
A: so I want to have a shop .
B: Yeah .
B: How big a lot do you got it on ?
A: Ten acres .
B: Wow .
B: That 's nice .
B: That 's real nice .
A: Well , yeah .
A: It 's really nice too because I ca n't see my nearest neighbor .
A: He 's on the other side of a hill .
B: Oh .
A: And my second nearest neighbor is a dot on the horizon .
A: Seriously .
B: God .
B: That 's pretty good .
A: Well , in the winter time , I can see , see another guy
A: but , you know , he 's
B: Uh-huh .
A: I can just make out his place , you know . I 've got a thirty mile view to the east and about ten miles to the north .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh ,
B: Oh , that 's pretty good .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I took a lot of time in choosing this site because the , the house has no heating or air conditioning .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , you , you , you don't plan on putting any , any of that in ?
A: Well , it 's got a , a very small furnace .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And a , uh , we 'll use a wood burning stove as well .
B: Yeah .
A: But , in the house itself , I 've been working inside , you know , these , these many months
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I have not had to use the heat .
B: Wow .
A: Because it 's all geothermal .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's pretty good .
A: And with all the ,
A: see I 've got ,
A: on the south side is all glass .
A: Well , as much as I could get in it , you know . And , uh , the east side is glass .
B: Yeah .
A: I 've got one , two , three , four , five , six windows in the east side on forty-eight feet .
A: So it 's almost all glass .
B: Wow .
A: And , uh ,
B: My wife would love that
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I mean , you know . There 's no place in the house where you can stand and not see four windows .
B: She loves lots of windows .
B: That 's great .
A: So , uh ,
B: Is it a single story ?
A: Well , not really .
A: It 's , uh , it 's on the side of a hill .
B: Oh , I see .
A: So the first , you know ,
A: the , the , the ,
A: what I call residential level at the side that 's in the hill is about four feet deep .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I see .
A: And the side that 's on the , uh , the other side is about six feet high .
B: Oh .
A: So I 've got a pretty good grade there .
B: Yeah .
A: And then when I put the verandas which will be twelve feet out all the way around on the north , south and east sides that will define the shop .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's kind of like , like a Victorian style ?
A: Exactly .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I 've always liked that .
B: The ,
B: you know , I , we don't have much yard
B: but I built a small deck in the back .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , you know , I , I see these magazines where , you know , dig your , your own deck .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I kind of wish I had them , those size property and , and , uh , one with a grade on it so I can build a real nice deck .
A: Uh , what sort of camping do you like to do the most ?
B: Uh , well , I , I do , uh , real rough type camping .
B: I have a motor home
A: Huh , rough type , huh
B: Yeah .
A: Okay .
B: Uh .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: motor homes can be a lot of fun .
B: Yeah ,
B: they really are .
A: Yeah .
B: They really are .
B: I 've , I 've enjoyed it .
B: I 've never actually done any , uh , like tent camping ,
A: Uh , that can be a lot of fun , too .
A: Yeah .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , so far my wife and I have pretty much had to stick with tent camping .
B: Uh-huh .
A: This summer we went to , uh , the Smokey Mountain National Park . And , uh , stayed about three or four days in there .
B: Oh , how great .
A: It was wonderful .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Nights were cool enough to where they 're comfortable .
B: Um .
A: And the days were nice and warm
A: and , it was beautiful , beautiful few days .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's great .
A: It worked out particularly well , especially considering she was , what , six months pregnant .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I don't know ,
A: it worked pretty well .
A: It was one of those , uh , those , dome type pop up tents .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Nice and quick and easy to put up .
B: Yeah .
A: Packs away nice and small
A: and , about had to be something like that getting around in a Pinto .
B: Well , that 's true ,
B: that 's true .
A: It was a lot of fun .
B: I guess the last real , uh , camping trip I took was , has been a couple years ago .
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: Uh , I went to California up to the Sequoias .
A: Wow ,
A: that 's got to be beautiful territory .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's gorgeous ,
B: I love the big trees .
B: Just , just the drive up through , uh , up the coast line and then cut over in , into the , into the parks , it 's gorgeous , though .
A: Yeah .
A: What , like , Sequoia National Park ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I had been there before when I lived in California ,
B: but that 's my first trip back in , oh , goodness , um , um , thirty years maybe
A: Yeah .
B: But , that is God 's country ,
B: it has to be .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Do they still have the , uh , the scenic , uh , roadways that cut through the center of some of those trees ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: they don't ,
B: they ,
B: the last one , well ,
B: the first time I was there , the , the tree was still standing ,
B: but it has since come down .
A: Okay .
B: Yeah .
B: But , they are huge .
B: If you 've never seen them , it 's , it 's very awe inspiring .
A: No ,
A: so far , New Orleans is far west as I 've gotten . Well , New Orleans and , uh , Minneapolis .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well , there is lots of pretty country further west .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: We 're hoping one of these days soon after we 're out of school to head that way .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: and you just need to take the little one . Show them all the , all the pretties before they go away .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: They seem to be trailing out quickly .
B: Yeah
B: because there is lots to see
B: There is , course , the the Grand Canyon
B: and , uh , the Painted Desert is , is real pretty , in a different sort of way .
A: Yes .
B: And , course , the , the Sequoias and the Redwoods and and you get up into Bryce Canyon and Yellowstone
B: and , uh , the Grand Tetons are gorgeous , too .
A: I imagine .
B: Yeah ,
A: I would imagine they are .
B: Course , I , I guess I 'm partial to big tree country .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know why I got stuck down here in Texas now
B: I think it 's called a job ,
B: I don't know
A: Uh , not a whole lot of forestry down there , is there ?
B: No
B: not around here .
A: Oh .
B: Not around here
A: Place is forested with with those concrete trees .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: lot , lot of concrete and glass , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I guess that 's God 's place , too .
A: Anyway , Uh , what do you figure has been the longest trip you 've taken camping ?
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , probably the , the last one that I went to California
B: I took , uh , three weeks .
A: Three weeks .
B: And I was actually on the road a little more than three weeks .
A: Yeah ,
A: the whole family , then , was in on this ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Everybody
A: Yeah .
B: Yep .
A: That would have to be a blast .
B: Yeah ,
B: it really was , it was great .
A: What ,
A: well , you went out from Texas up in , into that area ?
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
B: We went , uh , we took the southern route and went , went through , uh , uh , the Grand Canyon , again
B: and we stopped at , uh , uh , Las Vegas for a couple of nights , and then , uh , went into Malibu in California over on the coast .
A: Yeah .
B: And then we went up the , the Big Sur Highway all the way up to San Francisco . And , uh , and then cut across through the wine country . And then went down to , to , uh , Sequoia National Park .
A: Okay .
A: Oh , wow .
A: Okay ,
A: Big Sur Highway , that 's , uh , where you 're pretty much in view of the ocean almost all the time are n't you ?
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Okay , um ,
A: do you have any pets now ?
B: Well , we don't right now ,
B: no .
B: We 've , uh ,
B: I grew up with , uh , with pets .
B: My folks and I always had a dog and a cat , some , birds ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , right now we don't have anything .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Um , that ,
B: What about you ?
A: a matter of choice , or compulsion ?
B: Well , we 've just , uh ,
B: it seems like , we 've always been at a place where we 'd have to go away for the summer or something
B: and , uh , it was , never convenient to have anything .
A: Yeah .
B: we were thinking about getting a dog if we get into a house .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , someplace where there , you know ,
B: we can take care of it and everything .
B: We 've got , some children who would just really , uh , enjoy having an animal , you know , a dog , I think
A: Yeah .
B: and , What about you all ?
A: Yeah .
A: Well , right now I 'm a student ,
A: and campus housing does not even allow thinking about that
B: Oh , no .
A: No ,
A: we almost got chased out of here for feeding a stray cat .
B: Is that right ?
A: Yeah .
A: They 're very strict about it .
B: But you like , uh , you like pets and things ?
A: Oh , I love animals .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I was raised ,
A: our house when I , when I was growing up there was almost never , uh , at least one cat in the house .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It was almost always at least one cat , sometimes , you know , like fifteen or twenty . But , uh , always cats in the house .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: We , we , enjoyed them .
A: Oh .
B: We like , we like pets ,
B: but , uh , you know , you 've got to deal with , uh , taking care of them and , and feeding them and everything like that .
A: Yeah .
B: And our kids are ,
B: we 've got some children
B: and they 're not , not used to it , you know , on a daily basis .
B: They , they , uh ,
A: How old are your kids ?
B: Oh , from fourteen down to seven .
A: Okay .
B: You sound like you 've got some small ones in the background .
A: One .
B: Is that right ?
A: Our first .
A: He 's about eleven weeks now .
B: Oh , great .
A: Yeah .
B: Congratulations .
A: Yeah .
B: Where are you from ?
A: Uh , originally ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: West Virginia .
B: Okay .
A: Um , I don't know how familiar you are with that area of the country
A: but ,
B: I 've been to Charleston .
A: Charleston , West Virginia ?
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: that 's pretty much the south end of the state , or the southern quarter of the state , anyway ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: in the north end of the state , you 've got that little narrow strip of West Virginia going up between Ohio and Pennsylvania
B: Uh-huh .
A: Right at the base of that northern peninsula is my hometown .
B: Uh-huh
B: Well , that 's , yeah , that 's interesting .
B: So it 's really up north in the country , really , .
A: Yeah ,
B: I guess so .
A: yeah .
A: It 's ,
A: well , um , my parents ' house is like three miles south of where the Mason-Dixon Line would have hit the Ohio River had it continued that far .
B: Gosh .
B: I see .
A: So ,
B: It 's pretty nice country up there ?
A: Oh , it 's beautiful .
B: Hills , or what ?
A: Uh , well , from my neck of the woods , it 's hilly .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , you know , uh , maybe three hundred , four hundred feet elevation , uh , type variations from the valleys up to the hills , the hilltops .
B: Uh-huh
B: Is it farmland ?
A: Um , not a lot of farmland there .
A: Mostly it 's , uh ,
A: I mean , you know , there 's , you know , individuals with their own , own uh , growing their own food .
A: Uh , most of the agriculture , it 's more in the way of , uh , sheep and cattle .
B: Oh , yes .
A: And even that 's , you know , small time mostly .
B: Sure .
A: Uh , the biggest chunk of what 's going on there is , is , uh , industry .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's coal mines and chemical plants and power plants .
B: Okay .
A: Uh , aluminum plants .
A: There 's like two aluminum plants .
B: What are you , what are you studying there at Heidelberg ?
A: Computer engineering .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: What year ?
A: Uh , just finished up my fourth semester .
B: Well , great .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I hope that works out well .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a big change .
B: Yeah .
A: I spent , twenty years as a mechanic
B: What 's ,
A: so ,
B: Oh , did you ?
A: Yeah .
B: Well , you 've got some experience behind you in the work force .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Are you , uh , shooting for a bachelor 's now , or a master 's , or what ?
A: I 'm working on a bachelor 's degree .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: good .
A: I 'm working on a bachelor 's degree .
A: It 'll be
B: Hope it 's a good program there .
A: Pardon ?
B: Hope it 's a good program there .
A: Uh , it seems to me , from what I 've been able to find out .
B: Yeah ,
B: good .
A: That 's considered a pretty good program .
A: It 's nice and small , which means , you know , if you don't get the class this semester , then you 've got to wait or three or four you know , anywhere from two to four semesters to get , it again .
B: Huh
A: But , uh , it 's worth it once you get it .
B: Well , yes ,
B: that 's good .
B: And probably a good , uh , student teacher ratio and things .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah
A: Most the class are pretty small .
B: Good .
A: That works out real well .
B: Well , I , I was wondering what , if you all were to get a pet , like if you were to move into an apartment
B: or a house somewhere , what would you get ?
A: Uh , well , um , first off we 'd probably wind up with a , a cat or maybe a puppy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I , I 'm partial towards the larger dogs .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , our last , we 've , we 've had a couple of cats before we moved on campus .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , had a hamster or two ,
A: and they , they got , to be a lot of fun .
B: A hamster .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Uh , it 's amazing how much character ,
B: Okay .
A: Your family have reunions on a regular basis ?
B: Probably , once every five years .
A: Once every five years ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , you have got a pretty big family .
B: Yeah
B: and that is the hardest part about getting the the stuff together
B: and everyone is spread out all over Timbuktu .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: we have a pretty big family ,
A: but most of us ,
A: well , uh , uh , I am originally from West Virginia .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Most of the family is right in the West Virginia , uh , uh , what they call Tri-State area , uh , northern West Virginia , eastern Ohio , southwestern Pennsylvania .
B: Yeah .
A: Most everybody is right in that area .
B: That makes it a lot easier .
B: A lot more convenient .
B: That is why we only do it once every five or ten years .
A: Yeah .
B: because it is always that hard to get everyone together .
A: Yeah .
A: They put one together for our family about once every June .
A: It was on my grandmother 's birthday ,
A: but she is , she is gone now .
B: Yeah ,
B: see that is kind of what happened with ours .
B: That is why we have not had one in a long time .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh .
B: So , so , to make one successful , I mean , I mean what do you all do .
A: Oh ,
B: Do you all just start planning real far ahead of time ?
A: Pardon .
B: Uh , do you all start planning real far ahead of time ?
A: Well , no .
A: There is kind of a set pattern to it .
A: There is , uh ,
A: so , uh , the day it happens is ninety-eight percent of the planning usually .
B: Oh , really
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , we , uh , get together , at the , uh , the park , uh , the , uh , the park , and playground area of the Church I was raised in
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , everybody brings lots of food
A: and some put up the volleyball net and sit around and tell stories and catch up and play volleyball all day and get really fat
B: Eat a lot .
A: Oh , gosh .
B: It is a lot harder for us because we are like I said we are spread out
A: Yeah .
B: and so we have to plan anywhere from six , well really probably a year ahead of time so that everyone , can uh , start their , uh , vacation time .
A: Schedule vacation time
A: and yeah .
A: We
A: uh , Sat , uh , Sunday afternoon or , uh , sometimes it has been like on a Saturday afternoon .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Usually , it is like Sunday afternoon
A: and most people do not have more than you know a couple of hours drive at tops to get there and back .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: is that one of your , uh ,
B: I mean , uh ,
A: Well , where I am calling from is southern Mississippi .
A: So , we have got , uh , uh , my wife and I have , uh , a bit longer ways to go than most .
B: But , you also manage to make them .
A: uh , actually , we , we have only made one of them since we got married about four years ago . One of the family reunions .
B: Yeah .
A: But we are both in school
A: so that makes it kind of tough .
B: Yeah .
A: They usually , uh , they have been happening , uh , just after the summer semester starts .
B: You ca n't really get away .
A: Usually not .
A: We managed to get to one .
A: That was before I started school
A: and she took that summer off .
A: But , uh ,
B: Well , now that we have been talking about it , I , uh , I am kind of getting home sick now .
B: Because it has been over three years since I have been home to see my grandparents .
A: Oh goodness .
B: Well , my , my grandfather is the only one that is still around .
A: Yeah .
B: And see , my grandmother is the one that use to plan this stuff basically .
A: Yeah .
B: So , unless the aunts and uncles really get on the ball and put stuff together , it is kind of like .
B: She was like the glue ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: I understand .
A: Where is home for you ?
B: Originally , uh , I , uh , was born in Missouri .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , you know , we have relatives scattered out all over Louisiana , Mississippi , uh , here in Texas
A: Yeah .
B: but it is harder for everyone to get in , get home .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , maybe this year you can find a more central location .
B: Well , but the majority of them are in , like , just like how you said in close , close quarters .
B: So it is easier for us few stragglers to go home .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Then the majority of them are still in the Missouri area .
B: Yeah .
A: Okay .
A: You know our family right now , uh , the most of it , there is only a few stragglers , uh , with any distance .
A: There is one cousin out in Colorado , uh , uh , some cousins over in Phoenix , uh ,
A: I got a sister over in , in , uh , Washington State
A: Uh , the rest of them are within , you know , a couple hours drive .
B: Well , uh , how do you all communicate ? Like to plan it and every thing .
B: Do you all just call each other up on the phone and say this is the weekend we are going to do it ,
B: or do you all like mail out stuff ?
A: That is pretty much it .
A: Yeah .
A: It is going to be such and such , uh , weekend
A: and , uh , you all come .
B: Yeah .
A: That is about it
A: And you know this is the standard pattern .
A: It , uh ,
A: everybody brings their favorite dish
A: and , somebody brings the volleyball net ,
A: somebody brings a whole lot of ice for the watermelon
A: and ,
B: Well , uh , uh , I guess probably the last one I went to I met so many people that I had not seen in probably ten , over ten years .
B: It was like , don't you remember me .
B: And I am like no
A: Am I related to you ?
B: Yeah .
B: I know .
A: Yeah ,
A: I married your cousin 's brother 's uncle or something like that .
B: Do you ,
B: I mean , is that since ,
B: I mean do you have them every year ?
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: every year .
A: And , uh , still , you wind up meeting people you , uh , you never knew you were related to . Let alone
B: Yeah .
A: And ,
B: Well , I think that is probably why our is probably so interesting is cause we don't have them that often
A: Oh , yeah .
B: and then when we do , and everyone finally does get together ,
B: it is like after the , you know ,
A: Okay ,
A: so you have eight children .
A: Um , what type of things do you do as a family to spend time together .
B: Oh , we spend a lot of time outdoors jogging , bicycling , uh , going to the park , um , some time watching V C R movies um , generally cheap things
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: we know how that goes .
A: Uh , with lots of kids you don't have lots of money for recreation .
B: That 's right .
A: Well , that 's fun .
A: So , um , let 's see , uh ,
A: some of the things we do together as a family , we like to play games a lot ,
A: and you may think this is funny ,
A: but one of our funnest games we like to play together is hide and seek ,
A: and we just have a hoot playing hide and seek when it 's dark in our house ,
B: Yeah .
A: and that is so fun .
A: The kids just get a crack out of that .
A: Um , we like , we do like to go to the park , too you , uh , like your family .
A: Um , we don't do a lot of vacationing .
A: Have you taken a lot of vacations together
A: or ,
B: Most of our vacations are to go and see Grandma and Grandpa .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and
B: We get an occasional one or two day thing
A: Oh .
B: but most of them are going and seeing Grandma and Grandpa .
A: Oh , now where do they live ?
B: In Arizona .
A: Oh , so that 's a bit of a drive for you there .
B: Yes .
A: Oh , so you like to go there for the holidays
A: and .
B: Oh , we don't go very often for holidays .
B: Generally we try to get all of our kids back home for the holidays and let Grandma and Grandpa come and visit us .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Uh , what are the ages of your kids then ?
B: They range from twenty-four to five .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: So you have some in the nest and some out , huh .
B: That 's right .
B: How old are your children ?
A: We have ,
A: ours start at twelve
A: and then they go down to four .
B: I think the hardest thing for us has been , is to find you know , leisure time activities that all of our kids can enjoy together with the age span that we have , you know ,
A: I bet ,
A: yeah .
B: like the older kids love playing board games and that kind of thing
A: Uh-huh .
B: but the young kids don't understand it
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and so they get real frustrated when we try to do that ,
B: and .
A: Yes ,
A: and then if you want to play something on the little kids ' level , then the older kids get real bored ,
A: and they want to do something else .
A: So .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I can , I can relate to that .
A: Um , do you feel that the current trend in families spending time together is a positive one or a negative one ?
B: I think it 's improving , actually .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We had an interesting experience the other day .
B: We , we have pretty much a , a routine that we spend ,
B: we don't have our kids play with other kids on Sunday
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we just kind of keep them at home
A: Uh-huh .
B: and our next door neighbor , uh ,
B: we were at a soccer game Saturday ,
B: and our next door neighbor was there ,
B: and somebody came up and asked if their daughter could spend Saturday night at their house
A: Uh-huh .
B: and she said , no , Sunday 's our family day
A: Uh-huh
B: and we keep our kids at home so we can spend time with them .
A: That 's good .
B: And I think those kinds of things are happening a lot where we are right now .
A: Oh , good .
B: I think it 's gone to one extreme where the families were just running all different direction
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I think more people are interested in spending time with their kids now .
A: I think so ,
A: and I feel like , you know , like President Bush , Bush has mentioned quite often , that we are trying to become a kinder and gentler nation ,
A: and it does begin with the families at home
B: Yeah .
A: and so I , I 'm a firm believer in that , too .
B: I think a lot of people are panicked , how kids are turning out and how things are going for kids and realizing they 've got to start doing something .
B: So .
A: Yes ,
A: that 's , that 's true .
A: Well , we see that a lot out here in Utah ,
A: and , um , hopefully , hopefully it 's going to spread , huh . .
B: Utah 's a lot better than Texas .
A: Oh .
A: Um , do you have a lot of large families out there in Texas ,
A: or .
B: Very few .
A: Very few .
A: You feel like you 're in the minority ?
B: Oh , definitely .
B: When we tell people how many kids we have they look at us like we did n't have good sense .
A: Oh , dear
B: But , uh .
A: Well , out here in Utah , five is about the the average ,
B: Average .
A: yeah .
B: My wife and I were in Utah until I guess we were about twenty-four .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Never been back , since then ,
B: but , We have kids up there now ,
A: Oh .
B: so we get up occasionally .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , I have some relatives out there in Texas ,
A: in fact my mom 's out there in Texas right now , in Dallas , spending a month with her cousins , on their ranch ,
A: and .
B: Where , where in Dallas ?
A: Well , uh , no ,
A: I 'm trying , Aberdeen ?
B: Huh .
A: Is , is that close to Dallas ?
B: I don't have any idea .
B: I 've never heard of it .
A: Oh .
B: Must be a little town .
A: don't you .
A: It 's , I guess it 's out there , clear out .
A: They have a ranch that has like five hundred acres ,
A: and ,
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: Martin , do you do any exercise ?
B: Yes ,
B: I do .
B: Uh , I like to , uh , play basketball and weight lifting .
B: Those are probably the two main things I like to do .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Um , so those are more or less indoor sports .
A: How 's the weather out there in Georgia ?
B: Yeah .
B: Um , in , in , in the winter , you , typically it 's , it 's probably too cold to go out and do things like tennis .
B: Um , I like to play tennis in the summer time or in the spring , fall ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but in the winter it gets pretty cold .
A: Oh .
B: Um , yeah ,
B: so it 's mostly indoor sports , I think , in the winter .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , how about yourself ?
A: Well , yeah ,
A: I 'm on a exercise program .
A: I 'm riding my Aerodyne bike , um half an hour every morning ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I 'm just about ready to up it to up to forty-five minutes a morning ,
A: and I feel like that 's been a real nice exercise in the winter time .
A: It 's it 's kind of kept me from getting cabin fever and , um , has seemed to be a real nice aerobic exercise .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Do you do , uh , any anaerobic type , weight lifting or weight training type exercise ?
A: No ,
A: huh-uh .
A: I , first of all I 'd like to get my weight off .
A: I 'm about fifty pounds overweight ,
A: and so I 'd like to get the weight off ,
A: and then I 'd really like to get into that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , we have a , my husband and I have a , a , aerobic video that 's called The Firm .
A: I don't know if you 've heard of it ,
A: but it 's a , an aerobic video with , not necessarily bouncing around and jumping up and down ,
A: but you 're using weights ,
A: and that is the most incredible aerobic workout I have ever done .
A: It 's it 's really fun .
B: Huh .
B: Yes ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's it 's similar to aerobics with weights
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh .
B: but it 's like low impact aerobics , just with weights .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: Okay ,
B: are you familiar with , um , step or bench aerobics ?
A: Um , no ,
A: I mean , yes ,
A: I am ,
A: but I have never done it myself .
A: Have you done that ?
B: Uh , yes ,
B: I have .
B: In , in Atlanta that 's , um ,
B: most of the health clubs are all ,
A: Oh .
B: that 's the , that 's the in thing .
A: That 's the big thing , huh ?
B: At first it was just regular aerobics ,
B: but now bench or step aerobics have kind of taken over .
A: Oh .
A: So how is that ?
B: Um , it , they call it a low impact aerobics ,
B: and it 's supposed to burn off more calories at the same time .
A: Oh .
B: And from when I 've done it , it does give you a good , a real good workout .
B: But only thing I 'm concerned about is potential for injury to your knees you know , that and movement of going up on the step you know , that could create a problem .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: They , they seem to think that it , it wo n't ,
B: but you never know .
A: Now , if , um , playing basketball , are you knees ,
A: do you have healthy knees ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think my ankles probably are my main weak point .
A: Oh , dear
B: But , I 've , I 've kind of taken care of that .
B: I wear high tops and then also an a support ankle brace which is very stiff
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , um , wearing that I have n't had any problems in the past year or so .
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: Well that sounds , you sound just like my husband .
A: He he injured his ankle about seven months ago playing volleyball ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , oh , he 's just had a heck of a time getting that ankle healthy .
B: Yeah ,
B: I .
A: So that 's what he does ,
A: he wears his , his brace and his high tops
A: and ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I did , I injured mine so many times that rehabilitating became quite easy .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , .
B: I mean , it would only take three or four days
B: and I could play again on it because after a while you just learn how to rehabilitate yourself to play that way .
A: Wow
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , dear .
A: Oh .
B: But , um , so how , how successful is your exercise video ?
A: It is amazing how fast you take off the inches
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I would , once I start my I 'd like to do the forty-five minutes a day on the bike for a week ,
A: and then , every other day I 'd like to incorporate the video , and then the bike on the other day .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , it is really amazing how fast the inches come off ,
A: and the muscle builds real fast .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , you can start ,
A: they recommend doing the video without weights for the first month
A: and then after that you can just start with your five pound dumbbells , and then build up to your , uh , twenty-five pound dumbbells
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then you 're just doing repetitious exercises throughout the whole video
A: and it 's a hour long video ,
A: so .
B: So it 's a good workout .
A: It is ,
A: yeah ,
A: I really enjoy that ,
A: so I 'm looking forward to losing this weight and being firm and healthy
B: Uh-huh .
B: So , in the winter , I guess , there 's a lot of ,
B: it 's quite cold and snow .
A: Yes .
A: Yes .
A: Now this one has been quite mild .
A: Um , we could have been out walking throughout the whole winter , because really we only had about three weeks of snow on the ground .
A: It was quite chilly
A: but not ,
B: Hello .
A: I pressed the button one ,
A: so we 're recording right now .
A: I 'm sorry
B: That 's okay .
B: I 'm Bill from Raleigh .
A: Okay ,
A: and I 'm Melanie from Harrisville , Utah .
B: Oh , another one from a different state besides Texas .
A: Yeah .
A: Um , okay ,
A: Bill , we 're talking about family reunions .
B: Right .
A: Okay , um ,
A: have you ever had to plan a family reunion ?
B: Uh , yes
B: and no ,
B: it was n't really a a planning one ,
B: but it was kind of , uh , it was a birthday
A: Oh .
B: and I brought a lot of family together then .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And how did you feel it went ?
B: It went pretty good .
B: I 'm , I 've worked in hotels ,
B: so I , I kind of know how to do these things .
A: Oh .
B: I used to , you know .
A: All this planning and , and getting together and such .
A: Um , oh , let 's see what else .
B: Usually when we have kind of our family reunion it 's my grandmother 's birthday ,
B: and and it 's all of like , she , she comes from a big family .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She has like seven sisters I think .
A: Oh , boy
B: They show up and all their kids .
B: And then all , she has , uh ,
B: I have like , uh ,
B: let 's see ,
B: she has four sons and two daughters ,
B: and they show up and all their kids ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so it 's a pretty big reunion ,
B: it 's about two hundred people , maybe .
A: Oh , my word .
A: Well , what did you find was most helpful in planning the birthday get together ?
B: Um , the , probably the biggest challenge was getting a place where everyone , you know , could eat comfortably and , and everything , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I guess probably the most helpful thing was that , um , for the rent , we rented like a , a rescue squad building or something like that .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , each one of the , everybody that showed up donated some money for the rent and for , for like soft drinks
B: and and so nobody like really got stuck with the bill .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , that 's good .
B: And each person in the family , you know , brought a dish , or something .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and then did you have a main meal ,
A: or did everyone just bring ,
A: it was just pot luck .
B: It was kind of pot luck .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , everybody brought their specialties , I guess you would say .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: show off a little bit
B: Yeah .
B: And of course my grandmother 's food was , as always , gone first because she 's such a great cook .
A: Oh .
A: Oh .
A: Now how old is she ?
B: Uh , she 's eighty-six .
A: Oh , goodness .
A: Is she pretty spry , is she , you know , pretty .
B: Now she does ,
B: she looks probably like she 's in her early sixties
A: Oh , wow .
B: and if she did n't have arthritis , she 'd get around better than me as a matter of fact
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , that 's neat , that she 's in good health , and that , at that age .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: My nickname for her is Honey Woman .
B: That 's what I call her .
A: Really .
A: Well that sounds fun .
A: Well , I I had a real challenge of planning a family reunion a few years ago ,
A: and there were ,
A: we sent out five hundred , uh , announcements , because our family is quite large , like your , your family there .
A: And so that was a real challenge ,
A: and I was president of our family reunion for two years ,
A: and I was n't very at that duty , for two years in a row ,
A: but I found that advance planning was the key to success .
B: Uh , also one thing that 's helpful ,
B: and I don't know if your family 's spread out or whatever
A: Uh-huh .
B: but most of , all my family lives like in the same county
B: so
A: Oh , that 's wonderful , though
B: But it 's just kind of like get on the telephone
B: and , it 's so and such days from such and such date
A: Oh .
B: and everybody just shows up .
A: Oh , well , that is , that is helpful .
A: Yeah ,
A: our family ranges from , oh , goodness , well , Australia ,
A: I have a brother lives in Australia , to , uh , Boise , Idaho , and , and , uh , all kinds of places .
B: I would say you 're spread out , then .
A: We are
B: Uh , my immediate family , you know , my , my parents and my brothers and sisters , I guess we 're the ones that have the gypsy blood or whatever ,
B: because my dad was in the Army
B: and we 're we 're pretty strung out all over .
A: Oh .
B: But since they 've moved back to Carolinas , we still are the only ones do not live in in Yantsen County .
A: In .
A: Oh .
B: I live in Raleigh ,
B: and then my , my parents live in Greenville ,
B: and I have one brother and his wife live in Greenville , and , uh , another brother that lives in , outside of Fayetteville .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I mean , we 're , we 're spread out ,
B: but everybody else is centralized in , in , my home town , Waynesboro
A: Boy .
B: so .
A: Oh , my gosh .
B: Nobody moves away except us
A: They must really like it there .
B: Yeah ,
B: I got out as soon as I graduated .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: Just like this town is too small for me ,
B: Good-bye .
A: Oh , you 're ready to move on to
A: How do you feel about gun control ?
B: Well , uh , I mean I don't think that guns should be outlawed
A: Um .
B: but it 's going to ,
B: a lot of the stuff that ,
B: I mean all you do is to get guns and then like with the stuff of that massacre in Killeen , Texas not too long ago , But I don't really know , I mean , unless they do , uh , just outlaw them , how you can , uh , prevent that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , don't you think that you know , just having , you know , some , you know almost like a driver 's license be required you know with stiff penalties if you are found with , with you know a gun that is not registered or you know that you are not licensed to carry .
B: Yeah ,
B: that ,
B: well do you even know what the procedures are now ?
B: Um .
A: There is no national ,
B: But , it 's kind of like if you want a gun you can get a gun , especially if you have the money to pay for it .
A: Uh , in most States as long as you are n't a convicted felon . You know or on probation or , uh , you know , other obvious things like that .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , and I know , I know that like in a lot of states you could , you could be just like released from a mental hospital the day before . You know , be , be obviously insane ,
A: and then , you , you know but have your legal right to get a gun .
B: Huh . I did n't know that .
B: Well , that 's pretty scary .
B: So , does , now do they want us to say where we feel about it , like in rating it one to ten .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: I 'd probably , I 'd probably say about a five .
B: That 's where I would probably be
A: Seems like it 's a good safe number to pick , you know .
B: Well , I mean , I mean I don't really know what they can , how they can really enforce the laws any better
A: Uh-huh
B: because I mean I do think that some people need them and , like , for protection and stuff
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I can understand them wanting to have them ,
B: but then again it 's just like all those nuts out there .
A: Well , you know , uh , uh ,
A: if you are looking at like you know country that , uh , where they do have a lot more gun control , like England and places like that , you know
A: the amount of violent crime has decreased by so much .
B: It has ?
B: Because then ,
A: Well I mean yeah .
A: The , uh , the
A: in comparing per capita murders are incredibly lower than the United States .
B: Um .
A: Uh , you know , I mean , the problem though , you know , they , if the , since the United States had this , you know , pretty much unrestricted flow of guns going for so long that I think , you know , if you were introduced , you know , any controls , it would probably take a long while for them to take effect just because there is a glut of guns out there already .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , so it 's , it 's really kind of a complex problem .
B: Well , is the crime that bad there in Atlanta ?
A: Uh , I 'm not really sure how bad it is .
A: I 've , I 've not really had that many problems with it ,
A: but I mean apparently we , we were ranked pretty high up .
B: Yeah
B: I know Dallas is .
A: Uh . I mean , I think , you know , in the
A: I mean I think we have been like ranked in one of the top three for murders in the last few years .
B: I don't know if Dallas is in the top three
A: Uh-huh .
B: but . Do you own a gun ?
A: No .
A: I 've thought about getting one .
A: If I get one , I think I will probably , you know , get something .
A: I probably would n't get a hand gun .
A: I would probably get like a shotgun .
A: Just for protecting myself . You know , from burglar type thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I do kind of live in the downtown area .
B: Yeah .
A: You know and shotguns are really good because they 're ,
A: I mean somebody is not going to break in , steal it , and you know , use it to mug someone , you know .
B: That 's true .
A: Uh , and you know , you ,
A: yeah ,
A: I just don't understand these people , you know , like when they , they decide they 're going to buy a gun to protect themselves .
A: They go out and buy a three fifty seven magnum which is going to shoot through you know ,
A: they are probably going to miss the person
A: and , and they 're going to shoot through five wall , and hit someone , you know .
A: I mean a shotgun just really struck me as being you know a real good defensive weapon .
A: You can sort of point it somewhere in the direction of you know whoever .
B: Yeah .
A: You pretty much stop them .
A: And , you don't ,
A: then the actual shot does n't go that far , you know , a wall will stop it pretty much .
B: and , uh , my Dad gave me a gun
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I never did go out and practice with it enough to feel comfortable with it
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I finally ended up giving it back to him .
B: I said I don't want it .
B: I don't want to be responsible for it because you know if you 're not going to teach me how to do it and if I am not going to , you know , be responsible enough to go out and learn , I don't need it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that , that really does scare me . People , you know , that have guns
A: because you know , if you ever get in the situation where you know you are not prepared to shoot ,
A: but you pick up the gun and point it at the person that , that person rushes you .
B: Yeah .
B: And they get it from you .
A: And you know , you 're pretty much dead you know . Because you , you 've just told the person that you , you 're about to kill them then , You know
B: Uh-huh .
B: Set them off .
A: and , and , well I mean , you , you basically made it clear to the person that you know unless he , unless , you know that you are a real danger to them
A: and then you know if you , if they manage to get the gun from you , you know their first reaction is going to be you know , stop you .
B: Yeah ,
B: well that 's why I ended up giving it back to him .
B: I thought well you know . I don't want it if I don't know how to you know , if I don't really know how to use it
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I just did n't want the responsibility .
A: Um .
B: So . Well , uh , did you hear about that Killeen massacre or whatever ?
A: Yeah ,
A: the , did it happen at a cafeteria or something ?
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
B: That kind of I mean it just makes you wonder how people get guns .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I would be scared selling guns to people .
A: So , Julie , how do you feel about AIDS research ?
B: I think we need , we definitely need more of it , definitely .
A: I 'd agree , too ,
A: but , I mean , it seems like it just makes economic sense in that , you know , uh , you know ,
A: it would have made even better economic sense to , to , to have had a lot more research than a longer ago .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: for certain .
A: You know , because , you know , because , uh , the country 's going to wind up paying for the treatment of patients .
B: Exactly .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Exactly .
B: Does , does like , do health insurance policies , like , for companies and things , do they cover diseases like that ?
A: I think they cover AIDS ,
A: but what they do is , uh , if , you know , you apply for , for to get a , a insurance policy they 'll , uh , check to see if you 're H I V positive
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if you are , not only will they not give you , uh , a policy ,
A: but they 'll , uh , they have like ,
A: there 's like , you know , a database of people that have tested positive ,
A: so you 'll never be able to get insurance ever again .
B: Um , well , that 's , but that 's why they should have started doing stuff before .
B: I mean , still , you know , since it 's dormant for such a long time , there 's still probably a lot of people , you know , before the tests ever really came out who are , who are draining a lot of money right now . You know ,
A: Yeah .
A: I think a lot of it was , was just that , you know , because of , of the , you know , because , because the majority of the high risk groups were people no one really cared about .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: That ,
B: Right ,
B: and all these God-fearing people were like , well , you know God is trying to kill off all the et cetera , et cetera .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: uh , yeah ,
A: one , one , one one humorous retort I heard , heard someone , you know , who claimed that , you know , AIDS was , you know , God 's punishment was that , then lesbians must be God 's chosen people .
B: Uh .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh ,
B: Boy ,
B: that 's a good one .
A: So , uh ,
B: Yes ?
A: Uh , do you think , you mean , do you actually think we 're doing enough right now to ,
B: No ,
B: I really don't .
B: I did , I did like a research kind of thing on AIDS research and stuff ,
B: and , uh , really we 're not doing much at all ,
B: I mean , most of what gets raised , I mean , it 's not really federal movement , most of what gets raised , gets raised by , uh , uh , you know , conscious , yeah , communities and things like that , you know .
A: Private organizations .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like , uh , San Francisco has a , a real , uh , strong AIDS support group and all that kind of stuff
B: and and , uh , get , they get donations from the community , you know , they 're real , And from corporations around the , around the city , you know , for AIDS research and that kind of thing
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I think there needs to be more of that sort of on a federal level , you know , rather than just in the places where it 's , you know , where it 's predominated so far , because it 's , you know it 's bound to spread
A: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , it seems that , you know , it 's just , you know , of , it 's just going to reach a steady , a steady state a let , a lot , lot higher point than it will if we , you know , we 'd nip it in the bud to quote Barney Fife .
B: Right
B: Yeah .
B: I don't know ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I , I , I don't know what the likelihood of that is ,
B: but , I mean , you know , people really waking up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Especially with the ultra conservatives move our , our political system sort of seems to be taking .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I would probably agree with that .
B: Yeah
B: so ,
A: Uh , so do , do you think it 's more important to spend money on research or for support of , uh , people ?
B: God ,
B: that 's a good question , Fish .
B: I don't know ,
B: uh , I think , I think one of the main things that 's really important to spend money on is education , not support or , or , research per se , but , but education because a lot of people sort of get drummed out of the work place and out of society , you know , kind of like lepers would you know
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's really , it 's really not necessary , uh , until , until the , disease reaches its final stage , you know , becomes really infectious
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I think that would be the most effective support they could get is for other people to understand , you know , try to understand what they 're going through and everything and try to understand that they 're not , you know , they don't , they don't have to be just completely cut off from , from the community
A: Uh-huh
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that , and , uh , I don't know ,
B: I guess I think that , that , uh , research is , I guess the most important , just because I , you know , it , it really needs to come to an end . You know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know .
B: I don't know , Fish .
B: What do you think about that subject ?
A: I think it 's , I think it stands a really interesting question of , uh ,
A: Well what do you feel about the , um , present situation in the Mideast ?
B: Well , it looks like it 's just about as volatile as it usually is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What do you think , Mark ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I agree .
A: I think , I think there 's definitely been some changes , um ,
A: and I think you know , the , the , um , end of the Soviet Union will definitely have its effect on , on the situation .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Um , you know , in that there 's , there 's not , you there , you know , you know ,
A: basically since the end of World War two there was always , you know , that little proxy war going on . You know , with , um , the U S funding Israel and , and the , um , Soviet Union funding the Arab countries .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And then we 'll see what happens when , uh , they 're not funded quite as much . Or supplied with arms the same way .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: but on the same token , you know , Israel has lost a lot of their , you know , value to the U S in being , you know , the foothold of capitalism . You know in , in the Mideast .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I , we tend to be pretty strong supporters of Israel ourselves ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , we kind of cringe when they make mistakes but yet overall tend to support them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , I think one of the most interesting things to me recently was , you know , during the war , uh , in , uh , Kuwait was , uh , the fact that they did not retaliate , for the , uh , scud missiles that were , uh , launched there .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That just seemed to me to be a , uh , a phenomenal , uh , demonstration of restraint ,
B: and it must have reflected , uh , uh , some awful good , uh , diplomacy on the part of the U S .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: but on the other hand , you know , if they would have had a hard time retaliating because the , you know , they , they would n't have been given access to the friend or foe codes .
B: I see .
A: They basically would have , you know , had a , had a they had , they would have had , had to fly through , you know , two enemies .
B: Oh , you don't think they got the codes from the U S already ?
A: The U S would claim that they would have not given them to them .
B: I see .
A: I mean , of course , you know , public statements can be taken for ,
B: That 's true .
B: They can , yet they ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Well what do
B: what about this situation with the , you know , the , uh , continual , uh , harassment by Iraq right now and , uh , apparently failing to let the , uh , arms inspectors have free access .
A: Uh-huh .
A: You know , well , to begin with , you know ,
A: I pretty much question or what , what the U S motives were in , uh , in , in actually the original involvement .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I ,
A: the cynical side of me says that , you know , it was more for , uh , the , the domestic political situation than for anything else . You know , and that , you know , and for portraying Bush is a strong President .
B: Huh , yeah ,
B: okay .
B: Sure .
A: Uh , I mean I really , I really think that , that , my gut feeling is that , that , you know , he pretty much picked , picked the fight with , uh , with , um , Hussein .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean I 'm not , not saying at all that Hussein was n't quite willing to enter that fight .
B: Right .
A: But , you know , I think , I think that , that , um , we chose to have our official feelings hurt .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Where a lot
B: Well , do you think that , uh , we should ignore it and just allowed him to go ahead and , uh , you know , move on into Kuwait and see what happens ?
A: I think , I mean I thought , I think that , um , in the past we 've allowed lots of things like that to happen .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I , I really don't , I really don't think that ,
A: I think , I think it was , it was , there were , there were a lot more demographic related interests involved than true foreign policy interests .
B: Right .
A: Um ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well may have been .
B: You know , I 'm not saying that that 's not the case . Uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: And I mean in , in , in along this line since , since , you know it , it really , it really did n't accomplish very much except we 're getting , getting , uh , the Iraqis out of Kuwait .
B: Right .
A: I just don't , I just don't , I , I , I I , I , I don't foresee Bush making the decision to invest a lot of manpower and money and , you know , in , in fighting a second battle .
B: No .
A: Um , you know , over , over the , uh , over , over what , what probably wo n't accomplish him , accomplish much for him politically .
B: No ,
B: it does n't look like we 're getting ready to do , to do much more in there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Even at this point .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Well what about , uh ,
B: do you have any , any views on , uh , Israel 's relation to the U S ?
B: Do you , think we ought to , you know , back off on our support of the country
B: or what do
A: Well , I have , I have very fixed feelings about Israel .
A: Um , I think that , that for a long while we 've , we 've had almost a , you know ,
B: Uh , anyway , we 're supposed to talk about recycling . Basically , what , what your personal opinion is on it .
B: Uh , this is , this is really for a speech research project they 're doing
B: so , uh , I don't know .
B: Florida is pretty good about recycling is n't it ?
A: Well , they just kicked it off down here in , in Sarasota county .
B: Oh , they did ?
A: Uh , they had been doing it ,
A: they started first in Sarasota City . Uh , you know , which makes up a pretty small portion of the county actually .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , they 've got these , I don't know what , if you 're familiar with Sarasota county at all .
B: Not quite ,
B: no .
A: They 've got these ,
A: it 's , it 's county wide program now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And what they 've done is they 've broken everything down into garbage . Uh , yard trash . Plastic , cans and glass . And then , uh , paper .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: Which , in the paper , it 's just , uh , newspaper and corrugated cardboard . Is the only thing you 're supposed to put in there .
B: Yeah .
B: Okay .
A: No slicks . Uh ,
B: Oh , that 's , that 's good .
B: Let me ask you this .
B: Do they require you to presort it ?
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
B: See that 's something in Minneapolis they 're really strict on .
B: In terms of you got to put everything in its own little bag and really presort it really , you know , tightly .
B: But when I lived in Orlando , it 's like you could put almost anything in there
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 'd just sort it out for you
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: It was really pretty good if you 're lazy like I am ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
A: Well , you know , uh , I talked to this girl
A: who , uh , she 's a , an an acquaintance of mine
A: and , and she 's involved with , uh , oh ,
A: what is the name of that company .
A: It 's not Amway
A: but it 's the other big vitamin company ? Shaklee .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: yeah .
A: Okay .
A: And , uh , and , and she 's just Shaklee crazy , you know , because it 's her business and everything .
A: And , uh , you know , and she asked ,
A: we were talking one day
A: and , and she asked me a couple of questions , you know .
A: And she , and , and what she said that , that generally , the problems that people have with being environmentally conscious is number one , they don't want it to change their lifestyle and , and like , you know , especially make it anymore complicated or any extra work or anything .
B: Yeah .
A: Which that 's , that 's what recycling at home sorting does , you know .
B: Right .
A: I mean it 's a little extra work .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , it can actually turn out to be a lot of extra work because what they do , what they do here in Sarasota county is they 've got ,
B: It can ,
B: yeah .
A: okay ,
A: you put your garbage in a garbage bag
A: and you set it out by the curb .
B: Right .
A: If you have yard trash , you put your yard trash in some kind of container .
A: Uh , or you can have bundles up to a certain weight , and certain dimensions , tie them up and put them by the curb .
B: Yeah ,
B: you got to tie them up and everything .
A: Well , the plastic , cans and glass , they give you this little tub
A: and it 's about a foot and a half deep
A: and it 's about one by one and a half foot wide and long .
B: Right .
A: This is a little container .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then they have another one the same size .
A: That one 's red .
A: Then they have a blue one the same size for the paper goods .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , so , like , you know , you would have to rinse out your pop cans .
A: Otherwise you got bees and ants
A: and you know , and , and if you 've got , uh , food containers or anything like that , it 's a big problem .
B: Exactly .
B: It is , you know , a big hassle .
A: So not only do you
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: I mean , up here , they give you one , one of those containers
B: and you put everything in it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's like , if , if you use a lot of stuff , you ,
B: it 's like well you know , if you 're a partying kind of guy and you drink , you know , like a couple of twelve packs , maybe , over the weekend it 's going to be hard pressed to to put all your recyclables in that one place , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: This is true .
B: So it 's kind of a pain in the butt .
A: This is true .
B: But , uh , I don't know .
B: That 's definitely one thing they could do to make it easier is to just , you know .
B: You have , have those garbage people that make , how every many , make twenty , thirty bucks an hour ,
B: have them do a little bit of the sorting . You know . And , and maybe come up with a better system .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Make it a little more convenient .
B: But ,
A: Yeah ,
A: they 've got these large garbage cans that you can rent from the waste management company here . Uh , if you want to have a nice garbage can , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: And it 's on wheels
A: and it 's big .
B: Oh , you can actually rent those ?
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
B: That 's interesting .
B: Yeah
A: Yeah
B: up here the , the city provides them .
B: Kind of like ,
A: I think in , I think in the city they do
A: but out here in the county you have to rent them .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And they just add it on to your water bill or something .
B: So where exactly are you in terms of , of , like , Sarasota ?
B: Are you north of Sarasota or , East ,
A: East of Sarasota .
B: okay .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And Sarasota is on the west coast ?
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
B: Like south of Tampa , right ?
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
B: I 'm ,
A: Yeah .
A: About an hour . About an hour south of Tampa
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's ,
B: Okay .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: well . I listen to this talk radio station down here
A: and it 's really ,
A: they ,
A: I don't if you ever listen to talk radio
A: but those guys , they just kind of get into , to stewing up trouble , you know . With the callers and things like that .
B: Um , occasionally .
B: Yeah .
A: But they get into some really good conversations sometimes , you know .
A: And some of it , sometimes it 's serious
A: and they have some good feedback and all that stuff
A: and from listening to that , I kind of got an idea that I thought would be good with
B: Yeah .
A: and this kind of fits into the , uh , the aid program ,
A: the welfare program that 's going on right now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it 's like , uh ,
A: So , uh , what things do you consider an invasion of privacy ?
B: Ooh , well I don't know .
B: What do you think ?
A: Oh , I don't know .
A: I had a little bit more time to think about it .
A: I was thinking of , like , uh ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I was started to think about all the big , you know , data bases they have with all the information about you on them like the credit reports and all those , you know , demographics studies that they do that , um , you know , have , who knows , how much , you know , stuff about all the purchases that you 've made and everything kept tract somewhere
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and I don't know ,
A: I don't know how much the stuff actually , what they actually have in there
A: but I know they use that , I mean they sell those ,
B: Huh .
B: Well what about , uh , required drug testing , uh , as a , uh , condition of employment ?
A: Yeah ,
A: that was , that , that was the other one I was thinking of
A: I think that 's , uh ,
A: I mean I know drugs are illegal .
B: It thing actually .
B: Uh , I , uh , have worked at Texas Instruments .
A: Huh . Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , they instituted a drug policy there . Drug testing policy where they randomly would test , uh , employees
A: Uh-huh .
B: and actually , to tell you the truth , I really did not think much about it .
B: I , I had n't , you know ,
B: it really did n't relate to me .
B: But there were some things that people brought up like well what happens if they , they get a false positive , you know , what recourse do you have .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , also , uh , uh , this is against the law for the government to do this kind of thing , this kind of big brother activity
B: and yet , uh , a lot of these large corporations such as Texas Instruments , although they don't admit to it , it 's actually , oh , a drug testing policy comes about as a result of government pressure .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So what that means is , to me , that really it 's the government that 's requiring this ,
B: although they don't actually execute it themselves , it 's really the government that .
B: So , in that sense , it , at least , philosophically , it 's really borderline legal .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well I , I think the , I think that , you know , a person 's competence should be more determined by , you know , their actions and their behavior
A: and if they 're , you know , if they 're on some kind of , you know , controlled substance then , you know , it kinds of takes away from the job of , you know , the supervisor or manager type person , you know , who is able to evaluate them .
A: I think they should be evaluated that way rather than with a , you know , a chemical , you know ,
B: Well , what about this , uh , AIDS epidemic now ?
B: Where you find that , uh , uh , you know , certain people are actually are , are criminal in their disregard for others .
A: These people that are carriers and don't that don't reveal it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and and , uh , of course , the ultimate solution is to operate on their brain so that it does n't ,
B: it , uh , it destroys their libido .
A: Yeah , that would be kind of an extreme .
B: Now , uh , you know if they ever ,
A: I mean I 've heard of things like , you know , making them , you know , marking them somehow or , you know , or something like that or , you know , putting them all someplace like in a kind of ,
B: So what about that as an invasion of privacy ?
A: Yeah .
A: I guess it kind of borders on where , I mean what do you value more . The invasion of , uh , the person 's privacy or the possible danger to , you know , other people .
B: So really ,
B: it gets to balancing , uh , personal freedom against , uh , the general welfare of society .
A: Yeah .
A: I guess that 's that 's been the big role of government , I guess I mean generally .
B: Well , it , it 's supposed to have been .
A: Yeah
A: Yeah .
A: Well , that 's kind of a difficult one to go into .
A: I mean that , that particular case .
B: No ,
B: it ,
A: Because I mean , there 's a lot of people that , uh , I mean they could require , you know , obligatory AIDS testing for everyone because I 'm , you know , there 's a huge part of the population ,
A: not a huge part but a , you know
B: A growing part .
A: the AIDS population I guess that have it , that don't know they do are spreading it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , again , to require , you know , such a test and and then to make , make it is to subject them to , to discriminatory practices and other things .
A: I don't know ,
A: uh , I don't know how exactly I feel about that .
B: Maybe chop their weenies off .
A: Yeah .
A: I guess , uh , uh , it 's an easy one for me .
A: I think that 's , uh , there 's something seriously wrong ,
A: yeah .
B: What is it that you are , you know , particularly upset about ?
A: Uh , I guess , uh , I think they 've lost their compass
A: and , uh , I 'm not sure they know exactly what , uh , uh , public education supposed to be for anymore .
A: But , uh , I voted with my feet
A: and , uh , my kids go to parochial school .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh ,
B: What do you feel that your kids are getting in the parochial schools that they would n't get in a , the public school system ?
A: Well , one hundred percent of the , uh , customers care .
A: That 's one thing .
A: Everybody cares about the education the kids are getting .
A: And , uh , they , uh , take an active , relatively active part .
A: Which , uh , I mean if you 're , uh , sending two thousand dollars that way every year , you , uh , watch what goes on and you , uh , uh , pay attention and participate
A: and , and you can influence the way things are .
B: So you 're saying that the taxpayer who also is really paying through the pocketbook for the education of the child may not be quite so conscious of the fact that they are paying the tuition for that child in the form of , uh , real estate or other taxes
B: and , and , consequently , they 're not so motivated to get involved and make sure things happen the way they 'd like to see them happen ?
A: Yeah .
A: The immediacy just is n't there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , uh , I also think that one of the problems
A: and , actually , I don't think this , I think this is a cultural problem .
A: The , uh , problem with public education is really , uh , really a problem with the culture .
A: And , I guess my evidence for that is the school districts in places like California , for example , where only a minority of the taxpayers have children in school
A: and you ca n't get a tax levy passed .
A: Uh , people are , uh , reluctant to pass , uh , school tax levies even , uh , when the money is needed or would be well spent because it 's , uh , they don't have kids in the schools .
B: Right .
A: I think that 's a , a loss of civic virtue and a loss of , uh , uh , the cultural attitude that we used to have that education was first even if it was n't our kids .
A: I think that 's , uh , that 's the principal problem is that , uh , people no longer see it as , uh , as their problem
A: and there 's an immediate problem .
B: Right .
B: It troubles me too that the priority seems to be with my particular purse strings rather than the public good
B: and by definition , for some of us , at least , the public good includes having an educated populace and then idea that , uh , you can make a sound judgment with respect to small votes in the , at the local level or bigger votes at the national level .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , it means that you 've got to be informed
B: and you 've got to have a certain level of education to do the reading and the critical thinking involved to come up with a decision .
A: Yeah .
A: You know , I , I believe that the original idea of public education in the United States , which I guess was controversial at the time of the constitution .
A: Uh , you know , it barely made it .
A: I think it was added afterwards
A: I think the real , the principal was , uh , education for civic participation .
B: Right .
A: The idea was that everybody should have an education so that they would be a better voter
A: and you could n't pull the wool over their eyes .
B: Right .
B: It has taken on a more profound ,
B: and you 'd think we 'd notice it , economic uh , thrust .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , that 's exactly what I was going to say .
A: Now there seem to be really three reasons for education .
A: One is education for civic duty .
A: One is education for economic reasons .
A: And one is education for civilization .
A: I mean and I think that one ,
B: Well I 'm glad that you added that one .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that one 's significant .
A: That 's what I used to think education was all about when I was a college professor
A: and then I quit and got disabused of that notion
A: But , uh , the , uh , uh , now the only thing people seem to agree on is that education is , uh , an economic enterprise to train people for jobs .
A: And , uh , I 'm not sure that people in the education establishment really know what their purpose is .
A: And I 'm really sad to say this ,
A: I never thought I would have
A: but I really think that , uh , the educational establishment has become part of the problem .
A: And , uh , that 's why I guess I 'm sort of , reluctantly , uh , in favor of these , uh , choice programs .
B: Right .
B: Well I , I agree with everything that you 've said so far
B: and the only that I 'd want to add is that I 'm a little more in contact , I think , with public school teachers than perhaps you are , uh , except as a parent of your child
B: and the sense that I get from public school teachers that I know is that they are very conscious of what they feel they should be doing
B: and they are the three things that you mentioned .
B: But they find that they are also being asked to do a bunch of other stuff which they think is only tangentially related
A: Right .
A: That 's what ,
B: like consumer ,
B: kids too ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , you laugh .
B: How many ,
B: what ages ?
A: Well , twenty-seven up .
B: Uh .
A: And we had five .
B: You 've been through the fun part
A: Oh , yeah .
A: And how about yourself ?
B: I have a four and a half and a three .
A: Oh .
A: well .
B: So . It 's ,
B: I , I 'm sure there 's a lot of differences in the way , in the way it 's done now and then .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , when mine were growing up , I did some traveling and but not that extensively
A: but I always just made it a point , you know , to spend about ten minutes with each one of them .
B: Yeah .
A: So it was an hour , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: But whether it was going back and laying in bed with them and just shooting the breeze or whatever , telling them stories or reading to them .
B: What was the age difference between the youngest and the oldest ?
A: Six years .
B: So they were all real close ?
A: Yeah .
B: That 's tough .
B: That 's a lot of time .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: We look back and wonder how we did it .
B: Did you both work ? Your wife too ?
A: No ,
A: she never did .
B: Uh , well , qualify that .
B: She worked at home , I 'm sure
A: Well , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: But that 's , uh ,
B: well both my husband and I work
B: and sometimes I feel like , you know , by the time I pick them up and get them home and get them fed , I have very little time each evening .
A: Yeah .
B: Maybe thirty minutes max .
A: Well that 's plenty though .
B: And well he spends a lot of time with them while I 'm cooking
B: and then I spend time with them while , you know , he 's doing other stuff .
B: And , and , of course , we try to spend a lot of time on the weekend .
B: You know , there 's a lot of times my house may not be as clean as I particularly like it
B: but it 's neat ,
B: it 's straight
B: and I can live with it because I do stuff with my kids , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Well , you know , with kids you 're not going to have a neat house .
B: Well , I 've accepted that too
A: And , you know it , it 's tough to find time . especially with both of them working .
B: That 's true .
B: It is .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
A: And you just have to set the time and say , okay this is going to be it .
B: Well , that 's true
B: and , and we do a lot of that on the weekends , you know .
B: We try to spend Saturdays together .
A: Right .
B: If my husband golfs , you know , he 'll do it during nap time , things like that where they 're not really missing the presence , you know .
A: Right .
B: And , and we do a lot of family things together .
B: We 're , we 're kind of going the other direction this weekend .
B: We 're planning a trip , just he and I .
B: This is the first time we 've gone anywhere without the kids since she was born four and a half years ago .
A: Well that 's good too .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good that way too
B: Well , I decided that , you know , you need that once in awhile . That you , you need to plan the quality time
B: and , and I do think that if you plan it and spend that and make it quality time you don't have to be there twenty-four hours a day .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , that , they say it , it , all it takes is about five , ten minutes a day .
B: Yeah .
A: And , you know , and as the kids got older I made them , you know , help me cut the grass and kind of made that a project too . Or whatever
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
A: and ,
B: And they think that 's a family activity , you know .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's great fun
A: And , uh , well , yeah ,
A: if ,
B: My daughter 's like , Mommy can I help you with the laundry ?
B: Of course , you can
A: Yeah .
A: Just keep them talking that way .
B: Absolutely .
B: Yeah
A: But , uh , another thing we used to do is have family councils . Every Sunday night .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And what would you do ,
B: what ?
A: Discuss everything that did n't agree with them .
A: And we 'd take turns being president .
B: Oh .
A: And everyone would get one vote .
A: And I always thought we 'd get outvoted five to two
B: Yeah .
A: but it never worked that way .
B: So they would just pick whatever issue kind of was at a head that week
A: Yeah .
A: Well and we could bring up and we could bring up stuff too .
B: and then ,
B: Oh .
A: And that was always good time .
A: Boy , we really got to know the kids well .
B: I imagine .
B: And I imagine you still have a very close relationship with them .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: In fact , they were all in , uh , over the weekend for Easter .
B: I ,
B: Oh , that 's wonderful .
B: See I was raised in that type of family where , you know , you don't disobey me , you mind me
B: but if you have a problem with what we did or how we did it , you can always come back and talk to me about it .
A: Well , we did too .
B: Yeah .
A: And I remember the one daughter saying , we had a , a friend of hers that used to drive us up a tree
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she said , hey I don't make fun fun of your friends
A: so why make fun of mine ?
B: Uh well .
A: Kind of kind of hit us between the eyes .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: You don't think of it that way do you
A: No .
A: But that , that was always good quality time for us .
B: Now that 's good .
B: I like that idea .
A: And then never attend ,
A: but if , if they missed it , they had to abide by the rules .
B: Whatever was voted on , huh .
A: Yeah
A: and boy , they , they 'd show up .
B: Well I think that 's great .
A: And we 'd usually take notes
B: Yeah .
A: and , you know , the younger kids , uh , or maybe all of them needed help at one time or another .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , but they were usually tougher on themselves than they were on us .
A: And they loved it .
B: I , I think that 's true .
B: I can remember times my parents would say well what do you think would be a fair punishment .
A: Yeah .
B: And we would always come up with something that was harder than what they would have done you know .
A: Yeah .
B: So I do think it 's right that they 're harder on themselves , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: But , uh , boy , I , I feel for you and your husband .
B: Oh , why is that ?
A: Well , my , my , uh , two of my , uh ,
A: So how do you feel about it ?
B: Uh , I , I don't see any problem with , with testing for random drugs .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I , myself , almost , uh , am in favor of it .
A: Uh , I work at Honeywell
A: and I went through a , a pretty , I don't know , I went through a , standard drug testing thing before I , I was brought on .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think that 's pretty standard .
A: At least at Honeywell it is .
A: Uh , I think it 's important to insure the quality and , and , uh , I don't know , almost the goodness of character . You know that kind of thing .
B: Yeah .
A: Where do you work ?
B: Uh , well I 'm a graduate student right now at Carnegie Mellon .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Oh , okay .
B: And I , I just came from Saint Paul . Uh , interviewing with Three M .
A: Huh .
A: Oh , great .
B: And , uh , they have a policy for , uh , testing .
B: If you , if they make you an offer , then they 'll test you right before you start .
A: Right .
B: And I guess the only drawback I can see to , to drug testing is in , in case you are on some sort of medication that might give some , uh , sort of false positive result then there could be some sort of problem .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: But
A: Yeah .
A: And that , that definitely happens , you know .
A: I mean those , the drug tests , sure they 're accurate
A: but there 's always that margin of error .
B: Yeah .
A: And that 's , that 's something to be aware of .
A: Another thing is , a lot of times , you know , they are n't that accurate .
A: They are n't that sensitive .
A: Like if you 're on a prescription drug of some kind , you know , what are they going to do about that
B: Yeah
A: You know , I was on a couple of different prescription drugs when I was tested for Honeywell
A: and , uh , uh , you know , I know they did n't catch that or else they would have said something .
A: Uh , I 'm sure they screen for just a particular few types .
A: Although the literature they give with you says yeah we do this
A: and then they list about five thousand drugs they try to test for .
B: Right .
A: Uh , I don't know .
A: What , what program are you in over at Carnegie Mellon ?
B: Uh , electrical engineering .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Great .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: I 'm a graduate student at U C F in Florida . University of Central Florida .
B: Oh , wow .
A: And this is actually a an internship up here .
A: But , uh , they , uh , even for interns they , they do the whole random drug or the whole drug testing thing ,
A: so .
B: They test you , uh , before they , before you start or before you even interview
A: Right .
B: or ,
A: Uh , they essentially ,
A: no
A: I sure don't to someone talking to uh ,
A: they essentially , uh , they essentially , uh , made me the offer and then , and then , uh , did the drug testing thing after that .
A: So , uh , it was one of those things where you go through the , the general battery of all their tests
A: and , and then , they essentially give you the offer
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then at that point they 'll , they 'll ask you to go to a drug testing and things like that .
B: Oh .
A: So , uh , there 's some noise on this end .
A: I 'm actually in a mall calling
A: so
B: Oh
A: You probably wondered , huh .
A: But ,
B: Yeah .
B: what happens if you were to fail ?
B: Then do they give you like one one more chance or two more chances ?
A: Yes .
A: That 's a good question .
A: I believe from what I remember of the literature they gave , uh , if you fail I believe they give you one more chance .
A: They probably give you a chance to explain yourself and then maybe give you another chance to go through it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , you know , once again , those things are not that accurate
A: so there 's undoubtedly a proportion of people who do fail , you know .
A: But , uh ,
A: are you working right now anywhere
A: or ,
B: Uh , no .
A: Okay .
B: I 'm just about to finish my Master 's in May and , uh just interviewing with companies right now .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Great .
A: Yeah .
A: That was the first time I 'd ever gotten any kind of drug screening , you know . Was , was going to Honeywell .
A: A friend of mine is also a doctoral student down there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And he 's doing an internship with I B M .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , they , basically , uh , did the same exact thing .
A: Uh , we both got our internships at the same time
A: and we both had to go through drug testing at the same time .
A: So , one of those things where we went through a kind of an identical process .
A: But , uh ,
B: Did , do they test you at , right now , at work too ?
A: No ,
A: no .
A: That 's one thing they don't do is , is drug testing while you 're on the job .
B: Okay .
A: Uh , I think , I think the unwritten rule is , yeah , expect it
A: but they don't do it .
B: Oh
A: You know , so . That 's good I guess .
A: I don't know .
A: I mean , I , uh , I have gone to a couple of parties since , since that time
A: and while I don't do any drugs myself , I 've seen some people who work there , uh , you know , smoking a joint or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , you know , that 's the kind of thing that would definitely come up , you know .
A: But no ,
A: they don't , they don't really do that .
A: So .
B: Wow .
B: Is it formal policy that they said they might test ?
A: Yeah
A: Okay .
A: Uh , first , um , I need to know , uh , how do you feel about , uh , about sending , uh , an elderly , uh , family member to a nursing home ?
B: Well , of course , it 's , you know , it 's one of the last few things in the world you 'd ever want to do , you know . Unless it 's just , you know , really , you know , and , uh , for their , uh , you know , for their own good .
A: Yes .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'd be very very careful and , uh , you know , checking them out .
B: Uh , our ,
B: had place my mother in a nursing home .
B: She had a rather massive stroke about , uh , about uh , eight months ago I guess .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , we were , I was fortunate in that
B: I was personally acquainted with the , uh , people who , uh , ran the nursing home in our little hometown .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I was very comfortable , you know , in doing it when it got to the point that we had to do it .
B: But there 's ,
B: well , I had an occasion for my mother-in-law who had fell and needed to be , you know , could not take care of herself anymore , was confined to a nursing home for a while
B: that was really not a very good experience .
B: Uh , it had to be done in a hurry .
B: I mean , we did n't have , you know , like six months to check all of these places out .
B: And it was really not , not very good , uh , deal .
A: Yeah .
B: We were not really happy with , nursing home that we finally had .
A: Yeah .
B: Fortunately , she only had to stay in a few weeks
B: and she was able to , to return to her apartment again .
B: But it 's really a big , uh , big , uh , decision as to , you know , when to do it .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , is there something else we could have done , you know , in checking out all the places that , uh , might be available .
B: Of course , you know , there 's not one on every corner , especially , you know , smaller areas , smaller towns .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Probably the hardest thing in , in my family , uh , my grandmother , she had to be put in a nursing home
A: and , um , she had used the walker for , for quite some time , probably about six to nine months .
A: And , um , she had a fall
A: and , uh , finally , uh , she had Parkinson 's disease ,
B: Oh .
A: and it got so much that she could not take care of her house .
B: Right .
A: Then she lived in an apartment
A: and , uh , that was even harder actually .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because it was , you know , it was just a change of , change of location
A: and it was very disturbing for her because she had been so used to traveling .
B: Yes .
A: I mean , she she had , she had children all across the United States
B: Uh-huh
A: and , you know , she spent nine months out of the year just visiting her children .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , that was pretty heart-rending for her .
B: I can imagine .
A: I think when she finally came to the realization that , you know , no , I can not , I can not take care of myself .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's tough .
B: That 's tough .
A: Yeah .
A: I mean , for somebody who is , you know , for most of their life has , has , uh , not just merely had a farm but had ten children had a farm , ran everything because her husband was away in the coal mines .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , you know , facing that situation , it 's , it 's quite a dilemma .
B: Yes .
A: I think ,
B: my mother , excuse me .
B: Go ahead .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , my , uh , my , uh ,
A: probably one of the biggest decisions I think that was very strengthening for our family was rather than have one child make that decision than just delegate it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think that they , they had a great deal of , um ,
A: all the brothers and sisters got together
A: and they actually had a conference .
B: That 's great .
A: And , I mean , it was just , it was probably one of the most strengthening things for our family , getting down together and doing that .
B: That 's right .
A: And , and just the children were involved in the decision , because it involved just them . And , you know , making that decision and then finding a place
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: and everybody had duties to perform .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , whether it was just , you know , giving money or whether it was actually taking part in a lot , of the decision making , you know , like finding a proper nursing home .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yep .
B: You were very , fortunate .
A: And they ,
A: I know .
A: They , and , well , they had , well , they had , they had seen it coming .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , so ,
A: I mean , it ,
A: I mean , I , I , I , I I , I truly wish that if something like that were to happen that my children would do something like , that for me .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Absolutely .
B: Unfortunately , a lot of times it , responsibilities like that seem to fall to , you know , maybe one child in the whole family , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , we , we ,
B: And , uh , it 's usually not a very smooth , smooth thing .
A: Yeah .
B: We were , I was lucky too that I only have one brother .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , fortunately , we agreed , you know , on exactly , you know , what we thought should be done .
B: My mother also was very very independent .
B: She had her own , still had her own little house and still driving her own car , at age eighty-three .
A: Yeah .
B: We were lucky in , that in one respect in that after she had her stroke she was n't really , you know , really much aware of what was going on .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That nursing home life would not have been , you know , anything of her choosing ,
B: of course , she would , she would not have been happy there at all .
A: Um .
B: But as it turned out the stroke took care of that concern for us .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , with my , with my grandmother I think it was , it was such that , uh , that she did not have the problem with ,
A: she was very well aware
A: and her daughter came and visited her
B: Uh-huh .
A: at least her daughter , came and visited her and also her several grandchildren , came and visited her every day .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's great .
A: And I think that when she passed away it was probably one of the greatest ,
A: um , I , I , I think it would be ,
A: it was more of a relief for her .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sure .
A: And , um ,
A: I mean , but she was truly , she was truly aware .
A: I mean , I , I , I I don't know how I would , how I would deal if one of my parents came with , with Alzheimer 's . or something like , that which is , which is far more devastating .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That would be tough .
B: Yes .
B: Absolutely .
A: And , um , I , I , I think that what one thing that they were concerned probably was the fact it was n't necessarily , you know , like the quantity of care but the quality of , care .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yes .
A: That the people that worked there were very were very interested that , to make it as close a home environment , as possible .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yes .
B: It would ,
A: I think , I think , I think , you know for myself I , I see that as probably the , the , what everything would hinge upon .
B: Oh ,
A: Is it ,
A: how close is it to a home environment .
B: Yes .
B: That 's right .
A: That 's the , that 's probably the major question .
B: I think that great strides are being made nowadays in , in caring for the elderly , you know , in several , in a , in a whole lot of areas .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Just people are , of course , populations getting older .
A: Yeah .
A: You know it 's , it 's interesting that , that a lot , the population of the United States is changing because , you know , uh , now that so many more minorities , where they have had extended families for such a long time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , matter of fact in the United States we used to have extended families .
B: Uh-huh ,
A: It was n't ,
B: true .
A: But , I guess as we become more industrialized and more , you know , less in a rural situation we , we don't , we , we , we choose not to deal with the , extended family because we feel it 's kind of cumbersome , when in reality it makes things much much easier .
B: Yes , um .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's right .
B: Sure .
B: Absolutely .
B: And , people , things are scattered so much nowadays .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I , I think that perhaps , perhaps the extended family , you know , that it maybe one of the solutions to a lot of things even child care .
B: Yes .
A: You know I mean , of course there , there comes other issues , you know , whether or not any of the grandparents whether we feel like are going to be a good , they 're going to be a good caretaker for our children .
B: Yes ,
A: But ,
B: just because they 're grandparents .
A: I mean they raised us after all .
B: Yeah .
B: Just because they 're grandparents that does n't automatically make them a good child carer .
A: Yeah .
A: But , uh , I , I , I think that , you know , we always , uh , I mean , I 've , I 've had a lot of good experiences with , uh , with many many people especially where they 've had , uh , extended family .
A: And I , and I , I kind of see that , that , you know , perhaps , you know , we may need to like get close to the family environment and and get down to the values of , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , uh , it 's ,
A: money seems to be too big of an issue . With , with , with , with what 's going on today
B: Oh , yeah .
B: sure .
B: realistically it is .
A: and I , I think , I think that we may not , that may be , you know , perhaps if we put money on the back burner that may , that may choose to alleviate a lot of the problem .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That would , certainly help .
A: I mean , I mean we may not , we may not have as high a standard of living
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the but actually have a truer standard of living .
B: Right .
B: That 's just a matter of defining priorities , I guess or some priorities anyway .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I think your right .
A: Okay .
A: Well , I guess that was it
B: Okay .
B: It was good talking to you .
A: Okay .
B: Yeah .
A: All right .
B: Take care .
A: Hey .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Well , the first thing for me is I wonder , I see a couple of different ways of talking about what privacy is , um , if privacy is something that disturbs your private state , I mean an invasion of privacy is something that disturbs your private state ,
A: that 's one thing ,
A: and if privacy is something that comes into your private state and extracts information from it , in other words , finds something out about you that 's another .
A: And the first kind of invasion of , the first type of privacy seemed invaded to me , and very much everyday in this country ,
A: but in the second time , at least overtly , uh , where someone comes in and , uh , finds out information about you that should be private , uh , does not seem , uh , um , obviously , everyday .
B: I , I think I agree with that .
B: I think in a good example on the typical thing that happens , uh , when the phone rang
B: and it 's T I calling ,
B: my immediate reaction is that it 's some sort of strange phone message
B: and then I realize , oh , no , this is something I solicited ,
A: That 's right
B: so my immediate reaction was one of that sense of invasion
B: but after that I realized , no , I , I really wanted this
B: and it was sort of exciting
B: and so , that was almost an example of an invasion that turns out to be not invasive .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: it turned out to be , uh , uh , an invitation .
B: Exactly .
B: Uh , and at the same time I think that I receive on , on the order of , uh , probably , seven or eight a week calls of the nature where one wishes that there were a convenient way to just hang up on it .
A: From , from personal parties or from these , um , phone answer , phone , uh , commercial things .
B: Commercial , solicitations primarily .
A: Oh , that , that 's a remarkable number .
A: I get them rarely
A: and I 'm still astounded that , that one , they let anyone do them and two , that they have any effect in this whatsoever
A: Um , because I 'm usually so insulted by them I just hang up as soon as I recognize what , they are .
B: Yeah .
A: I think they prey on people 's , um , inherent politeness on the phone even with the machine .
A: I find people being kind of polite and waiting for it to finish what it has to say ,
A: and then they feel an obligation to respond even though there 's not even a person there .
B: And I think that 's what makes one feel invaded is the fact that there seems to be little control
B: and you , one 's feeling obligated , because of some sense of , of the way the ritual is played out .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and , uh , that , that then ends up being the , the most common example for me .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I guess I 'm not typically feeling invaded in my privacy relative to this second , this one that you raised .
A: Yeah .
B: And I don't think I would have thought about that .
B: I think that 's a good idea on your part .
B: I don't typically feel intruded on , on the things , uh , the sense of finding out information .
A: Well , presumably those who find out such information , if they are doing it , I would prefer to not to be known ,
A: and , I mean , you know , the classic , oh , I don't know C I A conspiracy theories or whatever , would have such parties trying to do it without your knowledge .
A: So there 's , things that invade that second type of privacy where you do know about them and possibly things that invade that second type of privacy without you knowing about it ,
A: and I ca n't talk about the second one other than to , to , to generate paranoia
A: It 's a surmise
A: and , I 'd like to think that it 's quite low , at least in this country .
B: To , to surmise . It is there .
A: I don't think I 'd like the K G B is monitoring my phone or anything like that .
B: Well , I guess , although , I , well , that 's a good point where you said that how does one define what invasion of privacy is , because , uh , if that 's the case of a tree falling in the forest
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: and I 'm not feeling invaded then maybe my privacy has n't been because I have no sense of my privacy state having been invaded .
A: Uh-huh ,
B: Uh , if your defining it in terms of information gone even if it 's something you don't know about it , well , then I guess one could assume one was invaded
A: uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: but I don't feel invaded by it .
A: Uh-huh ,
B: I don't , have a sense of threat in general from those sorts of things ,
A: uh-huh .
B: I 'm not sure why .
B: Uh , I guess it comes from a sense of fact or facts
B: and if someone finds out something about me that is true , I , I don't have a sense of loss from that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , you must have a relatively clean conscience then
B: Um , the , the other side of that might be if , if someone found out something or surmised something that were n't true then I would feel probably more invaded in the gossipy sort of sense .
A: Yes ,
A: yes ,
A: more harmed or something .
B: right ,
B: because , you don't have anyway to turn it off .
A: Yeah .
B: did you hear about this Lotus data base that was being put together ?
A: Yes ,
A: I did .
A: I was just about to write a letter when I heard they canceled it .
B: That would be an example where my sense of threat would be high because I would find that there be , a good possibly that their facts were , were fantasy .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And then I would feel not only invaded in the sense that someone had obtained information from a , that I would rather they did n't
B: and that might be the sense of the spending pattern , for instance , that , that I would have thought to be private .
A: Uh-huh , uh-huh .
B: But then if it turns out to generate incorrect things , that 's even worse
B: so , or if my call rate of , of eight or so a week went up even higher because uh , someone had , had ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: They had you pegged
B: Right .
B: And the person who had takes unsolicited phones calls and pays money
B: and then all of , a sudden you get your thirty a week because now , they 're advertising you .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: Exactly .
A: Yeah .
A: And , um , one of the problems with the Lotus data base was , um , that it was uncontrolled access to who would have that information .
A: I mean , they said they would give it out to only select companies
A: but , um , you know , just like software is only given out to customers ,
A: I mean , you ca n't believe that .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: It would , it would be pirated
A: and they would n't bother to check that carefully anyway to someone who 's offering , you know , full cash price , for it .
B: Right .
A: I mean , you know , you ca n't tell it , what a company really has to do with it
A: and there 's something rather ominous about having virtually anyone , any hacker being able to know what your income is , what your spending habits are ,
A: and , you know , and , and that hacker just has to get in to , in touch with the sneak thief
A: and suddenly and then what started as an invasion of privacy can be an invasion of your actual home .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And I guess that turns out to be the basic problem with any invasion of privacy is whether or not you 're feeling , threatened as a result of , of it
A: Yeah .
B: so , maybe that is a , a little bit of what privacy is .
A: Yes .
A: Exactly .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I also thought about it , was of , uh , waiting to talk to you that , another thing that occurred to me is there is not so much invasion of my privacy because I know how to behave such that there is n't .
A: But I realized I have to behave in a certain way in order to not have people invade my privacy .
A: If I deviate from social norms of behavior , if I run up and down the street yelling or something , someone 's going to invade my privacy very quickly .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I realize that that , I mean , I can take that for granted
A: but I used to , I used to live in India
A: and things are quite different there in terms of that .
A: There 's less of a sense of privacy .
A: In fact , it 's said that no Indian language has a word for privacy ,
A: certainly the language I know does n't , but just says a word for loneliness .
B: Oh , that 's interesting .
A: Loneliness is the closest you can come , which is really quite different .
B: But , but no concept for wanting to be private .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's , it 's generally being alone is not a very desirable state , at least officially .
B: Okay .
A: Um , so there 's not ,
A: I mean , doors don't have latches on them .
A: People don't tend to knock ,
A: you just ,
A: if there 's a door closed and you open it because it 's in your way
A: you , people walk in out
A: and , as a , as a westerner in India , and I was often surprised , and felt my sense of privacy there was quite invaded .
B: Oh .
B: That , that would be , That would be culturally shocking
A: You know , it very much is .
A: But on the other hand , I realized I could go out on the street and act like a complete lunatic ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and people would leave , me alone .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Whereas in this country where everyone respects the closed doors very much , if you go out and then act like the lunatic you , you violate the , uh , the norms of social , of , um , public behavior .
A: Um , people start paying attention to you very much
A: and they start asking questions and in the sense are invade , invading your privacy although , if you know what the social norms are , you know , quote unquote , you asked for it .
A: But it does mean that you have yet another reason to follow a set of social norms .
B: Yes .
A: And which is n't of , always the case in all cultures ,
A: and it was n't until I was thinking about it just now that I realized that 's actually something that 's culturally relative .
B: that is true .
B: I have n't thought about that
B: and , and that it 's fascinating to , to think a lot of someone who does n't know how to say private .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: And that 's really , um ,
A: well , I mean , I , I wonder how people have sex , and things like that ,
A: I mean , they
A: you go to India
A: and it 's obvious , you know , the results of sex are quite obvious , as the population goes up an extra hundred million every few years .
A: Um , but I , I just don't quite , um ,
A: there 's hope , I actually for
A: of the time I 've spent there , I still don't quite understand how certain things that I assume and require privacy and require not just that you be alone but actually that you have a sense of privacy .
B: Yes .
A: Because anyone can be alone for some period of time
A: but for me a lot of what I do requires a sense that there 's this invisible barrier around me which people will respect .
B: Yes .
A: And if that 's gone , um , I , I really don't know how to live very well ,
A: and I wonder , I really do wonder how people do that .
B: That 's interesting .
B: Are are there any other specific things that , that you feel like , where , where you feel your privacy to be invaded on a day-to-day basis or either on a growing frequency ?
A: All the the other classic examples , the Jehovah 's Witness or , or Mormons or someone knocking at the front door , um , which is more intrusive because I have to really tell someone to go away .
A: And there 's that sense of , I have now opened my door they now see what I look like , what I live like
A: and and they 're doing something that normally I really only invite , people to .
B: Okay .
A: Because I , any , anyone , any friend , anyone I give my number to is welcome to call me ,
A: but no one is just welcome to come by my house .
A: So that is more of a sense of invasion .
B: So , that 's another example of the invasion because of the not so ...
A: Hi Diana .
B: Hi
A: Have you all been able to do much as a family these days ?
B: Pardon me .
A: Have you all been able to do much as , uh , as a full family these days , all of you .
B: Oh , yes ,
B: we 've , uh , been , um , we 've gone other , you know , all kinds of places ,
B: we go out to dinner ,
A: Yeah .
B: we take the kids to the park ,
B: and , uh , you know , whenever we , he , my husband has time off or something , we take them to the zoo ,
B: or we , you know , we do everything we can possibly as a family .
A: Do you work outside the home ?
B: No ,
B: I don't .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't either ,
A: it makes it a little bit easier , I think , that way .
B: Yeah ,
B: it does ,
B: an , an then , uh , you know , my husband enjoys spending time with the kids , you know ,
B: he 'll , he 'll take them out just to be with them .
A: Yeah .
B: So he , they can have time with him an .
A: So you have a break too .
B: Right ,
B: so and we , uh , we try to teach our kids as much as we can at home , you know , we have , we try to spend like Monday nights , we call it family home evening , and , have our kids , uh , you know , have little lessons with them , and , you know , just see , count , see how things are going in our family and , you know , teach them about their grandparents or something like that . Bring out pictures of them so they get to know them
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , we just do all kinds of fun things like that
B: an .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have family that 's far away .
A: It sounds like you might too .
B: Yeah ,
B: we do ,
B: so they , you know , the only way they know their grandparents is by pictures .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh ,
A: Right ,
A: and phone calls that 's about , about it .
B: Yeah ,
B: right
B: and , uh , you know , they , we , you know , we go to the park
B: or we go in the backyard and sit down
B: an ,
A: That 's yeah , that 's what we mostly do , pretty simple things .
B: Yeah .
A: Especially since my youngest one is excuse me , only fourteen months .
B: Right .
A: She , she 's really getting to the age where she 's playing , and likes to go places .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: and with , you know , me being at home and just having the one income , you know , you don't have , this lot of extra money to , to do a lot of , you know , extra things .
A: That 's right .
B: So , you , you make more fun than , you know .
B: You know the kids just think it 's wonderful just maybe to go get an ice cream cone or , yeah , or , uh , you know , go get a bag of M and M 's or something like that ,
A: Oh that 's a big thrill for them .
B: they , they think that 's a lot of fun .
B: So we just , we try to spend as much time as we can .
B: We , you know
B: our , our whole weekends are are devoted to our children except for we might go out , you know , one evening or something ,
A: Yeah .
B: but during the day , you know , it 's all devoted to our kids
B: and they come , go to church with us
B: and so .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: Yeah ,
B: so .
A: Have , um , have you ever been to the Science , it 's called the Science Place ?
B: Yes ,
B: yes ,
B: that 's what .
A: We we have n't lived here too long
A: and we went there a couple of weeks ago
A: and , uh ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: the kids thought that was wonderful .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: we ,
A: I guess there 's Science Place One and Science Place Two .
A: We 've only been in , I think it 's Science Place Two .
B: I , is , I 'm not sure which one we went into ,
B: it was about a year or so ago , when we went .
A: The one we went in had , uh ,
A: the thing that sticks out most in my mind is that , like a kid 's place area .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: That really seem , they really seemed to go wild in there .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: they had a lot of fun in there
B: and , uh , there 's , uh , there 's some petting , you know , like , uh , uh ,
B: I think it 's Owens Country Farms has a free petting , you know , like a farm that you can go to
B: and the kids can pet animals and stuff .
A: Where 's that .
B: That 's on Plano Road ,
B: uh , it 's like in Richardson you go up Plano Road ,
B: it 's like a little bit past Campbell and Plano Road
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And that 's a lot of fun .
A: Oh yeah .
B: They have tours going through there
B: and , uh , the kids think that was a lot of fun , too .
A: Oh , that does sound like fun .
A: It 's a little bit of a ways ,
B: We take , you know , whenever we take them to Showbiz
B: or they think it 's wonderful just to go to McDonald 's , you know ,
B: they don't go for the food
B: they go for the , to play around
B: and , There 's another place in Mesquite called Monkey Business ,
A: That 's right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's a indoor fun park
B: and it has a bunch of different rides for kids .
A: That 's sounds fun too .
B: And parents get in free
B: and it 's like , during the week ,
B: it 's like five dollars admission per child , all day .
A: And , and you said about Plano and Campbell is the petting ,
B: The petting farm ,
B: yeah .
A: That sounds fun
A: I think maybe we 'll try to do that .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: and the one in Mesquite is , uh , Scyene exit .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's , it 's , uh ,
B: the kids just had a wonderful time there ,
B: they , you know , you just pay that admission ,
B: and then all the , the , the rides are free .
B: You know , of course , they have all the little video games and , you know , those little quarter rides , you know , to , and stuff like that
B: but , they thought that was lot of fun .
A: Yeah .
B: You can have birthday parties there
B: an , I think that was better than like Showbiz Pizza cause there 's more for them to do .
A: Because they can just do ,
A: you don't have to have tokens for everything .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
A: Yeah .
B: So they had a lot of fun .
A: That does sound like fun .
A: Well I 've gotten some good ideas from you
B: Yeah .
B: I , we try to do a lot of things as a family and , you know , inexpensively as possible ,
B: so .
A: Definitely .
A: Well , I think , I don't know if we 've done five minutes
A: but I 'm sure that will be good .
B: Yeah ,
B: that will be good ,
B: yeah .
A: It was good talking to you .
B: Well it was good talking to you .
A: I really appreciate your suggestions .
B: Oh , no problem .
B: Well , take care .
A: Okay ,
A: bye-bye ,
B: Bye-bye .
B: Well , um , with credit cards is , me , I , uh , I try to get maybe just one or two ,
B: I don't , I don't like having credit cards for every store .
B: I , I , uh , I just don't like them
A: What are you afraid of with them ?
B: What am I afraid of ?
A: Yes .
B: Um , I don't know if I 'm really afraid of spending too much .
B: I just , uh , don't think that I need them , you know .
B: I ,
B: uh , they are tempting at times ,
B: but I , I just , you know , sometimes I just don't like everybody knowing everything about me , you know ,
B: so ,
A: Well , that 's very , can be very , very true .
B: So , and you know , everybody just gives you a credit card just so you 'll spend money
B: so ,
A: Well , that 's the idea .
A: They figure that , if they give you card , at no charge for a whole year that you will use it
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and ,
B: That 's right .
B: See they make money off of it , whether you use it or not .
A: Absolutely .
A: Well , the other thing , of course , is the fact that they hope , you will not pay your bill at the end of the month , so that you would be paying interest .
B: That 's right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I use mine a great deal , um , for groceries , for everything that I can and , then just write one check at the end of the month , for the entire thing ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's what I do .
A: right .
B: That 's what I do .
B: Just a second . to child in
B: Sorry
A: That 's all right .
A: Sounds like you have a little one there .
B: I have two little ones .
B: Yes .
A: Oh , you have .
B: Yeah .
B: So
A: Great .
A: How old are they ?
B: um , four and two and half .
A: Oh , boy . Those are two very active ages
B: Yes .
B: So , yeah ,
B: um , I 'm , I 'm like you
B: I , I use my , only use my credit card for , um , you know , when I , you know ,
B: I just use it whenever I feel like I don't want to write a check ,
B: and then , but I don't charge anything that I ca n't payoff at the end of the month .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: Well , uh , do you , uh , do you ever use the A T M machines ?
B: No ,
B: I never do .
B: My husband does at work just to get cash out ,
B: but , uh , I take the checkbook
B: so I , you know , I , just , if I need cash , I just tell him
B: and he gets it out
B: and I don't even think I know my number
A: Well , I find it a great use from the standpoint that you don't have to continue to write checks , in order to get cash .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's right .
B: See we , he could n't do without it , but , you know , since he can just do it right there at work , for nothing .
A: Oh , that helps .
A: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: Well the , the other thing some people are not aware of , is they will use their A , their credit card like their Visa or their MasterCard for cash
B: Uh-huh .
A: and when they do that , they begin paying interest right from that very day on .
B: You 're right .
B: And that 's kind of silly .
A: Yeah right .
A: Absolutely .
B: Yeah .
A: Because they , they figure that , that 's correct
B: You 're defeating the purpose .
A: The idea is to use their money
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , during that whole month and , then pay it at the end of the month .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean , I get , I get at least one or two a week . People , you know , sending me a credit card or calling me on the phone and I just say I don't want it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: Because I ,
A: Well , I think that 's the only thing you can do , is just say no and mean no and , not be tempted .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's like , I 'd like to know where they determine that I 'm such a good credit risk that they can go and say , you get this much credit line . You know .
A: Well ,
B: You 've already been preapproved .
A: oh , absolutely ,
A: preapproved .
A: That 's their favorite word .
B: Yes .
B: Everybody in the country is preapproved , I think .
A: I think so , you 're right .
B: So ,
A: Well , it 's interesting , uh , that , uh , people have the , generally the same view . of credit cards , no matter where you go .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: And , then , some people they get so wrapped up in them that they find , you know , one day they find , wow , I did n't realize I had this much , you know , I 'd spent this much money .
A: That much stuff .
A: Right .
B: And , then they ca n't meet the minimum monthly payments on it .
A: Well , and some people use one credit card to pay for another credit card they own ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , I mean , that does nothing , but exacerbate the entire problem .
B: Yeah ,
B: it does because you 're , you know , you , you 're , you know , you 're just costing yourself more money because you , if you ca n't make the monthly , the minimum payment , you 're paying interest , again
A: That 's right .
B: so ,
A: That 's right .
B: Yeah
B: so ,
A: Well it 's been enjoyable talking with you .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's enjoyable talking with , seeing that somebody feels the same way ,
B: so , well ,
A: Right .
A: Well take good care .
A: Take care of your little ones .
B: You , you too .
B: Good luck .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Here goes Sharon .
B: Okay .
A: Well what do you think about Nolan Ryan being the first baseball player to earn a million dollars ?
A: That 's the only thing I found out tonight
B: Oh , you found that out tonight ?
A: Yeah .
B: I have n't even heard that ,
B: that 's great .
B: I think he deserves every penny of it .
A: Yeah .
B: But , there are some others out there that I don't believe deserve the money they 're getting .
A: Well , is n't it funny how baseball 's getting less than like football players would .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Wonder because football ,
B: And they play a lot , they play a lot longer season , too .
A: And a lot more games , right ?
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's exactly right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I think , let 's see ,
B: the teams that were there last year were , see , somebody from California ,
B: I don't even know who won the pennant last year .
A: Beats me .
A: I mean , I know Yankees have won a lot games through the years .
B: Yeah
B: Not lately though
A: We have been talking about this ,
A: I tried to call earlier ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we had made a list of all these , uh , baseball teams and the cities that they were from ,
A: then I started cleaning
A: and I don't even know where I even put that paper
B: Threw it away
A: Yeah .
A: I was just cleaning and throwing ,
B: Oh , gosh .
B: Let 's see .
B: The teams that ,
B: I think the A 's were in it last year .
B: The Oakland A 's , and I think it was , I don't think it was an all California baseball .
A: Well , have you ever played baseball ?
B: I played softball .
A: Well , that 's what I did when I was growing up .
B: Yeah .
A: That was fun .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's fun
B: That 's a whole different sport .
A: Uh-huh . in
B: Yeah ,
B: let 's see ,
B: but I think , I think the Rangers need to go
B: and I think the Pirates will go .
B: And , uh , let 's see ,
B: Rangers have got a new guy this year ,
B: I don't even remember his name either .
A: Do you ever go see the Rangers ?
B: Every once in a while I , I like to go on the nights when there 's not anybody out there , not very many people out there .
B: It 's a lot more fun when your not fighting a crowd .
A: Yeah .
A: I think it 's fun ,
A: I like just looking at the billboards .
B: Yeah .
B: sometimes when I , if you go out there during the day , you just fry under the sun .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's nice at night .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's when I 've been .
B: It is .
A: Well ,
B: And do you know anything about that new stadium ,
B: have you seen all those pictures that they 're going to put out there ?
A: No .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , that huge
B: it 's suppose to be a huge stadium
B: and it 's going to have little shopping centers in it and little like a lake or something running through it .
B: And , uh , they 're going to try to make it a real community center out there .
A: And your going to be able to buy your ,
A: what was , no , wait about the liquor ?
B: That 's , that 's in , uh , Texas stadium where the football players , play
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: so you ,
B: and they 're never going to let liquor in there .
A: Well , they 're trying .
B: I know ,
B: but they try every year
B: and every year they get thrown out .
B: It 's so stupid because they let you take it in there ,
B: but they don't , they don't allow you to sell it , don't allow them to sell it there .
A: Uh-huh
B: But , uh , that new stadium 's going to be real nice ,
B: and I heard that there 's , uh , that you can bid on that stadium
B: last night on the news I heard that they said you could , you could bid on the stadium to have it named after you ,
B: so .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: right .
B: And it 's going to go to the highest bidder
A: Oh Well , that 's the way to do it .
B: Yeah ,
B: so that could be your , you know , fifteen minutes of fame .
A: You hear that ?
A: That 's my kids turning on their music .
B: Oh .
A: to child in the Holly turn it down .
A: I think it 's the Bart man , the Simpsons
B: Oh , God I stay away from them .
A: I wish I could
B: I bet you do .
A: Well , where are you ?
B: In Plano .
A: Okay ,
A: I 'm in Garland .
B: Oh , you are ?
A: Yeah ,
A: my my husband teaches in Plano .
B: Oh , what 's he teach ?
A: C V A E .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So , what do you do ?
A: I teach ,
A: but I teach for Dallas .
B: Oh , you do ?
A: For right now .
A: I 'm trying to get out .
B: Is that a tough system to be in ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Real hard ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I would think it ,
A: I mean it 's good because they , they try new things , you know ,
A: but it 's like , they 'll try something
A: and then they throw it out , and get something else , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: and you get tired of that .
B: That 's typical bureaucracy though .
B: That 's , that 's , I think it 's going to be any where you go
B: it 's just worse in the bigger cities than it is in the smaller ones ,
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know ,
B: sometimes the smaller ones are just as bad .
A: Well , but they ca n't be though ,
A: they don't have as much money .
B: Yeah ,
A: Most of the time .
B: but the politics , the politics gets worse in the small towns sometimes .
A: Oh man , in Dallas you don't even know who 's in , in administration ,
A: there 's so many of them
B: You don't even know who to payoff , huh ?
A: I mean , somebody walks in the , a classroom
A: and you don't know what they 're there for , you know , when they 're coming , how long they 're going to be ,
B: Yeah ,
B: oh , how funny .
A: you know , it 's just there they are
A: and they 're writing the whole time
B: No communication whatsoever .
A: No .
A: I had them walk out of my class and not say their name anything ,
A: and I finally just got to where I go , okay , I 'm Debbie Moore , you know , may I ask who you are and what you are in my classroom for , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: Because , you know , you never know where they are going what they 'll report
A: or ,
B: I know .
A: and they 'll tell you they 've written something down ,
A: and you hope they 're telling you the truth .
B: And you never see it .
A: No
A: huh-uh .
B: That 's got to be frustrating .
A: Oh , it is .
B: How long you taught , taught in Dallas schools ?
A: Uh , this is my eleventh year .
B: Ugh , that 's about , uh , ten too many .
A: No ,
A: actually it 's ,
A: now my job 's good , much better than a lot , because I 'm Chapter One ,
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: and all I do is teach reading all day long ,
B: Oh .
A: and it 's just ten children at a time .
B: Oh , well , that 's not bad .
A: No .
A: It 's good ,
A: and you 've got a lot of federal money , too .
B: But has n't it changed a lot over the years ?
A: Teaching ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , yes .
B: Or working in the system .
A: Yes ,
A: when I first started teaching , I remember I went to my
A: and I said , okay , I want to see a curriculum guide , you know ,
A: so I 'll know what I 'm suppose to teach
A: and they go , we don't have one .
A: We don't even know where one is .
B: Oh , God
A: And so I go , okay , I mean , you just , you did what you wanted to do ,
B: How funny .
A: and now they tell you what to teach and how long and , you know , what day , what period .
B: Yeah ,
B: you don't know which is , you don't know , which is worse .
A: Yeah .
A: No ,
A: I know which is worse .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess so .
B: Yeah ,
B: being told what to do is worse .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , how long are we suppose to talk for ?
A: Well , you can talk for ten minutes
A: but you don't have to .
B: Oh , you can ?
A: Yeah ,
A: and no ,
A: if you talk to ten then they come on and say , oh , you 've extended your limit ,
A: and please say good-bye within the next five seconds .
B: Oh , I have n't ever talked that long .
A: Well , you know , I had n't either till last night , I was talking to this retired administrator from Cleveland , Ohio ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we started talking about gangs , you know .
B: He lives in Cleveland ?
A: Yeah .
B: Wow .
A: And , everybody else that I 've talked to has been right around here .
B: Yeah .
A: But , she was real interesting .
B: Huh .
A: And then tonight this woman called ,
A: have you taken any incoming calls ?
B: yours is my second one .
A: Okay .
A: So hers was the first one I got , gotten
A: and , uh , and she was telling me all her problems , you know ,
A: and it went over ten minutes .
B: Did she , did she , did you all not talk about the topic at all ?
A: Well , yeah ,
A: we did ,
A: but the topic was boring I thought .
B: Oh .
A: What would you serve , uh , if you were having a dinner party ?
B: Oh , gosh , all the other ,
B: the one I talked about the other night was good ,
B: it was , um , about movies , you know , what have you seen at the movies lately and stuff like that .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: I could go on and on about that .
B: Me , too , because we go all the time ,
B: the guy I was talking to never goes ,
B: he was , boy it sounds like your really up on this .
B: I said , I see at least two a week
A: Ugh , neat .
B: So , that was real good to talk about that .
B: Have you seen like , uh , SILENCE OF THE LAMBS ?
A: No .
B: You 've got to go see that .
A: The last one I saw was DANCES OF THE , WITH THE WOLVES , WOLVES .
B: Yeah ,
B: we talked about that one too .
B: And he , he said he did n't think it should have gotten all those awards , he thought it was too long
B: but I ,
A: Oh , I enjoyed it .
B: I did , too .
A: I mean , it was just more for my money .
B: Yeah .
B: I did n't think it was too long at all .
B: Uh , he said after about the first hour he started looking at his watch .
A: Huh .
B: The other one you need to go see is SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , how old are your kids ?
A: One is eight
A: and one is eleven .
B: You probably don't want to take them to see SILENCE OF THE LAMBS .
B: It 's , it 's not , it 's not too cool for kids .
A: They usually pick their own .
B: I bet they do .
A: You know , they 've got it all figured out .
B: Yeah ,
B: they want to see all the horror movies .
A: Well , and Ninja Turtles .
B: Yeah ,
B: Ninja Turtles , got to have those .
A: But most of the time really we watch them on the video .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: you
B: that 's ,
A: don't you ?
A: Just massive rental .
B: well heck , that 's a lot cheaper then , uh , taking them out to the show .
A: Going to ,
A: I know .
B: Especially if you get them for a couple of nights you don't have to watch them all in one one time .
A: That 's what we do , especially when it 's bad weather , man , just , plug it in .
B: Yeah .
B: Of course , you have to get there early if you want to get anything , decent .
A: I know in
A: It 's good when you go to Tom Thumb though
A: and they 're cheap
A: and nobody has got them yet .
B: That 's true .
A: Unbelievable
B: That 's true .
B: We saw , um , HEROES HAVE ALWAYS BEEN COWBOYS , tonight .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It was okay ,
B: it was kind of slow ,
B: and I felt like it kind of got chopped off at the end , you know .
B: It just , it ,
B: I don't know ,
B: it one of those movies it 's not going to be around long ,
B: it will be a dollar movie in no time .
A: Do you read ?
B: Not very much ,
B: no .
A: No ?
B: I don't have the patience to read
A: See I do that to make myself go to sleep at night .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , my Mom and Dad read all the time .
A: You saw FIELD OF DREAMS , right , a long time ago ?
B: Yeah ,
B: sure did .
A: Well , I was reading the book ,
A: and it 's called SHOELESS JOE .
B: Oh , really ?
A: It was so wonderful .
A: And then I was , um , I decided , well , I like this author ,
A: so I got a , uh , book of his short stories ,
A: and that 's been real good .
B: Who is the , is the author ?
A: don't , don't ask me
B: Oh
A: The GHOST OF SHOELESS JOE was the name of the book .
B: Shoeless Joe .
B: Was it like the movie ?
A: Yes ,
B: Okay .
A: quite a , quite a bit .
A: But , you know , in the movie the guy was black ,
B: Right .
A: he was n't in the book ,
B: Huh .
A: that 's one difference .
A: There really was n't a lot of difference .
B: I did n't ,
B: see I never even heard that there was a book tied in with that movie .
B: That 's interesting .
B: That was a good movie , too .
A: Well , do you think we covered baseball ?
B: I think so
A: Okay ,
A: well , have a good night .
A: Okay .
B: So , who 's your , uh , favorite team ?
A: Who do you think ?
A: The Dallas Cowboys .
B: The Dallas Cowgirls , huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , they did have a fairly decent year finally this year .
A: Uh-huh .
B: At least they 're coming around .
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're going to get better .
A: I mean , you know .
B: Well I mean , you know , I think , uh , once Jimmy Johnson gets his system established , uh , they 'll do all right .
A: Yeah .
A: As long as Troy Aikman does n't get hurt again .
A: That kind of killed them at the end of the season last year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I don't , I don't even know who your favorite team is , actually .
B: I 'm a Viking fan .
A: Okay .
A: I think I did know that , I just forgot .
A: Okay .
B: And they have n't been doing too hot ,
B: so .
A: Yeah .
A: Has Herschel Walker done much for them ?
B: No ,
B: in fact , in fact the Cowboys got the best end of that deal .
A: Definitely .
A: Well , he was a good player . I guess ,
A: well I don't know ,
A: he just never ,
A: I don't know ,
A: for a while there ,
B: I 've never been over impressed with him .
A: Well , he could always get past , you know , he 'd get past like six or seven tackles and just keep spinning around and get on into the end zone .
A: But , um , I guess you never could really see him play , because with the Cowboys , while he was with the team , the rest of the team was pretty poor
A: so you could n't really tell if it was just him or the team
A: and I always just assumed that he was too good for the rest of the team .
A: But , I don't know .
B: Well , who 's the running ,
B: is it Sammy Smith ,
B: or is it , Emmett Smith .
A: Emmett Smith ,
A: yeah .
B: Emmett Smith .
A: he 's been doing real good .
A: I 'm pretty impressed with him so far .
B: Yeah .
A: Did he , did he actually play in the Pro Bowl .
A: I remember he was like a backup
A: and then somebody got injured
A: and he was supposed to go .
B: I 'm not sure .
A: Yeah ,
A: I kind of , I have n't been keeping up with football , I mean , in the fall
A: I , I can go on and on about football ,
A: but since it 's kind of off season , it 's kind of hard to think back about all that .
A: But , uh ,
B: Who else is , uh , oh
B: there 's , you know , Mike ,
B: Minnesota Vikings , used to be the general manager starting the World Football League .
A: Yeah .
B: So , and and he was trying to keep , uh , uh ,
B: I ca n't even think of the guy 's name , either , the coach of the Vikings .
A: Um , I have no idea .
B: Jerry Burns .
A: No earthly idea .
B: he was going to keep him as the coach somehow ,
B: but , uh , I don't know ,
B: I 'd like to see the Vikings get revamped somehow .
A: How did they end up this year ?
A: Did they , did they make it to the play-offs at all ?
B: Well , they started out really bad ,
B: they went like one and six ,
B: and then they won five or six in a row .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So they were in a shot to make the play-offs
B: and they screwed up the last couple of games .
A: Kind of like the cowboys , huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess you can ,
A: Except I think the Cowboys are on the upswing
A: I don't know about the Vikings
B: Yeah .
A: Just had n't heard much about them lately .
B: And the Cardinals were kind of like the
B: in fact they were doing better than the Cowboys ,
B: and the Cowboy , Cowboys came on strong at the end of the season ,
B: and the Cardinals got killed by the Cowboys ,
B: so .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , the Cardinals , I don't know .
A: I think the Cowboys probably have a , a better team .
A: They just ,
A: at the end of the season , the kind of got messed up with Aikman getting hurt , because , uh , Laufenberg just could n't ever really get it together at all .
A: Of course , he sat along the sidelines all season ,
A: he never really got in a game , never did a whole lot .
B: Oh , don't made any excuses for him
A: Well , I 'm just saying I should n't , I should n't blast him like that , say , oh well , Laufenberg got out there and blew it for them ,
A: I mean , he did n't get to see much action . But , too bad .
A: Because now , now , you know , he had a shot and , and did n't look too good
A: and so , no one 's going to have much faith in him any more .
B: Uh-huh .
A: In fact , I think they 're getting a different guy for a backup quarterback .
A: I have n't , uh , I have n't kept up with it lately ,
A: but I remember reading something a few months ago about them signing somebody else on , or , or trying to go after somebody or trade for somebody ,
A: but it was n't anybody I 'd really heard of .
A: But I heard on the radio this morning , or yesterday morning , that , uh , Aikman 's back in practicing , doing real , real well .
A: Um , who is it , Michael Irvin
B: Uh-huh .
A: he said that , uh , Aikman was hitting him right on the numbers every time .
A: So , sounds like he 's going to be all right for next season .
A: They 're just trying not to overwork him right now , until he gets his shoulder , uh , back in
A: it was his shoulder , was n't it , that he had the problems with ?
B: I don't know
B: Yeah
B: I think it was .
A: I think it , I think it was his shoulder he had surgery on .
A: But anyway , they 're trying to keep him , you know , keep him , uh , from reinjuring anything , but anyway
B: But , uh , well I got my thirty day notice yesterday .
A: Thirty day notice for what ?
B: Um , I 'm done , where I work .
A: Oh , really .
B: So , anyway , I guess we ca n't talk much more about that ,
B: but I just thought I 'd throw that in there
A: What .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: maybe I 'll call you back after , after the recording is finished .
A: Actually I think we have talked about football for five minutes .
A: I ca n't remember .
B: Oh ,
B: I 've always ran out of time ever since I 've done this .
A: Really .
A: I usually have , too .
B: They always say you 've talked your ten minute limit .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've done that once or twice .
A: I did n't look at the clock when we started talking ,
A: so I guess we should talk about football a little bit longer just to be sure we got five minutes in .
B: Make sure we get our cash flow .
A: Yeah .
A: So other than the Vikings , who do you like ?
B: Um , actually , when I was younger , I was a Cardinal fan , too .
A: Uh , oh .
B: Remember Jim Hart ?
B: Jim Hart was playing .
B: Terry Metcalf was on the Cardinals .
B: This was a long time ago .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , I don't know who else I 've ever .
B: That 's about it ,
B: I was always a Viking fan .
B: I think I was into the Cardinals for a little bit
B: and ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Back when they were in Saint Louis ?
B: Yes ,
B: oh , of course .
A: Since they 've been to Phoenix they have n't been , uh , all that impressive , I guess .
A: I guess I 've always been a Cowboy fan .
A: Other than that , I mean , you know , when I 've , you know , when you grow up in a city that has the , you know , one of the greatest football teams until the last few years , you kind of tend to get caught up in it .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , the Cowboys were America 's football team ,
A: Yeah .
B: there 's no question about that ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean it , it was really exciting , growing up when , when the Cowboys were really big .
A: Because my parents would always have season tickets ,
A: and they 'd go to all the games ,
A: and you know , the hype were just unbelievable .
A: It 's just , you know , the last , oh
A: I guess probably since about eighty-four , about eighty-five was when they started kind of going downhill really ,
A: but , you know , I 'm just used to always growing up and hearing Cowboys , Cowboys , Cowboys , and , you know , Super Bowl , and all this other stuff .
A: So , I ca n't , you know ,
A: I 'm not going to decide I don't like them just because they 're having a few bad years .
A: I mean , I think they 'll pull out of it ,
A: and , you know , they 'll , they 'll wind up being good again .
A: They 've got some , lot of really good young players that are going to , that are going to , uh , do pretty good , I think .
A: But , they 're raising prices on their tickets .
A: So they 're banking on doing good next season .
A: I think tickets are ,
B: Again .
A: Yeah .
B: What are they going up to , thirty bucks or something ?
A: Thirty , or thirty-two for really good tickets .
A: See , they , they sectioned it out even more .
A: They used to just have like , uh ,
A: first of all it was all one price .
A: And then they sectioned it out to end zone and then everything else .
A: And now they 're sectioning it off to like from the , from one twenty yard line to the other one ,
A: just on the lower levels is the highest price ,
A: and then the next highest price is that same area but above it on the upper level ,
A: and then like from the twenty to the ten yard line .
A: And then they 're some sections kind of in the corner areas ,
A: and then the cheapest of course is going to be the end , the direct end zones .
A: But , um , they have about four or five different prices now ,
A: that they 're structuring it with ,
A: but obviously yeah , they 're all going up , more or less is what it 's going to do .
B: So now the tickets even got lower than the lowest one last year .
A: Um , you know , I 'm not sure ,
A: I 'm not positive ,
A: I did n't , I did n't really think about that .
A: I just remember trying to figure out where you could get
A: that was real close to the good section but in the little bit cheaper .
A: But , not that I 'll ever go .
A: I had n't been to a Cowboys game ,
A: time , last time I went to the Cowboys game was during that , um , N F L strike , or the , when they had the scab team , teams in there ,
A: and it was the , uh , Dallas and Washington Redskins game .
A: And I went because my dad can usually get a hold of some free tickets , because a lot of those doctors have season tickets ,
A: and they , um , if they 're not going to use them they 'll give them to somebody else .
A: So my dad , I went with my dad to a game that one time .
A: But that was n't a real , you know ,
A: it was , it was the scab teams ,
A: it was kind of , you know , it was kind of different , I guess .
A: And before that it 's been quite a few years .
A: I 've been wanting to go to a game ,
A: I just never , never have gotten around to it .
A: So maybe this year .
B: That 's interesting ,
B: I almost lost our electricity here .
A: Oh .
A: Okay .
A: Um , what do you do this weekend ?
B: Well , uh , pretty much spent most of my time either in the yard or at nurseries buying stuff for the yard .
A: Huh . Which is ,
A: what do you plan , have planned for your yard ?
B: Well , uh , we just bought our house , uh , last July ,
B: and it 's , it , it , the house is forty years old
B: so there 's , there 's an established lawn and whatnot , flower beds , things like that ,
B: but they 've , uh , they 've gone a few years of neglect .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , we 're in the process of , uh , revitalizing the whole situation .
B: We 've got , um , different flower beds in front and , uh , a window box , a built in window box , um , trying to get some color back in those , get the trees trimmed up , uh , get rid of a few weed problems and things like that .
A: Huh .
B: So ,
A: What part of the state do you live in ?
B: Uh , I live in Dallas .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Okay .
A: My wife and I , we live in Dallas too ,
A: so .
B: Okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: just what that area ,
A: we 're planning on moving to Flower Mound ,
A: and we 're going to be getting some wheel
A: we 're going to have to do a lot of lawn and garden work there .
B: Yeah .
A: Seems like it .
A: Uh , the place we 've been living at , it 's , uh , we 're , we 're just leasing it .
A: The , in Plano , and the soil has so much , has such a high clay content , that , uh , uh , I went to use my dad-in-law 's tiller and it about for my arms off , sockets
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 'll bet .
B: I 'll bet .
A: I mean just , just scratching two or three inches was just a chore .
A: It was , it was
A: and then when it gets wet , you know , you don't even want to get out in the yard ,
B: Right .
A: it 's horrible .
B: Right .
A: It 's a nightmare .
A: But , um , I don't know what , what
A: um , where you live is there a real high , uh , alkaline or ash content
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's pretty high
B: actually it 's done , uh ,
B: it 's in the north end of Oak Cliff in , uh , Kessler Park area ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: and , uh , we 've got about ,
A: I know right where that 's at .
B: yeah ,
B: we 've , we 've got maybe eight to eight inches to a foot of soil ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then it 's solid rock from then on down ,
B: so .
A: Really .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , uh , a little aggravating ,
B: we ca n't , we ca n't put in anything too big , um , as far as , uh , shrubs and things like that because they 've got to get a chance to find the , find the cracks in the rock .
A: Golly .
B: But , uh ,
A: Is it , is it limestone under , underneath ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
B: It 's , it 's solid limestone .
A: How do you put trees in there ?
B: Uh , you just , we 're just happy that there 's trees already there so far ,
A: Huh .
B: um , anything like that is , is a , uh , major undertaking I guess , uh ,
B: sprinkler systems or anything , uh , start to get real expensive because there 's an awful lot of work that has to be done chopping through the rock .
B: But , uh ,
B: and it , you know , not even , consider , considering a pool or anything like that , that 's , that 's , practically has to be blasted in I guess .
A: Oh .
B: But , uh ,
B: and it makes , it makes for a , a different challenge ,
B: I 've never ,
B: well , I , I moved to Dallas about five years ago ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , I never really , messed with anything , uh , gardening or anything like that until now ,
B: but , uh , I , I keep hearing all the stories of , of different parts of town .
B: In fact , uh , we even , we were at the farmers market yesterday and bought a few tomato plants and things like that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the first thing the , the old guy there at the stand asked is what part of town we lived in because he said , uh , I 've got , I 've got a dozen different varieties
B: and each one works in one part of town
B: and that 's it ,
B: That 's basically what he was trying to tell us .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: we , we tried planting tomatoes last year
A: and it , they , they turned out pretty poor .
B: Yeah .
A: I just , I I just wish I 'd known the , the variety and everything .
B: Yeah
B: it ,
A: But it , it 's amazing we also have roses ,
A: and , I mean , they just grow so beautifully .
B: Yeah ,
B: that
B: in fact , we put in some , uh , some more roses yesterday .
A: Like what , um , what type roses ?
B: Uh , different , uh , a few different , uh , hybrid tea type varieties .
A: Oh , hybrid teas .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: we , we have a few , uh , of the real short stem .
A: They 're they 're kind of like the bush roses .
B: Okay .
A: But , uh , I don't know I think it 's , I think it only has about five or six more years to go because it 's a , it 's a really old bush ,
B: Yeah .
A: and but I , I , I 'm amazed because the sun is so intense ,
A: and the roses just seem to survive just fine there .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , we , that 's what we 're searching , uh ,
B: we 've got , we 've got all the different lake editions around the house
B: and we 're , we 're kind of experimenting right now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We do , we 've got the direct sun in front
B: and the backyard has two great big , uh , spruce and , and an oak tree all about forty to fifty foot tall
B: so the backyard is just complete dark all day long .
A: Huh .
B: And , uh , we 're we 're struggling to find something for those areas .
A: Yeah .
A: Have you , have you , uh , done , um , done a lot of tree surgeon work on your trees or not ?
B: No ,
B: they 're , they 're in pretty good condition .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , we 've been , we 've been pretty lucky on that .
A: Yeah ,
A: just if you want a lot of , you know , light for underneath , that may be the , all right because we had , because we have some , we have some old fruit trees .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We have a plum that 's just about ready to go ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so we may just be getting rid of that
A: but , but our peaches they , they seem to be doing just fine ,
A: but they , they really need pruning .
B: Yeah .
A: It just seems like they , that , that even , you know , pruning once a year is really not enough
A: but the , the way they behave .
B: That 's true .
B: That 's true .
A: I don't know .
A: But , uh , but , uh , what kind of , uh , what kind of , what kind of grass are you growing ?
B: It 's , uh , bermuda .
A: Bermuda .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , I 've , I 've been trying , uh , uh , a mixture of , uh , the bermuda and the rye ,
B: Okay .
A: but I may be working like a fescue in because of , you know , the type of weather .
A: It seems that , uh , bermuda 's , bermuda 's fine
A: but , um , it looks like it would hold the soil
A: but it really does n't .
B: Right .
A: A lot of , a lot silt that comes in it just does n't seem to hold it very well .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , but the rye does really well . Especially during the wintertime .
B: Okay .
A: But , uh , but , boy , once it gets over seventy , seventy-five degrees that , it just dries up , shrivels up and dies .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But anyway .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , uh ,
B: there 's such a , there 's such a difference , through the year . Uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: My , my parents-in-law they 're , they 're building a house into the side of a hill , um ,
A: well , it 's already been built and everything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 've been living there for about three months now ,
A: but , uh , this is out in west Texas ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the , the wind there , has been so bad that , I mean , they 've tried to plant grass
A: and they just , have some problems , big time problems
B: that 's it .
A: they just , so they just washing , uh , watching their lawn just blow away .
B: Yeah .
A: But it 's , it 's quite an undertaking .
A: They have about two or three acres of land on lake front property , on a , on the side of a hill .
B: Oh , wow .
A: It 's beautiful ,
A: I mean , you can see the house from , you know , miles away ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but it 's , you know , it 's a pretty neat little job
A: but , they save a lot of , they save a lot of energy
B: Yeah .
A: but just , uh , you know , for them , I mean , they , they 're going to have to start gardening .
A: It 's going to be from the ground up .
B: Yeah .
A: The whole way .
B: Yeah .
A: And they said , well , we just plan on spending the rest of our lives just , getting this property developed .
A: It 's amazing ,
A: I mean , they have , have the , all they have are uh , mesquite and cottonwoods ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , it 's , it 's all on Lake Greenbelt , that property out there .
B: Okay .
A: And , uh , I don't know , that what they have ,
A: they have all the water they want ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: they can , they can actually , they can pump water ,
A: I mean , they have to get permission
A: but they can pump water up from the shore ,
B: Okay .
A: but , uh , that 's for like an additional ,
A: they have to pay like some kind of fee per year .
B: Oh , okay .
A: But , uh , they 're , uh , right now though I think they 're just , they 're trying to get the trees planted and everything .
B: Sure .
A: But , man , I , I just think of all of the money that they , that they 're going to have to spend just getting that .
A: But the taxes alone there , Lake Greenbelt
A: and some places , they , they , they really nail them for tax .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , I mean , your talking what , just several hundred dollars a year in property taxes .
B: Wow .
A: It 's , it 's ridiculous .
B: That really is ,
B: it , it would ,
B: it seem like it be just the opposite when you get ,
A: Yeah .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: it 's not it 's ,
A: because even though it 's far out there , it 's just that Lake Greenbelt , you know , they have to , they , they try to do it just from the , selling the water .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , um , the water usage , you know , they try to limit , even though there 's three or four streams that flow into it , people still use it enough in , like in towns like Clarendon and other areas that , where they irrigate .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They they , they still have n't gotten used to the dry land farming
A: but , the irrigation because it 's gotten so bad the past few years ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true that ,
A: but I don't know
A: I just came back from there
A: and just the air is so dry .
A: I don't see how anything can survive out there , for long periods of time .
A: Should say
A: my father-in-law says the mesquite trees are , they 're , they 're pretty smart ,
A: they 're smart ,
A: they 're about the smartest tree around .
A: They don't , they don't even start growing until May , May or April , like after it 's been raining for a few months .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: That 's true .
A: They say the roots have developed
A: so that 's all they work on .
A: Just a leafy ,
A: they don't do anything .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's something I 've been , uh , been looking around and noticed all the flowering trees and stuff are , at this time of the year
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , you know , we 're trying to decide what , what to , what to put on one side of the house and things like that ,
B: but there 's so many things that they , they last for just a couple of weeks
B: and then it , then it 's just a , a bush there from then on .
B: It 's kind of , it 's kind of disappointing .
A: I , I don't know
A: my , my wife and I , we planted on the , on the south side of our , of our house we planted some gardenias .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they did real fine during the summertime
A: it 's just ,
A: but during the fall when it stopped , when , uh , the rain let off just a little bit it , I mean , it just dried up .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , so I guess , it , these plants they just , they don't ,
A: it 's like they remain ...
A: Well , how , how do you feel about the immigration laws ?
B: At ,
B: currently , I think they are a little restrictive . Uh , particularly for , uh , certain ethnic groups or from certain countries .
B: Um , I think we should permit , uh , more immigration from eastern Europe , for example , uh , particularly the , uh , the Jewish , uh , uh , people from Russia .
B: I think we could permit more of them in than we have permitted in the last , uh , several years .
B: And , I think we have , uh , uh , too much restriction on the , uh , on the Orientals also ,
B: but , of course , that 's just my opinion
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I 'm not real sure why I got this topic , because I don't think I checked it off on the list because I know very little about the current immigration laws .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , we seem to , uh , to favor certain , uh , uh , countries particularly South American countries .
B: And , uh , there is no , uh , uh ,
B: I have nothing , of course , against , uh , the , uh , the South Americans or , uh , or Hispanics , in that sense ,
B: but I think we , uh , are more restrictive of the , uh , so called eastern , uh , European countries than we , uh , we should be .
B: Of course , that 's from my own bias since my ancestors from eastern Europe ,
B: so
A: Oh .
B: And , uh , so I think , uh , you know , the , uh , embargo we placed on the , uh , on the Russian Jews , although we of , uh , spent years and years , uh , lobbying for their release and their ability to , um , immigrate from Russia as soon as that occurred , we simply said that , uh , instead of the , uh , hundred and fifty thousand or so who wanted to immigrate to this country , we cut that by , uh , two thirds .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So .
A: Huh .
B: I do not quite go along with that ,
B: but
A: No ,
A: that does n't make a whole of lot sense .
B: No .
B: And I still think ,
B: you know , again , kind of having , uh , uh , within this century , come from a , uh , an immigrant family , or immigrant families on both sides .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Both my mother 's parents and my father 's parents were immigrants
B: so , I 'm a little touchy every now and then about that
A: Yeah .
A: Well , uh , my , uh , my family is from , uh , Europe from , well , from England and Ireland and , uh , have been in this country for , oh , more than a hundred and fifty years almost two hundred years ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , my
A: so , I don't have any , any , uh , relatives that I am , or , or , uh , several generations back , that I am familiar with their names and how they fit into the family .
A: They were all , they were all born here
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I don't have any real strong ties with any , with , with the immigration laws .
A: I don't , because I don't , I don't have any personal feelings about them
A: and I have n't taken the time or effort to learn what they are .
B: Well , I think in a way , though , uh , uh , I also have , uh , an opposite point of view , which is , uh , although I believe we should , uh , permit , uh , you know , constant immigration into this country uh , I think we should , uh , primarily for economic reasons , I think we should have , um , some quotas ,
A: Um .
B: of course , my family and I ,
B: again , again that was , you know ,
B: my grandparents came over during the time when , uh , there were quotas .
B: So they had to wait , uh , you know , in , uh , certain parts of Europe for years before they were permitted to come over .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , you know ,
B: but , uh I think unrestricted immigration , I think , is not , uh , is not best , uh .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I , Well , I agree with that ,
A: I , I think if immigration was entirely unrestricted , uh , not only would , would the United States become over populated , well , more over populated awfully quickly , I think it , it would bring in a lot of , uh , people that are , run out of other countries or in trouble in , in other countries .
A: I think they 'd come here trying to find a new market for their , their brand of crime .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , you know , there 's another aspect of this , too .
B: They 're also , uh , uh , diminishing the , uh , health restrictions which ,
A: I was not aware , aware of that .
B: Well , yes .
B: There are , were some , uh , regulations over ,
B: I don't know whether they 're laws passed or , or whatever they 're called , uh , just recently , where , uh , people with certain diseases can not be excluded , uh , from , uh , immigration .
B: Age is one , for example ,
B: and , uh , recently , uh , tuberculosis , which at one time , if you had tuberculosis you could not get into this country uh , they dropped that also .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I think in , in some some ways we are , uh , becoming a little too egalitarian in that , in that sense ,
B: but , uh , I think we should be a little more circumspect about it .
B: Again , my opinion
A: Yeah .
B: Think we 've talked long enough ?
A: I think so
B: All right .
A: Well , I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: I , I , I have talked long enough .
A: Okay
A: Thanks .
B: Thank you .
A: Bye .
B: Good-bye .
A: Hi ,
A: how are you today ?
B: I 'm great
A: Good .
A: Well as a matter of fact I 'm , before we started this conversation I was working on my P C at home .
B: Yeah .
A: Do you have one ?
B: No ,
B: I don't have one at home .
B: I work with one on , at work continually , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I do not have one of my own at home .
A: Do you have ,
B: What do you have , at home ?
A: We have an , um ,
A: actually it 's a T I computer ,
A: but it is the I B M um , clone .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's not the T I P C from back when .
B: Right .
B: From the oldies but the goodies .
A: Right .
B: It 's probably pretty close to what I have , because I have the same kind of thing at work .
B: I have a three eighty-six S X which is T I computer ,
B: but everything in , is in I B M mode .
B: So .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what we have . Um .
B: Do you use it a lot at home ?
A: Well , I really do .
A: I , um , am an accountant
A: and , but I work at home .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So you 're on it a lot .
A: So I use it for that quite often .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We have , you know , used some of it for some personal things .
A: We keep track of personal budgets and things like that on it .
A: I ,
A: since it 's tax season , I 'm doing a lot of taxes ,
A: so I do a lot of , um , a lot of that work on it as well .
B: I was amazed when I took our taxes to our tax person
B: and she works out of her home also .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the , uh , software that does the taxes is just incredible .
A: Oh it is .
B: You know , I mean , she just , you know ,
B: I expected to go and , you know , drop the stuff off and go back two weeks later .
B: And , you know , she had it done and out in twenty minutes on her little P C .
A: Yeah ,
A: you can .
B: It was great .
A: Yes ,
A: you can ,
A: that 's right .
B: That 's wonderful .
B: I have often thought that , that having one at home would be neat .
B: I just don't know if we would really use it that much . You know .
A: We really ,
A: we we did n't decide to get one until I started working at home .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Then , you know , then , we thought , well we can use it for , you know , some personal things .
A: We
A: for us it really took , you know , a business application to justify the expense of it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , definitely ,
B: definitely .
B: I know my stepfather bought my mother a little personal computer , oh , I guess , probably three years ago for Christmas ,
B: and , you know , it 's got some stuff on it .
B: It 's got a nice little word processing software on it , you know , and some budgeting type things and stuff .
B: And I don't think she 's ever touched it you know .
A: Really .
B: It just , it just seems like a lot of trouble for something at home .
B: You know , she always seems to have better things to do than to try to sit down and figure out how to use her computer you know .
B: So .
A: Right .
A: She could just as easily do those things by hand .
B: Yeah ,
B: just as quickly .
A: Yeah .
B: Now I know my boss has bought the software , um , that he can , that his checkbook is on , on on a disk ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he goes in and and types his checks on the screen and then hits print ,
B: and they print out on the checks ,
B: and he 's ordered envelopes with the windows in the right places you know ,
A: Oh my gosh .
B: and he just whips , out , you know ,
B: I saw him yesterday morning over there ,
B: and , and he paid his monthly bills ,
B: and he just , you know , wrote all the checks on the screen and hit print
B: and it printed out like ten checks ,
B: and he just , you know ,
B: they 're perforated ,
B: and he just ripped them off .
B: They go through just a continuous thing on the printer
A: Right .
B: and he ripped them off and stuck them in the envelopes
B: and there they went .
B: You know , and he said , you know , I can balance my checkbook in seconds , you know because it 's all in the computer , you know .
A: Right .
B: So .
A: And you know there 's not going to be those adding mistakes that we all make .
B: That 's exactly why .
B: He said , you know , he said , used to be I always sat looking for those , you know .
B: He said this way there is n't any .
B: You know , it does it for you .
B: So . This , you know ,
B: there are some definitely , some , some advantages to it .
B: It 's just a matter of , like you say , are the advantages , does it justify the cost , if you 're using it strictly for personal business .
B: So .
A: Right
A: I , I think in most cases I 'd have to say no .
A: Not unless somebody really enjoys it . Or perhaps is using it for education .
B: Right .
A: I have a four year old son ,
A: and we have some education programs that he likes .
A: A little Sesame Street one
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
A: and we have another one that plays music ,
A: and he really likes that one .
B: As he grows up he 'll be even more and more too .
A: That 's right .
B: That 'll be great .
A: And yeah ,
A: on ,
A: now I think about it ,
A: I guess for , for kids like , as they get older ,
A: especially now when they get to junior high school , high school , and even college .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , my sister went to college , started about three years ago ,
A: and she had to have a , a computer .
B: Really .
A: I mean , it was like a necessity .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I .
A: She could n't imagine going through college without a computer .
B: Well I 'm going through right now .
B: I 'm , you know , going part time in the evenings ,
B: and , you know , I do ,
B: yeah ,
B: everything has to be typed .
B: I mean , they require it .
B: You have to type it you know ,
A: Right .
B: and , and so I 'm up here , you know , nights and weekends you know , working on the little on the P C up here , you know , typing stuff .
B: So I can see where it would be a great advantage to have one at home , you know , if you were going to school .
A: Yeah ,
A: any more I don't even know if they have , if a college kid would have a typewriter
B: Well , you ,
B: I don't know .
A: Probably not even ,
A: no .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: and they probably used to have it .
B: I just finished a , a major research paper a couple of weeks ago ,
B: and I could n't imagine not having that thing on a disk where I could go back in and move stuff around and change it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I don't know what they used to do before they ,
A: Well , unfortunately in our family , my husband and I went through college together
A: and then he went on and got his Master 's degree while I was working .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I 'm the better typist , of us ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we just had a regular old typewriter , not even a correcting one back then .
B: Oh and you had to type all of his papers .
A: It was n't that long ago ,
A: but I typed his Master 's papers and things on a typewriter .
B: Oh gosh ,
A: Oh boy , to have a computer back then .
B: Oh , cut your time in half at least .
A: At least .
B: At least .
A: I mean ,
A: and then of course you have some changes to make , and do the whole thing over .
A: You take out a sentence ,
A: on a computer you take it out , bleep , print it out , fine .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Take out a sentence on a piece of paper ,
B: You do the whole thing over .
A: Right .
B: That 's right .
B: You know , I remember when I was working in high school , you know , I was working in an office , right after I got out of high school
B: I continued working there for probably another year .
B: And we did everything on a typewriter everything .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: But it 's amazing , you know ,
B: then , when , where , you know , someone would have you type a letter , they did it right , they did it right .
B: I mean , they were ,
A: The first time .
B: Yeah ,
B: they sit there
B: and they go , is this really what I want to say ,
B: and you typed it
B: and that was it ,
B: and now , you know people just send it back over and over and over and over .
A: That 's probably one of the problems and frustrations that it 's brought about , because people do feel like , Oh well , we can just change it .
B: Well , we 'll try this out and see what it looks like .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: use it as a , just a ,
B: Yeah ,
B: instead of knowing what they want to say before they they just , you know , play with it , and , which in a way is nice to be able to do ,
A: Right .
B: but , you know , it , it gets a little out of hand sometimes .
B: I 've seen it get out of hand up here , you know where we 've got a secretary that sits over here that 's keeping metrics right now , and keeping up , you know , of all the letters I type , how many how many of them do I make changes on . And on each letter , what types of changes .
A: Oh yeah .
B: Are they typos ?
B: Are they because I could n't read it
B: or people just change a , like , one word because they think it sounds better , or whatever .
B: And , you know , she 's also keeping a percentage , you know , what percentage of letters am I retyping for whatever reason .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And there 's like one week , she did retypes on ninety percent of what she typed you know ,
A: I believe it .
B: and it 's like , you know , it 's ridiculous
B: and that was , that was the high week ,
B: but it 's running about seventy which is still ridiculous to have to make changes to seventy percent of everything that she types .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , it 's good that she does that , I mean , bring it to people 's attention .
B: Well , that 's exactly right .
B: You know , she keeps , you know keeps several weeks ' worth of data and then in addition is keeping copies of all the changes to show , you know , look , this did n't really need to be changed .
B: You know , this is ridiculous and you know , changing , add this time to now .
B: You know , I mean , that 's the kind of things , you know , that she 's keeping and showing , that , this was a big waste of time , it was a waste of paper , it was a waste , you know to change something like that .
A: Right ,
B: So . Anyway , maybe , you know , maybe it 'll , it 'll help in some way ,
B: but I don't know .
B: There , there definitely even with the few disadvantages like that are far better than the alternative .
A: Oh I have to ,
B: Without a doubt .
B: Without a doubt .
B: Well , I would like to get one at home some day .
B: We 've got a two year old son ,
B: and so , you know , some day I would like to get , even just like the video tell , or something like that , you know , just to , to be able to pull in sources from outside would be wonderful .
B: You know so ,
A: Especially when they 're in school , I think they would get a lot out of it .
B: Oh , I do too ,
B: I do too .
B: The on line encyclopedia just sounds wonderful ,
B: you know , that sounds like such a great idea ,
B: you know , it 'd be kind of fun to be able to play with it .
B: So . I know , my father had a P C ,
B: and when we were in high school it was always fun .
B: We could , um , link in ,
B: and I don't even remember now what it was called .
B: But you could link in and talk to other talk to people all over the country , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , like , you have your own little code name , you know ,
B: and you 'd type in du du du , Hi how are you , du du du ,
B: and they 'd type back and everybody ,
B: and you 'd have five or six or seven people talking to each other at the same time ,
B: and everything everybody said prints out on your screen as they 're typing it ,
B: and it was just great fun , you know ,
B: It was very expensive , because the whole time you were on there you were on long distance , you know .
B: It was like a long distance phone call .
A: Ooh .
B: So , we were each limited to like twenty minutes a day , you know ,
B: so .
A: Ooh ,
A: that still could add up .
B: Oh it added up big .
B: Well , you know , we , my parents were divorced
B: and so the time we were like visiting our father in the summer time , you know ,
B: so he felt like he could splurge and let us do it .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm sure we would not have been allowed to do that under normal situations , you know .
B: But when you 're doing the guilty father complex , you know , because he 's not there to watch us grow , you can kind of get all kinds of stuff .
B: That 's sad .
B: Well , it was nice to talk to you .
A: Yeah ,
A: you too .
B: Have a ,
A: Have a nice day .
B: You too .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
B: Okay .
B: Well ,
A: First of all , I want to tell you I have two little kids ,
A: but they 're not in public school yet .
A: I , I get , I get that experience starting next fall with kindergarten .
B: Ah .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So you have n't really , uh , dealt with that in a sense .
A: No .
A: But , uh , being one of these late in life mothers , I 've listened to everybody else 's , you know , complaints as to what 's the matter with either their kids or the school system .
B: Yeah .
A: So I 've been surprised .
B: Yeah .
A: Do , are , do you have school age kids
B: Uh , mine are both out of school .
A: Oh .
B: And , uh , you know , I , I 've , in hindsight , seen some things that I wished that , you know , I had done something about that was , you know , within my power or , uh , you know , wish that in some ways we , as parents , had more control over what 's happening up there , you know , type thing .
A: Such as ?
B: Uh , well , just over the years there were situations that , uh , uh , came up that I did n't think were fair or handled correctly
B: or the teachers did n't seem to be teaching anything .
B: Of course , it 's a little hard to tell from the information that you get from your child , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They , they bring things home
B: and I was never one to believe everything my kids said , you know , about something .
B: But , uh , still I , I questioned the ability of some of the teachers to , uh , really do a bang-up job ,
B: and yet others I know are just wonderful .
A: Well , I heard a , a frightening thing .
A: Actually , I did n't hear it .
A: It was told to me or suggested to me , uh , that to work as a teacher in the public school systems in the state of Texas ,
A: and I think it 's similar in , in many other states , if you have a degree in a technical field you do not need a teaching certificate because there is such a shortage of , uh , people to teach math and sciences .
B: Huh .
A: And somebody said , well , you know , you could go in and , and substitute teach at seventy-five dollars a day
A: and there 's always going to be , you know , somebody having a need for a math or science teacher .
A: I thought , Christ , they 're letting me in , to , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: this would be , this would be frightening .
A: I don't know anything about it .
B: That 's pretty interesting because just , just because you know a subject matter does n't mean you can teach it .
A: Right
A: Right .
A: And even if I knew how to teach the subject matter , I don't know if I 'd know how to handle that kind of a , a group of kids .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: In fact , I think that 's , that 's one of the big problems today is the , the way the kids behave or act and , and the way they are sometimes disinterested in what 's going on in the class and disruptive .
A: I tell you what I 'm finding frightening
A: and this comes from , you know , the , the aging hippie near forty mother .
A: So I went through this period of supposedly , you know , cosmic social enlightenment .
A: I 'm on , I 'm in the Plano school system and living in Richardson ,
A: and there is a real dichotomy in terms of educational and economic background of the kids that are going to be attending this school .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I used to think , well , that 's wonderful .
A: You know , they can get a real life experience .
A: What I 'm seeing now , uh , in terms of kindergarten preparedness , just from , in , in , in different preschools it 's like day and night .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I wonder , how do they handle a child who is obviously very ready and another child who does n't even speak English , let alone know her colors .
B: Yeah .
A: And they 're in the same classrooms .
A: And I guess also you 're going to see the first of the , uh , crack kids starting kindergarten .
A: My God , I think it would be next year is what I 'd read .
A: I thought , well , how do you , how do you weed those out ?
B: Yes .
B: Some of those certainly have a lot of difficulties , you know , with , uh , all sorts of things ,
B: and I would imagine their learning disabilities are quite large in some cases .
A: When I was listening to N P R , the National Public Radio ,
A: and they 've quoted statistics that I just about , my throat just about fell into my toes .
A: They said at the bottom of the S A T scores of graduating college seniors are usually those people that go into education .
B: Oh , wow
A: Yes .
B: That 's encouraging .
A: Yes .
A: And I , and I , I got to thinking back when I was teaching college chemistry , the people that took , you know , the lower level courses , I sometimes wondered , you know , are they really even educatable or trainable
A: and it ,
A: my God , you know ,
A: are the rest of us who went for the big bucks , you know , staying out of , you know , where maybe we should be kind of socially obligated to spend some time teaching or something with these kids ?
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know
B: Well , that 's , you know , that 's an idea .
B: Maybe there need to be some radical changes made .
B: Do some things that are totally different and unheard of .
A: Well , you know , you , you sit here
A: and you think about that .
A: At the same time you think , God , I hope I don't sound like a stage mother because , right now if you ask my friends put twenty mothers in a room and ask them how many have gifted children , you 're going to have twenty hands , you know , up there .
B: Oh , you 're kidding .
A: Oh , no .
A: Nobody has , nobody has a nongifted child .
A: And I keep thinking , you know , gifted is , is Einstein or , you know , uh , musical prodigies .
A: It 's , it 's not a kid who 's , you know , precocious .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , what has , you know , has , has the educational system been watered down to that anybody who 's above average is now gifted ?
B: Huh .
A: I don't know .
B: That 's interesting .
B: I don't know .
B: Mine did n't , did not fall into the gifted category
A: Oh , don't say that .
B: Nope .
B: And I would never had said so either .
B: Uh , but , uh , they managed to get through , although not always with flying colors .
B: Uh , in fact , one of the incidents I was thinking of that my son had . Uh , he was struggling with senior English
B: and I had a meeting with the , uh , vice principal and the English instructor ,
B: and , uh , she showed me a paper that he had just handed in .
B: And she told me what she had requested .
B: And I read it
B: and while it had , you know , a few little grammatical problems , it was n't very long and so forth .
B: I thought it had some nice , well thought out , uh , parts to it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She gave him an F on that paper .
B: And I thought , well now , here you have a student who is trying to pass , who is struggling with your subject
B: and you give them an F on something that does n't seem that bad to me .
B: What are you telling that student ?
B: You 're telling them that , hey , you might as well forget it , you know .
A: Well , you see , I think that , that harks right back to the elementary and junior high years .
A: Because I have a stepson now who 's twenty-five
A: and , uh , I was just absolutely shocked , uh , the first time that I saw his schoolwork .
A: Uh , I remember being , you know , taught ,
A: and I think , you know , you have to teach how to write an answer and , you know , how to construct a thought process .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , you know , they can get a , they can grasp the points .
A: Can they convey the data verbally or in writing .
A: And that 's what 's , you know , really scary to me .
A: Uh , I would really , you know ,
A: there 's such a , a push among young mothers these days to make sure their child is computer literate .
A: I would really think that they should be stressing more can the kid write a thought and at an early age .
A: And if they ca n't , I mean if they have missed that training , then somebody , you know , before you 're , you 're start penalizing them with bad grades for not being able to communicate what they 're thinking , teach them these basic skills .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's pretty sad to think , uh , about those who , even today , are graduating from school
B: and they are telling that they don't know how to read , you know .
A: Well , my stepson , you know , I , he went into the Navy or Air Force .
A: I just really get my military ,
A: I married into a military family ,
A: and I don't know ,
A: I address them all as generals
A: so I don't offend anybody .
A: But , uh , you know , fortunately for him , he was n't dumb
A: but boy he sure had trouble , you know , putting things on , on paper .
B: Yeah .
A: And one of the things that , that they did for him . They tested him
A: and they said that he 's , you know , great in electronics
A: but he , you know , he 's , really does need the basic skills .
A: And they put him through six months of composition writing in addition to all his electronic training .
A: And at that point , he has now graduated from warfare electronics school with honors .
B: Oh .
A: This is the kid who , who really , you know , barely made it through high school .
B: Yeah .
A: And I keep thinking , you know , it 's not , it 's really not too late at any point to do , you know ,
B: That 's interesting that the military saw that and did something about it .
A: Yes .
B: You would have expected them to be the last ones to
A: Yes .
A: And I kind of have always pooh-poohed military educations .
A: But I think that for this kid , it 's going to be , you know , his lifesaver .
A: Otherwise , he might have been driving trucks or framing houses , you know , from here to eternity .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I don't know .
A: You know , it does make me nervous .
B: Well , I can see why if you 've got little ones just coming along .
B: There 's a , a whole lot of stuff going on out there .
A: There is a whole lot of stuff going on out there
A: and , and part of me says I just would like to , you know , shut my eyes and pretend it does n't , you know , go on Or send them to private schools
A: And then the , you know , the old social conscience says , you know , I 'm not working , I don't need to work .
A: Maybe I should volunteer to , you know , teach what I know .
B: Yeah .
A: Maybe adult literacy . Maybe , you know , composition writing . Maybe , you know , uh , volunteering , you know , on a tutor line or though the , even through the elementary schools for help with homework
A: or , the other part of me says , is God , I 've had enough kids
A: Do I
A: What type of lawn and garden work do you do ?
B: Well , I do it all
A: I see .
A: Do you have a garden ?
B: Uh , yes .
B: I , I try to grow , uh , uh , a vegetable garden
B: and ,
A: We do the same thing .
A: It 's , I just have a small plot it 's like ten feet by five feet .
B: Yeah .
B: I have two plots ,
B: one 's ten by ten
B: and one 's like fifteen by four .
A: I see .
B: It 's a long skinny one
B: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: you do a lot more area than I do .
A: I 've ,
A: all the rest of my yard , backyard is , uh , you know , pool and decking
A: it 's all the dirt I have , left in my backyard
B: Oh , I see .
B: Yeah .
B: I see .
A: Well , I I enjoy fiddling around .
A: It 's cheap entertainment .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's nice to get out in the open air .
A: It is ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And especially when the weather 's not too hot or , not raining or whatever ,
A: That 's right .
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , sometimes I , I said , I sometimes I wish I had more space you know .
A: I enjoy ,
A: Excuse me , go ahead .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I grow a lot of things , a lot of food .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And sometimes I , I want to plant something , there 's not enough room to plant . Some of those things like , uh , you know , the things that vine like , uh , cucumbers , or , uh , squash or something , like that . Plant one of those
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Takes a lot of room .
B: and it takes up your whole space
A: It sure does .
A: I made mistake one year and planted some cantaloupe ,
A: my goodness , what a mistake that was .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: They , they just run all over , the place , don't they ,
A: They do .
A: Well , it was very good
A: it just takes up , you know , like you say , a lot of your garden area .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: It 's the first and only time I 've done that .
A: We don't do anything exotic
A: we just do , oh , tomatoes , bell peppers , radishes and turnips , I mean , not turnips , carrots , beets and things like that .
B: The basics .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's what we do too .
A: My wife used to plant a few snow peas .
A: I don't really care for snow peas .
A: Well , she just plants a few for herself .
B: Right .
B: Peas
A: Yeah .
B: I , I got a few peas out my garden a couple of days ago .
A: Did you really ?
B: The first one , they started them indoors this time .
B: I read it ,
A: Oh , I see .
B: And so I ,
A: Okay .
A: We don't start anything indoors
A: we , just wait until , you know , the weather warm enough to stick it in the ground .
B: Yeah .
B: I , uh , I guess you can get an earlier harvest by doing that ,
A: Probably so .
A: Yeah ,
A: you can get a head start on it . like ice in
B: But , uh , sure is a heck of a lot of work .
A: I guess it , it , might would ,
B: Because you got to , watch them every day , and keep them watered
A: yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I , I don't think I 'll do it again
A: Well it will make , it will make them taste better I 'm sure .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I enjoy it .
B: I come home from work
B: and , and I usually say hello to wife and kids , and then go out and fiddle , you know , just walk around the yard and inspect it
A: Sure .
A: You got to inspect it ,
A: yeah .
B: and the kids want to swing ,
A: Sure .
B: and I push them on swing .
A: Sure .
B: And I I mow my own lawn .
A: Yeah .
B: And I do , I don't have a sprinkler system .
B: I , I don't enjoy watering .
A: No .
B: Especially ,
A: I ,
A: this is the first home we 've lived in we 've had a sprinkler system ,
B: Oh how ,
A: and boy , it is really nice ,
B: Oh .
A: it sure beats dragging hoses around .
B: Yeah ,
B: you can have it come on just early in the morning . And , and off by the , you know , by the time you 're up and about .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
A: It 's really nice .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I usually get it started for my wife
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I , and she moves it around ever other day .
A: I 'll have to admit I don't , I do my own yard .
A: I , I really don't enjoy doing that .
A: I enjoy having a nice looking yard ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I just don't enjoy the work , that it takes to get it done .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I had a lawn service to do my yard for me during the real hot summer months , you know , until I retired
B: Uh-huh .
A: and now I , I 've lost my excuse for that so I have to
A: for the last couple of years I 've done it myself .
B: Yeah .
B: Sometimes I wish I could get one of these , uh , chemical services to come , out and spray for weeds , and fertilize , and all that and take that one step out of .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , they want too much money .
A: It is kind of expensive ,
A: it is .
B: Yeah .
A: Of course , the chemicals themselves when you buy them , they 're expensive too .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: But it 's still be quite a bit cheaper to do it yourself .
A: That 's right .
A: If I have a problem discipline , you know , I think ,
A: now , boy , I really need to get out , you know , and apply something , you know ,
A: and I screw around and don't do it or wait too long or something .
B: Right
B: and the weed come up ,
A: That 's right .
B: and all of a sudden you 've got to do something else .
A: That 's right .
A: I 'm , I 'm kind of bad about that .
B: Yeah .
A: I enjoyed having a lawn service
A: but now I have the time
A: and I really ca n't , I really you know , don't , want to spend the money for it .
B: Well , if you , enjoy it too , you know , you , you can get out in the morning when , before it gets hot and , and do it and stuff , when you only have to ,
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right .
A: I 'm not limited to , just mowing it on Saturday morning , you know ,
B: Right .
A: I can do it on most any day of the week .
B: When the days start getting a little longer , you know , you can , I can start doing it in the evening after work .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
B: When they , when they switch to , switch ,
A: Yeah .
B: when we get an hour more ,
A: Yeah .
B: when they rollback an hour .
A: That 's coming up here pretty soon .
A: Is it this weekend ?
B: I don't know .
A: It 's pretty soon .
B: I really don't know .
B: It just seems like I here it on the news the day before .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I , I think it 's coming up here soon .
A: I believe it is too .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Well ,
B: Are you having any trouble with bugs in , in your garden ?
A: Uh , not a whole lot , uh .
A: I , I don't use , I , I seldom use anything harsher than seven dust , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't really like to put a lot chemicals on it
A: but then , again , I don't want the bugs eating it upping either .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: I , I ,
B: it seems like they come in spurts .
A: Uh-huh .
B: One year I did n't put anything on
B: and I did n't have any problems .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Next year I was planting some broccoli and , and some of those , they 're called cabbage , cabbage loppers , or whatever .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They were just covered with them ,
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , I went up ,
B: I did n't go out there for about three days , you know , because I , and I went out there one day and the plant was nothing left but a stem ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
B: they devoured it that quickly .
A: Absolutely .
A: They really go through it ,
B: And , they , they , have a , you , a good appetite
A: they really do .
A: Yeah .
B: And they would , you know ,
B: I , I picked off like twenty of them
B: and ,
A: You know cutworms will do the same thing to your tomato vines too .
B: yeah .
A: Boy , they 'll strip ,
B: They got that , uh , what is that safer soap , uh , B T spray this , year .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 've been watching them every day
B: and I 've , and I have n't seen any signs yet .
B: So , if I see any signs I 'm going to spray them ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh ,
A: I did something a little bit different this year that I have n't done before ,
A: I 've got ,
A: my garden is shaped that I can ,
A: it 's kind like this , uh , box shape ,
A: so I got four pieces of two by twelve and joined them together and just made a box . And put in a whole bunch like eight hundred pounds of topsoil and manure
B: Right .
A: and , you know , various other things , Raised it up .
B: Well , the good stuff .
B: Right .
A: And I 'm hoping especially with those big tall sides on there it that maybe I wo n't have , oh , I 'll have less of a bug problem
A: at least they , they 'll have a hard time crawling up the thing .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: my backyard is , uh , is sloping
B: so I built a box up , you know had to build the one , the low side up .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I had sandy loam hauled in .
B: I had a dump truck come and dump it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: On my driveway , I guess , that 's what they do
B: and then , I had to wheel barrow it in .
A: Yeah ,
A: Right .
B: But , uh , you know , you can improve your own soil there
A: Uh-huh .
B: but the Texas soil is n't the greatest , gardening soil .
A: That 's right ,
A: you , you have to work on .
A: You , really do .
B: Right .
B: And you know , if I , I did n't wait five years for it to be good enough grow
B: you know what I mean
A: That 's right .
A: When we had our pool done I had them to leave some extra loam , you know , for my garden
A: so I had , I had a lot of loam out there to start with
A: I just turned it all up and mixed it all up together with ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Do you have , do you have a rotor tiller ?
A: No .
A: I don't ,
A: I did it by hand ,
B: Small enough ,
B: you have a ,
B: just do it by hand ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: It was n't too much of a job , really .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Like I say it 's just ,
B: Yeah .
B: I 'd like to get one of these little small ones , that you see in all these gardening magazines .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It would be handy .
B: And it weighs twenty pounds or , something like that .
A: Yeah .
B: My neighbor across the street has one .
B: He always uses it to dethatch his lawn ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I see him out there ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I guess it has a thatcher attachment to it .
A: It might be handy ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: They 're pretty neat little ,
A: I 've never seen one .
B: I have a friend who has one
B: and , and he lets me , you know , no problem borrowing if it 's , just a hassle when you know , to go up
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: and it 's a fairly large one to , heave it up into the back of the van , bring it home and , check it back and just grab it , you know , if I , just go to my garage and grab it .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: That would be neat ,
A: sure .
B: That would be nice .
A: We 've had a garden , gosh , for years and years and years , of some size , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I ca n't remember a year when we did n't have one of some kind .
B: What have you got growing right now ?
A: Uh , got ,
A: you know tomatoes that are starting to bloom
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I 've got carrots , I yes , I 've got a few carrots up
A: and I 've got some radishes up ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and as a matter of fact , I 've already done a second row of radishes .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , the green onions are coming along .
B: Okay ,
A: Snow ,
B: what kind ,
A: excuse me .
B: what kind of onions do you grow ?
B: Do you grow those , those ten , fifteen Y ?
A: Yes ,
A: I 've
A: for the first time we planted them this year .
B: Oh , they , they are the best .
A: Yeah .
A: We tried to find them last year ,
A: we screwed around and waited too long
A: and I could n't find a nursery that had any of them left .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But we 've got some this year .
B: Uh , those ,
A: Snow peas are up
A: and , uh , my wife does , uh , a small herb garden on the side .
B: I see .
A: They 're up and doing fine .
B: Yeah .
B: I , uh ,
B: those onions , I think , we , we planted like twice as much this year because , you know , we got , onions
B: and they lasted from , you know , about when you harvest them about a month from now or so , or six weeks , from now , until , until like October ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , we really missed them when they were gone , because the ones from the grocery store just ca n't , compare .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's kind of a , let down .
B: She made these onion rings that were so good ,
A: Oh , I bet ,
B: and , and , and , uh , you don't realize how many dishes you put onions in , that it 's an ingredient ,
A: they were .
A: That 's right .
A: We use a lot ,
A: we sure do .
B: and , and it was just like everything you put it into tasted so much better .
A: Yeah .
A: One nice thing with onions and , and bell peppers at least you can chop them and freeze them if you have , you know , too many .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: We froze a lot of peppers .
B: We let some turn red .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: We did that too ,
B: And some we do green
B: and then my wife puts them on pizzas . And , and chops them up in recipes and things like that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Sure .
A: Makes , uh , makes a colorful salad too .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Put them in salad ,
B: yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You 're , you 're making me hungry here .
A: We planted some yellow peppers this year .
A: We 've tried it , before
B: Oh .
A: and nope ,
A: we have n't had much luck with it we 're going to try it again this year .
B: Yellow peppers , huh .
A: They have some little buds on them hopefully they 'll do something .
B: Yeah .
B: Sounds like you have a real good garden .
A: Yeah .
A: We enjoy fooling around with it .
B: Just let me see what I got ,
B: I got the peas
B: and I 've got some broccoli , uh , onions some , some radishes and , uh , uh , beets .
A: Beets .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 've got some beets ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Uh , and I planted potatoes too .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 've never done potato .
A: We used to do it at home when I was a kid , had a huge garden .
B: Oh , the potato ,
B: They were , they 're delicious
B: but they ,
B: you don't get , seem to get that much for the space ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they , they do .
A: It takes a , yeah , it does take some space .
B: Some beet , uh , potatoes
A: Yeah .
B: and I 've got some tomatoes still growing , in , in containers ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: I see .
B: I got to wait for a place to , to , to free up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , our , our kids love pickles
B: and we all love pickles
B: so we 're going to try to grow our own pickles this year .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That will be neat ,
A: yeah .
B: We 've got some good , um , um , Hybrid Burpee uh uh , pickler cucumbers
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we 're going to try to see if we can pickle our own
A: That will be neat ,
A: yeah .
A: Absolutely ,
A: they 're expensive .
B: I know it .
B: I said , why are they so expensive they 're just a bunch of little cucumbers , you know ?
A: I don't know unless it , labor intensive or something .
A: I really , don't know .
B: I guess .
B: But we 're going to try that , and see how that works .
A: That will be interesting .
B: An experiment .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'd like to try , you know , just try something new , every year that , I have n't tried before
A: Sure .
A: Yeah .
B: and ,
A: That 's interesting .
B: Well .
A: Well , I 'll let you go it 's ,
A: All right .
B: Okay ,
B: are you on an exercise program now
B: or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I exercise pretty regularly .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I lift weights quite a bit .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I run occasionally .
A: Let 's see what else do I do . Play golf some ,
A: and I work out on a , on a hanging bag .
A: I 'm brown belt in karate ,
A: so I keep up with that a little bit .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: How about you .
B: Um , the only exercise program I 'm doing right now is walking .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've got a nine month old ,
B: and I 'm four months pregnant with my second ,
B: and so , at the time , walking seems to be the best .
B: It 's something I can do with her , plus , um , does n't tax me too physically .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I have enjoyed aerobics in the past ,
B: and I enjoy that because I like the group association , you know , like exercising with other people .
A: Yeah .
B: And , um , and that 's my favorite way to exercise .
A: Well , that 's neat .
A: Yeah ,
A: I do walk some too .
A: My wife 's about five months along
B: Oh .
A: so she 's been walking quite a bit ,
A: so that is a good exercise for that .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's nice to do it together , too , I guess .
A: Uh-huh .
B: My husband and I use to walk together ,
B: but our schedules don't coincide as well as they used to ,
B: and so , we very seldom get together to walk
B: but , when you , when you work out , do you pretty much do it on your own schedule ,
B: or do you go to groups
B: or ,
A: I , I do it on my own schedule .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We used to try and belong to clubs or the Y , stuff like that ,
A: but it was so difficult to go on a regular basis , to drive the distance you have to go .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Save the fees ,
A: we 've , uh , just save the fees and buy some of our own equipment .
A: So ,
B: And then you can do it whenever you want I guess .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've got a weight bench ,
A: and we got my wife an exercise bike ,
A: and I use that sometimes too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's a little more convenient ,
A: but , you 're , I guess you 're not as dedicated if you don't drive over to do it .
B: I guess it depends on the person , depends on how motivated you are .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because my husband used to work out three days a week with , uh , at the Texas Instruments gym .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then I would just go on Saturdays .
B: But , since the first of the year neither one of us have been going .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I guess , like I say , we 've been paying these fees and not going ,
B: so it 's kind of a waste of money if you don't take advantage of it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think you really have to be disciplined .
B: Yeah .
A: I , uh , I try to work out at least a couple of times a week ,
A: and I think you really have to , at least twice a week , just to maintain the shape that you 're in .
B: Yeah .
B: With the walking , I think they said you need to walk at least twelve miles a week for it to be aerobically beneficial .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we , I have two friends , that we walk .
B: They have babies that are about the same ages as , as mine ,
B: and we 've been walking every morning at , going
B: when it was cold we would go to the mall because you ca n't take the babies out very easily .
A: Yeah .
B: So we , when we go , we have about , do about fifteen miles a week ,
B: but the last little while , for one reason or another , we have n't been real consistent .
B: So it 's a little harder when you 're depending on other people to do it with you because you have to meet their schedules as well ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but but I enjoy doing it more when I 've got other people with me .
A: Sure .
B: You know , I usually do it because I want to , because I know it 's good for me , not because , I don't feel obligated to do it .
B: I enjoy it .
B: If I feel too obligated to do it ,
B: I start to rebel ,
B: and I wo n't be as consistent with it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I understand .
A: Did you exercise between your first child and your second ?
B: I exercised pretty well up until I found , uh , until I was pregnant ,
B: and I started having pains .
B: So I 've calmed down everything except , I was working out doing aerobic exercises as well as the , um , walking ,
A: Yeah .
B: And I had to stop the aerobics because it was just kind of painful .
B: But the T I rec center has an aerobics program for , for , um , prenatal and postnatal aerobic type thing .
A: Um .
B: And I was going to wait until , um , about my sixth month and then start that .
B: I did that with the second baby ,
B: and , um , I went to my exercise class one day ,
B: and then she was delivered the next day .
A: Gosh .
B: So , it would seem to be real beneficial .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
A: Maybe it , maybe it speeded up the process and all that .
B: Well I think it made parts of it a lot easier .
B: And , and is this your first that you 're having ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: well , then I don't know how much you 've been through it ,
B: but I think parts of it made a lot easier .
B: And , I 've talked to a lot of ladies that exercise with one pregnancy and did n't with the other ,
B: and they said that they had that the one they had exercised with was three or four times easier .
A: Really .
B: And we 've , I had ,
B: having both of them natural , the first one was natural and going natural the second ,
B: and , and it 's , it 's rough
B: but it 's not as bad as I thought it would be ,
B: and I think the exercise helped .
A: Well , that 's good .
B: So , do you work with T I ?
A: No ,
A: I don't .
A: My , my wife has been working with them .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: well then she could go if she were interested .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think , that 's what the class that meets on Saturday mornings .
B: So she could find out if she wanted to go .
B: It 's kind of fun because with the first pregnancy all the other ladies except one were on their first pregnancy ,
B: and they would talk about exercise and just general things relating to the birthing process .
B: And so for us it was educational as well as exercise beneficial .
B: So ,
A: At least its something you enjoy .
A: I know a lot of people that talk about exercise and say , Well , I don't want to exercise , it 's too much work .
A: But there 's a lot of different things you can do that are enjoyable that you don't have to strain yourself or sweat or be real sore afterwards .
B: That 's right .
B: Yeah .
B: And sometimes if you get a little soreness you feel like , Well I 've done a good job because I got , worked myself to that point .
B: But I guess that you don't want to overdo .
B: But well have we reached our limit ?
B: I 'm not sure how long we 've been talking
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I think we 've talked about six minutes or so .
B: Okay ,
B: well it 's been good talking to you .
A: Been good talking to you as well .
B: Okay ,
B: I hope your baby goes well comes out well .
A: Thanks .
A: Yours too .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: well what do you think ?
B: Well , I 'm kind of leaning towards , I don't know , I 'm thinking about what , from one to ten what my no would be .
B: It would probably be somewhere closer to , uh , less control because I don't see ,
B: I 'm not a member of the N R A although my , father is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , I guess I believe , I think the N R A has gone overboard the wrong way . You know ,
A: Yeah .
B: they 're sitting there on number ten ,
B: they 're saying absolutely no gun control , we don't even want to think about it
B: and , and I think that 's a dumb , situation .
A: Yeah .
B: Because there has got to be some kind of background check to see , that the people who are buying a gun are buying it for a useful purpose , you know , if , if you 're going to hunt with it , or if you 're going to do sport shooting you can wait a week .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: That 's true .
B: It 's not a big deal for them to go .
B: If they 're can check your drivers license every time you get a ticket , you know , I mean , they should be able to go back and find out if you 've had any kind of psychiatric record , armed , you know , felony record .
A: Right .
A: That 's true .
B: any of that kind of stuff .
B: And , it seems to me right now that there 's not , there 's not that much of a check .
B: I , I 'm not really sure what Texas law , I think there 's a check for felonies , on your record .
A: Right .
A: But ,
B: If the gun shop owner does it ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: but he has to go out and do it .
A: That 's true , I think ,
B: Yeah ,
B: if , and if it 's a private sale , of course , then there 's nothing .
A: Right .
A: And , see that 's my only problem with , uh ,
B: And I was walking ,
B: and it got kind of dark .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I was by myself ,
B: and there was this fellow in this truck that kept circling the block .
A: Ooh .
B: And , so I , I kind of got frightened ,
B: and I kind of use that as an excuse .
B: All I have to do , is start earlier ,
B: but .
A: Right .
B: I have n't walked since ,
B: so .
A: It 's always easy to find an excuse not to exercise .
A: I know what you mean .
B: Yeah ,
B: it sure is .
B: It sure is .
B: How about you ?
B: Do you exercise on a regular basis ?
A: Um , well , I try to .
A: Um , I started at the beginning of this year ,
A: I decided all right , I 'm going to start exercising again ,
A: I 'm going to be real good ,
A: and I went through the T I fitness center and registered for the , uh , aerobics classes there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they run for two months at a time .
A: And you have to , you do have to pay to take them .
A: And I took , I signed up for one that was three nights a week , an hour and a half ,
A: so that was four and a half hours a week .
B: Oh .
A: And it cost sixty dollars ,
A: and I thought , okay , that 's not cheap ,
A: that 'll encourage me to always go since I spent that much money .
B: Right .
A: And I had a friend of mine going ,
A: so I was real good ,
A: I only missed it about three times .
A: And then , oh , March came around ,
A: and I signed up again ,
A: and I got , uh , caught up with a class I was taking at T I ,
A: and then I was having to work some real late hours to get caught with my work after I got out of class .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then I went to Colorado Springs the next week to do some training at the T I up there .
A: And so that was two weeks I had missed ,
A: and , boy , I tell you what , I 've been terrible ever since then .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's once you get out of that habit you just don't , you don't get back into it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because I teach school ,
B: and last year a bunch of teachers had an aerobics class .
B: We went in together and hired a private instructor ,
B: and she came to our school twice a week .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , I , I was ,
B: I would go faithfully ,
B: and then I missed once .
B: Then I went back again a couple times and missed another time , and then kept missing and never went back again .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think , if you ,
B: you just have to stick with it .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I think I 've been two maybe three times the month of April ,
A: and this session is about to run out .
A: Now I signed up for a different one now that 's only two nights a week because I am getting kind of into a real busy schedule as far as teaching a lot of training classes
A: and some of them require me to go out of town ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and , uh , that just kind of throws my whole schedule off on doing that .
B: Yeah .
A: lately , uh , there 's been nights that I could have gone
A: and I 've found excuses , uh things like I had the flu last week ,
B: Yeah .
A: but I 'm fine this week .
A: I could have gone Monday .
A: I could have gone tonight ,
A: and I did n't .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I 'm kind of finding excuses ,
A: and now it 's kind of like , well ,
A: this is the last week .
A: I 'll just start fresh next week .
A: But , I better better do it .
A: And I think another thing is that my friend that was taking with me the first two months was n't the second two months .
A: She started taking tennis lessons ,
A: and so I have n't had that extra motivation , of , of us forcing each other , or not forcing each other but encouraging each other to go .
B: Yeah .
A: So .
B: Sure ,
B: yeah
B: that makes a difference when you have somebody to go with and to do the same the same thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like it 's misery loves company .
B: I don't really love exercise .
B: I mean , some I ,
B: the neighbor across the street , she goes , belongs to President 's ,
B: and , uh , it 's not President 's any more .
B: I don't know what the name of it is anymore .
B: But she loves it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , it 's just , it 's an automatic high for her .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She just enjoys it so much .
B: And I don't .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm the same way .
B: I feel good after I do it ,
B: but I hate it when I 'm doing it .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I just ,
B: I don't enjoy it at all ,
B: and she just loves it .
B: So . Even when she does n't go to the health club , she runs , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , it 's a daily thing for her .
B: So , it , you know ,
B: and it 's so hard for me .
B: I envy her ,
B: I wish I could be that way ,
B: but I don't . I don't ,
A: I do too .
B: and I have an older sister that loves running , too ,
B: and she runs all the time ,
B: but at , to me , it 's every minute 's agony ,
B: and I ,
B: in fact , I don't run .
B: I hate to run .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like when I walk I 'll take along a radio or something
B: and that helps , you know , pass the time .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: walking is kind of boring .
A: I do have a few friends that live in my apartment complex in this neighborhood ,
A: and we try to , we used to try to get together ,
A: and I think now that the weather 's getting nicer we 're going to start doing it again and occasionally go walking .
A: There 's a real nice residential area right behind our apartment complex .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And it 's not as boring if you get several people
B: That 's right .
A: and you can kind of talk ,
A: and , and it , it makes it pass pretty quickly ,
A: and the aerobics is n't too boring .
A: I kind of enjoy it when I 'm doing it . Um ,
A: it 's a lot more fun than some other things I could do , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But , uh , I do , I do have to make myself go ,
A: and of course while I 'm doing it I feel pretty good ,
A: and after I get finished I feel great .
B: Oh , it 's great afterwards ,
B: yeah .
A: I mean , I can go in there ,
A: I can be ,
A: like a Friday afternoon when I 'm tired , it 's the end of the week and I just want to go home . And I 'll make myself go ,
A: and I 'll have headache and everything ,
A: and I get out ,
A: I don't have a headache any more .
A: I feel great ,
A: and I 'm just ,
A: it 's amazing how much better I feel .
B: Yeah .
A: And then just in general , I sleep a lot better
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
A: and I just feel much better .
A: I mean , I 've been kind of dragging the last few weeks ,
A: and I know if I would just get around to exercising I 'd feel better .
B: Exactly
B: it does ,
B: it gives you energy .
A: But my dragginess is my excuse for not exercising .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , I 'm too tired ,
A: or I have a headache
A: or ,
A: well , I just got over the flu ,
A: and I 'm still kind of draggy
A: so I better not go
B: It 's kind of a vicious circle is n't it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it really is .
B: Yeah ,
B: I find , too , that I have more energy when I exercise ,
B: and , you know , it 's silly not to ,
B: but , I don't know ,
B: it 's just a put off .
B: I don't know why I don't do more ,
B: and I , and I know that it 's good for my health .
B: I know , you know , from everything that you read and you see on television now , exercise is so important to good health .
A: Right .
B: So , you know , you , not only , you know , you 're not only doing something to keep yourself fit , but you 're probably prolonging your life .
B: So .
A: Right .
B: There 's no reason that we should n't do it ,
B: but I don't know .
A: It 's just hard to make yourself go .
A: And I , I think one thing I don't like about aerobics is that after I 'm finished it 's kind of late at night ,
A: and I 've been sweaty ,
A: and , and it , you know ,
A: I don't really feel like going in the grocery store all sweaty or running errands .
B: Yeah .
A: So it kind of kills the evening for doing errands .
A: So I think a Tuesday Thursday might be a little bit better .
B: Yeah .
A: Of course , I feel like once I 've done it , if I 'm sweaty I might as well do an extra thirty minutes because you 've already kind of shot your night .
B: Right .
A: But , um , so I 'm kind of glad they have a longer class on Tuesday , Thursday now that I can just kill two nights , and and , uh , get a reasonable amount of workout in .
B: Yeah .
B: Does it cost the same for just two nights or ,
A: No ,
A: it 's less expensive .
B: Well , that 's good , too .
A: This one was only forty-five dollars .
A: But I 'm glad it 's not too totally cheap , because if it was too cheap I would talk myself out of going more , probably .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Since it 's more expensive , I think , Okay , you spent that much money , you 'd better go
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: So hopefully .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: it 's right there ,
A: and it 's , they have a really nice facility at the T I .
A: They 've got two different aerobics rooms ,
A: they have the mirrors .
A: Of course , sometimes you don't like to see the mirrors on the wall
A: you don't like to see how you work .
A: But , I guess , sometimes it kind of motivates you to really get going .
A: But ,
B: Yeah ,
B: and then they hire private instructors ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: And they have ceiling fans in the rooms ,
A: and it 's , it 's a pretty nice setup . Um ,
A: and of course it 's real convenient , because it is right there at work .
A: I think if I had to come home and then go somewhere , I 'd never make it .
B: Yeah .
A: And just the fact that I can go straight from my desk over to the , the recreation center and do it helps a lot .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I can see that would be , uh , easy .
B: They make it as easy as they possibly can for you .
A: Oh , yeah
B: Well , um , do a lot of people take advantage of it ?
A: Quite a few do .
A: They have probably , ooh , I 'd say fifteen different , fifteen to twenty different aerobics classes each session that are running ,
A: and they have them anywhere from six in the morning . Uh ,
A: they have some during , during lunch hour that are shorter ,
A: and I guess guys can take advantage of that .
A: For me , I would n't have time to do an hour , hour of aerobics and then take a shower and get , get dressed again .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: But there 's a lot more guys that do that one .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , they have them , you know , in the evenings ,
A: they even have some late night ones for people that work second shift and things like that .
A: So they have big variety .
A: They even have some , uh , aerobic , uh , water aerobics when the weather gets nice out in the pool .
A: I 've never done that one before .
A: But .
B: Oh , you have a pool there , too ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , how nice .
A: They 've got an olympic pool , and , and basketball courts and sand volleyball .
A: They 've got the full weight room and , uh , the locker rooms with , uh , a jacuzzi and sauna and the shower facilities , and hair dryers , and all the , you know , everything you 'd need just about .
B: Wow .
A: It 's a real , it is a real nice facility .
A: It 's also got a full inside basketball court ,
A: and I think they 're working on building a jogging track and some other things .
A: But it 's , it is very nice .
B: That 's great .
A: I just don't take as much advantage of it as I should .
B: Now to use ,
A: I mean , I 'm just now finally starting to do the aerobics thing .
A: But .
B: Well , does it cost money like to use the , to exercise in the weight room or to , uh , to to go swimming .
B: Do you have to pay for that , too .
A: Yeah .
A: You can get a fitness membership that allows you to use the facilities ,
A: and it 's about eight dollars a month .
B: Oh , that 's not bad .
A: No ,
A: not at all
B: Huh-uh .
A: Pretty cheap .
B: Um .
A: And then the aerobics cost extra even if you have the fitness membership ,
A: but , I think the aerobics classes are even pretty reasonably priced , from what I 've heard .
B: I think so too ,
B: yeah .
B: Well , and people of all ages take advantage of the aerobics ?
A: Hm ?
B: People of all ages take advantage of the aerobics ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: in fact , uh , the T I-er 's families can come in on these things ,
A: I 'll let you go first .
B: Oh , well , what 's there to say ?
B: Does n't seem like it 's being carried out very well in my opinion .
B: Seems like it takes so long between conviction and carrying out the penalty that I don't see that it makes any difference to sentence anybody .
A: Yeah ,
A: it seems like they could die of old age waiting to get the death penalty .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know what you mean .
A: Um , I ,
A: in Maryland they , they do have capital punishment ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I 've seen , uh , a lot of people get convicted , sentenced ,
A: and then just nothing happens , just endless , endless , endless appeals .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well from what I
B: I saw a statistic just a few days ago , um , so far this year , or was it during the last year , during a year 's time , I think it was they executed twenty-five people in the nation .
B: Meanwhile , there were twenty-five hundred people on death row .
B: So I , I ,
B: and it 's building up , you know ,
B: they 're , they 're convicting them faster than they 're executing them
B: so it 's really building up .
A: Yeah ,
A: what 's amazing is some of them have been on death row for a number of years .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , here in Maryland I know we have a real problem with overcrowding in prisons , uh ,
A: just ,
B: Yeah ,
B: everybody 's got that .
A: Yeah ,
A: but I mean , in ,
A: here it 's , uh , to the point where they were letting prisoners go . Uh , commuting the sentences of those that were in , in jail for lesser crimes , in order to put more people in , into the jails .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it was just , uh , amazing to me ,
A: and of course they made a big deal out of the , the few that got out and turned around and committed a crime within five days of getting out , and being rearrested an .
B: Yeah .
B: Is n't , is n't Maryland where the famous Willy Horton case was .
A: Uh , I ca n't remember .
A: Refresh my memory .
B: It was , uh , that was the one that was used so much in the campaign . In the in the presidential race .
B: Uh , may , it may not have been Maryland .
B: It may have been Massachusetts ,
B: I don't remember .
A: Um , I don't remember myself .
B: Anyway , well the question is , you know , do you think , it does make a difference in whether or not a criminal commits a crime
B: or do you think it can if it 's done right ?
A: Um , I think if they , if they started executing them on a regular basis , uh , that I think it might make a difference .
A: Right now , I don't see it making a difference .
B: If it ,
A: I don't see someone not going out there and committing murder because they 're afraid they 're going to get sentenced to death .
A: I mean , most people out there committing murders don't care .
B: Uh-huh
A: They just don't care .
B: Yeah .
B: Well I think in large measure the reason they don't care ,
B: it 's not because the punishment ,
B: but so many of the people that commit crimes don't get punished .
A: Yeah .
B: The police don't catch them ,
B: or the courts don't convict them ,
B: or , or they don't serve very much of the time
B: and so , uh , you know , their , their success rate is very high .
B: Crime does pay ,
B: you can make a good living at it .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: and there 's , uh , there 's a lot of people here in Baltimore that , uh , have
A: and we just had , uh , a real big cocaine bust ,
A: and of course , you know , they 're , they 're playing it up real big that it was , looked like it was a very , very small ring
A: and they just happened to get lucky and catch the guy .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I mean , uh , Baltimore has , uh , an all time record for the number of deaths so far this year .
A: I think they 've got over a hundred dead already this year .
B: Last year it was D C ,
B: I guess Baltimore caught them .
A: Well , it 's kind of , it 's kind of moved up
A: and you have to remember that it , it , it , uh , there 's , I think , X number of people out there that are going to commit murders ,
B: Uh-huh
A: and , uh , once you kill off a few of them
B: Yeah .
A: I mean if you murder a guy because he murdered your partner or something like that , I mean pretty soon you run out of people to murder .
B: Yeah ,
B: the only consolation is so many of the murders are , you know ,
B: the , the violent people going against each other
B: and so they , you know ,
B: society 's not going to put them to death ,
B: well at least maybe the guy they cross next time is going to . Uh ,
B: I think , I think capital punishment is an appropriate punishment for the kind of people where we say , you know , this sort of person is just not acceptable to our society
B: and we are there by going to remove them from society , not temporarily , but permanently .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , I , I personally think life imprisonment ,
B: I don't think much of of life imprisonment . First of all , it 's never , turns out to be life ,
B: but second , you know , why should we ,
B: the idea of life imprisonment with no chance of parole .
B: Well that means you 're going to put them in a cage you think it 's never ever going to be safe for them to walk the streets again ,
B: well then , why bother .
B: Just execute them , because that 's , that way you 're sure they 'll never ever going to walk the streets again .
A: Yeah .
B: So any , any , anybody that says life in prison with no chance of parole , I 'd say , uh , give them the death penalty
B: So ,
A: Yeah ,
A: you know , it makes sense , um , you know ,
A: you have the occasional person who may have been falsely accused , but I mean , uh , so few and far between , uh , you know ,
A: makes good T V movies
A: and that 's about it .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and also , um , the , the thing I don't like about a lot of these court trials and a lot of these appeals is that it 's not based on what is true and what is false
B: but rather it 's on the rules of evidence , what can I hide and what do I have to tell .
A: Yeah .
B: And I think our courts should be geared much more strongly towards finding out the truth than they currently are .
A: Yeah .
B: And , and that way we can be sure , you know ,
B: we can find out the truth ,
B: we can find out what really happened and , and base the sentence on what the person did , not on what we 're allowed to let the jury hear
A: Yeah ,
A: I had ,
A: my , uh , my father-in-law participated in a , uh , a jury trial ,
A: he was , he was actually on the jury ,
B: Uh-huh
A: and , uh , this man was accused of killing , uh , I think it was two people , uh , and shooting a , uh , policeman , um , point blank in the face .
A: Of course he did n't die .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , this was during a holdup of a , uh , uh , a restaurant
A: and it came out during the trial that , um , they had tried to rob another place
A: and , uh , when the guy came out with the bag they thought was money , it turned out to be a couple cookies , and , uh , you know , jumbo cookies
A: and , and so they were so upset from robbing this guy , you know , trying to do this holdup that did n't work that they quite literally were mad and went into a restaurant to hold the place up and just started , you know , shooting people .
B: Just started shooting people , because they botched the first job
A: You know it 's ,
B: and , so now they 're going to get even .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: and get even with who ,
A: I mean ,
B: Yeah .
A: you know , stupid guys
A: And , uh , it turned out that the , you know , policeman survived to the point that he was able to , you know , identify the guy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And of course , you know , they tried to make the cop look like he was , uh , a , uh , no good rotten drunk .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean it was amazing .
B: So what was the verdict ,
B: what was the results there .
A: Oh , he was found guilty ,
A: yeah .
B: Oh .
A: He , uh , um ,
A: last I heard , he , uh , he beat a push for the death penalty .
A: Now whether they finally got it or not , I don't know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I kind of , uh , stopped listening after a while .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , you know , he would come home
A: and , and , you know , after the trial was over he came home and told us what was going on
A: and of course then they had to go back to you know ,
A: after he had to go ,
B: The , the penalty phase ,
B: yeah ,
B: they 've , decide the penalty separately from the verdict .
A: Right .
A: And , uh , yeah everybody , everybody was pretty much , you know , let 's burn him .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that 's , you know , that 's the way they wanted to do it .
A: And he was surprised because he thought there was going to be a problem because he , uh ,
A: you know some people on the case were , were a little hesitant on convicting him on some of the charges
A: but I mean when it all came down , they just , within an hour decided the man 's fate .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , you know , you just have to decide , you know ,
B: well there 's really two separate decisions there I guess ,
B: one is , did it really happen the way the , the prosecutor said it happened , you know ,
B: is this man really guilty ,
B: and you have to decide that ,
B: but then you have to decide , you know , as a member of society what do I want to do with this guy who did this thing .
A: Yeah .
B: And that
B: I , I 've never been on a jury ,
B: I 've never had that experience ,
B: I 'm not sure I 'd look forward to making that kind of decision about a man 's life .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: well , it , it , it went pretty , pretty quick from what he said .
B: Uh-huh
A: But I mean there 's , there 's , there 's a lot of other crimes out there , I mean besides murder ,
A: I think , uh , now if you 're dealing drugs now , caught more than twice or something , uh , it , there 's , uh , a death penalty associated with it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Well the thing I 'd be most likely to attach the death penalty to is the violence .
B: I mean ,
B: I can handle people , people selling drugs , you know ,
B: it 's , it 's wrong ,
B: but it , it 's not worth somebody getting executed for .
B: But we hear so much about the violence and how it 's not safe to walk the streets because somebody , you know , these random drive by shootings and that sort of thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the people I 'd most likely want to sentence to death are the people that just show a really low regard for human life .
B: That , you know ,
B: you , never know when they 're going to turn or hurt the next person because it does n't really matter to them whether someone else gets hurt or not .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I agree .
B: And so I go ,
B: these are the kind of people I would like to get out of here and get out of circulation and say I don't , we don't accept your kind in our society .
A: Yeah ,
A: I agree ,
A: I , I 've , I have , uh , a low tolerance for that kind of , uh , that kind of person .
A: And , uh , as far as , uh , you know
A: there are some , some other crimes that I think , uh , you know , uh ,
A: kidnapping , um , you know , when they ,
A: I mean kidnapping per se has a certain , uh , uh , fine and penalty associated with it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , um , some of these people are just out and out brutal .
A: I ,
A: some of the cases I 've heard about over the years ,
A: I pay a good deal of taxes I guess , because I , I make a fair amount of money ,
A: and , uh , the taxes that I pay , um , I guess as a , as a general statement , I feel I , I guess I get my money 's worth for .
B: Okay .
A: I 'm not sure , though , whether I feel ,
A: I guess I am sure that I feel that , in general , though , uh , the allocation , uh , of the taxes in certain areas , is n't correct .
B: Well , I 'm sure that , uh , probably every person in this country would agree with you on that . Because everybody has a different idea of where the money should go .
A: Well , I , I ,
A: lately , I guess , um , uh , or , at least for the last twenty years or so , I 've felt that the expenditures of our taxes into high cost , uh , defense items , at least in the last ten years , have been , uh ,
A: there 's been and extraordinary amount of money spent there ,
A: and I 'm not really sure that , that we 've gotten our money 's worth there , uh , regardless of the outcome of the Desert Storm , uh , Desert Shield , uh , situations .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , I guess my particular beef is that having participated in the military off and on over the , over the years of being called back and things of that nature , is , uh , I 've found that , you know , there 's an extraordinary amount of waste .
A: I take that as a , as a given in any military operation
A: and
B: Oh yeah ,
B: no argument here .
A: yeah ,
A: and I
A: I , I should imagine that , that , that what the , what the problem ,
A: why I , I 'm , I 'm a little concerned about today is that this , uh , rather , uh , quick and , and easy , I don't know , I should n't say easy , rather quick victory in the , in , in the , uh , Mideast , uh , uh , over the , uh , Iraqis , uh , might lead us into , uh , a false sense of security that we can do that against any other foe .
A: I 'm , I , I don't know what other foe that would be ,
A: but , uh , I , I 'm just getting nervous again , now hearing the voices come up that there has to be increased expenditures in that area .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , of course , uh , a lot of , uh , a lot of missiles and things were expended in the course of fighting the war ,
B: and the , and the inventory 's going to have to be restocked , uh ,
B: on ,
B: now I work for T I ,
B: and one of the things we were told is , like , they had eleven thousand HARM missiles which T I is the sole supplier for ,
B: and they used up two thousand of them in , in the war ,
B: so they 're going to have to do another contract to restock that , to get ready in case something else is needed .
A: Yeah ,
A: but , it , it , it ,
A: would that be , uh ,
A: well , let 's see ,
A: two thousand out of eleven thousand , that 's about a little over twenty per cent . Uh ,
A: I , I should imagine that , that would be to keep it at a level , those levels , I guess , that , that were originally appropriated was when the Soviet threat , I guess , was perceived as being a greater one .
A: I don't think there 's very much of a threat there today .
A: I do worry about what nuclear weapons are left in the territories , uh , in their territory over there , and who 's controlling them ,
A: but
B: that 's true ,
B: that 's true .
A: I , I don't know what amount of , what amount of , our hardware would stop some fanatic , I guess , from doing anything , uh , that would be irrational .
B: Well , of course now , we used up twenty per cents , per cent of that inventory , in a matter of just a few weeks ,
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , uh , uh , T I also makes the missile , which was the , the T V laser guided bombs
A: Yeah .
B: and , and , a big percentage of that was expended , as well ,
B: that that that was just a matter of ,
A: Oh , what is the name of that ?
B: Uh , it 's called Paveway .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
B: And , uh , a big percentage of that was used up during that conflict also .
B: So those are two areas in which T I stands to , to gain some , some short term business to restock that .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , uh , I 'm ,
A: what I 'm ,
A: uh , I guess uh , it ,
A: concerned about ,
A: talking about the taxes in general , and that , that was an area that I , I perceive as not being the best expenditure for the amount of dollar that we 're taxed for , uh , in the area of defense ,
A: or perhaps we have paid too much there ,
A: I don't know ,
A: it just seems to me that over the years , now , the ,
A: and , and it 's , it 's a cliche ,
A: I , I ,
A: but I see it myself ,
A: I see where the infrastructure is sort of breaking down , the roads , the highways .
B: Oh , no doubt .
A: I , I , I don't know , uh ,
A: I I 'm familiar with some , some upbeat school areas ,
A: so I don't totally agree with the , the great , uh , uh , with the , with the great expenditure of effort and time there ,
A: but I guess overall , because I guess I 'm not associated with what ghetto schools , and , and , uh , and , uh , rural school systems are like , I , I should imagine that would take an enormous expenditure .
B: Yeah ,
B: as a matter of fact , in Texas , um , we 've had our school funding system declared unconstitutional by the , a state judge ,
B: and they ,
B: and , uh , the legislature just passed what they called a Robin Hood Bill , which ,
B: basically , what it does , is it takes extra money from the more affluent school districts , that are , that are , you know come from local taxes and send them to other parts of the state , that are not so affluent .
A: Uh-huh .
A: They , they don't have a broad based income tax that funds the educational system ,
B: Uh , well ,
A: or is it all funded out of local taxes ?
B: okay ,
B: to to give you some perspective , this , this town that I had lived in for sometime in nineteen eighty-three was funded sixty-five per cent by state funds .
A: Yeah .
B: Then we had a number of education reforms , that the legislature said , hey , we got to do this , we got to do this , we got to do this ,
B: but , they forgot to put in the state budget the money to pay for it ,
B: and they dumped it all on the local school districts .
B: So ,
A: Sounds like the way the federal and state system works now .
B: Really .
A: Yeah .
B: So , so what ended up happening was , was a , was a shift .
B: We went to sixty-five per cent state funding to sixty-five per cent local funding in a matter of four years . And , uh , I mean ,
B: Oh , complete , complete .
B: It 's all shifted to local districts ,
B: and now , even the money that 's been raised for the local districts is being , is going to be siphoned off and sent to other parts of the state .
B: That 's right ,
B: and , and I have , I have no problem , with , uh , a certain , uh , floor level , minimum level , that 's a standard uh , that everybody , uh , ought to be able to have , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , I am opposed to , any attempts to restrict , um , local communities from taxing themselves above that to provide above the minimum .
A: Yes ,
A: I see what you 're saying .
A: Uh , I , uh , I , I do , I , I guess I am a uh , a strong and staunch supporter of some subsidy for any forms of education .
A: I mean , by that I mean , I 'm a product myself ,
A: I have , uh , a , a , a , a background of , uh , being , uh , getting my college education through the G I Bill .
B: So did I .
B: My Masters , anyway .
A: What ,
A: but , uh , when I look at it to me , uh , it does n't really make any difference .
A: It was a marvelous opportunity that I could n't have done ,
A: I don't think I would have gone on , unless I had that financial uh , easement made possible .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's right .
A: And I , I don't really care what it takes to qualify , whether you 're , uh , an , an whether you 're a veteran or whether you ,
A: I don't even know if you have to perform community service ,
A: or unless , uh , or , or you promise to even do something in the future , I think that , uh , the , that , that , the subsidy itself ,
A: or I guess the enactment of that form of legislation , would give many people who , I , I think , I think I perceive the fact ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: at least what I read , is that some younger people feel that education is priced out of their , uh , out of their , uh , budget .
A: I know in the state of Florida just today , uh , the , the legislature , uh , adjourned ,
A: and , uh , they had completed a fifteen per cent increase in the , in the , uh , state land grant colleges , which , which is n't , I mean ,
A: to me it does n't sound like a lot of money ,
A: but I guess it would be for fifteen hundred dollars a year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They went from eleven to fifteen hundred ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , for an out of state student the tuition went up twenty-five per cent .
A: I don't know what that would be .
B: Yeah ,
B: they had to , they had to raise , uh , community college taxes here , a few years ago .
A: But that , uh , I guess that goes along with the general idea that the federal government had to , uh , was expending so much money on defense , uh , that , that the program now is a , uh , program now is , uh ,
A: fees that , that fund these things , I guess that 's trickled down to the states
A: and , the states now establish , uh , don't have enough money
B: Uh-huh .
A: so they , they must charge fees . Uh ,
A: I , I 'm not too sure of that reasoning .
B: Yeah .
A: But I guess to get back to the main topic , I don't know whether I pay too much taxes .
A: I , I , I travel extensively in Europe and see enormous , uh ,
A: people pay , uh , a great deal in taxes ,
A: they tell me when I sit and talk to people
A: there they tell me they , they ,
A: some states they pay , uh ,
A: in Germany or in , in England in some cases people in my income level , at least , allege that they pay up to fifty-five percent of their gross income in taxes .
B: Oh , oh , I can believe that .
A: But , but , I 'm not too sure when I put my property tax in , my car tax , my income tax , and these myriad of , uh ,
A: now it costs me money to leave the country , some sort of a tax to leave the country , some sort of an airport departure tax , uh , uh , a tax , a sales tax which is getting to , uh , quite high levels ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I 'm not sure that I 'm not up fairly close to that .
B: Well , I guarantee you , you 'd be paying a lot more in taxes if , uh , the Democrats had more say .
A: You really think so ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I really do .
A: But I mean , what 's , what 's happened here is , is , is
A: I feel that , that in the last ten years , uh , my taxes have gone up ,
A: they have n't gone down .
A: I pay uh , quite a bit more taxes
B: Yeah .
A: and , and , and ,
B: Everybody , everybody is .
A: but that 's been a Republican government for the last ten years .
B: Well , what , what , what they 've been able to do is slow down the rate of increase To keep it , to keep it from becoming even more obnoxious .
A: Well I ,
A: Yeah .
B: Well , this has been really interesting ,
B: and I 've enjoyed our talk .
A: Okay , uh ,
A: I guess I just push something here .
A: Push one again , right ?
B: No ,
B: you just , uh , we just say , say good-bye
B: and that 's it .
A: Just hang up .
A: Okay ,
A: Don , good talking with you .
B: Nice talking with you , too .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Um , I think life , uh ,
A: now I grew up on a farm ,
A: I don't ,
A: what kind
A: did you grow up in the farm .
B: I grew up in , um ,
B: well , at that time I was in a , uh , Trenton , New Jersey
B: so , and it was a suburb of Trenton ,
B: so I really had mixture of suburb , and urban living .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I think though it was much slower and , uh , much more self-contained .
B: I think you 're right .
B: It 's interesting
B: I 'm , um , I work in a high school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , I 'm comparing my life when I was in high school thirty years ago to what I see these children doing .
A: Yes .
B: And the pressures on the children , uh , you know ,
B: you hear this as an excuse ,
B: but it 's true they are so much greater .
A: Unreal , unreal by comparison .
B: Oh , I can not believe , uh , what they 're doing , uh , academically the demands on them
B: and , uh , and I can see why children do drop out .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that 's right .
B: I can see , I can see the , uh , you know ,
A: I , I can remember as a child , you know , nobody ever worried about me wondering out at night and going where I wanted to go .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: It was n't , it did n't occur to nobody to worry that anything would happen to me
A: they were ,
B: And you , you did n't , you did n't have to lock your door .
A: No ,
A: no .
B: And , uh , a
B: some of these are urban worries
B: but , uh , it 's , uh , it 's a lot different all though I guess twenty years a go now , in this area , things were , um , similar because twenty years ago
B: let 's see ,
B: it was after ,
A: It 's not all that long ago is it
B: yeah , to
B: twenty , twenty-five years ago is when we had the Washington riots ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: the first rights we 've been having some problem now
B: and it reminded me of that .
A: Yeah ,
A: we were living in New Jersey . Uh , in , twenty years ago .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Whereabouts ?
A: In Allendale .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I use to have to go over to Patterson when those riots were going on , at sometimes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I don't know though
A: it 's , it 's kind of hard to really know because of
A: though the news media had those riots , uh , kind of blown up out of proportion .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well ,
A: because I went there many times
A: and ,
B: the Washington riots were n't ,
B: because
B: The Washington riots were n't
B: because I lived right downtown , Washington
B: and , uh , and what you saw is was what you got
B: I 'm telling you .
A: That 's what ,
A: yeah ,
A: well .
B: Yeah ,
B: but , you know , it 's , it is interesting , uh ,
B: they 're so many
B: they 're different kind of dangers that face young people now and social pressures , uh ,
B: the pressures of drug is so much ,
B: the prevalence is so much greater ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: the , the kinds of diseases that you 've got out the , uh , um ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean the consequences is
B: so much of what 's going on , is so much more serious then when we were younger .
A: I think that 's true ,
A: I think that 's true .
A: I think the other thing is that , uh , we have taken some rather drastic turns in our , in our education and the way we approach things as of maybe starting back when , when I 'm number one , you know , and , uh , uh , uh , worrying about self and not , uh , seeing the consequences of the disintegration of the family .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And , uh , and there have been many things that have happened that have not encouraged closeness of families and , uh , support for young people that the kind of support that they need , to help them take care of the things ,
B: Yes ,
B: and ,
A: if you don't have some kind of , of basic believe or something down inside of you , then it 's very difficult to , uh , have anything to turn to , when you got , when you 've got something facing you like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's true .
B: I also being involved in the school system see so many of the problem children coming from their parents , um , children who will lie and cheat
B: and you approach their parents ,
B: and their parents are constantly justify them rather then to ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , you know , they 're constantly , excusing their , child
A: Like .
A: Right .
B: and you can see exactly , why the child is that way .
A: Yeah
A: exactly .
B: You can as a teacher , ca n't hold a child accountable , if you 're not going to get reinforced by , that at home .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right .
A: that 's right .
B: And you ca n't make up in a classroom of one hour a day , what 's not been done for , fifteen or sixteen years at home ,
A: No .
A: That 's right .
A: Oh .
B: and you 're , you get mixed signals
B: so it 's , it 's not always the school 's systems
B: I think a lot of ,
A: No ,
A: there 's so much more , then that
A: it starts , very much deeper then that
B: yeah .
A: I think that too .
A: I see some flickers of , of , uh , of good directions turning ,
B: No .
A: but whether they 're soon enough and fast enough I don't know ,
A: it 's just ,
B: Of course , life is a lot more complicated too in ways , um ,
B: the kinds of jobs that people need to be trained , for now .
A: Right .
B: Uh , you know , with farming being so mechanized , uh , people working on the family farm which was a traditional American way that becomes less and less likely ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: factory jobs are so much more , um , uh , sophisticated .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's right .
B: And the kinds of knowledge that , uh , you know ,
B: it , it 's requiring an increasingly sophisticated labor force
B: and , some people just don't have it .
A: Right .
A: And there 's so much , so , so many people on the lower end of those who , who are going to be the , the drop outs and the , and the poor and the homeless and whatnot ,
B: And you worry when , you know these the sex and drugs on the young children and the unborn children ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's just another ,
B: uh , in terms of what it 's going to mean to a society , in the future it 's a
A: Yeah .
B: some ways it 's rather frightening ,
A: It really is
A: it 's just , it just is almost overwhelming sometimes when you think , of , of the jobs that is out there to be done , in order to flip things back around the way they needed to be ,
B: It certainly is .
B: Well , it sure is .
B: It sure is .
A: Uh , not that I really think that they were perfect ten , twenty , or thirty years ago ,
A: but ,
B: It was a little easier though was n't it ?
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: just the volume makes a big difference ,
B: Yes .
A: I think as , uh , as , uh , mother you know , I use to think sometimes it 's not so much , uh , it 's not so much the kids ,
A: it 's just the volume of it , to try to keep all wash done and all the things done and , you know , and everything .
A: Right .
B: uh , I look at my mother 's life
B: I mean she , she did n't work , um , um ,
B: for a long time when I was very young she did n't drive .
B: Uh , she learned to drive I think when I was , um , a teenager ,
B: and her life was a lot simpler ,
A: Right and , and children 's lives were simpler because mother was there ,
B: and I sit here ,
A: somebody was there .
B: That 's right .
A: And , and when there 's nobody there ,
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: I always thought too that , you know , people worrying about going to work when their child , when their children are little
A: and I , and I think that 's sad if they have to because they miss so much ,
A: but I , I believed after having a few teenagers that the worst time you could go , to go work was when they were teenagers .
B: They need you more as a teenager .
B: Is n't that true .
B: That 's why I 'm working in a school system so that I 'm home when they 're home .
B: Um ,
A: Right ,
A: it 's not so much that they come to you every minute ,
A: but it 's that you are there when they need you .
B: That 's
B: is n't that ,
B: that 's so true ,
A: Yeah .
B: uh , uh , I find working in a high school is very helpful because it lets me be a little more tolerant and understanding of what people do ,
A: Yeah .
B: and it keeps me from being the old fogy
B: so , but at the same time , it also it prevents kids from try to go pull the wool over your eyes ,
A: Yes ,
A: I think that 's true .
B: as to what 's
B: but that 's the same
B: I 'm home in the summers ,
B: I 'm home with the holidays ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's ,
B: I 'm home at three o clock when the children are at home
B: or where home ,
A: Yeah .
B: one is now a senior in high school and the other 's in college ,
A: Well ,
B: and , uh ,
A: But that helps a lot ,
B: It 's , uh , it , uh , it does ,
A: I have a daughter who just had a second job ,
A: she needed to work
A: and he opted to go into a day care center where she could have her children with her . And , uh , and looked a long time before she found one that was laid back enough so they she would be able to interact with them ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: That 's right .
A: and , uh , and so I ,
A: , you know , good kind of experience as well
A: but , uh ,
B: Well I ,
A: I think that 's really important
A: I don't think people realize how important it is .
B: That 's , that is , that is so true ,
A: Yeah , uh ,
B: and it 's not that always that the children always say something
B: but every once in awhile they 'll come up and make a comment ,
A: Yeah .
B: and you realize it 's important that , uh ,
B: and yet , you know , we have to make that choice
B: I think twenty , thirty years ago a lot of women , just did n't have to make that choice .
A: Yeah .
A: I think that 's right .
A: What was , what was your name again ?
B: Well , I ,
B: Linda Lee .
A: Linda .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay .
B: And your name was ?
A: Well I think probably that we 've just about
B: Well I enjoyed , talking with you .
A: I 'm going to , change the world
A: but , uh ,
B: Well , I enjoyed talking with you .
A: Yes ,
A: it 's nice talking to you , too .
B: Okay .
A: Bye now .
B: Bye-bye .
B: There we are .
A: very Yes .
A: Tell me , what are some of the things that you did with your children when they were growing up ?
B: Oh , well , uh , when they were little , we did lots of reading and playing and going to parks , and things of that sort ,
B: and , I had two boys .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They were both interested in things like model rockets ,
B: so we would go to the football field and set off model rockets
A: I have two boys also
A: Uh , my children are , um , are swimmers ,
A: and so as they were growing up much of , uh , our , um , normal life outside of school and everything uh , revolved around their swimming .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , in order to have a reason for being there , especially as they got older , I became involved in it too
A: so we were always together at their meets .
B: Oh , well , that 's good .
B: Um , mine were not terribly sporting .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , they both did T-ball and soccer in grade school ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but neither one of them carried on , uh , the sports after that .
A: Yeah ,
A: the , the boys tried those ,
A: but they they did go in ,
A: they started swimming when they were , oh , seven and eight ,
A: and they really loved it ,
A: and they 're swimming both
A: they 'll be ,
A: one is in college , also swims in college ,
A: and the other will continue to swim in college ,
A: and they 're fortunate ,
A: they even made nationals .
B: Oh , wonderful !
B: Oh that 's great !
A: And so we would drive up to see that when whenever it was reasonably close ,
A: but , we did a lot of things , um ,
A: and we tried to do things both together and individually with the children , um .
B: Yeah ,
B: I ,
A: we live near Washington ,
A: so we , we would always go in for the museums .
B: Sure .
A: That 's always a big , uh , thing .
A: And one of my children is , uh , also a musician
A: so , um , one of the things that we did with him a lot was to go , either my husband or I , or both of us would , concerts with him .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And my other child , um , uh , is in , big into tropical fish ,
B: Uh .
A: so our whole family , we take family trips to different places to visit fish stores or go to fish shows ,
A: so
B: My goodness , uh .
B: Well , we did n't have any , uh , avid , uh , activities like that ,
B: they , they were interested in a lot of things ,
B: but nothing to quite that depth , I guess .
B: But , we would ,
A: I don't think we 've , we 've missed a fish store on the entire east , northeast coast of the United States
B: Oh my goodness .
B: Well , we did go to things like aquariums and , uh , uh , natural history museums and zoos , and all of those things that one does with kids , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
A: In fact , it 's funny ,
A: our vacations have always been , um , uh , uh , as , as they 've gotten older .
A: When they were younger we would go to the beach ,
A: but as they got older we tried to pattern our vacations where we would travel and do things , and that there would be a , a feature each day . Whether it would be going to ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , yes .
A: one summer we , uh , we went up to New England
A: and we went to the marble quarries up there , and , uh , to see that , and another day fish hatchery ,
B: Oh , really .
A: and , so we did , you know , we did try ,
B: Yeah .
A: and of course we learned too .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , and , uh , I don't know ,
A: I , uh ,
A: when they were very young I did not work .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I started working half-time when , uh , they were at the nursery school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I
B: yet .
A: And I , I started working part-time when they were in , um , junior high school and high school ,
A: and now , and I worked in the school system ,
A: and now I work a full school day ,
A: but that leaves me off on holidays and summers .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it was a , it was a , you know ,
A: I think they need me more , when they were older , than they did when they were ,
B: Yeah .
B: Well , uh , I think , it , uh , they need you in different ways .
A: That 's true ,
A: yeah .
B: You want to be around for the crisis and things like that ,
B: and , but it 's not quite so much the hand-holding and peanut butter and jelly making
A: That 's right .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's for sure .
A: That 's for sure ,
A: what do you , do you have any feelings as to the trends that you see ?
B: Well , it
B: the one trend I would say is that with so many more women choosing professional careers , there are fewer of them home in the afternoons ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I don't think it needs to be the mothers ,
B: but I think it would be nice if some of the parents would be around for a few more hours .
A: Yeah ,
A: when they , you know
A: it was funny ,
A: I can remember ,
A: and my mother and I have talked about it , to how important it was when I came home from school .
B: Um .
A: It was n't really conversation ,
A: but there were always things that just tumbled out .
B: Yes .
A: And , uh , uh , granted the child does n't always think that they 're sharing it ,
A: but it ,
A: when they , when it 's not there they miss it .
B: I think that 's true ,
B: but I I also think that 's , at least in my experience , truer of girls than boys .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Even when I was there , my boys did n't share all that much with me , and certainly not to the extent I did with my mother .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: No ,
A: I , I , I realize that ,
A: but it 's funny ,
A: they don't always do it ,
A: but occasionally they do ,
A: and you want ,
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and when they do , there 's a reason for it , that they 're sharing it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you want to be at least I 've wanted to be available , when they , for some reason , they had , they were bouncing something off of me . Because it was something that was bothering them or they were concerned about ,
B: Right .
A: and it was , uh ,
A: you just felt , gee , if I were n't here , how ,
B: Uh-huh
A: or , or if my husband ,
B: Who would they ask ?
A: That 's right .
B: Or what would they do ?
A: Yes ,
A: that 's exactly right .
A: Uh , but it has been , um , it 's been interesting and particularly I , I think because the society in which we live , families are separated .
A: You don't have grandparents near by or aunts and uncles .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I mean , I grew up in a situation where on weekends we were always visiting relatives .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I did too .
B: We were close to my , uh , maternal grandparents , I mean , just a few miles , and , uh , close enough to visit my paternal grandparents , you know , quite often .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: They were fifty miles away
B: but ,
A: See , and we 're ,
A: uh , that ,
A: we , I , I grew up with , you know
A: every weekend there was some visiting somewhere .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , and it was sort of an Italian family ,
B: Um .
A: um , but my children ,
A: we , although we have some relatives in the area that we , we see , we ,
A: they don't
A: it 's not that constant thing where you are on intimate terms with cousins .
B: Right .
B: Well , when my kids were quite small , uh , we lived close to both sets of grandparents
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they saw them a lot ,
B: but they don't have any cousins , uh ,
B: or they did n't ,
A: Yeah .
B: their , uh , their cousins are about ten years younger .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , they never played together or anything .
A: Yeah .
B: And there are only two of them
B: and they did n't live in the same town .
A: that
A: the trend of , of families and time ,
A: where , where parents are spending less time , you don't have the families , too , to take up the gap .
B: That 's right .
A: And so the kids in some ways are , are , are suffering a little bit , in that , uh , the model , the role models that get the , the , the family issues that get discussed , and all these , I think are very important parts of them growing up ,
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: so we , we try to , to do it as well as we can .
A: We keep in close contact with grandparents and talk over the phone ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and cousins and aunts and uncles ,
A: and we do ,
A: but it 's , although it 's not the same , we are ,
A: and that 's part of , I think , teaching too , is what a family is like ,
A: because then how do they pattern their own ?
B: Well everyone makes its own model ,
B: but , uh , it seems that there should be some continuity ,
A: Yeah , Um .
B: and it 's helpful to have , uh , things that become family traditions , and that sort of thing .
A: That 's ,
A: yeah .
A: Well , we 've always , we have had this tradition , um , that we always go out before Christmas and cut our own tree .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that 's always been a little bit of a tradition that we 've had .
A: Now , this year , it 's , was hard with our son now being in college .
B: Yeah
A: So this was one thing that we , um , were n't able to do this year ,
A: but we did that for from the time the children were young enough to realize what it was until , uh , our older son went away to college .
B: Oh , well , that 's the kind of thing that they will remember , though .
A: And we have advent calendars still , from the time that they came , you know , to ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Ours finally disintegrated .
A: Oh .
B: We had a felt one that was
B: it was a Christmas tree that had , uh , a little trinket for each day , that was pinned on the date ,
A: Oh , yes .
A: That 's ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and then you took it off and put it on the tree ,
B: so at the end you had a decorated tree .
A: Well , ours is , uh ,
A: a friend uh , a friend of mine from Denmark hand appliqu3ed one for each child .
B: And it finally got moth-eaten ,
B: we threw it way last year
B: How nice .
A: And , I mean , they look today as new as they did when they gave them to , she gave them to us ,
A: and there 's a ring
A: and you buy a present ,
B: Oh , I see .
A: and you wrap the present up ,
A: and I mean , the presents have gone from the days when they were very young to a little box of Band-Aids and an eraser and things ,
B: How cute .
A: to today , where , um , sometimes I put a little gift if I see something that 's , uh , occasionally a Christmas tree decoration which they will save for their , their future , to sometimes , just money , uh , pieces of candy .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I think as they 're getting in college , I just ,
A: for my older boy that was in college I put a dollar bill for each day . Which was the equivalent
B: Oh , I 'm sure he appreciated that !
A: well , it was the equivalent of a Christmas present .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it was , uh , and it was , and , you know , it was fun ,
A: but that 's a tradition
A: and they will , those will be passed on to them when they , when they get married and leave .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , you were saying what other trends are there ,
B: and one just occurred to me because I was editing a book about it recently ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that is the trend in a lot of , uh , lower class areas , for the grandmothers to be raising the children .
A: Yes ,
A: yes ,
B: And that 's ,
B: a lot of it is due to the fact that the mothers are on drugs .
A: The
A: yes ,
A: and the broken families .
A: We , um , as I said , living in an area of Washington , D C. We definitely see this , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it 's that grandmother figure , not only raising her own children , but raising , um , children from the streets , too , frequently .
B: Right .
B: Well , we had a sociologist at the center where I work who was writing a book on , uh , multigeneration , um , matriarchies , in a way . uh , where the tradition in the family has been for a teenaged daughter to have a baby while she 's still living at home with the mother
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and ,
A: Yes ,
A: well , this is a , this is a
A: uh , this is in fact , uh ,
A: we 've been studying this in our school , that , um , this is one of the symptoms , or not the symptoms ,
A: it 's one of the ways that young girls feel that they are maturing ,
A: it 's a rite of passage
B: Yeah .
A: well , Myrna , how do you get your news , news ?
B: Uh , most of it is from the radio , uh , and also from the news programs that we watch in the afternoon .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: We usually watch the local news and the , the , uh , national news both .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 'm pretty much the same .
A: I , uh , I find that , uh ,
A: I 'm a graduate student
A: and I , I read a lot for school
A: and I find I have no patience to really read a newspaper because I just , I 'm reading so much all the time .
A: And I really enjoy just sitting down and watching a news broadcast .
B: Well you can always get up and leave that
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah , that 's true .
B: Uh , I I just don't seem to have time to sit down and read the paper .
B: Either
B: by the time I get home from work , it 's already , you know , time for the news to come on .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right ,
A: yeah .
B: So , it 's so much easier to sit there
B: and besides , I can be doing other things and still listen to the news .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's right ,
A: I , I agree .
A: That 's ,
A: a lot of times I eat while I 'm uh , watching the news .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: the same thing .
A: Is there any , uh ,
A: what did you think about the coverage like over in the , uh , Persian Gulf ?
B: I think they did a great job .
A: Yeah ,
A: I thought so too ,
A: it was , it , you know ,
A: for a while when we were really interested , uh , we saw it all the time .
A: Some of the stations I guess carried it for twenty-four hours for a couple of days there
A: and then , you know , the special reports and the extended news coverage I thought was really good .
B: Uh-huh
A: Yeah .
B: And you could always find some channel that had something on
B: but you did n't necessarily have to watch the same thing all the time .
A: Yeah ,
A: right ,
A: yeah ,
A: just news ,
A: that 's right ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I noticed that one thing that , that T I did , you know , they had , uh , uh , they used to have , well they do have television monitors stationed throughout our buildings ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they used to have a program called T News , and just updates of , of different things that were going on within T I .
B: Well when all the , the mess with , uh , uh , in the Persian Gulf came about they started carrying C N N .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Well now , they have had so much good response from this , that T I now has C N N on all the time .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh , well that 's great .
B: So , we can always run upstairs and , you know , get a quickie update on what 's going on , if we really want to .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: or if you have a break in the middle of the day , you take a coffee break you can always stay informed .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's really good .
A: That 's , um , I 've found that when I , I don't have cable television anymore , uh , when I moved , went back to graduate school I just did n't have the money to buy , rent a cable T V line , or whatever , you know .
A: So I don't get C N N , uh , which was a big disappointment .
A: I used to watch ,
A: that was my ,
A: if I was n't home ,
A: I 'm a college teacher
A: and sometimes I teach in the evening
A: so I 'll miss the evening news .
A: And uh , you could always catch a good news program at eight o'clock or nine o'clock on C N N .
A: I think that 's , that really has changed the way , uh , I look at the news .
B: Yes
B: Yeah ,
B: we don't get it either ,
B: we live out in the country ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we just don't have it available out there where we are .
B: But when we did have it , uh , we , that 's what we usually watched , was C N N
A: Uh-huh .
B: and sometimes we 'd watch the weather stations .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , uh , same ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's ,
A: when I had it , I , I watched it , you know , religiously for half an hour
A: and then you could go on , you know , to do what else you wanted to do .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah
A: I find I , I read very little ,
A: I don't even get a regular newspaper and , uh , because , uh , I , I don't drive that much ,
A: I only live about a mile from where I go to school and work ,
A: I , uh , I find I spend so little time in the in the car that I don't really listen to the radio , you know ,
A: I don't ,
A: so . So television is my main new source .
B: Oh , I get that too , because I , I 'm in a van pool ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I 'm in the van , you know , uh , two hours a day
B: an .
A: Oh really ,
A: to commute to work ?
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
A: Oh .
B: And in the , in the morning I try to sleep because it 's , it 's dark thirty .
B: But in , but in the afternoon , uh , I try to read
B: so I can , can , uh , not pay attention to what our driver is doing
A: Yeah ,
A: I can ,
A: the van pools I know that ,
A: and I 'm in the Baltimore , Washington area ,
A: and I know they do van pool a lot here from some of the outer areas ,
A: but if you want a nicer home , you know , beyond the suburbs , you know ,
A: I ,
A: that 's necessary .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Are , are you in Baltimore itself ?
A: I am , I am right outside Baltimore .
A: I am less than a mile from the Baltimore line .
B: Um .
A: And I go to a a campus of the University of Maryland that is just , less than a mile from my house .
A: So I , I 'm actually in Baltimore ,
A: yeah ,
A: you could say I 'm in Baltimore .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have two kids over there .
A: Oh really ,
A: in Baltimore ?
B: well no ,
B: in , in D C area .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
B: one works for the State Department
B: and , uh , uh , the other one is , uh , uh , her husband is in the Navy
B: and he 's stationed at Bethesda
B: an .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: oh that 's , that 's , that 's a really nice area , Bethesda area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: it 's , um , it 's funny ,
A: there 's a big difference between Baltimore and Washington , even though they 're so close .
A: There 's only an hour , less than that between the two
A: but there is a big difference in things like property values
A: and , um , the closer you get to D C the more expensive it is .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , the , the , uh , different slant .
A: Washington , it really is a , uh , uh , an international city , where Baltimore is hometown Baltimore .
A: You know , it , there 's really , uh ,
A: most people have relocated to the Washington area , you know .
B: Oh no ,
B: I 'd , I 'd rather have Baltimore with the home town atmosphere .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's ,
A: I , I like it , I like it a little bit better , too .
A: It 's interesting though , um , to meet different populations .
A: I , I 'm just now being , uh , from Pittsburgh originally ,
A: I 'm just now meeting different populations like Chinese students and things
A: and I find that really interesting , you know , to imagine ,
A: here is somebody that was in China , two years ago when all that was going on in , in , uh , Beijing .
A: You know , that , that 's an interesting , uh , interesting perspective .
A: But I , I really
A: much , much like the hometown area ,
A: yeah .
A: And I think that also goes ,
A: it 's funny ,
A: you , you can watch different news .
A: I can watch Washington news or Baltimore news
A: and I really do watch Baltimore news .
A: You know , that really makes ,
A: I don't really bother with the Washington station because I just , it 's so far removed from what I 'm interested in .
B: Well most of what they 're talking about in Washington is , is the crime problems that they 're having there .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah
A: they , in fact they just , it was just a big thing recently
A: they 've had some terrible problems with Hispanics ,
A: um , they had to impose a curfew that , uh , in two of the areas in , uh , in the Washington suburbs .
A: The mayor ,
A: they 've gotten rid of that really bad mayor and then , uh , brought in ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: I heard about that .
A: Yeah ,
A: and then came a woman that 's um ,
A: she 's big in the Democratic party
A: so that 's good ,
A: so she has good national ties ,
A: but she also was , um , something like a , uh , state auditor or something like that before this position .
A: She was a state auditor ,
A: I guess she was an auditor general or something like that for the District of Columbia , at Washington .
A: And then she left that to get a position with the Democratic party
A: and now she ran for mayor ,
A: so she 's uh , fiscally she 's pretty tight , and , uh , she 's cleaning house
A: an , and it looks like hopefully she 'll do a nice job , uh , for Washington , you know , which is ,
A: you sort of feel sorry for a lot of the people there .
A: You know , from what I pick up on the news , uh , it 's a difficult process , you know , to get rid of a , a bad mayor .
B: Yeah ,
B: well I know both of my kids did n't want to live anywhere around the , the downtown areas ,
A: Right .
B: they both moved way out .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: I think one of them lives in Germantown
B: and I ca n't remember where the other one lives .
A: Yeah ,
A: but those are Germantown is a nice area .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: It 's a nice area
B: It 's , means they have to drive a little bit ,
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well they might be car pooling too .
A: Do they car pool in ?
A: Are they driven by themselves .
B: Uh , well now , I , I think he carpools ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because he 's got fairly regular hours since he came back ,
B: but , uh , now my daughter they have probably been carpooling together , in fact ,
B: because she had been called back up , active duty .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: And then she was supposed to have gotten out of active duty as of last Friday .
B: So , I have n't talked to them this weekend ,
B: I don't know what the situation is ,
B: but she was ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: They did n't call you for Mother 's Day ?
B: We were gone
A: You were n't home ?
B: Uh ,
B: no ,
B: we were n't home
B: but she had , she had called and left a message on our recorder
B: but I had that from all my kids except for one .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , that 's good .
B: So .
A: Well I guess we should stop now .
B: Well I thank you for calling ,
B: I have enjoyed it .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: oh good .
B: I really do like this program because I get to talk to people from all over the United States ,
B: yeah .
A: Uh , uh , so do I ,
A: I 've become very aware of different political views because some of the things we have to discuss are very politically motivated or whatever ,
A: I , I really enjoyed it .
A: It 's , it 's so funny when you live in one part of the country you only see that perspective .
A: It 's interesting to see the , the wider world ,
A: so I enjoy it .
A: Hey , thanks a lot , and , and bye .
B: Thank you ,
B: bye , bye .
B: Okay .
A: Well , I do not know .
A: How big a city is Rome ?
A: I mean , you have heard about Dallas ,
A: and the crime here is pretty bad
B: Well , Rome is pretty small
B: But , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: I was going to say .
B: we hear a lot about , uh , New York City .
A: Uh-huh .
B: There is a lot of crime down there .
B: And I am , I am afraid to go down there because , you know , I mean , you hear about people getting mugged .
B: You leave your car for ten minutes
B: and it is stripped when you come back .
A: Yeah .
A: Have you ever been there ?
B: No ,
B: I have not .
B: Only to the airport .
A: That is , uh , probably enough to see
A: Um , are you in college right now ?
B: No .
B: I am , I work at , for the Air Force .
A: Oh , okay .
B: So , there is a base up here .
B: And ,
A: Are base ,
A: that 's interesting concept .
A: Are bases safe , you know ?
B: Bases are pretty safe because they check your I D on your way in .
B: And ,
A: Yeah .
A: The , they , uh , minimize the access .
B: Right .
B: But even so we had a , uh , uh ,
B: at New Years , we had some people come in and , uh , like attack one of the planes . Because they were protesting , uh , the presence over in the Persian Gulf .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , no .
A: Sure .
A: Oh , great .
A: That is wonderful .
B: So ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well , Dallas , uh ,
A: we lived in Minneapolis . Uh ,
A: we moved here about ten months ago .
A: And Dallas is pretty , uh ,
A: well , we live in north north Dallas which is like a suburb , near a suburb called Plano .
A: So we are out of the city ,
A: but it is , uh , it is bad everywhere in terms of , uh , you know , the handgun situation , um , the number of rapes , the number of muggings .
A: Just , it is , it is ,
A: I would not say it is not as bad as New York ,
A: but it is pretty scary .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , people put bars on their windows in certain neighborhoods
A: and ,
B: Yeah .
A: you know . They call them ornamental grates .
A: But they are still bars
B: That makes it bad for getting out during a fire .
A: Yeah .
A: It really does .
A: And if you are a little bit claustrophobic
A: but , uh . I do not know ,
A: I mean the jails are crowded .
A: I , I , I am not a criminal justice specialist ,
A: so I do not know what , you know , what can be done .
A: I am , you know ,
B: I do not , I do not know ,
B: it seems to ,
B: I think it is getting worse . Because I keep hearing things
B: like I , when I was I went home ,
B: my parents live in Boston .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I went home ,
B: and we were watching T V ,
A: Yeah .
B: and this thing came on where these , a group of like five or six guys went and filmed themselves beating up people in the street and , and robbing them .
A: Oh .
B: And it was really disgusting .
B: And my mom was like , `` They should just be all shot right now . ''
B: And I mean , you
A: Were they teenagers
A: or ?
B: Uh ,
A: Like that girl in New York that got beat up by , you know ,
A: when she was jogging in Central Park , a couple of years ago ?
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah . Um ,
B: They were not , I think they were early twenties .
A: Yeah .
B: They were young men .
A: Yeah .
A: But they , so they were n't , you know .
A: And were they , uh , were they , were they obviously poor or you know ?
A: That is really
A: Like I say ,
B: I know it .
B: How deprived could they be if they had a camcorder ?
B: Those are a thousand bucks .
A: Yeah .
A: Unless they stole it .
A: And I mean , that is one big thing down here .
A: I mean , they have like , uh ,
A: and they are not all young .
A: I mean , they are eighteen to twenty-four , some of the young men and women .
A: But , I mean , you can , you can see the Crime Stoppers ads on television .
A: And they are ,
A: sometimes it is the same people that have been , that have been observed
A: and they still ca n't catch them
B: Yeah .
A: And you are wondering how , you know . Um , we lived in Minneapolis and Wisconsin .
A: I mean , there was all kind of ,
A: I , I , know , I , I , I know it is getting worse .
A: I do not know what the world is or is not . Uh ,
A: the
A: in a small town in Wisconsin , near Madison , um , a young boy somehow got a hold of a shotgun . And killed his parents and his three brothers and sisters .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And the child had ,
A: and he , they said that he was twelve years old ,
A: and he had , uh , he had not , uh , displayed any tendencies deviant or disturbed or whatever , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: And you are thinking to yourself , um .
B: I wonder where ,
A: I know .
B: I do not know .
B: I wonder where he gets it ?
B: You know , you must ,
B: I think T V is bad . Because they , uh , show all sorts of violence on ,
A: That
A: and I do not think a lot of parents ,
A: I mean , I do not , I do not know how it is in the Air Force base .
A: But , uh , I just do not think a lot of people , because of the economy , both need to work , you know .
A: I just do not think a lot of parents are that involved any more .
B: Yeah .
B: They do not , they do not talk to their kids and take them out .
B: And , and are not there all the time
A: Uh ,
B: so the kids are off to their own devices a lot .
A: Right .
A: And discipline .
A: I do not know how your folks were ,
A: but I mean I sure knew as heck when I was growing up that , uh , my parents were the superior
A: and I was the subordinate .
A: And , you know . It was sort of like there were boundaries .
B: Oh , definitely .
A: And I do not think , I do not know , I think today a lot of parents , um , are ruled by their kids .
A: I , I ,
B: I think so definitely .
B: When you go to a restaurant , and like kids are running all over the place . They ,
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: I mean , they are not learning how to , uh , well , like boundaries .
A: I mean , I do not , I see it in work place too , sometimes .
A: I do not know how old you are ,
A: but you sound a little bit younger than me .
A: But , I am in my thirties ,
A: and I , uh , I see , uh , even people that work with me that are ten years younger .
A: That , you know , they kind of have an attitude that I I hate to to say it ,
A: but it 's , that 's just what it is .
A: It is an attitude like the world owes them something .
B: Yep .
B: But , they ,
B: Right ,
B: I , I see that too in the Air Force .
A: Do you ?
B: Oh , yeah .
B: A lot of , uh ,
B: especially since a lot of us are engineers where I work .
A: Are you in the Air Force ?
B: I am in the Air Force .
B: Yes .
A: Okay .
B: And so , uh , people outside the Air Force doing engineering get paid a lot more than we do .
A: Sure .
B: And so all the young engineers are like , well , I am just , going , you know ,
A: Huh .
B: get it for all it is worth .
B: And that , you know ,
A: Right .
B: and I am like , you are the one who signed up .
B: If you did not want to do it .
B: And ,
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: And the Air Force is one of the bitter , better military , supposedly military experiences .
B: Yep ,
B: it is .
A: I mean ,
B: I like it a lot
A: Pardon me ?
B: I like it so far .
A: I mean , that is ,
A: are you going to be a career person ?
A: I 'm digressing ,
A: but , I do not talk to many people in the military .
B: Oh .
A: So I am ,
B: Probably not .
B: But , uh , they pay for my college .
B: So ,
A: That is the way to do it .
A: I mean , and that 's ,
A: you know , at least the Air Force is ,
A: I do not know , I just , uh , I am nervous in Dallas .
A: I mean , I , you know , I mean , I go to like an aerobics class or something .
A: And , I , you know , uh , seventy women in a Jazzercise class in a public , uh , parks and rec building .
A: And you are supposed to feel safe ,
A: but then there are all these ,
A: it does not matter race ,
A: but , you know , it is an inter racial mix .
A: And you see these guys standing there watching you jump around in your leotards .
B: Yeah .
A: And I do not even think that way ,
A: but I mean , you just think to yourself , you , you just , I mean ,
A: nobody can think that , that it ca n't happen to them .
B: It ,
A: No matter who they are
A: or where they are at , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: And you never know who is watching , either .
A: I mean , did you ,
A: I do not know , I was in the grocery store this morning .
A: We , uh , went to New Orleans for four days and came back late last night , driving .
A: And it is about seven hours .
B: Huh-uh .
A: Um , and that is a very ,
A: we had never been there .
A: That is a very , very neat town to visit . Uh , in terms of the French Quarter and all of the things you hear about .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: But the crime is so bad there .
A: I mean , in all the tourist brochures you read about what you should or should not do .
A: How to carry your wallet , uh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: This is New Orleans ?
A: New Orleans ,
A: yeah .
B: Oh , I would hate to be there during Mardi Gras .
B: Let me tell ,
A: I would never ,
A: yeah .
A: You just do not .
A: Do not even bother .
A: It is not worth it .
A: Uh , the , when we came back , I do not know if you have seen .
A: I was in the super market this morning
A: and on the cover of TIME magazine , there is a girl , she is in Boston ?
A: She is on the east coast somewhere .
A: Real attractive young girl .
A: College freshman , I , college coed .
A: I think she is a freshman .
A: She had been dating a fellow for several weeks .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They went back to her dorm room
B: Uh-huh .
A: and date rape .
A: I mean , and it just ,
A: she looked anguished .
A: I mean , it was really just sad .
A: I mean , did not pick it up and read it ,
A: but I should have .
A: But I just looked at the picture and thought , what a world .
B: I know
A: I mean , I do not ,
A: yeah ,
B: You ca n't trust anybody .
A: I do not have any , uh , cure ,
B: It is , it is really scary .
A: No ,
A: you really ca n't .
A: I mean , I , they , we lease out a really nice two story town home in north Dallas .
A: And they have a real big thing here .
A: People , I mean , even dry cleaners knock on the door and are soliciting , you know .
A: They , everybody wants your business kind of thing .
B: Right .
A: And my husband is the kind of guy , he 's , he 's sometime ,
A: he was raised on a farm in southern Ohio , near Dayton .
A: And I think sometimes it is just , he and I are very different in terms of that .
A: I , I mean , I basically have started not to trust anybody in general street smarts .
B: Right .
B: We ,
A: And , uh , he opened the door .
A: I came downstairs
A: and I was real upset
A: and I probably got more nasty than I should have .
A: But I just said , Howard ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know ,
A: oh , my God .
A: I would not , I mean ,
B: Well , you , you , hear about people opening the door and getting blown away .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: And it does , I mean , it is , it is not a reason .
A: I mean , I have been to New York .
A: You should not deny yourself going to visit and all that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , but it is not any worse .
A: I used to work for a mortgage company that was owned by , uh ,
A: are you from Boston ?
B: Yeah .
A: Home Owners Savings and Loan in Boston .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I know I never felt ,
A: I mean , I have been to downtown New York City
A: and I have been to downtown Boston .
A: And I never felt any safer on Milk Street in Boston , staying at the Meridian ,
A: I did not pay for .
A: But , I mean , I never felt any safer there than I did in any other city I have been in , you know .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: So I would say one thing .
A: Do not deny yourself the New York experience , but go with people that you know .
B: Yeah .
B: I would not want to go by myself .
A: No , uh .
A: But I mean , it , yeah , I do not know .
A: I mean , I , I guess I could go on and on about what to do about criminals . Uh ,
A: I think the handgun ,
A: I am not real big on guns myself .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So ,
B: I think our justice system needs to be stricter . I mean , because everyone , they do it
A: I mean ,
A: Are the New York , uh , are the New York ,
A: I do not know how the New York state prison system is
A: but , Are they booked up ?
B: Yeah .
A: That is a way to put it ,
A: they are booked up .
A: Are they paroling , uh , like murderers
A: and , I mean , here it is just a real big deal .
A: They parole people that have killed police officers
A: and then they are out doing it again .
B: Right , um ,
B: I do not , I do not know . Because I am not real up on a lot of news things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , you know , you just hear about that , that , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it is a lot of repeat crime .
B: And you are like , why are they repeating ?
B: They should have been in there longer .
B: Or ,
A: I know .
A: And then you think , I mean , I I mean , I can remember , I have not been out of school that long ,
A: but it has been at least ten years .
A: And you think to yourself , was it that bad back then ?
A: Or is it just ,
A: I think that , like you said , television ?
A: Is it just that more people think there is like excitement in it , you know ?
A: I mean , people that may have been close to the edge just go over because they see something or read something .
B: It seems like a lot of ,
B: that it is more , like in Boston ,
B: there was a case of , uh , a couple of kids , fifteen year olds .
B: They wanted to see what it was like to kill someone .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So they , they picked on this kid who was like new in town .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they were like , well , no one was going to miss him anyway , you know ,
B: and it like ,
A: Oh , god .
B: ugh , that is horrible .
B: How can you even think like that ?
A: it is , yeah , is n't it something ?
A: I mean , I , I have a , I am originally from Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania ,
A: and I have a niece and nephew .
A: And I just , uh , I mean
A: my ten year old nephew says things that he is aware of that I am just going , Michael , how did you hear about that ?
A: You know , it is just , I think kids get too much too fast . And all those sort of things .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: In Atlanta , where my inlaws live , uh , they had that thing , you know , the high top sneakers , the Air Jordans , et cetera .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: Kids killing each other and beating their brains out .
B: Oh , for the sneakers .
A: Right .
A: Or the , or the jackets , the team like the Raiders and the caps .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , stealing the hundred dollar jackets .
A: Uh , I mean , it is I guess , it goes from the most petty like that to like what you were saying that they , in Boston .
A: That is crime where they videoed .
A: That is probably one of the most bizarre I have heard of .
B: Yeah .
A: Where they videotape themselves .
B: Yeah .
B: It seems like crime is turning into a pastime instead of like , you know , be ...
A: Um , what do you think the major cause of air pollution or at least in the Boston areas ,
B: Well , the , the , the major cause it seems up here is
B: I live right on the ocean
B: so it 's kind of hard for me to tell what would happen if I lived in some of the valleys inland ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but the major cause here , and we always seem to , and it seems to be validated by the press , is the car pollution .
B: We don't have too much industrial pollution .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Uh , car pollution seems to be the one and only thing that , that I can really put my finger on here .
A: Um , that is n't the same in the Washington area because we don't have any major , um , industry except for , uh , government and services .
A: And the , the transportation situation is such that , uh , all the car pollution is , is absolutely awful .
A: Um , also the worth of the hub of three airports
A: in this general area there is , uh , National , Dulles , and then , uh , Baltimore , Washington .
A: And it ,
A: interestingly some of the information I 've been reading indicates that the amount of air pollution from , uh , uh , airplanes is extraordinary .
B: Is that so ?
A: Yeah ,
B: I did n't know that .
A: and that 's always something that , you know , you just don't real , you don't think about .
B: Well , most people talk about the noise pollution from airplanes rather than the air pollution .
A: But the , uh ,
A: apparently the air pollution and the fact that it 's delivered right up in high altitudes is a very significant factor .
B: Yeah .
B: I would think so .
B: You know , uh , I guess it talked about all types of pollution .
B: I happen to just read something the other day at least in the Boston paper there were three things that , that come to note .
B: One , is that the carbon fluorides that are , uh , being released into the atmosphere are causing even a larger hole in the southern hemisphere in the ozone layer
B: and again
B: and now they 've located another one or rather an expanding one in the northern hemisphere .
B: So
B: so I 'm quite concerned .
B: I don't think it 's involved any longer with , with , uh , hair sprays or those
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: No ,
B: I think it 's now , is what , uh , from what I understand it 's air conditioning units
B: and , and , we certainly turned into an air conditioned society .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know in Florida there 's no place you go that is n't air conditioned ,
B: and I do quite a bit of business in Washington .
B: And ,
A: I mean you know what it 's like here .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: it 's quite ,
B: is , is the
B: it 's really out of the norm not to find something that is n't air conditioned .
B: And ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: and I guess refrigerators , are the same way .
A: We just had the ,
B: They release that .
A: That 's right .
A: So , solutions to this , would be
B: Yeah .
A: I , I ,
B: Well ,
A: you know , improved .
A: Well , I guess the the , to me the first thing is I wish society would get as upset about this as you do get , getting people upset about animal rights .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean this is so , so basic .
A: It 's human rights in the sense ,
A: but , uh , in terms of demanding , it 's just not caused
A: but demanding that , uh , we can spend so much money on certain things but that research really be directed toward , um , improvement of polluting vehicles , and not just cars but also buses , um , planes . That something can be done . I I ca n't imagine that well ,
B: Well , I , I
A: if we ca n't send people to the moon , that we ca n't improve these things .
B: Yeah .
B: No ,
B: I think that it can be done simply because , uh , uh , we 've , we 've ,
B: every car now in America that 's been produced for the past fifteen years has what they call a catalytic converter .
A: Converter ,
A: yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And no lead gas was , came to the pumps .
B: And , and that 's been done .
B: There 's the lead pollution has , that problem , essentially I guess because it was at crisis proportions was , was licked .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I think that there are there are solutions ,
A: And that for buses ,
B: certainly we don't even need a , need a research anymore .
B: It 's just a matter of passing the law ,
B: and passing the law depends on how heavy the car industry , the automobile lobby is .
A: That 's right .
A: Well , and also to make it economically feasible . Uh , and also in buses .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
A: I don't know if you ever got caught in a traffic jam behind a bus ,
B: Oh , yeah , well ,
A: That , you know ,
B: That , that , the , the smell is awful
B: and but , you know , I was reading the other day not to go on with this but that , diesel fumes actually have less pollutants in them than gasoline fumes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: So , I guess you 're better off sitting behind a bus than a car although I can never , I could never , uh , really rationalize that while I was sitting there
A: Yeah ,
A: but even , of course , in the longer term just to get away from fossil fuels .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , I 'm , I 'm thinking of research in that direction rather than
A: we , we 've taken the intermediate step
A: but I don't think , fossil fuels are the answer .
B: Well , we , you know
B: up here in New England , uh , where I 've ,
B: right close to where I live is the Seabrook Nucleus site which is , practically a , you know , guerilla war up here , went on for years .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes
A: I
B: Uh , my daughters marched in the , uh , uh , against the Seabrook
B: and I kind of , uh ,
B: my feelings were that we needed this bridge to , to , uh , to jump from whatever it was going to be , from fossil fuel to whatever it was going to be .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: you don't throw the baby out with the bath water , and condemning nuclear use .
B: Yeah .
B: unfortunately though I think the oil companies have lied to us for years
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: So we really don't know whether there 's enough fossil fuel left
B: or there is n't ,
B: and , uh , and , uh ,
A: But with the pollution issue , uh , fossil fuel is not the way to go anyway .
B: No .
A: Uh , so you 've , to you 've got to look elsewhere .
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , but it is something that 's a little frightening
A: and in fact , well , I ,
A: within our family we have said ,
A: my husband ,
A: I have two sons , uh , well ,
A: one is already in college in New England ,
B: Yeah .
A: and the other will be going in September ,
A: and we just feel that when we leave , uh , this area , we 're going north , not south .
B: Yes .
A: Uh , I like the mentality north ,
A: and I also like the fresher air up there .
B: That 's right .
A: So , I mean that 's the way we will be going .
B: Yeah .
A: But , um , so , I , I 'd be interested in having spoken with somebody also from the far west on this issue to see how they , their attitudes are .
B: Well , since , since Texas and Louisiana and , uh , California that , in that ranking order , the worst pollutants in America .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , I read that the other day .
B: I mean Louisiana for a small state it was amazing
B: but it 's the industrial pollution I should imagine .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And California seems to be taking steps ,
B: I mean , you , you read about the , the fairly , fairly stiff laws they put in on cars now they 're , they 're enforcing .
A: The smog and ,
A: yeah .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: But , uh , again , uh , that did n't occur without a crisis .
B: Nothing will occur , I guess , without a crisis .
A: I mean , even California was notorious for its smog years ago , before it even was an issue , out here .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly .
B: Exactly .
B: Well , the greatest thing that happened to pollution in the last couple of years as far as I 'm concerned , is the no smoking rules , on airplanes and in restaurants .
B: And it , it really is a pleasure for me , although , I guess smokers don't think that .
B: But that , to me was pollution ,
A: Well , that , that 's , that 's that 's personal air pollution
B: that was its most personal , personal , uh , pollution that I can think of .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I , I , definitely advance that .
A: Well , listen I enjoyed speaking with you .
B: Surely .
A: And let 's hope some , there are other people that feel the same way
B: something happen .
B: Right on ,
B: thank you .
A: You 're welcome .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Uh , national health insurance , I think , is a problem inasmuch as the quality of health care that people would receive .
B: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: because , uh , the articles that I 've read regarding national health service in Canada and England has indicated that , uh ,
A: what
A: stay , stay in line for , uh , four hours to get an aspirin from a doctor .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm , I 'm sort of mixed on this .
B: I think that the , the answer may lie in , uh , not in so much a , uh , national kind of medical thing that like England has but more of a , um , national insurance , uh , sort of clearinghouse or whatever .
B: I think that , uh , too many , uh ,
B: the problem with , with right now is that we 've got too many different health insurances that people have to go through
B: and , and I think that , I think you , you mentioned Canada .
B: I think that they have a system where , uh , they , the government deals with the , with ,
B: I mean , you , you go to whoever you want but file through one , one particular , uh , setup
A: Um , I see .
B: and that way they , they are able to reduce prices because they 've , you know , it 's , it 's all one , one centralized thing .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I , I think that , uh , again having gone through a period when I was out of work and had to buy health insurance on my own , if you don't have a company supporting you in the , uh , picking up the major portion of your health insurance , the cost is almost prohibitive .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Uh , I , I was listening , uh , on the radio the other day
B: and they were talking that , something like this ,
B: I think they were talking about the fact that , um , the money that could be saved , um , in administrative costs and so forth nationwide by consolidating into sort of a national insurance provider , um , could , uh , could ,
B: they could make it , provide health insurance to , to people who could n't afford it just by the money they would save .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , we 're currently , where I 'm working now , under Blue Cross .
A: I don't know what the total cost of the program is
A: but for dependent coverage I 'm paying a hundred and seventy dollars a , a month or something like that .
B: Right .
A: So I assume that probably the total cost is probably , three fifty to four hundred .
A: They 're probably picking up about half of it .
B: Right .
A: And that 's a pretty good policy ,
A: but if you had something like one of these , uh , health maintenance programs , H M O , uh , where the , uh , where you go to the doctor and it only costs you ten dollars and the insurance picks up the rest . If you tried to buy something like that , I 'm it would probably be five or six hundred dollars a month for just the cost of something .
B: Yeah ,
B: H M O .
B: Yeah ,
B: and they 're , they 're fairly expensive .
B: I , I , um , I I was on an H M O , uh , up until last year and , uh , through work .
A: Yeah .
B: And it was ,
B: I forget how much I paid a month
B: but it was much , you know , is at least twice if not more expensive than the regular health care .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , the reason I , I quite was because of , uh , not because I did n't like it ,
B: I , I really kind of did .
B: Uh , the reason I quite was just because the , the doctor a , a certain doctor that we enjoyed going to was no longer associated with that H M O
B: so we , my wife decided she wanted to , to stay with that doctor ,
A: Yeah .
B: so , we went to the , to the , the medical insurance that we have at , here at work ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , I , uh , I like the , I like the convenience of the H M O in , in a certain respect because it , uh , even though you 're ,
B: once you find the doctor that you like it 's not a problem .
B: You know , a lot of people complain saying well , I don't want to , uh , have to be told who I need to go to
B: but , you know , if you don't have a doctor anyway normally it does n't really make much difference . Because you can , you know , if , if you find someone you really like
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's right .
B: and then , we did find several good doctors .
B: And , um , like you say it 's , uh , five dollars an office visit .
B: And , um , my wife was in the hospital had our , had our daughter
B: and I think her total bill was around three hundred dollars for everything .
A: Oh , goodness .
A: Delivery room and everything .
A: Yeah .
B: including a private room because there was a little extra that she had to pay
B: but that was , that was still included in that that cost
B: so .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's really nice because they , you know , their , their attitude is different than , than a regular , uh , insurance , uh , health insurance , uh , the , in , in a , H M O , you know ,
B: they 're trying to prevent a problem by , by keeping the cost down at the front end , you know , and have you come in , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: they , they charge five dollars
B: a you know , pop ,
A: Yeah .
B: you 're more willing to go in and try , to take care of a problem before it grows big .
A: As to a company 's benefit , to have a program like that because it keeps their employees healthy and on the job .
B: Yeah .
A: Because they don't have to worry about going in and , and paying , uh , seventy-five dollars to have the doctor look at you for ten minutes .
B: Right .
A: That 's a ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I , uh , I , I really liked it .
B: We both , my wife and I both did .
B: You , you don't have to worry about filling out forms , uh , you know , for reimbursement and all or , you know , getting paid eight percent of , of whatever .
B: You just pay the , the five dollars right then
B: and then you 're done with it .
A: Yeah .
A: But here again the , the doctor 's practices in hospitals , have become fairly sizable businesses under themselves now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , you take a hospital , uh , the physical plant itself ,
A: you have to pay your share of the operating of that eight story building , uh , when the rooms are empty .
B: Right .
A: So , they spread the costs out over , uh , all the patient costs
A: and , uh , that 's how you come up with aspirin that costs four dollars apiece and things like that . The horror stories that you hear about people going into the hospital for a week and , uh , it being , a four thousand dollar bill .
B: Right .
B: Well , they , and you know , they 're also
B: they 're taking up the cost of people who ca n't pay .
A: Right .
B: You know , they , they get a lot of , uh , a lot of , uh , people who are just have to be there and ca n't afford it
B: and so they , they know they 're not going to get you know , get money from them
A: Yeah .
B: so they , have to absorb it somewhere else .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: My daughter and son-in-law had a baby , here about , uh , what ,
A: he 'll be three in August .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , their insurance plan that they 're under encourages you to shorten your stay in the hospital .
B: Right .
A: And like she went in ,
A: she had the baby
A: and she was out in two days time .
B: Right .
A: And it was treated almost like it was an outpatient visit to the hospital ,
B: Right .
A: the , the deductibles did n't apply .
B: Right .
A: And so that 's one way , one way the insurance companies are trying to hold costs down is by , uh ,
A: okay ,
A: if you 'll shorten your stay then we will , uh , waive the deductible .
B: Right .
B: Our , our insurance is , uh , is doing something similar where they 're also going to
A: So what movies have you seen lately ?
B: Well , I saw , um , lately I 've seen SOAP DISH .
A: Oh .
B: Which was a ,
B: and that was a lot of fun .
B: It was kind of a silly little film about soap operas and things .
A: Well , see that 's something I want to see ,
B: Yeah .
A: that 's on my list to see .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was , it was okay .
B: It was not , um , not a wonderful film
B: but it was , I mean it was , it was cute but not the biggest laugh I 've seen .
A: Oh , okay .
B: I saw THELMA AND LOUISE . A couple of days ago , and really liked that .
A: Oh , did you ?
B: Actually I saw it twice because I liked it so much .
A: Oh .
A: See that 's also on my list .
B: And it 's very , it 's really disturbing but a good movie .
A: A disturbing movie ,
A: how do you mean ?
B: Well , it was ,
B: um , let 's see .
B: The , um ,
B: it 's , it 's different ,
B: it 's kind of , it 's an action adventure kind of , you know , shoot 'em up kind of film .
A: Right .
B: But it 's with women in it instead of men
B: so that 's kind of a that 's kind of a twist on the normal thing .
A: A switcheroo , huh ?
B: And it made me think a lot about , you know ,
B: you would applaud Bruce Willis in DIE HARD if he was doing this
B: but you might not be so you know , so encouraging , of Susan Sarandon and then Gena Davis when they do it .
A: Right .
A: When the shoe is on the other foot and see how it ,
B: So , that was kind of interesting .
B: I 've ,
B: but I really enjoyed it .
A: Oh .
B: So , I
A: Because that , that just reminds me of , you know , like back in school
A: and , you know , the girlfriends just taking off for a day or something . Just getting in trouble and probably not that much trouble
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's kind of what it was .
A: but ,
B: Right .
A: um , yeah .
B: They had started out with that ,
B: then they got into lots of trouble .
A: Before we found the shopping malls that 's what we did .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I 'll have to put that , I 'll have to keep that on my list then .
B: Yeah .
B: I also saw that Madonna movie .
A: Oh .
B: It 's TRUTH OR DARE
B: and that was pretty scandalous .
A: Scandalous ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it was kind of ,
B: yeah ,
B: Madonna she 's pretty trashy .
A: I can imagine .
B: And so it was , it was interesting
A: I guess she does it for the social value of showing you what trash is , huh ?
B: well , I think she kept saying that , uh ,
B: they talked about her ,
B: it , it was a film of her concert , um , tour she had taken through all , all around the world .
B: And they were all to her at the Vatican city and would n't let her perform in Rome ,
B: and she , kept saying that her show was not garbage .
A: Huh .
B: It had a social message to it
B: and ,
A: You just had to find it .
A: You had to wade through it and find it
B: Right .
B: We never quite believed that ,
B: so .
A: You never quite got to ,
B: I thought that was pushing it a little bit
B: but , she ,
A: All I know about that woman is that she 's an incredible marketeer
B: She is .
B: She 's rich
A: Yeah ,
A: and she 's rich
A: and she ,
A: yeah ,
A: so .
B: she 's smart at what she does .
B: She knows how to do that .
A: She knows how to twist this around , huh ?
B: Yeah .
B: What did you think about DANCES WITH WOLVES when you saw it ?
A: Well , okay ,
A: see , we 're getting back to last year .
A: That 's probably the last movie I saw . Um , DANCES WITH WOLVES ,
A: I just adored it .
B: Really ?
A: How can I tell you .
A: Um , a couple years ago , I guess , well , maybe ten years ago I , I had read BURY MY HEART AT WOUNDED KNEE
A: and , so , you know , just the general theme of the whole movie was , um , pretty ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean I really liked it a lot .
B: Right .
A: I mean it was a real consciousness raiser , I guess .
A: Um , and I only bring up WOUNDED KNEE because that was what ten years ago you read and , and understood , you know , about the American pop , Indian population ,
B: Right .
A: and then everything went away for a couple years ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and now it 's back again .
A: And , you know , it 's sort of a popular view of , um , what happened way back then .
B: Right .
A: Of course , no one will ever know .
A: Really I don't
B: I know ,
B: I was ,
B: I wondered if , uh , the tribes that they represented the tribe that was the , the evil tribe , if they were really as bad as it made them to be .
A: Well , who knows .
A: I mean it , it , it sort of showed like two different types of tribes
A: like one was a warring tribe ,
A: and the other one was , uh , vegetarian kind of , you know , feel good tribe . You know , sort of thing ,
B: Right
A: so there possibly were because you know you always have conflict in the world .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Nobody can get along peacefully
B: Yeah ,
B: but I wonder
B: I thought
B: because they made a big deal about how this , this film was such a big leap for the , the people who , who were the ancestors of the , this Indian tribe
B: and that , you know , that was so wonderful that they done that
B: and they , uh , uh , I wonder how the ancestors of this warlike tribe if they were offended by the film ,
A: Oh , I see .
B: if it ,
B: you know , you did n't , hear any press about that .
A: Yeah .
A: Huh .
B: I thought it was a very interesting movie .
A: Well , I think so .
A: I , um , I have come to respect a little bit more the , uh , you know , what went on here ,
B: Right .
A: but , but who knows how it 's supposed to all end
B: Uh-huh
B: Right .
A: You know on the , on the broad scope I mean , um , like if , uh , it , it , it had a much bigger thing I
A: meaning to me
A: I think about , you know , just the meaning of , um , the freedom of this country and , and what that really meant .
B: Right .
A: And that was taking over somebody else 's freedoms . And sort of trampling that
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , so you know it , it meant something bigger I think .
A: But still it was a
A: I loved the buffalo scene .
A: And I thought Kevin Costner was just ,
A: I got a little sick of his mug on the screen every , three minutes ,
B: I know the
A: but he 's the director , you know .
A: Um , but , yeah ,
A: I , I just thought it was a really interesting , intense film .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: Intense I think is the word for it because three hours went by really fast .
B: That was , that was , it was , it was good .
B: I looked at my watch only a few times , which is a good thing .
A: Yeah .
A: Ate a lot of popcorn .
B: But it put me in a really , it put me in a really bad mood ,
B: I don't know why .
A: Did it really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: we
B: there were three of us who went .
B: We were just all really grouchy when it was over .
A: Huh .
B: So we decided that may be the mark of a good film .
B: It made us think .
B: And so ,
A: It made you think .
B: we were grouchy .
B: We felt guilty for being ,
A: Maybe well , maybe that was , um ,
A: but there are no answers , you know .
B: I know
B: and we , we had nothing to do with it .
A: That , that can make you crabby , yes .
B: We were not responsible ,
B: but we still felt the thick blame for , what had gone on .
A: Really ,
A: that 's true .
B: We could have ,
A: But it , it 's ,
A: they sort of candy coated the western story for many years ,
B: Right .
A: and , um , you know , when the truth , oh , well ,
A: it always balances out one way or the other once you get the whole story
B: Uh-huh .
A: but ,
B: Yeah .
B: Well ,
B: I do .
B: I 'm just out of school
B: so I 've seen , a lot of
A: Oh , okay .
B: don't have a job
B: so I should n't go see movies all the time .
A: Oh , there you go
B: Um , I rented a good movie , um , called CINEMA PARADESO which is an Italian movie which is probably the best movie I 've seen ever .
A: Oh .
A: Oh .
B: It was just , wonderful .
A: Really ?
B: It 's , uh , story about a little boy in a Italian , a little Italian village ,
B: and he , um , owns a , um ,
B: or he works in a , a movie theater and it it helps the projectionist .
B: There 's a little , oh , an old man who 's the projectionist
B: and he befriends this old man ,
B: and then it just tells about their friendship that lasts through all these years .
A: Oh .
B: And it 's just ,
B: I mean , if you don't mind reading subtitles ,
B: I thought I had to kind of get beyond that .
B: Those little , you know ,
B: reading the little words at the bottom of the screen
B: but , um , oh , I just laughed and cried
B: and , I really loved it .
A: Oh , I 'll have to write that down .
B: That was a , a great one .
A: Wow .
B: And other than that I ,
A: I 'll have to write that ,
A: have you , have , did you see TEXASVILLE ?
A: Are you into , Larry McMurtry ?
B: No , I I had n't .
B: I had read , um , THE LAST PICTURE SHOW
B: and but that 's out on video now
B: and I have n't seen it .
B: But I was interested in reading TEXASVILLE before I saw the movie .
A: Yeah .
B: Did you like it ?
A: Um , I , I read a lot of Larry McMurtry books
B: Right .
A: and TEXASVILLE is just like that .
A: It 's like very peculiar circumstances and very peculiar things that people do with each other
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's , it 's , you know ,
A: and it 's just sort of a ,
B: Okay , uh .
A: Do you have annual family reunions
A: or ,
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: uh , our ,
B: the
B: my mother 's side of the family is quite large , or well , was quite large at one time ,
B: and , uh , they , uh , for as long as I can remember , have had , uh , a yearly reunion , um ,
B: back , uh , early on they used to , to rotate them from from to , to different people 's houses , in the family .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And ,
A: All local .
A: Were they like all in Dallas ?
B: Uh , no , no not , no ,
B: this was , well , I am actually from Mississippi ,
B: and , so that 's ,
A: Oh .
B: it , it was around there generally .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Uh , that 's where the family grew .
A: Just from city to city then .
B: Yeah ,
B: and it was not only in Mississippi , in some other places , as well ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: so . It was , uh , it was a big deal ,
B: but , uh , they tried to , to centralize it in one spot .
B: So , in the past couple of years they had it at a state park every year .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: We rent a pavilion and , and do that
B: and that 's usually works out to be pretty good .
B: And , uh , they will rent a pavilion on a weekend ,
B: and uh
A: Do you go back ?
B: I have not gone back lately .
B: In fact , uh , this past Sunday was the , was the reunion ,
B: but I did not get to go .
B: Uh , I have ,
A: Is it choice or just business
A: or ,
B: Not getting to go .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , just , uh , the distance involved
B: and ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: uh , just not ,
B: I have a younger daughter now
B: and , uh , I ,
B: it 's kind of hard to get her , get her there , and everything .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I am going to , to , uh , hopefully next year get to go back , cause , uh , a lot of the family has not , uh , on her side , my mother 's side , has not seen , you know , my daughter ,
B: so
A: Oh .
A: Do you have brothers and sisters ?
B: I have one brother ,
B: so .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: And , is your mother still living ?
B: Yes .
A: Oh , so , so you go back and visit with her anyway .
A: Would you not ?
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: I mean , either way there was family reunion time , or not ,
B: Right , I , I usually see her a , couple times a year
B: so that 's no , no big thing .
B: But , uh , I , uh , I do , I do enjoy the reunions .
B: The only problem is that now , uh , originally when we had them , uh , they were mainly my mother 's
A: Relatives ,
A: right .
B: uh , father 's .
B: My mother 's father 's family had quite a few , uh , brothers and sisters .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , it was a large reunion of , of , of that group , uh , from that descendants .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , a lot of those people have ,
B: and at time , you know , they all knew one another .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: And now it has gotten , uh , that , uh , a lot of those people are have , uh , have died off ,
B: or , you know , what we are left with is the , the relatives of , of , of that group .
A: The next generation ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And so , uh , it 's not quite as close as it used to be .
B: So , I think people feel less of a desire to really go .
B: I know that ,
A: why do you think that it 's less close than it used to be ?
B: Well , I , I just think that , uh , you know , at that
B: when , when they were
B: you know , the , those were all brothers and sisters a lot
B: and or they were all in the same geographical location .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: You know , back around , you know , in the twenties and thirties when they were growing up , uh , you know , they were all located together , in one small community .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: Right .
B: And as , as time grew , I mean when time went on the family grew and moved away and so forth .
B: And now when they come together it 's , it 's generally , you know ,
B: like say the kids of those people who are not , you know , anywhere near one another and I do not think they feel the , the closeness that they used to be there . Which is a shame
A: Uh-huh .
B: but that 's just how it is .
B: My mother was complaining last year about you know ,
B: it 's dwindling down every year ,
B: you know , that 's just , I think that 's just
A: Is that just family 's lack of priority , anymore , maybe yes ,
A: we get so involved in our work lives and just , social lives and so forth .
B: Well , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I think that 's some of it .
B: But , you know , I have ,
B: uh , I , I ,
B: it 's just the way , you know , I think society is now , is that we are not , we do not have the extensive family we used to .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's more of a , you know , a smaller , smaller unit ,
B: and you know , we , we tend to try to do things , I think with our immediate family , as opposed to the extended family . Of people that we may or may not remember or know , you know , very well .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: Uh
A: It really makes an effort on , to , do this anymore .
B: Right ,
B: it requires a lot of effort to , to , to do that sort of thing .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: I mean , I , I used to enjoy going ,
B: I mean I still do kind of enjoy it ,
B: but , uh , it 's , it does not , it 's not as many people there that I really , really enjoy seeing .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: You know , I ,
B: it 's going just for the sake of getting together ,
B: I think for the family .
B: And ,
A: Do you correspond with anybody other than your mother and brother that 's in that group ? On a regular basis , not just Christmas cards .
B: Uh ,
B: Um , um , no ,
B: not really .
B: in that ,
B: but , then again , uh , well , I , you know , I have some aunts that , uh , I , I , I do .
B: That 's about
B: my mother 's sisters , you know ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: but I feel closer to them , because I kind of grew up with them .
B: But , But , uh , as , you know , for the rest of that group , no not really .
A: Right .
B: Uh , you know , and , and generally when I was growing up a lot of those people , the only time I ever saw them was at the reunion ,
B: so , uh
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: you do not really feel that that really close to them .
A: Right .
A: In my , my , uh , father 's family , we get together every year at a different location , either Dallas or Oklahoma City .
A: They had chosen Santa Barbara , California for this summer and , and did not get enough people that were willing to go that far , because most of us live either in the midwest , or like in the Texas , Oklahoma area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , so they cancelled that one and , uh , are looking next year bringing it back closer ,
A: but we have a letter , a family letter , that circulates ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it usually goes through me twice a year
A: and what you do is take out the last letter you wrote that 's on the bottom and put the , your new letter on the top ,
A: and then that 's the way it 's kept in order .
A: And then , about twice a year then you are kept up with what is going on and when you meet them at the reunion , you do not feel like , I do not know anything about this person .
A: You have , read something about what is going on and about their children and so forth .
B: That 's a good idea .
A: So , you are kind of , half way acquainted that way .
B: Right .
A: And that , that 's been a , that 's been a nice way of keeping us all aware of each other , I think .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: We tried to start that in my husband 's family .
A: His mother 's side decided they were going to have a reunion a couple of years ago ,
A: and I said , well let 's start this letter ,
A: and it just never
A: my husband 's sisters started it and sent it to us
A: and that 's as far as it got .
A: I sent it , on to the next one ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , and , but we are going in a couple of weeks to the next one , in Scottsdale , Arizona , for that family .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We are real glad we got together because since that , that time there were only like two of the , one sister and one sister-in-law of the original family left .
A: And the sister-in-law died
A: and the sister is in a nursing home ,
A: so , we are glad that we took that opportunity two years ago .
A: Okay .
A: Uh , well , since I initiated the call , I guess I 'll start off first .
A: Uh , number one , I have absolutely no problem with random testing . Uh ,
A: I spend an awful lot of time traveling on the job
A: and I feel , I would be very comfortable if they would do drug testing for , particularly airline pilots and the such .
A: I 'd feel much more comfortable than I do now , based on what I 've been hearing in the newspapers .
A: So I really don't have a problem with it .
B: Yeah . Uh ,
B: I don't either .
B: I , uh , I 've never ,
B: I don't work , at home right now .
B: I stay home with my children .
B: Uh , but my husband works
B: and they do have that at his place of employment
B: and neither of us have a problem with it .
B: We 've , particularly , like you said with the things that the airlines and , and such .
B: It 's , uh , it 's a scary thing to know that , uh , you just don't know what people are doing uh , before they go to work .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , and the , the advertisements on television lately have been so , uh ,
B: there have been so many . You know ,
B: there 's , uh
A: Yeah .
B: just about
B: like train train wrecks and things like that , that
B: I feel like ,
B: probably just for our own safety when we 're traveling and things that would be something I 'd like to know that 's going on .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , well , I happen to be , uh ,
A: my job is I 'm supervisor of personnel safety for the world 's largest paint company ,
A: so I ,
A: it 's very near and dear to me when we start talking about drug testing for random sampling and testing for cause , this type of thing .
A: And even in our field we have people that are in very high risk jobs
A: and we , at the present time , do not have random testing .
B: Um .
A: And I am pushing towards that .
A: I , I honestly feel if people have nothing to hide , they should n't have a problem with it .
B: Right .
A: And if they are trying to hide something , then I have to know that , because we 're we 're talking major liabilities .
A: Not only with themselves , but with other employees .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I really , you know ,
A: they , they 're talking about sports and sports personalities and all this stuff that I , I would much , much prefer having doctors and airline pilots tested on a random basis .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I have a real fear ,
A: but that at some point something 's going to happen .
A: And they 're showing it with AIDS ,
A: so why , you know ,
A: they they ought to start doing something with the drugs
A: So I really have no problem with it .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , it 's , it 's unfortunate , I think , that everyone does n't have that opinion .
B: Uh , some people just , uh , I 've heard some people just talking in our group of friends that they just feel it 's an invasion of privacy and things like that ,
B: but , uh , in the long run , it seems to me , it 's kind of like what they keep talking about the , uh , the AIDS testing with doctors or dentists and things and how that , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they feel that 's not fair and whatever ,
B: but , you know , those kind of things I 'd like to know myself .
A: Yes .
B: It would n't be ,
B: in my opinion ,
B: I , I 've had a lot of dental work done ,
B: and the last dentist did n't even use gloves at all ,
B: so
A: Oh , really ?
B: that kind of ,
B: yeah .
B: And , uh , so that kind of thing really kind of concerns me .
A: Well , that scares me because if that 's the way they are ,
A: I ,
A: if I were a dentist , I 'd want to be protected , too .
B: Well , you would think so .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That is , because , well ,
B: and I worked for a dentist
B: and that 's , uh , you know ,
B: you , you come in contact with a lot of , of blood and things like that
B: and it 's real , real dangerous .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I would think ,
B: but , with all the accidents , just with , with , uh , everything happening with ,
B: just
B: airlines just drive me crazy .
B: People are afraid to fly now . You know , just because of , they don't know what their pilot 's been doing and , and things like that
A: Right .
B: and ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know .
A: Well , you , where you 're located , I , I do know Texas Instruments has random drug testing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I think they 've had it for several years .
A: And their program they had , I don't think had a lot of , uh , problems associated with it ,
A: but , uh , my brother-in-law happens to work there
A: and it , it sounded very positive .
A: And I , I think it 's great .
A: I , I would like , I would encourage it .
A: I 'm pushing our company towards that . .
B: Well , and , you know , if they do find someone who , who is , uh , having a problem with drugs
B: and they can get them the help that they need . As opposed to just letting the problem go on with , without any , uh , support . And whatever ,
A: Right .
A: Exactly .
B: because a lot of people , seems like , would probably obviously are trying to hide that uh , from their employer and friends and family and things
A: Uh-huh .
B: and too many people are just dying . Particularly in our area .
A: Right .
B: I don't know what the crime is like where you are ,
B: but the crime rate here is just astronomical .
A: Ours is changing .
A: Yeah ,
A: ours , ours is changing ,
A: it 's increasing .
A: I live in a I live in a very nice suburb
A: and it 's , it 's , it 's unbelievable what , what , what 's going on and the drugs , the selling of drugs .
A: It 's just , it 's just too loose .
A: It 's too free .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I just got a piece of paper the other day , uh , that now they have these ,
B: I have two little , very little children , under two
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I got a piece of paper from , from my husband 's office ,
B: it 's talking about these , uh , drug tattoos now that they have got .
A: Really ?
B: That look like , it looks like a sticker
B: and it 's for kid ,
A: The question was on lawn and garden work .
A: Um , how do you like it ?
B: Well , I don't do much of it here .
B: I 'm from , uh , from , uh , Colorado originally
B: and there are no bugs there .
B: And I did n't mind getting in the dirt there ,
B: but , boy , I 'll tell you what ,
B: once I see these bugs around here , I 'm just kind of out of it .
A: Oh , what kind do you have ?
B: Oh , roaches and ,
A: Do they really ?
B: Oh , yes .
B: Cockroaches are awful here .
A: Oh .
B: Just awful .
B: So I ,
A: Oh , and I know somebody that lives there ,
A: and they never mentioned that problem
B: Oh , you 're kidding , you 're kidding .
B: No ,
B: it 's a
B: well , maybe they did n't mention it because it 's just kind of a fact of life around here .
B: And , uh ,
A: Oh , my .
A: They probably just take it for granted then .
B: It must be .
B: If they lived here , a lot of people I know just say , oh , I just stomp on them .
B: It does n't matter .
B: They make good fertilizer in the garden .
A: Oh , yuck
B: Me , personally ca n't ,
A: I don't have that problem , uh ,
A: it 's ,
A: mine is mainly
A: we kind of have an understanding that , uh , I , I said I 'll do inside work you do outside work .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so I get into the gardening part of it , the fun part , like putting in the annuals and things like that .
B: Uh-huh
A: But I don't like , I don't like it dirty
B: No
B: I have to , you know I have to say that 's not exactly my favorite thing either really
A: No ,
A: I don't know .
A: We got the , we got the question
A: and I thought , oh , this is going to be interesting .
A: Two bits I 'll get a man to talk to me , because they get stuck doing it all .
A: But although I do know a lot of my friends do like all the gardening work .
A: And this year we put in a new lawn in a new home
A: so , um , we 've been fighting a drought here this summer and getting into fall .
B: Huh .
A: Today we just had a lot of rain
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: so it 's kind of nice .
A: I don't know how yours has been .
B: Well , it 's been real hot here lately .
B: I mean we 've had to actually have the air-conditioning on and everything
B: but , uh ,
B: it 's supposed to rain again now , uh , this weekend .
A: Oh , I see .
B: So , then ,
A: Okay .
A: Well , we 're leaving tomorrow
A: and we 're going down to New Orleans
A: and from Ohio since we 're right near Lake Erie
A: this is going to be a switch for us for a week going down there ,
B: Yeah .
A: and I think we 'll probably experience some of your weather although I think they have more humidity .
A: But , um , as far as the gardening and things like that goes I don't know , uh , too much , too much about , uh , how much I really do enjoy it myself .
B: Yeah .
A: Do you like it at all ?
B: I , well , not here .
B: I mean it 's just , here
B: I just ca n't stand to even get out in the , uh , in the dirt
B: Just ,
A: Well , how about when you were in Colorado ?
B: Well , I liked it a little bit
B: but I did n't , uh ,
B: I was working at that time full-time and did n't have a lot of time , for that
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so that I think really , um , hampered it a little bit .
A: Well , and then , too , now like where we had the dry summer and we had to sprinkle constantly . My water bill was high .
A: And , uh , if you have that on a regular basis in Texas , I think I would go with something very dry to keep it off , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , and with children , um , you probably don't have time anyhow to , to get into it .
B: No .
B: Not really
A: It 's so , uh , okay , very good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess we 've kind of covered our subject matter , since neither one is really into gardening , are we ?
B: Sounds like
B: No ,
B: no .
B: Afraid not .
B: Uh , hopefully they 'll give a subject I like one of these times Something I really know a lot about .
A: Right .
A: Okay .
A: Right .
B: nice talking to you .
A: Nice talking with you .
B: Okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: bye .
A: Okay ,
A: so you said that you live in Coppell .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So what is your house like ?
B: It 's a two bedroom , two baths duplex .
A: Oh , well that 's neat ,
B: Brick and , uh ,
A: Uh-huh
A: is it one you 're renting or buying ?
B: No ,
B: we own it ,
B: yeah ,
B: well , our side
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: well that 's kind of neat that you can even though it 's a duplex , you can still buy .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: That 's good .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: Do you have any children ?
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
B: Do you ?
A: Yes ,
A: I have two children ,
A: and our home is really too small for us right now
B: Ours is , too .
B: We outgrew it when we moved in .
A: Yeah ,
A: we moved from an apartment that was really small ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and at the time we just had a little baby that was five months old
B: Uh-huh .
A: so we moved into this house in Garland ,
A: it 's in one of the older areas of town
B: Uh-huh .
A: and one thing I really like is it has big trees everywhere
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , lots of shade and squirrels and birds and real pretty ,
B: Um .
A: but the , the house is real small
B: Yeah .
A: it has less than a thousand square feet
B: Oh , wow .
A: yeah ,
A: it 's real little .
B: You all are cramped
A: Yeah ,
A: and now I have a daughter ,
A: now my ,
A: the one that was five months old is seven years old
B: Uh-huh .
A: and the one , I have another one that 's three and a half and have all these clothes , and toys and stuff that we 're just trying to find places to put ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: how many bedrooms is it ?
A: Well , they advertised it as a three bedroom house because it has a built on addition room , you know
B: Uh-huh
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the room that 's built on does n't have a closet
B: Oh .
A: so , um , the people that lived here before us did use it for a bedroom
B: Uh-huh .
A: but we have always just put like our computer and extra toys and books and
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , it 's kind of a catch all room
A: But it sure is nice to have it when the kids come over to play
B: Yeah .
A: they all go out there to play with the Barbies and that kind of stuff ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so .
B: How fun .
A: Yeah ,
A: that works out good .
A: And I 'm thankful I have two girls , because they 're in bunk beds ,
A: and so , you know , they can share a room and , uh , make for more space that way .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And how old 's the youngest ?
A: She 's three and a half
B: Uh-huh .
A: yeah ,
A: so , um , and right now we have their clothes on , uh , like double racks , you know , in the closet
B: Uh-huh .
A: we made a higher and a lower
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it works out fine ,
A: but they 're just about to get too tall where the dresses are beginning to drag you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , we 're going to have to figure out a new idea .
A: But we 're , we 're kind of looking around and wanting to move into a bigger home uh , hoping to be able to do that within a year or so
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: so that would be nice .
B: That 's what we 'd like to do .
A: Yeah ,
A: is Coppell a nice area to live ?
B: Oh , it 's a wonderful place to live ,
B: and they ,
B: I don't have any kids ,
B: so I don't really know ,
B: but they say that we have wonderful schools .
A: Well , I think I 've heard a lot , uh , about Coppell schools , that they 're real good
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's neat .
B: Um .
A: Do you , do you hope to have children ,
A: or are you not planning on having any ,
A: or ,
B: I don't think so ,
B: no .
A: I see .
A: Well , do you have any pets ?
B: Oh , of course , those are my kids
A: Oh , yeah .
B: I have two dogs .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , do they stay inside ,
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're inside dogs .
A: Well , that 's , that 's neat .
B: They 're my babies .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , what are the colors in your house ?
B: Uh , um , kind of a mauve and gray .
A: Oh , I bet that 's pretty .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: and then the kitchen 's kind of a , a country pink and country blue ,
B: and it 's all done in cows ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm a cow nut
A: Oh , that 's neat .
A: I like cows , too .
B: Uh-huh
A: Yeah
B: so .
A: well , our house was uh ,
A: our house is very old also
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's like thirty-seven years old
B: Wow .
A: yeah ,
A: and it was redone before we moved in , which ,
A: I 'm thankful for that ,
A: but the ,
A: it was redone at the time probably when earth tones were in
B: Yeah .
A: everything is
B: Yeah .
A: like , the carpet 's kind of a tan and brown and has , um , paneling in the living room , and lots of , lots of tans and lots of browns
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the good thing is you can bring out other colors from that
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah ,
A: you know , so , uh , that 's worked out good .
A: In the , in the kitchen they put real pretty blue and tan , um , wallpaper had done it up with blues ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so that 's nice ,
B: Oh , sounds pretty .
A: yeah ,
A: we 've enjoyed living here .
A: It 's close to my , uh , oldest daughter 's school
B: Oh .
A: and that makes it really handy , too
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and she really likes her school ,
A: so
B: Good .
A: and we are so close to shopping
A: and ...
B: That 's an important factor there
A: Yeah ,
A: how about in Coppell ?
A: I 've always imagined it kind of out , away from everything .
B: Well , you know , now we have that new mall in Lewisville
A: Oh , really ,
B: and that 's just like a mile or two from our house
A: Oh , well , that 's nice .
B: but , when we first moved to Coppell , it 's what , six years ago , we did n't even have a grocery store
A: Oh , wow ,
B: and now we have four
A: Oh .
B: and Coppell 's not really big enough to support four grocery stores
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
B: so ,
A: but it does sound like it 's definitely growing .
B: Oh , much very much .
A: Yeah .
B: In fact , it 's about the size now ,
B: I moved down here from Chicago , what , twenty-three years ago and , to Lewisville
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and Coppell 's now about the size that Lewisville was when , when I moved down here .
A: Oh , I see .
A: Well , when we first moved here , we moved here from Lubbock
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we almost moved to Lewisville ,
A: that was our second choice , yeah , behind Garland ,
B: Oh really ,
A: we , at the time we thought we might buy a mobile home ,
B: So do you have an opinion on credit cards ?
A: Um , I do
B: You do ?
A: What , what do you think about them ?
B: I think they get a lot of people in trouble .
A: Yeah ,
A: definitely .
A: I have one right now
A: and , um , I just got it about eight , six months ago
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I find that it makes it a lot easier to get things that you generally would n't get
B: Yeah ,
B: and then you don't stop to realize that , you know ,
B: you charge this for twenty , charge that for twenty , charge this for twenty ,
B: and pretty soon you owe a hundred dollars
B: and you don't stop to think about it .
A: Yeah .
B: I got in trouble when I was in the service quite a few years ago like ten to fifteen thousand dollars in trouble .
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: And then , you know , so I eventually got it all paid .
B: Now I carry one .
B: I have a gas card and a Visa card .
B: And I never use them unless I need to
A: Really ?
B: So but they ,
A: That 's good .
A: yeah ,
A: I , I made a rule with myself when I got one that if I could n't pay it in full every month that I 'd have to rip it up ,
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's ,
B: and interest rates are n't none too shallow these days anyway .
A: Yeah ,
A: but ,
B: But I know a lot of people that get in trouble with them especially , you know
B: we have ,
B: I 'm in Lubbock
B: and we have a bunch of college kids around here going to Tech ,
B: and they seem to get in trouble with them a lot .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I have , I have a couple friends too that have about three of them maxed out
A: And they they ca n't do anything but work to try to pay them off .
B: Yeah .
A: And , and , and like one of my friends she has , hers is up to nine hundred dollars
A: and she she only earns like two hundred dollars a month because she 's going to school .
B: Gee .
A: And , and so I mean that 's just enough to pay rent and buy like thirty-five dollars worth of food a month . So and , and pay for her like , like monthly fee like
A: I guess you have to pay like twenty dollars each month is the
B: Yes ,
B: something like that .
A: so all she 's paying is interest on hers every month .
B: Yeah .
A: It just seems crazy to , to me
A: but ,
B: Well , my wife got in trouble one time with hers .
B: She was making like , I don't know what she was making , forty-five dollars a month I think .
B: And fifteen dollars of it was because she was over the limit
B: and fifteen dollars of it was interest
B: so she was only paying in it fifteen dollars a month .
A: Yeah .
B: So and that was before we got married ,
B: so .
B: But it 's ,
B: you know , we sat down and talked about it and discussed it
B: and it 's , it 's come out pretty good .
B: Now we have a eighteen year old that 's fixing to get out of high school and go to college .
A: Oh , really ?
B: That 's the first thing he wanted .
A: Was a Visa card ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: So we kind of discussed that a little bit and shot that idea down right quick .
A: I bet .
B: You know , so .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I don't know .
A: I 'm about sick of mine right now .
A: I don't ,
B: But I think they 're too readily accessible
A: Uh-huh .
B: and there 's too many companies out there that are willing to give them to you and get you get you trapped .
B: I mean you can always file bankruptcy to get out of it ,
B: but that 's a lot of pain and hassle .
B: When , you know in the olden days when my parents were growing up and we could n't afford everything , we did n't have such things as credit cards .
B: We just waited until time come around that we could afford it .
A: Right .
B: And you know , we had all the necessities ,
B: so And I very seldom use a credit card on necessities .
B: I always use it for something I want not something I need .
A: Exactly .
B: So ,
A: Yeah ,
A: my parents are really good about not using credit cards .
A: They are against it
B: Yeah .
A: I don't think they like the fact that I have one either .
B: I think if card cards were as , as stringent as say a , a home mortgage loan or something like that where you have to , you know , be able to prove that you can afford this and the rest of your bills , we probably would n't have the problems we have .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Of course , we would n't have the retail market we have either
B: so I guess they trade one for the other .
A: Yeah .
B: I disagree with it ,
B: but they still trade one for the other .
A: Huh .
B: Well , that 's good .
B: I 'm ,
B: it sounds like you kind of got your head together in the credit department for ,
B: you sound pretty young ,
B: so
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm I 'm twenty right now .
B: Are you ?
B: Yeah
A: So , just going to school and , and working
A: so
B: All right .
A: it does kind of get in the ,
A: when you want something that ,
A: like last weekend was homecoming
A: and I needed a pair of shoes
B: Oh .
A: so I just went out and bought them and on my credit card .
B: Yeah .
A: I did n't really have the money to do it
A: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's pretty easy
A: Yeah
A: It sure is .
A: So do you just have two kids
A: or ,
B: Uh , we have a eighteen year old , seventeen year old , and a seven year old .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Neat .
A: I 'm from Plano , Texas .
B: Oh , are you ?
A: But right now I 'm out in Provo , Utah going to B Y U
A: so
B: Are you a , you 're a Mormon then ?
A: Yep
B: Oh , all right
A: But , this is a extra long one .
B: What 's that ?
A: They 're giving us a lot of time
B: Oh , yeah .
B: They may not , they must not have too much traffic on Saturdays
A: Yeah .
A: Have you done a lot of this ?
B: Uh , fifteen or twenty I guess .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Do you do it every day ?
B: I try to every day .
B: I , uh , I get calls at work ,
B: I get calls at home ,
B: so .
A: Well , uh , and that 's an idea that 's been around for , kicked around for a long time .
A: I don't know that it 's ever been seriously considered , uh , as far as close to passing , uh , any legislation or anything like that .
A: But , uh , I believe Israel does that , don't they for their ,
B: Uh , yes ,
B: I think so . Uh ,
A: everybody has to do , has to do something .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't
A: Or maybe , maybe theirs is , in fact , one year of military service for everyone .
A: But , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I believe that 's right .
A: Okay .
B: And , uh , and I don't know that that 's really what we 're talking about .
A: No ,
A: I don't think it 's , it 's
A: I think of that .
A: It , it could n't be .
A: Military service is not that much
A: but , the , military used to do it
A: but the idea that , uh , there are things that , that do need to be done that could be done
A: and then , uh , country would benefit from one year from , from everybody and even out the , the , uh , requirement .
B: Yeah ,
B: for , for kids in high school , it could be in the summertime .
A: Well , now that 's a thought .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , you know , um , it , it could even be done while they 're doing another job , while they 're doing , you know , a job to make money .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , it 's , uh , you know , such a grassroots idea that it ,
B: I think the family would have to be involved in it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And people would have to be convinced that , you know ,
B: I , I think the , the basic message is that giving is better than receiving
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: And that 's not the kind of society we have right now .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I 'm afraid you 're right there .
A: But , uh , but , uh , anything like this that came up whether it ,
A: it quickly would be significant industry in , in figuring out how to get around it where people ,
B: There 's lots and lots of volunteer programs
B: and , uh , but most of those are at least it , it 's my opinion that most of those involve adults . Adults who have the time to give and , and , uh , you know , the desire to , to give .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's not , uh , you know it 's not , uh ,
B: maybe the , maybe it uh ,
B: younger people feel like it 's not open to them ,
B: I don't know .
B: But it should be if it 's not .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , I suspect that yeah , that , that , that that 's not the thing . That they , that they don't feel it 's open to them
A: it 's just that they , uh , are more self-centered if you will and not , not considering , a voluntary ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it is kind of an introspective time of life .
A: Yeah .
B: But some schools , some high schools have actually started a program of like a visitation program to , uh , you know , areas economically , uh say less advantaged areas .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , they , they promote service on the part of the kids to , to , uh , some of those people .
B: So at least that 's a step in the right direction I guess .
A: Yeah .
A: yeah .
A: And , uh , now I I don't know it
A: I , I think you 're right that that 's not the , not the way that the society these days is going ,
A: and I , I think we need to , we need to try to figure out some way to , to turn that around that everybody ,
B: It 's really , it 's really unfortunate because when you do ,
B: I do volunteer work for the American Lung Association .
A: Huh .
B: And I have , have done , uh , gone to work for American Heart and just recently for the Leukemia Society .
B: And there 's , there 's no question that doing , you know , doing that kind of service you get a lot more out of it than , uh , than the people involved .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , it 's , it 's really a gift to yourself
B: and , and that 's , I think that 's a really important lesson to learn .
A: Yeah .
B: And , and maybe that 's why we have so many people in society who are not , uh , not really happy , you know .
A: Well , that could be .
B: Because if you concentrate all of your energies and efforts on yourself , you 're just kind of down the tube , you know
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: Uh , it really is better to give then to receive .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I agree with that ,
A: and , uh , and I , I , I don't know what , what has , what has set it off or what
A: but it , it certainly seems to me that , that , uh , uh , things in , in the last twenty-three years , uh , things have definitely gone towards , uh , very much the concentration on self and , and loss of , loss of perspective in terms ,
A: Hi .
A: So , uh , what was the last car repair you had ?
B: Just recently I was kind of laughing when I , when I heard the switchboard talking about the question because , uh , I had to have my , uh , radiator flushed
A: Oh .
B: and it was getting rusty .
B: And the thing that they forgot to do was to , um , to also look at the hose ,
B: and I had gone about oh , two days with my new radiator flushed
B: and the hose burst .
B: So I was stranded out on the highway
A: Oh , no .
A: Did you crack the block or what ?
B: No ,
B: I , I did n't do that thank goodness ,
B: but , uh , there seemed to be enough antifreeze in there , you know , left to do that
B: but it cost me all kind of money , you know , to have that repaired after they said they were going to , they had repaired it .
B: So that was , that was a horrible experience just recently .
A: Yeah ,
A: I see .
A: You got lucky you did n't ruin the whole engine though .
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
A: That can be pretty serious .
B: I know .
B: I know .
B: What about you ?
A: Oh , I guess it 's been awhile for me .
A: I 'd
A: it 's been about a year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I had the , uh , the water pump break on my car .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I was traveling , uh ,
A: I was going on my way home from Thanksgiving
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it broke like in the middle of nowhere .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I had to get it towed and then fixed
A: and
B: Uh-huh .
A: big pain .
B: Oh , oh , I know . I know .
B: Especially when you 're out on the highway .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's where I was .
A: Luckily someone came by and gave me a ride .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I know , well , you know , uh , living in Dallas ,
B: you know we 've got , uh , bumper to bumper eight lanes of traffic
B: and , uh , that was , that was horrible .
A: Yeah
B: You know to have the , you know ,
B: your car is fuming
B: and everything .
B: It 's already a hundred degrees
B: you don't need that too .
B: Oh , shoot
B: But my car is getting old .
B: See it 's about six years old now ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: so is mine
B: Yeah ,
B: so I got it right out of college
B: and so it 's , uh , it 's starting to show the wear and tear now .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm hoping mine gets me through .
A: I got until May until I 'm out .
A: So when I cross that one I 'll be okay .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , uh , that was my graduation present to myself ,
B: so .
A: Oh , that 's nice
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know
B: so but gosh , it 's really starting to , to wear
B: so I 've been thinking , especially now is a good time to buy a car .
A: Yeah .
B: because I ca n't , uh , I don't know if I want to , you know , pay all these repairs now to start getting it fixed when it 's starting to breakdown .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't want to do too much on mine because it will be worth more than the car is
A: and it 's not worth it
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: I agree with you there .
A: Yeah .
B: So I don't know , uh ,
B: because I , I need to have it tuned , you know , tuned up and I don't know , replace some of the belts .
B: And I was looking at the , uh ,
B: tires need to be replaced
B: and so I was thinking just a lot of money
B: I 'm ,
B: might as well buy me a new car for that .
A: Yeah ,
A: I got new tires last winter too
A: so I 'm like , well , that 's the last major purchase for this thing .
A: It 's not worth it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , you have to , in Pennsylvania , boy ,
B: you have to really have your car winterized and stuff , huh ?
A: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh
A: Yeah ,
A: we get some killer winters up here in the mountains .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , okay .
B: So ,
A: Lot of snow and a lot of cold .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , especially don't you have what , a lot of salt on the ground ?
A: Yeah ,
A: at times there 's a lot of it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You got to like clean out the underneath of your car all the time when you get a chance .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , rust and the , and the body too , huh ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I have n't had a big problem with that though .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I 've been pretty lucky there .
B: Well , I think they get the new Z-bart stuff and everything to where you can , um ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's usually pretty good .
A: You just rinse it off after the winter is over and done with it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: and go like that so .
A: Yeah .
A: I usually like to do most repairs on my own though .
B: Do you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: just because that way I know what 's wrong with my car and what it needs and what it really does n't .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Plus if something goes wrong , I know who to blame .
B: Well , I , I think I 'm getting too old for all that .
B: My , uh , I had four brothers
B: and they used to drag me out underneath the car , and stuff
B: so I can , I can do all that stuff
B: but I , I think I 'd much prefer to pay the twenty-two ninety-five to , to go have it done now
B: so I can get my hands dirty .
B: So , yeah .
B: I 'm just getting , getting to that age I guess .
B: You just don't have ,
B: your time becomes very precious
B: so working on the car is just not one of those things I want to spend my time on anymore
A: More fun things to do .
B: Absolutely , absolutely .
B: So , yeah ,
B: I 'm trying to , you know ,
B: I just need one ,
B: I had two cars there for a while
B: so I would n't have to worry about which car was going to run .
A: Well , that 's nice .
B: And yeah ,
B: so but it became a hassle trying to keep up and maintain both of them .
A: Yeah .
B: And yeah ,
B: so that ,
A: One is bad enough
B: Yes ,
B: one was bad enough .
B: But I think I got rid of the wrong one
B: I soon , I need a lot of repairs done on , on this one
B: so yeah ,
B: that was , uh , that was something else
B: Well , are our five minutes up ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I was just wondering that
B: I , I did n't , I did n't set the time or anything to , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I did n't either .
B: Yeah ,
B: put ,
A: Yeah ,
A: this must be a , a hard category .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I guess . Um , you know ,
B: unless you 're , um , you know , big do-it-yourselfer . Um , to , you know , fix up your own cars and , and things like that .
B: So , but I guess they were talking about experiences .
B: You know , I , uh , uh , I did ,
B: my parents live in Ohio
B: so I , I do know something about the , you know , the really cold weather .
B: And , uh , I 've always lived down here in the south ,
B: and , oh , I took my car up there to their house
B: and , um , I guess I had a crack in the block ,
B: and when I got up there the car ,
A: All right , uh , well ,
A: let 's see ,
B: How old are you Lisa ?
A: I 'm twenty .
B: Okay .
A: How old are you ?
B: I 'm older .
A: Older
B: Older than you are .
A: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: we are supposed to talk about places we like to go .
B: So I 'm going ,
B: and where are you from , where are you calling from ?
A: I 'm calling from , uh , Provo , Utah ,
A: but I 'm from Plano , Texas .
B: Oh , you are from Plano .
B: My sister lives in Plano .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yes ,
B: her husband is the new Director of Admissions at , uh , University of Texas at Dallas .
A: Oh , wow .
B: Yeah ,
B: so ,
B: Anyway , so , where 's your favorite place to go ?
A: My grandparents live there .
A: That 's generally our usual summer vacation .
B: Where in Arizona ?
A: Uh , Tempe .
B: Okay ,
B: I 've never been to Tempe .
A: So ,
B: That 's where I 'd like to go .
B: What do you like about Tempe ?
A: Uh , mainly just being with family is it .
A: We just hang out
A: and my grandparents have a pool
A: so we go swimming
A: and , uh ,
B: Pretty hot is n't it , in the summer ?
A: Yeah
A: but we keep cool just by going swimming
A: and it 's fun to be with my cousins .
A: They 're up there also , my grandparents and my cousins .
B: That 's good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So ,
B: Been to Hawaii ?
A: No ,
A: have you ?
B: Yes ,
B: in fact , I just got some reservations .
B: I 'm going to go for , uh , almost two weeks this winter .
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: Yes .
B: It 's the longest ,
B: well actually I lived there ,
B: so I was there longer ,
B: but two weeks is the longest vacation I 'll have ever taken there ,
B: so I 'm kind of looking forward to that one .
A: Wow .
A: Around Christmas time ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: in March .
A: Oh .
B: We 're going to go in March after my children 's birthdays and get all that business out of the way .
A: Wow .
B: Yeah ,
B: so I think , I would like to go to Arizona .
B: I mean , I was in Phoenix in January , last January
B: but it was rainy and icky .
A: Oh , really ?
B: It was the coldest it 's been there ever in January
B: I think . It 's very cold .
A: So , do you travel a lot
B: But , I would like to go to Tempe .
A: or ,
B: Do we travel a lot ?
B: Uh , some , yeah .
B: Well , I 've been a , I was a travel agent .
A: Oh .
B: I mean , I have been up until just a few months ago .
B: But I 'm thinking of going back to work
A: Huh .
B: Yeah .
A: So you know a lot of good vacation spots , huh .
B: I I know a lot of good places to go .
B: But you definitely need to go to Hawaii .
B: Very definitely .
A: That 's your favorite ?
B: Yes ,
B: it is my favorite .
B: My husband has n't been to Europe yet
B: and I 'd like to take him there .
B: And , but he 's traveled all over the United States
B: and I have n't .
B: Like , I have n't been down south .
B: I 'd like to go to New Orleans .
B: Have you been there ?
A: I have n't .
A: Where , where do you live ?
B: We , I live in Yakima , Washington .
A: Wow .
B: So it 's cold and rainy today .
B: It 's yucky .
A: Um .
B: But we 've had some pretty nice weather .
B: We played tennis outdoors until last week ,
B: so that 's a pretty good deal .
A: Um .
B: So do you go to school in Provo , Utah ?
A: I do .
B: Do you use NuSkin skin care .
B: They 're located in Provo .
A: I work for NuSkin
B: Do you ?
A: Yes .
B: I 'm a NuSkin person .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I sell NuSkin , too .
B: I , I am my only
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: and best
B: not only and best
B: but I 'm my best customer .
A: Great
B: Since we 're not supposed to talk about this , though , is there anything more intensive for the eye area than the eye cream ?
A: Uh ,
B: Do you know ?
A: I don't ,
A: probably , maybe the rejuvenating cream is the only other thing I would use .
B: I have that , too .
B: I 'm forty-two ,
B: I need something ,
B: I need more .
A: Than the intensive eye ?
B: Yeah .
B: I did n't know if there was anything else .
B: And I use the Celltrex .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But anyway ,
B: well , yes ,
B: NuSkin is wonderful .
A: Good ,
A: yes .
B: I think it 's a wonderful product .
B: Do you use it ?
A: I do ,
A: yeah ,
A: we get free products every month
A: so ,
B: Oh , my gosh .
B: That 's great .
A: Right , right
A: now I 'm getting about sixty bucks a month , free products
A: so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: oh , yeah .
A: I 've worked there about a year .
B: That 's good .
B: Are they good to work for ?
A: Yes ,
A: they 're wonderful to work for .
B: That 's great .
A: Yep
B: Anyway , so we 're supposed to be talking about places to go
B: and you have not been to Europe .
B: Do you go to school ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Do you ski ?
A: I ski , yes .
A: I 've ,
B: Ski ,
B: you probably ski very well in Utah .
A: No ,
A: I don't
A: Actually since I grew up in Texas I 've only been here about two years and have gone skiing about three times . well , five times each season .
B: Uh .
B: Why did you move to Utah ?
B: You 're going , oh , you are going to school ? At B Y U ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I ,
B: is that where B Y U is ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yep .
B: Okay ,
B: I know some people that went to B Y U .
B: That 's great .
B: Pretty good .
A: I do like to ski .
B: Pretty , pretty down there . Huh ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I said I do like to ski .
B: So , where , have you skied ?
A: And it 's , it 's kind of nice being up here just because it 's all like a vacation in itself when you get to go .
B: Sure .
A: If you like that kind of thing
B: Sure ,
B: so you 're a sophomore . Or junior ?
A: I am actually a junior . Beginning of my junior year .
B: You 're a junior .
B: Good for you .
A: So ,
B: What are you studying ?
A: Nursing .
B: Good for you .
B: You sound like a girl that has it together .
B: I would just encourage you to do a little traveling , though , before you get married .
B: Because when you get married , you wo n't have the money or the time .
A: You think ,
A: I know .
B: So just , you know ,
B: don't , don't be in any hurry .
A: I 'm not , I 'm not .
B: You really should go to Europe .
B: I went to Europe for six weeks after I graduated from college
B: and that was just ,
B: I , I mean I could have had that or a down payment on a new car
B: and I took the trip .
B: And
A: And it was great ?
B: uh , I traveled with a group of sixteen other students .
B: Actually they , there was two other graduating seniors besides myself ,
B: and we just had a ball .
B: We stayed at ,
A: How long did you get to stay there ?
B: Uh , six weeks .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah .
B: It was wonderful ,
B: so you should think about doing something like that .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I just had a friend that got back from Europe
A: and she was there like all winter semester .
A: We 're supposed to talk about crime in the city .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , seems like all big cities have plenty of that nowadays , does n't it ?
B: Well , uh , I ,
B: that 's ,
B: sure .
B: Uh , I , I think it 's
B: statistics , obviously , vary greatly .
B: I always thought of Dallas as being a fairly safe place .
A: Well , it is ,
A: but our crimes up here , uh , as I think it must be in most cities now ,
A: but , uh , I was listening to the news the other day
A: and they said they thought a lot of it , the reason it was up so was because of the , uh , so many people are without work nowadays ,
A: economy 's so bad
B: Do you really believe that ?
B: I mean , it , it 's been up every year for many years
B: and the economy has n't been , this bad for so long , has it ?
A: That 's a good point
A: That 's just what they quoted over the news .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know if I believe that or not ,
A: but , it , it does seem up
A: and ,
B: What kind of newspaper do you get down there ?
A: What kind ?
B: Yeah .
A: Well , we got a , I think we got a pretty good newspaper .
A: Uh , we have two , the MORNING NEWS and the , uh , TIMES HERALD .
B: Uh-huh .
A: MORNING NEWS seems to have the largest circulation .
A: I think it 's a pretty good ,
A: it 's a locally owned paper .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The HERALD is owned , I think , by the TIMES out of , uh , L A , or somewhere .
B: Yes .
A: But ,
B: do they , do they play up the local crime angles
B: or or do they ,
A: Well , they don't ,
A: no ,
A: not really , uh ,
A: they don't play it up , I don't think .
A: Uh , but there , there is too much of it , you know , uh too many homes broken into .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: We had our , our , fact about , uh ,
A: last year sometime our home was broken into .
B: Really ?
A: We ,
B: So this is a topic of personal interest .
A: Yeah ,
A: we , uh , uh ,
A: I did n't think ours ever would be burgled into , burgled ,
A: but , so many in our neighborhood had been ,
A: and , uh , because we live on a corner and back up to a real , uh , highly traveled main street .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , we were , so , uh ,
B: So , so you saw this happening in your neighborhood
B: and you figured it would n't happen to you .
A: Sort of , yeah .
A: And I never did get a security system ,
A: but since that happened , I certainly have .
B: Yeah ,
B: what kind of system do you have ?
A: It 's , uh , uh , I guess excuse me , just a standard . Uh , with the , uh , all the doors and the , uh , infrared thing , you know , motion detector . Pretty standard .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Is , Is this , is this one with some company that , that services you and takes your calls and all that stuff ?
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
A: It 's monitored and all that .
B: Yeah .
A: And ,
B: Well , is that a necessary feature to have somebody , you know , at the other end of the line
B: or is it enough just to have a thing that makes loud noise ?
A: I think , uh , the thing that makes a lot of noise would , would suffice .
B: Yeah .
A: I really do .
A: But , uh , this deal that was part of it for , you know , three years or so to pay the unit off or whatever .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , but it , uh ,
A: the monitoring is not that bad , though
A: because , uh , uh , we 've goofed it up , you know ,
A: several times you 'll hit the wrong key , not intentionally or something
A: and and they call back pretty quickly ,
A: so I guess it 's , you know , I think it 's all right .
A: But I ,
A: to answer your question , I think , uh uh , I think , uh , that is a pretty good deterrent in itself ,
B: Yeah .
A: whether it ,
B: so you got a sign up there that says you got this alarm system
A: Uh-huh .
B: And what if a burglar comes along and cuts your phone line ?
A: Well , it 's got a back up system that does n't work supposedly . uh , that if it 's cut supposedly it notifies them anyway Supposedly .
B: How does it do that ?
A: Who knows , you know .
A: But that 's a selling point .
A: And I think they 're probably , I think it probably does these things or supposedly pretty good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Boy , they sure advertise them , you know , so many of them nowadays .
B: Sure .
A: But , uh , well don't , don't you all have a pretty high crime rate up there ?
B: Well , yeah , uh ,
A: I 'm not saying it 's any higher than anybody else 's .
A: Down here , we seem to ,
A: or , or not here ,
A: but the statistics seem to say that .
A: I don't know .
B: I , I think it 's the murder capital of the country now .
A: Is that right ?
B: Yes .
A: I would gather probably from drugs .
B: Absolutely .
A: And I think that 's the reason it 's so high everywhere .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I don't think there 's anyplace ,
A: used to ,
A: years ago , you thought , well , these little small cities and all , would n't have that problem ,
A: but they do .
B: Yeah .
A: We 've had relatives that their children were just as involved in it , uh , as anyone , you know .
B: so , what 's the solution ?
A: That 's a good question .
A: I don't know ,
A: I don't know what the solution is .
A: I really don't .
B: And all these politicians make , make hay over , you know being anticrime ,
A: Yeah .
B: but they have n't seemed to have changed anything .
A: Yep .
A: and nothing seems to change .
A: And , uh , I 'm not sure that anything will because these , if something could happen to make these people not want to buy it
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , but , they want to buy it ,
A: so ,
B: Yeah .
A: Supply and demand .
A: Long as somebody wants to buy it , somebody going to provide it for them
A: So , I don't know , I don't got , you know , I don't know what the solution is ,
A: I really don't
B: Yeah .
A: I don't think anyone does , in fact .
B: Yeah ,
B: what ,
A: Okay ,
A: well , do you have a pet ?
B: I have two cats . And do , and , oh , and two fish .
A: Two cats ,
A: you 're lucky .
A: Your two fish .
B: And what do you have ?
A: Well , my husband ,
A: you know , how , sometimes when you marry someone that you get along on everything except one major thing .
B: Oh , no .
A: My husband is a hunter , fisherman , outdoorsman , Marlboro type person who had to have a sporting dog .
A: So we have a black Labrador .
B: Ooh .
A: Beautiful , gorgeous black Labrador ,
A: but to me , he belongs up in the field , you know , in the ranch , in the farm
A: and ,
A: Well , because we finally negotiated that I was losing my mind , uh , he sleeps in the laundry room
A: and then he goes out for the day .
A: But this , this is a beautiful dog
A: and he is wonderful with our little girls
A: and he is , he 's , comes from a purebred line
A: and there 's nothing you could say bad about him , except that I was more of a cat or a small dog person that you could sit in the chair and cuddle .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: And this is huge .
A: You know , course , when he runs around the yard , he just digs ,
A: he does n't know that he 's tearing up things ,
A: but he does .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And the worst part that I had with him , he 's , he 's three now was when he was , uh , about eight months old
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I did not know what to expect from a dog having not had one ,
A: and I left him in the kitchen with the little baby gates up while I was gone for about an hour .
A: And I came home
A: and he had ripped my wallpaper off my wall .
B: Oh , my word .
A: And it was in the floor
A: and I just about lost it
A: and I called
A: and I said , come home and get your dog .
A: And so , he said , well , puppies just chew when they 're nervous and I , well , I wish you had told me you know ,
B: Oh , dear .
A: and it was about eight months later , he ate a piece of the linoleum .
A: He kept picking at it
A: and I did n't
A: the , the tile in the kitchen and picked a hole in it
A: So the last thing he did was , when I had sat out a whole lot of begonias in the backyard , and he dug them all up and brought them to the porch .
A: And I told my husband ,
A: I said , you know , it 's either me or the dog ,
A: and he looked at me like , well , you know
B: Good-bye
A: He loves this dog
A: and every night when he comes home from work , he hugs it and talks to him
A: and he 's a good dog ,
A: so it 's one of those things I 'm just having to get used to
A: and that 's why I laughed when they called with the topic .
A: I thought , oh , boy , do I have a pet
A: But , I , I grew up with cats
A: and I 'm very comfortable ,
B: I love my cats .
A: Yeah .
B: I had one cat for eighteen years .
B: I got her when I lived in Hawaii .
A: Oh .
B: Before I even got married I had my cat .
A: She 's old .
B: Well , she , I had to have her put to sleep last June .
A: Is n't she ?
A: Oh , I started to say
A: then you broke your heart .
B: Oh , it was awful ,
B: it was just awful .
A: Oh .
B: But , and she just sat there on my lap , you know .
A: Oh .
B: She just , just waited
B: and ,
A: Bless your heart .
B: Oh , it was awful .
A: That makes me feel so bad .
B: But her hair ,
B: but the bad thing was , though , she would pee in my husband 's shoes .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , no
B: You know , and she just liked his shoes
B: and he 'd have these dress hundred dollar shoes .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , no
B: Oh , it was just bad .
B: And my closet
B: and it was , oh , something .
A: Oh , that 's awful ,
A: I never heard of that before .
B: Oh , it was terrible .
B: And once she did it , you know , then she would , I mean , she would n't ,
B: if our shoes sat side by side , she would pee in my husband 's shoes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She must have known he did n't like her or something .
A: Or the smell or something .
B: Oh , anyway , I , I ,
B: and I would shut , I would bar the closet doors , and would uh , clean the carpets
B: and
A: Uh-huh .
B: oh , dear , it was just awful .
A: Well , now , does your cat sleep in the house ?
B: That was very funny .
A: They are , they are house cats .
B: I , uh , well , I have two cats right now .
A: Yeah .
B: And , of course .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: good .
B: They sleep with my kids .
B: My kids , my , my fourteen year old son has an extra pillow on his bed just for the cat .
A: Oh .
A: But the cat does n't destruct does it ?
A: See , it does n't do anything .
B: Oh , no , I I 'm not going to have a dog .
A: See .
B: We 've had two dogs
B: and , uh , they both got ran over . After we had them for several years , just nice little outside dogs
A: Oh , no .
B: but
A: Yeah .
B: were just my kids ' friends ,
B: they would go they would go with me when I would go running
B: and and the last one got hit , uh , as she was following my , one of my sons across the road to the school .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , no .
B: It was awful .
B: It was just ,
A: Oh , that is .
B: And it just , it 's too heartbreaking
B: but they do dig up
B: and they just , they just wreck things
B: and I 'm not a dog person .
A: They do wreck things .
A: Well , I 'm not either .
B: Ooh .
A: I 'm not either
A: and it 's just been ,
B: I would n't want a Lab .
B: It sounds beautiful ,
B: but ,
A: He 's beautiful
A: but it 's just one of those concessions , I just had to make ,
A: but I kind of ignore him .
A: Now today 's the first cold we 've had in Texas
A: and it 's really cold and drizzly
A: and it 's freezing
B: Um .
A: and people are doing their fires
A: and I brought him in because he 's just a wet mess out there
A: and he 's in the laundry room with this little carpet square
A: and he 's just huddled up like , if you 'll be nice to me , I wo n't make any trouble , you know .
A: And then my daughters both have hamsters .
B: Oh .
A: And I , I ,
B: And how old are your girls ?
A: They 're eleven and eight
A: and I gave in at Christmas
B: Oh , yeah .
A: and they have , they keep their cages real clean .
A: It always smells of cedar
A: and they just sleep and eat bits of apple and carrots and ,
B: Sure .
A: I think they 're cutting us off .
B: No ,
B: that 's
A: Oh .
B: somebody 's trying to cut in on my line
B: and I don't want to answer .
A: Oh , okay .
B: I 'll just wait .
A: Okay .
B: No ,
B: I 've , I 've got incoming calls
B: and I don't know why , calling .
A: Oh , okay .
B: I , I hate to cut it off ,
B: I think they would cut us off ,
A: I understand .
B: so we 'll just wait .
A: Okay ,
A: well
B: Whoever it is will call back .
A: they 'll cut us off pretty soon .
B: Well , it 's somebody calling for my kids , you know ,
B: jeez .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
B: Actually , it 's my son ,
B: I know it is .
B: My older boy . He never likes to come home from school .
B: Anyway that 's what we have ,
B: and I have , I 've tried to start a fish tank
A: How does ,
B: and I keep losing all my fish .
A: In the salt water ?
A: Salt water or ,
B: No
A: Yeah .
B: just regular water .
A: Yeah ,
A: they just raised our taxes up here about a year ago .
B: Well , they 've , uh , statewide raises ,
B: they raise ours it seems like constantly .
B: We just , uh , passed a new one , uh ,
B: fortunately or unfortunately it does n't go into effect because we did not get the United Airlines .
A: Oh , right
A: Indianapolis got that , did n't they ?
B: Right .
B: And , uh , we had passed a , a provisional one that if , if it did , if they did locate here we would raise our taxes .
B: But , uh , at least we thought we 'd get something back from that .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , how do you feel about taxes ?
A: Well , it seems like a big politics game
A: like up here , last year , the governor was up for re-election
A: so he said the budget was fine ,
A: the state did n't have any money
A: and then right after he won the election he said we owed a lot of money
A: so they raised all our taxes .
A: And now it 's election time again
A: so they 're trying to lower them .
B: Oh .
A: So they 're just talk about lowering them
A: but they never do ,
A: they just keep raising them .
B: I 've never seen taxes really go down .
A: Yeah ,
A: me neither .
A: Well , actually they 're going to here because they did n't have a budget for so long
A: so they raised the tax rate real high for the last three months of this year
A: and they 're going to lower it for next year .
B: Oh .
A: I guess they figure they 're going to make up for all they did n't get when they should have had a budget .
B: I hope they put that in writing
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: they say they 're going to lower ,
A: but I 'll see .
B: I feel like the middle class people are supporting the nation and , uh , that the rich are not paying their share
B: and of course the poor ca n't afford it either ,
B: but , uh , I really feel like
B: and , and I feel like , you know ,
B: I 'm a middle class person income wise anyway
B: and , uh , I get tired of supporting the whole country .
A: Yeah ,
A: so do I .
A: I mean , I 'm a , a middle class barely ,
A: but , uh , I don't think the rich are paying less , not enough ,
A: I think they 're paying too much .
B: You think the rich are paying too much ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean if you 're in the , the three , three percent bracket and they take a third of your check every month , well , that 's ridiculous .
A: Why bother working ?
B: Well , I don't know many rich that don't have enough tax breaks to ,
B: I mean , I 'm talking about the really rich .
A: Well , they should just tax everybody the same amount no matter what you make .
B: Right .
A: That would be fair .
B: Now I 'll go along with that . You know ,
A: Yeah
A: no loopholes or anything .
A: Everybody pays ten percent or fifteen or whatever .
B: Right .
B: Now , I think that would be fair .
A: Right .
B: And I , you know ,
B: no , no ifs , ands and buts , you know ,
B: no big elaborate laws that say , uh , you know , call for a lot of enforcement or a lot of review .
B: It 's just , you know , you make this , you pay ten percent .
B: If you make a hundred dollars , you pay ten percent ,
B: if you make a million dollars , you pay ten percent .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's the way our state tax is here .
A: I think it 's pretty fair .
B: Our state taxes are somewhat based on the federal .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , they have not gotten it where the withholding is accurate .
A: Oh
B: So , and , and you withhold no matter what you do ,
B: they withhold what they 're supposed to and at the end of the year it 's not enough .
A: Oh , great ,
A: so you ought to be saving up some every month to make up for all what they should be taking out .
B: Right ,
B: so now , you know , when you sign your W-Four form or whatever , W-Two whatever that is , then they always say , do you want a extra amount for state . Which is ridiculous ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it 's been that way for the last probably ten years .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess you have to check yes
A: or you come down to the end of the year
A: and you don't have it to give it to them .
B: Right ,
B: unless you have a lot of deductions .
A: Yeah .
B: But , you know , if you have a lot of federal deduction , it ends up hurting you state wise .
A: Really ?
B: And you end up owing , you know ,
B: you may get nine hundred dollars back from federal
B: and you 're going to owe fifteen hundred in state .
A: Ouch
B: And , uh , it 's , it 's just ridiculous .
B: But , I , I don't know .
B: I 've ,
B: they just came up with a twenty-five percent increase on personal property in , in Oklahoma county and that is a chunk .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'll say
B: I mean twenty-five percent increase .
A: is ,
A: Uh , I guess , uh , I 've always been kind of interested in , in , space and stuff .
A: I 've , read a lot of the , the , uh , astronomy books and , and stuff like that . Uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Have you been following the , uh , the progress of the space health code ?
A: Uh , to a degree .
A: I have n't kept up as , uh , much as I would like ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 've just been so busy , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I barely get a chance to read a newspaper now and then ,
A: so .
B: Yeah .
B: I think it 's pretty exciting that they can , uh ,
B: it would be interesting to see if they can find , uh , other planets that are , that will be more habitable to , uh , you know , uh , humans
B: and , uh , yeah ,
B: I think I would be very interested in space travel in the future if , uh , if it , you know , if it is at all possible .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I would n't even mind , uh , being a pilot on one ,
A: or right now
A: but I 'm probably getting a little too old for that .
B: Well , I know if they make the advances that they have been making , that , uh , maybe age will no longer , age or even physical , uh , abilities may not be , uh , a barrier anymore .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , they , they just made leaps and jumps .
A: I think a lot of our , our technology we have is , is quite a bit due to lot of the space travel , uh , uh , equipment and stuff that ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I agree . Uh ,
B: as a matter of fact we 're the ones that I have been to Houston to , to , you know , to visit the , uh , space center out there ,
B: and , uh , one of the big advances that we use every day now is Velcro
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , that vacuum , uh , little space program was one of the big , you know , backers of that .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's amazing , you know ,
B: you ,
B: it 's hard to imagine what life was like without it now .
A: Yeah .
A: I don't know if you ever watch Gallagher , you know ,
A: he 's one of the comedians
A: and and , you know , he , he talks a lot on , on Velcro .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I 've seen him before .
A: what would we do without it ?
B: Yeah .
B: we were talking about that just the other day .
B: What did we do without it back then ?
A: Yeah .
B: I guess there was a lot of buttons and a lot of zippers and snaps .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's , there 's a lot of , a lot of little things that have come up .
A: I know maybe some of the big things that , uh , uh ,
A: concentrated foods for one maybe
A: I Uh , I don't know
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
A: it 's also just I 've , I 've often pictured , uh , in my mind , you know , what it would be like to just , what would you find if you just kept on going , kept on going ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's true .
A: Uh , I guess our minds are so , uh , uh , what is it ? Uh , finite
B: Uh-huh .
A: when we try and picture the universe as an infinite object , and it 's hard to , to see , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I always thought well , what do you do hit a brick wall , eventually .
A: It 's hard to consider that something could go on indefinitely .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , that is , uh , that is something that would be hard to think about .
B: I agree .
B: You know like you say we 're used to finite things
B: and something that is infinite and just incomprehensible .
A: Yeah .
A: But ,
B: But , uh , yeah ,
B: I would like to see them , uh , do more in that area to make space travel more , uh , something that the ordinary person can , uh , enjoy .
A: Yeah .
A: I know it 's I think it 's in people 's nature to be the first to do something .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I , I 'd love to be the first one to step on a planet or some like , you know ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: me too .
B: I would n't even mind being not so much being first but just , uh , get out there and , and just explore .
A: Yeah .
B: I think , uh , it 's in everyone 's nature to some degree to want to get out and explore something they have n't , or experience something , you know , indifferent .
A: Huh .
A: I think that 's what made us , uh , progress to the state we are is our curiosity .
B: Oh , sure .
B: Sure .
B: Of course .
B: That 's true .
A: There must be some better better way of doing this .
A: A better place to be or whatever , you know
A: it 's ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: So you , you are always looking for something better .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: I know at work , uh , people always complain to me
A: I , well , you are always whining
A: and , it 's , I 'm always looking for something better . Uh ,
B: Yeah
A: There 's a better way of doing it than what we are doing it .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
B: And if you are just content with being , you know , with the way things are then , you know , then you must lead , lead a pretty dull life .
A: Yeah .
B: Because if
A: Well , they are always finding easier ways
A: and , you know , just because they don't talk about it or something like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they are doing it you know , unconsciously .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess , uh , you don't really think about it too much .
B: I guess you are always finding newer ways and better ways of doing stuff
B: but
B: it , it 's in a subconscious , you know , thing .
B: You know , somewhere they can sit down and write down what , you know , things that you 've improved upon ,
B: you probably would n't have a pretty good list .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But you just don't think about them .
A: Right .
B: And that 's true .
B: I think , uh , you know ,
B: we 've gotten different programs at work , you know , to , to , uh , make it visible to management that we are doing things better ,
B: So how many , um , credit cards do you have ?
A: Um , I think I 'm down to one .
B: Oh , my gosh ,
B: I wish I was that way .
B: Is that why you said I had more experience than you ?
A: Well , no .
A: I was pulling your leg .
B: Oh .
B: Well , how , how do you use your credit card ?
B: I mean , do you just keep it in reserve ,
B: or .
A: I , I , well ,
A: the way I 'd like to try and use it is , um , you , you , you make your purchases at , at prime buying time
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then you pay that off and don't use it until , uh , it 's paid off .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's , that 's my ideal way
B: Uh-huh .
B: How , how do you use it ?
A: Emergencies come along ,
A: and I and I use it .
B: Yeah
B: that 's understandable , exactly .
A: Uh , like , uh , my car , uh , had a major problem , and seven hundred dollars ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and uh , things just come up
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: and you just never get to use it the way you 'd really like to .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Well , actually I do have quite a few more credit cards than you have
B: Um , and I use them , you know ,
B: like my American Express I use for , you know , gas , things like that ,
B: and I pay that off monthly ,
B: and then , um , some other credit cards , like store credit cards , you know , I do have them up there a little bit ,
B: but , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I try not to use them too often .
B: But living in this area , uh , like I live fifteen miles west of Washington , D C
A: Um .
B: it 's a very expensive area
A: Yeah .
B: So , sometimes you have no other choice if you need to buy something .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I , I know I was up in there and a lot of credit cards ,
A: and I was just starting to get to where it was getting me in trouble
B: Right .
A: so we just disposed of them , paid them off , and got out of it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I just .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well that was good that you had the opportunity to do that .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Now are you married , that you both , you and your wife use a credit card ,
B: or ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , now we pretty much just pay cash for as much as we can there .
B: Uh-huh . Um .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Our , our only credit card is Sears ,
A: so and I have that for automotive purposes .
B: Uh-huh , um .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: Well , well that 's great .
B: Um , everyone I know here uses , um , credit cards like they 're going out of business to be honest with you .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's just too easy , basically , uh , just get yourself in trouble with those .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: the only other one I have ,
B: I have like a Diner 's Club through my , um , where I work
A: I see .
B: so that I use , because I travel some .
B: So I use that ,
B: and I don't really have to worry about that , because I only use it for business ,
B: so I automatically have the money to pay it off .
A: Yeah .
B: But . Um .
A: Uh , I would n't mind , uh , you know , getting back into one if they would , you know ,
A: you start out at a low limit ,
A: and then they just keep wanting you to increase your limit
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and if I can get one that 'll keep my limit at five hundred and I can never go over that or something like that , then that 's fine ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but they
A: eventually gets up there to five thousand , ten thousand , whatever fifty thousand
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: forget it ,
A: I don't want that .
B: Um , the temptation 's too great .
A: Yeah .
B: Um .
A: So , I don't know ,
A: just , uh ,
A: writing checks is just as easy I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: that 's true ,
B: but . So , I guess , uh , we 've kind of exhausted this , uh , topic
A: Yeah ,
A: well , really ,
A: what , what can you .
B: Yeah ,
B: you ca n't say too much about it really .
A: Other than , you use them or you don't use them .
A: You like them
A: or you don't like them .
A: So .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess , uh , they don't care if we end it early .
A: So , uh , hopefully , uh , you have a good Thanksgiving .
A: That 's coming up ,
A: and . And , then , uh , maybe we 'll talk again .
B: Okay ,
B: you , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: may be ,
B: you 're the furthest person , actually , that I 've talked .
B: I 've talked to a lot of people in Texas .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Texas is the big one .
B: Yeah ,
B: so .
A: Okay , then .
A: Well , bye now .
B: okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: So , how do you feel about capital punishment ?
B: Well , I , I 'm not really certain how I , uh , I 'm not certain that , that it does a lot of good . I mean , that it ends up , ends up effectively , uh , uh , uh , avoiding a lot of the crimes that have capital punishment penalties .
A: Right ,
A: you don't think ,
B: Yet , on the other hand , uh , I don't know ,
B: I mean , there is things that
B: seems like it 's , it 's , it 's the right thing to do .
B: Now , you know , I mean somebody , a serial killer or somebody goes in and machine guns , you know , fifty , fifty children in a school yard ,
B: you kind of ,
B: I don't know .
B: What about yourself ?
A: I , uh , I have the same dilemma , I think . Uh ,
A: it 's , you know , it seems right sometimes
A: and then other times , you don't know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh ,
B: I mean , people , like ,
B: I ,
B: it 's been ,
B: I mean , like the Arab societies and stuff end up , uh , having effective , effective punishments
B: and , and they 're extremely severe .
B: Uh , I , you know , I think to a certain degree , the reason that it , it does n't serve as a deterrent , uh , may be because you never know if it 's going to be applied . Right ,
B: unlike , uh , like in , in Arab societies . If you get , get caught stealing , they chop off your hand
B: and and you walk around the rest of your life with one hand
A: Right .
B: and everybody knows exactly what , what for .
A: Right .
B: Uh , and , you know , and here , with our court system and , and ways of sort of screwing it around and stuff you can , you can kind of always count on the fact ,
B: or , or there is a good chance you 're going to get off .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And also , it does n't seem like it does that many harm ,
A: I mean , sure , their life is taken ,
A: but they 'd spend the rest of their life in jail anyway ,
A: so I think sometimes they 'd prefer just to get it over with
A: so it 's more of the easy way out than making them pay for the for the you know , what they 've done .
B: some people ,
B: Yeah .
B: Except that , I mean , the , the average cost to to society of having somebody in jail for all their life is , is extremely high . I mean , something , I , I was amazed at . Uh , uh , per year ,
B: it 's something like twenty thousand dollars per inmate per year . To keep people in jail .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , you know , and it 's sort of a sort of a crass perspective on the usage of capital punishment ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but on the other hand , uh , uh , you know , I don't , I don't know if it 's that is , that is that serious that they 're really never going to be out of jail , uh ...
A: Right ,
A: but then again , also , you ca n't bring back lives that have been taken anyway ,
A: so uh , it 's ,
B: Uh-huh
A: it does n't ,
A: it seems by , that by ,
A: I don't know ,
A: does n't ever really , uh ...
B: Oh , I know ,
B: I mean , you ca n't ,
B: it does n't , Taking , taking one more life does n't , does n't , does n't get things back the way they were , right .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: It does n't bring back every ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't know , I , I don't , I really don't know , uh ,
A: What state are you in ?
B: I 'm in Texas .
A: Oh , really ?
A: In Dallas ?
B: No ,
B: I 'm in Austin .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Where , where are you calling from ?
A: Uh , right now I 'm in Utah ,
A: but I 'm from Plano , Texas .
B: Oh , I see ,
B: uh-huh .
A: So , uh , uh , what are the laws like in Texas ?
B: It 's , Texas is , has , is one of the , one of the well ,
B: I guess there is more and more states that are , that are going back to capital punishment .
B: Uh , Texas has had it for a while .
B: It 's one of the quickest ,
B: it , it ,
B: once it was , it was reallowed ,
B: I think it was outlawed for a while , but , uh , by the supreme court , I mean , or , the interpretation of the constitution
B: and it seems like everybody stopped
B: and then , and then once they sort of reallowed it , Texas was one of the first to , uh , to actually , uh , implement it again .
A: Oh , really ?
B: They do it by , uh , by , do it by lethal injection .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I 'm originally from Kansas
B: and in Kansas also , uh , they , they almost immediately put back capital punishment
B: and , uh , there they do it by hanging .
A: Wow .
B: Still , uh , they have ,
B: I still remember the , the , the movie , uh , IN COLD BLOOD .
B: I don't know if you 've ever ,
B: I 'm sure you 're familiar with it ,
B: but , have you seen the movie ?
A: I have n't ,
A: no .
B: Yeah .
B: That way .
A: And they do it that way ?
B: Yeah ,
B: well , they , they show it ,
B: not , not ,
B: I mean , the , the movie was made in , like , nineteen sixty-two or something like that
A: Huh .
B: and so it 's , uh , it 's not particularly graphic ,
B: but on the other hand it 's , it 's fairly impressive to watch them , you know , walk into the room with gallows .
B: It 's kind of a barn like structure .
A: Wow .
A: I think they 're there ,
A: I think that capital punishment is , is , uh , in in Utah also .
A: I 'm not really familiar .
B: Is that right ?
B: Are you there in school ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I am .
B: Yeah .
A: So , but I think they
A: a long time ago , I , I remember my dad was telling me this , I think , that , uh , they do it by , like , a bunch of men have guns
A: and one of them has the real gun in it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: has , has a ,
B: yeah .
A: So they don't know who killed ,
B: Has a real bullets
B: and the rest of them have blanks ?
A: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I certainly would n't want to be the executioner ,
B: I know that
A: Yeah ,
A: no .
B: I 've always said that if I , if I had to kill and clean and do my own , my own meat , I think I 'd become a vegetarian .
A: I know .
B: As long as you 're sort of safely removed from it , it seems , seems not so , so bad , I guess .
A: Okay .
B: All right .
A: Go ahead .
B: Well , what kind of car would I want to buy .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know .
B: The question is , I mean , would I want to buy ,
B: or would I , would I probably actually buy .
B: May be two different things .
A: Oh , well , if you , if you had all your , all the money in the world or something .
B: If I had all the money I wanted , then that 's whole different matter .
B: No ,
B: in that case , I 'd , I 'd , I don't know .
B: I , I , my dream car for years was a , was a Porsche Turbo .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I don't know if I 'd want one of those now .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Of course I would want one if somebody was was given to me .
A: Yeah .
B: But I maybe would buy a B M W. Uh , or , or even a Volvo .
A: Uh-huh .
A: What do you have now ?
B: I 've got a , uh , a Dodge Daytona .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's actually the first car we ever bought new .
A: Oh , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: we just , we , well , I have
A: my car is the first one we ever bought new , too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But we just bought another used car , a couple weeks ago , actually .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah
B: me too
B: So what car do you drive ?
B: What is it ?
A: Uh , mine is a Honda Accord .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: we almost bought one of those .
B: Do you like it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I do ,
A: and , and , um , it 's funny because , after I bought it , I was doing a lot of business traveling ,
A: and I ,
A: some of the cars that I got were like the Toyota Camry and the Nissan Maxima and some of the competitors
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , I don't like them as well except , it was n't really a fair comparison because those were automatics ,
A: and mine is a standard
B: Yeah .
A: and the reason I got a standard was because I thought it handled a lot better
B: Uh-huh .
A: it had a lot more pickup and everything .
B: Yeah ,
B: you get a little more control over when when it 's doing the things it 's doing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , what , what rental agent did you go to to actually rent to rent those kind of cars .
A: Um
A: usually AVIS .
B: To what , AVIS ?
A: AVIS .
B: Really .
A: Yeah .
B: Huh .
B: I guess ,
A: It 's just because we 're on ,
A: I think of it ,
A: I 'm not sure those are AVIS or not ,
A: but we have corporate contracts you know , with the various companies
B: I see .
B: Uh-huh .
A: so it depends on your destination , too .
B: Right .
A: Kind of strange
B: You work for a big company , then .
A: Work for T I. Uh-huh , which is how I heard about this
B: T I , I see .
B: Uh-huh . Um ,
B: but yeah ,
B: I , I , uh , I don't know ,
B: I would probably , if I were to buy a car you know , with the constraints of real money I probably would , would go with something like , you know , like a Honda Accord .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Maybe it would ,
B: one thing I , I really liked about , about the Dodge Daytona is the fact that they have , uh , this seven year warranty .
A: Oh , really .
B: Um , and it really saved us some big money once .
A: It did , huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: they had a whole bunch of things that , that sort of broke at the same time
A: Oh , my gosh .
B: and the bill would have been over fifteen hundred dollars ,
B: and I had to pay twenty five for the ,
A: Oh , that was great .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was .
A: That 's unusual to hear ,
A: usually , you know something breaks ,
A: you look at the warranty
A: and it 's excluded .
B: Well , we , we bought the extended , the the extension and , uh , at the time we bought it it was like , you know , I don't know , four hundred and twenty-five dollars or something extra .
A: Oh , I see ,
A: okay .
A: Oh , you got your money 's worth .
B: Yeah ,
B: we did ,
B: but , you know , we really debated at the beginning ,
B: and of course I 'm glad I did it .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that is good .
B: But , um , we still have , we still have like , you know , three years left on it .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I 've been lucky .
A: Mine has n't had any trouble except last week a shopping cart crashed into it
B: Oh , no .
A: but I was real lucky because it just hit the , um the lens to the light .
B: Bumper ?
B: Oh .
A: It did n't actually dent the car or anything .
A: So it cost me twenty-five bucks to replace that ,
B: Well , that was good .
A: and the store will pay for it anyway ,
B: Are you .
A: so . No big deal .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um , if you were , if you were going to , uh , buy a new car would you buy another , uh , another Accord ?
A: Um , I probably would n't , just because I already have one
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , you know , if I had to make the choice again , I , yeah , I , I 'm perfectly happy with what I decided um , although we did just buy another car ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and that 's a Legend
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: those are nice .
A: um , but it 's , it 's a used one
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , my husband has really wanted one for a long time ,
A: and the fact that , you know , this this car that I have has performed so well ,
A: and before that I also had an Accord ,
A: it was a real old one
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I bought that used .
A: I had absolutely no money to my name and bought that ,
A: and it served me real well , too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So he 's been impressed with all the Honda cars .
B: Right .
A: And .
B: Yeah ,
B: my sister drives one .
B: She drives a , uh , I don't know , is it Legend
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's a ,
B: I 'm not certain ,
B: but she 's liked it . Um ,
A: Yeah .
B: But , I , I have , I have never had ,
B: and we ,
B: in fact , what I 'm driving right now ,
B: we bought a , we only had one car for a long time ,
B: and and yet most of our usage of the car was just this little shuttle back and forth , four miles to work and back kind of thing .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so , uh , I bought a used Yugo just to be a little , you know , little car that I could care less about
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: How did it go for you ?
B: Oh , well , it 's , uh , it 's worked .
A: Has n't left you stranded .
B: I mean , that 's exactly what it is , you know ,
B: it 's just a , it 's a cheap little little car just to go , you know , run around town in
A: Yeah
A: I know .
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh . It 's actually kind of fun to drive .
B: I , I ,
B: you know , getting back in the Daytona now , I almost don't like it . You know
A: Really .
B: it 's like too , too mushy ,
B: and it , you know it 's an automatic ,
A: Huh .
B: and
A: Well , that 's what my husband thinks about my car now , that he 's had the Legend
B: it 's too ,
B: the steering
A: it 's windy .
B: you know , you feel like you 're in a boat or something , you know ,
B: it 's kind of ,
A: I ca n't drive that ,
A: the Legend , it 's just so huge .
B: Oh .
A: I , I don't like it ,
A: and it 's so , uh ,
A: So , uh , what kind of home repair work have you done ?
B: Well , um , done a little , uh , repair on the , uh , shingles on the roof recently .
B: We 've had a lot of wind around here .
A: Been pulling them up , huh , or just loosening them until the rain came in ?
B: Yes .
B: It looks like I 'm going to have to get up there again , because we may have a leak .
A: Are you in the section of Texas that 's been getting so much rain ?
B: We 've been getting quite a bit , maybe not quite as bad as some of the folks down around San Antonio ,
B: but , uh , well , I 'm right ,
B: Plano 's just north of Dallas
A: Oh , okay .
B: and there are parts of downtown or near downtown Dallas that are under water right now , I guess ,
B: I saw on the news .
A: Yeah .
A: But you 're probably , what , about halfway across the state from San Antonio , though , are n't you ?
B: Well , we 're up , uh , we 're north and , uh , oh , about , uh , I don't know , uh , eighty to a hundred miles south of the Oklahoma line , I guess .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: okay .
A: But you 're still getting a good bit of the rain , though .
B: Uh , we did have a little bit of rain yesterday .
B: So far we have n't had any today .
B: And , uh , I suppose that means I should be , uh , getting up there to look at that , uh , shingle ,
B: but , uh I had something else planned today ,
A: Yeah .
B: so I guess I 'll let it go awhile .
A: Yeah .
A: Is it asphalt shingles ,
A: or , or .
B: They 're , uh ,
B: no ,
B: they 're , uh , wood shake .
A: Ooh ,
A: that should be a lot of fun .
B: Yeah
A: Did you put them up originally or just going up and stopping leaks in them ?
B: No ,
B: I ,
B: uh , as a matter of fact , we 've never had a leak actually yet .
B: Now this ,
B: we just bought the house last year ,
B: and , uh , uh , just before we took possession of it we had a fellow go up there and do whatever needed to be done on the shingles .
B: So , I 've just recently had to start looking at it myself .
A: Yeah .
B: So , it 's a small problem so far ,
B: but I guess you just have to keep on top of it .
B: What kind of roof do you have ?
A: Uh , we 're in , uh , campus apartment buildings with flat top , uh .
B: Oh , then you don't have to do too much with it
A: Not too much .
A: They 're just tar and gravel treated flat top roofs .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Have you got pretty well pitch on that roof , or is it pretty steep ?
B: Oh , it 's pretty steep .
B: Uh , parts of it are steeper than others .
A: What do you use to keep from sliding off that rascal ?
B: Well , uh , you wear , uh , shoes with good traction , and , and , and try to remember where you are at all times
A: Yeah ,
A: I imagine , I imagine .
B: And remember to yell Geronimo , if all else fails .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: that would be just too much of a fall for me .
A: Um , have you been , uh ,
A: was , was the house reasonably new ,
A: or you been doing some remodeling work on it .
B: It 's actually just twelve years old , now .
A: That 's pretty new house yet .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , uh ,
B: this part of the country ,
B: actually , they say that when the house is , uh , fifteen , it 's already old ,
B: but just take good care of it .
A: Yeah .
B: Thing is ,
B: we 've , uh , the main thing that we 've had with this house recently has been some , uh , squirming , I call it , of the foundation .
B: We 're just on a concrete slab , you know
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , the soil right under this is a clay ,
B: and it , uh ,
A: It 's settling unevenly ?
B: Well , it , uh , depending on its moisture content , it either swells up or shrinks ,
B: and , uh of course the soil right under the slab retains its moisture a lot longer
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so during the dry season you have to water the foundation to keep your foundation from , uh , from , uh , drooping
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , but anytime there 's a change in the weather , like the temperature , drastic changes in temperature or in , uh , moisture , uh , you get little spider web cracks all around , uh , windows and doors .
A: Well , that sounds like a lot of fun .
B: Well , usually what you do is just wait until you think it 's stopped ,
B: and then you patch them up
A: Um . What is it like , uh , stucco walls or ,
B: Uh , well , this is all , uh , it 's all drywall
A: Oh , drywall .
B: uh , I think , with , uh
A: Wood framing ?
B: yeah ,
B: right .
A: Okay .
B: But , uh , somehow or other that does manage to , uh , show these little cracks .
B: I don't know quite how that works .
B: Maybe it is n't drywall .
B: I don't really know .
A: they plastered over drywall .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it is .
A: I remember my parents home is drywalled and then they , uh , almost like a small grade stucco type plastering over the drywall to give it a textured sort of a look ,
B: I expect that 's what it is ,
B: yeah .
A: and made for kind of a hard shell on the , on the drywall .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's the way this is done .
B: Fortunately we have n't had any real big holes in it yet
B: so I ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that would , that would be in terribly , terribly exasperating to have the , the slab floor like that swelling and giving like that .
B: Yes ,
B: well , the previous owner had a major problem with it , because , uh , oh probably a variety of things .
B: His neighbor used ,
A: return anything .
B: Well , really , the only things that I have returned have not been faulty ,
B: it 's been because of the size or some problem like that .
A: Right .
B: I really have n't had to return things because they did n't perform the way they were supposed to .
A: Most the time they have a pretty good guarantee ,
A: yeah .
A: The only thing I 've had lately is , uh , my kids got all these Barbie kind of toys for , uh , Christmas
A: and , uh , it takes them less than a day
A: and they 're broken in one way or another .
A: But I don't know if that 's just kids , or if that 's , uh ,
A: maybe those type of products should be for older kids
B: Uh-huh .
B: What age are your children ?
A: I have a five and a half and a three and a half year old that play with them
B: Uh-huh
A: And , uh , I don't think they 're unduly rough ,
A: but maybe they are .
A: I don't know .
A: But , uh , a lot of the little Barbie sets they come with real little pieces
A: and they 're easily lost and easily broken
A: but ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , my daughter is twenty-one now ,
B: so it 's been a while since we 've had Barbie things
A: It 's been a while since they 've , uh , gone through the Barbie stuff .
B: But we did have Barbies , we did have Barbies and things ,
B: and there
B: seems to me that that became a craze when she was already , oh , like , you know , third , fourth , fifth grade .
A: Right .
B: So she was n't in it for very long before she was out of it ,
B: but , uh , I don't remember her breaking a lot of stuff .
A: don't remember her breaking , uh ,
B: No ,
B: I don't .
B: But I also don't remember lots of little pieces
B: They 've got so many different things with it now .
A: Well , that 's one thing they 've got .
A: They 've got every type of imaginable ,
A: camping on the beach , and all of these come with , oh , like tiny , tiny little plates and little sunglasses .
A: And , uh
B: Goodness .
A: my three and a half year old has wanted this Ken doll ,
A: and so I finally got her a Ken doll ,
A: and , uh , less than a week later the arm was broken .
B: Oh , dear .
A: But they were real good about replacing it .
A: That 's one nice thing , is they 're real good about replacing it .
B: Well , uh , I guess if they 'll replace them , then they assume they should n't have broken .
A: Right .
A: Well , the , the , you know , those little arms are supposed to twist almost any way
A: and
B: Any direction .
A: she 's not that strong , that I would she 's not that big of a girl that I think could really take a grip on it like a bigger kid could , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: The main thing that they 've , they had when my daughter was playing with Barbies was just clothes .
A: Yes .
B: You know , that was about it .
A: That was about it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And the Barbie doll itself is usually pretty durable and that kind of stuff
A: but ,
B: And the main thing my kids seem to be into nowadays are electronics .
B: My , my children are twenty-one and twenty-five and twenty-eight .
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: Uh-huh
B: and ,
A: Well , do you see that there 's a big problem with electronic things ?
B: No ,
B: not really .
B: We , uh , have n't had that much , you know , problem with things that we have bought .
B: They seem to , to last .
B: In fact , when they offer us extended warranties , we , we don't buy them because we 've ,
A: don't buy them because you don't need them .
A: Yes .
B: And , uh , it seems like it 's just a , an added tack on .
B: Plus a lot of the credit cards now , you know , will guarantee ,
B: if you purchase on your credit card you know , then they put an extended warranty on it if it does n't work or if you have a problem with it in a certain period of time ,
A: Oh , yeah . .
B: so it seems like it 's a waste of money .
A: Yes .
A: Well , you almost assume if you 're going to have problems with it , it 's usually before that warranty would expire
A: any ,
A: the first one .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And like I 've even bought , on a recliner once I bought , you know , a , a , an extended warranty for cleaning and stuff like that ,
B: and I never used it .
A: You never even needed it .
B: And so it seems ridiculous .
B: And like washers and dryers and things like that , I 've never had one go out .
B: In fact , they usually ,
B: when they do go out , it 's either something my husband can buy the part and fix
B: and we don't even have a repairman come ,
B: or it means it 's old enough that it 's time to replace the whole thing .
A: It 's time to replace it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: So , I mean ,
A: I think these extended warranties are gimmicks , really .
B: I do too .
A: A lot of it .
A: We bought , when we first married , we bought one on our T V
A: and that there 's ,
A: it was a five year , after the first five years ,
A: and it was ridiculous .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And they charge you a pretty good price for them too .
A: Yes .
A: They 're a pretty healthy price ,
A: and you 're trying to think oh , maybe I 'll need this .
A: You never , you always think gosh , if I say no , then I wo n't , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But ,
B: Well , my husband finally just put his foot down
A: I don't know .
B: and he said we 're not going to buy any of these anymore ,
B: and if it goes out , well you know .
A: You probably got your worth out of it anyway .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: and , uh , so we really have been fairly happy with things ,
B: but now we take good care of things
B: and we don't , uh , run out and buy a lot of , of things either .
B: And since our kids are n't little anymore , I 'm not buying a lot of those little things that can get broken .
A: Yes ,
A: the little ,
A: well , you probably are real careful of the brands you buy
A: and the , when you do buy things , you probably watch what kind of , type of .
B: Well , you look at the consumer guide .
A: Yes .
B: And , uh , you go around
B: and you look at the different ones and find the ones that have the ,
A: So , uh , what do you think about child care
B: Oh , well , my , my feelings on it is , uh , I would n't take a child to day-care You know ?
A: Right .
B: I mean , I 'd , I 'd wind up , uh ,
B: just a baby-sitter in a home .
A: Probably find someone ,
A: how come you would n't take them to a day-care ?
B: Uh ,
A: Just because of the ,
B: Well , too many kids and , and I think too many infections and things coming in .
A: Yeah ,
A: they seem to pass a lot of ,
B: Yeah ,
B: sicknesses and
B: I don't know ,
B: then all the things you hear about them .
A: Yeah ,
A: you kind of wonder whether or not ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean I 'm sure there 's some good ones ,
B: but I just ,
B: I don't think that I would , uh ,
A: I took , uh , Cammy to a oh ,
A: it was a preschool day-care type of thing .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: But I kind of , I liked it some ways
A: and some ways I did n't
A: Uh , I think the ratio of kids to teacher is really important .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And ,
B: How was it ?
A: Well , I think they had a , they had two teachers
A: and I think there were twenty kids ,
A: but I only had her going two days
A: and most of the other kids were going more days
A: so that was probably my own fault that she did n't ,
B: Oh .
B: She went ,
A: Oh , you know , one thing I noticed is , uh , uh , just , they were trying to get her to , teach her to write her name ,
A: and , uh , I did n't notice it until this summer when I was working with her that she would bend her wrist all the way , oh , not in a natural form .
B: Oh , she did ?
A: Yes ,
A: and , uh , I was kind of mad that they had never noticed that and , either pointed it out to me or , or , uh tried to say , look , you 're holding your ,
A: she was holding her pencil in the right fingers and stuff .
A: but she was ,
B: Wrapping her arm all the way around .
A: Yes .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I had n't worked with her on writing at all at that point .
A: She was four , or three ,
A: yeah ,
A: she was , uh , it was last year
A: and , uh , then this summer I got the thing from the school that says things to work with the kids on
A: and I
A: like I said , I did n't notice it till then . Because I had n't worked with writing letters or anything and stuff like that .
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , they 'd never picked it out , though ?
A: No .
B: Huh .
A: They never ,
B: Or just never said anything .
A: Course , like I said , I took her two days a week
A: and maybe that was ,
A: my main reason for taking her was , uh , just social skills more than anything else .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: I felt she needed the
A: just , I did n't feel like she was mature enough socially
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh ,
B: Well , one thing that 's kind of different , too , though , a preschool than , than taking a , a infant or to at a day-care where they 're taken care of .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I think it would be hard to take them to people you don't know .
A: Preschool 's a different thing ,
A: but I think it 's hard to take kids to somebody you don't know and , or unless you have awfully good references . Reliable , uh , people ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I don't know ,
A: it 's so hard to take young kids anywhere for very long .
B: Well , I think it 's hard to leave them ,
B: it is .
A: It is .
A: The older ones it 's not ,
A: you don't even really have any real worries , because you know that they 'll play with whoever 's there
A: and they usually adapt pretty well .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it is , I think , just hard to leave them because nobody will give them the kind of care their own families will .
A: Well , and you know their , kind of their schedules
A: and you know if they 're upset and that type of a deal .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I don't know how , uh , people , uh , that have young kids working work full time and , and do it , really , without being stressed out all the time .
A: I think it 's , well ,
A: I don't know ,
A: then , then on the other hand I think it 's harder to stay home in some regards .
A: It 's hard to always keep yourself feeling like you 're doing something productive ,
A: and at the end of the day your house still feels like it 's a mess ,
A: and you have n't got anything done
A: and
B: Oh , yeah .
A: what am I going to fix for supper
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: it is
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's kind of hard to always feel gosh ,
A: what ,
A: is this important what I 'm doing
A: and
B: Yeah ,
B: well , uh , the work never ends .
A: No .
B: That 's for sure .
A: No ,
A: it , It does n't .
B: So ,
B: Huh .
A: But , I think for taking kids to a , probably people that take them to , uh , preschools and day-cares full time , oh ,
A: they would , I don't know , probably just feel a different , uh ,
A: I think , I just think it would be hard to do that full time .
A: I feel such a responsibility , even when we go out for a few hours that ,
A: are they driving the baby-sitter crazy
A: and you know ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: or is everything okay .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah ,
A: Donna , um , you said you have three children .
A: What , uh , kinds of activities do you spend with them ?
A: Is it ?
B: Okay ,
B: um , we have an eleven year old , an eight year old , and a three year old
B: and , um , uh , my husband , let 's see , he coaches basketball with Brian , um ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so he spends time doing that with him , planning and , um , practicing outside .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , he 's a real sports kind of person ,
B: so he plays tennis with , with the kids .
B: We all kind of play tennis as a family ,
B: except the baby plays in the playground .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We take turns with her .
B: Um , uh , let 's see ,
B: we have a computer
B: and we do a lot of things with the kids on the computer .
B: Um , uh , let 's what else we do .
B: Oh , plus we watch a little T V together .
B: We really don't watch , I think , as much T V as a lot of people .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We don't have H B O .
B: We do get the Disney channel for the kids .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , my kids have a Nintendo which they play ,
B: and my husband sometimes joins them with that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , my little girl , Jennifer , likes to do crafty things ,
B: and I 'll take some time and do that with her .
B: And , of course , we always read a bedtime story at night ,
B: and even the , the older kids sometimes sit down and , and will join in and listen to a story .
B: I 'm , basically the story person because my husband does n't have ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: he gets home from work late or whatever
B: and , and usually , once in a while he 'll read the story to little one ,
B: but that 's basically my job
A: Yeah .
B: Um
A: So do you find it difficult to find time ,
A: or is it pretty natural ?
B: It is . It is hard because , you know , at the end of your day you want time for yourself
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: and , and it ,
B: and that 's kind of cutting into your , your time .
A: Yeah .
B: And with the kids getting older , now on the weekends they get to the bed like at ten which really is late ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , you know , on school nights , the two older ones get to bed about nine .
B: They go upstairs at nine ,
B: and , um , now , this weekend we 'll have a baby-sitter come
B: and , uh , my husband and I will go out to dinner and come home and , um , probably not too late .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Maybe Brian will still be up , and spend some time with him .
B: But it , it 's really hard .
B: You have to be a very unselfish person to , to spend a lot of time with your kids , I think .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Do you work during the day ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: I don't work .
B: I , last year , um , I had a little part time job in a private , um , high school , tutoring , um , high school students with learning disabilities .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That was two days a week ,
B: and even just those two days just seemed like it was a lot .
B: I don't know how ,
B: I admire , people that , that can do it all ,
A: Yeah .
B: but with three kids and laundry and keeping the house the way I want it kept , it is hard .
A: Yeah .
A: I can imagine .
B: Um .
A: Yeah .
B: Even just finding the time to do the grocery shopping and everything .
A: Uh-huh
B: And that 's another thing ,
B: I 'll take one of the kids with me grocery shopping , um , usually on the weekend ,
B: and that 's kind of like a special time for just myself and my little girl or myself and my son ,
B: and they 'll be my helper ,
B: and then they 'll get to pick out some of those favorite snacks that they get to pick out
B: so , I try to do things like that ,
A: Yeah .
B: but it , you know , it 's , it 's , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: And then , of course , they have a pretty , um , busy social calendar too
A: Uh-huh .
B: You fit it in with all that , that .
A: Yeah .
A: So what do you feel are the current trends in the way families spend time in general , you know , in America ?
B: I , I think a lot of people , a lot of people set their kids in front of the T V and H B O and rent movies and , and , kind of leave them to their own means . Um ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: I think , you know , it 's very , very easy to fall into that trap ,
B: and I 'm not , um , totally innocent of that because , there 's times when you just stay here , watch a tape .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: But , um , um , I think different parts of the country ,
B: I think in Plano and maybe this area in Texas , there 's a lot of community activities that parents could join in with their kids .
B: People are , real sports conscious and really get involved with their kids , sports activities and ,
A: Uh-huh
A: Oh , that 's good .
B: You know , but , um ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , families are facing a challenge ,
A: I know that with ,
B: What ,
A: I 'm a newlywed
A: and we 're you know , thinking about having children sometime in the next couple of years
B: Uh-huh .
A: and ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's , it 's very hard , because when you get used to two salaries , it 's very hard to , to cut back to one .
A: Yeah .
B: And , um , um , but , you know , if you have the type of job ,
B: I have a friend that 's a nurse
B: and she can pick her hours
B: and
A: Uh-huh .
B: that 's a , a great career .
B: I wish I would have gone into , uh , nursing
A: Yeah .
B: because she has such a flexible schedule ,
B: but it 's very hard to , uh , spend time with the children and , uh , and your husband and do everything at once .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: But I do feel like it 's important that you make the time for children because ,
B: Well , I think it 's a big , it 's a big , um , responsibility .
B: You just don't , have children so that you can continue the lifestyle you had when you were single .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: When you have children , you have to say , now , this is different
B: and you do have to give things up .
B: I , I personally feel that it is extremely important to be with your own child , um , for the , at least for the first two years of their lives . I mean , if you , can possibly swing it
B: because they ,
B: Do you have kids ?
A: Oh yeah .
A: I got three .
A: How about yourself ?
B: Uh , we have two and another one on the way .
A: Oh , you have got , uh , young children then .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: uh , we do ,
B: we have , uh , a six year old .
B: He is oldest
B: and then , uh , our baby will be a year on Monday .
A: Oh my goodness .
A: That is great .
B: Yeah .
A: What kind of mix do you have ?
A: A boy and a girl ?
B: Two boys .
A: Two boys .
B: Two boys
B: Yeah .
A: Do you know what is on the way yet ?
A: Are you
B: No .
B: I am just about three months ,
B: and , uh , I don't think we really even want to find out .
A: I do not blame you
B: We like surprises .
B: So We will take either .
A: Well , we have got two boys and a girl also .
A: Well , we have got two boys and a girl
B: And , uh , does it ,
B: are the two boys first ?
A: Yes .
B: Oh .
A: Maybe , maybe you will get lucky and get a girl this time .
B: Maybe , huh .
B: We , we kind of like our boys though too ,
B: so
A: Well , our boys , one , is , uh , he is in graduate school at A and M , uh ,
A: he is in the Navy .
A: He is a lieutenant in the Navy
A: and the Navy is sending him for his Masters in Ocean Engineering
B: Oh my goodness .
A: and we have got another boy that is , us , out in Maryland .
A: He is a wildlife biologist , uh ,
A: and our girl is thirteen .
A: She is in the seventh grade .
A: So , we have got , still , all sorts of good activities since ,
B: Oh yeah .
B: You kind of got , uh , a span there , huh ?
B: Oh , well what do you do with your seventh grader ?
A: Well , she is into a little bit of everything .
A: She is , uh , loves riding horses
A: so she goes out riding as much as she can .
B: Do you have horses ?
A: No
B: She , just , she knows people that does , huh ?
A: Well , that ,
A: yeah
A: but maybe that riding place that is North of town that she goes to .
A: She rides English , and does jumping , takes lesson and all that kind of stuff .
B: Oh , does she ?
B: Oh .
B: She must really like them .
A: Yeah ,
A: she is into , uh ,
A: well she plays the flute in the band , and , the piccolo ,
A: and she is into this , uh , odyssey of the mind thing , which is , uh , takes a lot of time , for , uh ,
A: it
A: a
A: what they call peace group .
A: I don't know if you have gotten into that with your kids ,
A: but that is where the , kind of ,
A: well it is a program for Advanced kids .
B: Advanced .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I have heard about it .
B: Our little boy is in the first grade
B: and I , I taught school for six years .
A: Oh , okay .
B: So , I do know about that program
B: and
A: Well , my wife is involved
A: and she kind of heads that up for these kids ,
A: and last year they , they , got , uh , the state level .
A: They did not win that ,
A: but they , uh , got one local and , uh , one region ,
A: and they got a new mix of kids this time .
A: So , it keeps them busy .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: It keeps them busy .
B: Oh , yeah
B: I bet .
B: Huh , well so does she go actually out into a different classroom with , with , uh , other kids that are involved in this ?
A: Well , uh , yes ,
A: but they , well they have ,
A: well you probably know a peace group that , uh , that they are advanced type . That they are special , well , uh , classes for peace classes .
A: I think that , uh this happens to be , uh , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: history is what their peace class is this year .
A: But , uh , so .
B: Oh . Uh-huh .
A: They , uh , she enjoys that kind of stuff and , uh , does well with it .
B: Oh , how neat .
A: So yeah .
B: Challenging , huh ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh .
A: Always something to do
B: Well , uh , as far as our activities , we are kind of on a different level here .
B: But , my
A: Well , you will get to different levels .
A: I guarantee it .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: My husband is going to take our six year old to the monster truck show tonight .
A: Uh , okay .
B: They like to , uh
A: That will be fun .
B: both boy things
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: but we , we , do not have any real , uh ,
B: like we don't really ski .
B: We have not taken our kids skiing or anything .
B: Of course , the baby is young ,
B: but
A: Got to wait a couple years .
B: Yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: Sledding , that is what you have got to do .
A: Tobogganing .
B: The what ?
A: You have got to go tobogganing and sledding with them .
B: Oh , well yeah ,
B: we , we have done that .
B: He , in fact , he just goes right out here .
B: We have got quite a bit of snow , uh ,
B: last week we got a lot .
A: Well you are welcome to keep that
B: Yeah
B: You would like that , huh ?
A: Well , I grew up in Wisconsin ,
A: I , I had plenty of snow ,
A: and when I was a kid ,
B: Oh .
A: and we have lived here about seventeen years ,
A: but we use to take all of the kids tobogganing and ice skating , and all of that kind of stuff
B: Yeah .
A: it is fun really .
B: It is fun .
A: As long as you do not have to drive in it .
B: Yeah .
B: I ,
B: no ,
B: I do not like that .
B: I ,
B: really , it makes me nervous .
B: Yeah
A: I had plenty of snow to last me forever .
A: I , I don't care if I ever see any ,
A: well , I don't care if I ever see it ,
A: but keep it off of here
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: Well , uh , I don't mind it ,
B: but , uh , uh , the winter gets long .
A: Yes .
B: You know , I get ready , that ,
B: come about this time of year I am kind of ready for it to start getting spring ,
B: and , it is too early yet .
A: Well , you have got , You have got five months before you will see that
B: Yeah ,
B: we do , we do .
B: We have had a few early springs though in the last few years .
B: They have not been too bad .
B: Come about March , it gets , you know , a lot nicer .
A: Oh yeah .
A: Out oldest son . When , uh ,
A: Okay .
A: You probably , uh , more up on this subject than I am ,
A: but , the roles that women have played in the last couple of year in our , or couple of generations .
B: That ,
B: Right .
B: Well , they 've entered the work force more , uh , you know , since World War Two is when they started .
A: You bet .
B: And , uh , I think that that is , you know , very significant that the percentage of the work force today consists of such a high percent of women .
A: You bet .
A: You know , where I 've noticed it more , I think , is ,
A: I 'm a traveling salesperson
A: and I have traveled most of my life
A: and I know just especially in the last , oh , ten years and really since ,
A: in the last half of dozen years I see more and more women traveling .
B: Right .
A: You know , as far as boarding planes and driving cars and calling on customers .
A: I sell sporting goods
A: and even in our industry , uh , there was virtually , really and truly no women as far as selling the type of things I sell
A: and even in the last five or six years , boy we see more and more women being involved
A: and , you know , it 's a , it 's a credit to them as far as how they 're doing things .
B: Yeah ,
B: the ,
B: you see more of that , you see more of them , uh , leaving their children in the care of their husbands while they do travel , too .
A: You bet .
B: You know , I , I go to a , I have a club that I belong to on Tuesday that ,
B: you know , one of the girls travels quite extensively
B: and she says , well , my children have two parents .
B: You know , why not
A: You bet .
A: That 's sort of neat .
B: So that , that 's a , I think that 's a change
B: and I think that 's a change you 're going to be seeing more of in the , in the future , people having that kind of attitude that the father 's going to take more active role in child rearing .
A: Sure .
A: I think , uh , it 's the age old thing ,
A: every once in a while you read in the newspaper or you 'll see it on T V or something where the discussion comes out that , you know , women are paid less than men
A: and they 're , and they 're doing the same , uh , or carrying the same job responsibility
B: Right .
A: and , you know , I , that 's a very true statement
A: and it should n't , uh , it should n't be that way . You know .
B: No .
B: That , that I think should change , will change in the near future also .
A: I think so , hope so ,
B: It 's been changing ,
B: it 's been evolving ,
B: but there 's still a , an , an inequality in the work forces or jobs .
A: Absolutely .
B: It 's , you know ,
A: You know , I 've ,
B: And you hear some people say , you know ,
B: well , he 's a man ,
B: he , he , he needs that salary .
A: Right
A: Yeah ,
A: they forget .
A: Also , I think , uh , a good argument for that is in the area of politics , you know ,
A: if a ,
A: a woman Congressman I 'm sure makes as much as a man Congressman as , and the same as a senator or whatever .
B: Right .
A: So , they certainly , uh , they certainly deserve it all the way .
A: But , I guess just the most significant thing changed for me , again , as I mentioned , was just in traveling ,
A: you see , uh , more and more ladies of all ages with briefcases and , uh , and in their business suits and and going .
B: And going ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I expect you 're right in regards to having two parents now .
A: That 's a good , a good statement .
A: And I think if ,
A: in the future it 's even going to be , uh , more noticeable and more significant .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think it will be .
B: I think , I , well ,
B: another thing I read , too , the other day ,
B: this is not just for working women
B: but how much they 're out there , I guess is
B: the car designers , uh , are starting to design cars with women in mind . Uh , because in the past the male bought the cars ,
B: but now they 're showing that fifty-five percent of women are actually making the new car purchases . And that they are looking for , uh , different things in the car .
A: Wow .
B: The man is looking for the in the engine
B: and the woman is looking to how easy can she slide in under the steering wheel . Uh , can her makeup come off the upholstery
A: You bet .
A: Good point .
B: And if they 're out there buying that many cars , then there 's that many out that are self sufficient and , you know , mobile and working .
A: Right now I 'm self employed
A: and , and my wife 's always worked .
A: She 's a schoolteacher ,
A: but for ,
A: she started working
A: and then when I first started my business , uh ,
A: she was selling real estate at the time
A: and hers was the only income we had for three or four months
A: so ,
B: Right .
A: You know , she certainly did her part in help getting me establishing in my business
A: and she still works everyday
A: so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we all do .
A: You bet .
B: I just happen to be off today .
A: Uh-oh .
B: I work , too .
A: enjoying it
A: What kind of work do you do ?
B: I 'm a nurse .
A: Well , good .
B: And I work at Medical Treatment Center , uh , which is at uh , Jupiter and Arapaho .
A: Right
A: Married ?
B: No .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , trying to think what else I can say in regards to this subject .
B: I don't know ,
B: I 'm kind of out of , out of things .
A: You see the old , uh , cigarette ads , you know , about you 've come a long way .
B: You 've come a long way baby ?
A: Baby ,
A: right ,
A: and , uh ,
B: Right .
A: You think about this when you come to , when it comes to a subject like that
A: and it 's really true .
A: Women have come a long way
A: and , you know ,
A: do you have a P C ?
B: Yes ,
B: I have a Macintosh S E thirty .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: a lot of my friends are into Macintoshes .
A: I have a , um , P C , a I B M P C myself .
B: Uh-huh .
A: A two eighty-six .
A: I 'm probably eventually going to get a three eighty-six . Um .
B: What do you use yours for mostly ?
A: Um , mostly , um , word processing applications and , uh , just as a dumb terminal .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , but I , um , I think eventually I 'll start using it for spreadsheets and things like that .
A: Um , what do you find that you use yours mostly for ?
B: Well , I do a lot of word processing and spreadsheets and data base ,
B: and , uh , about the only thing
B: I am , uh , I 'm just starting to get into , uh , a little bit more communications now .
B: I 've just today ordered a fax modem
B: so I 'll be able to send and receive faxes right over there without using , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you don't have to make a hard copy that way .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , are you using windows ?
A: No ,
A: I , I think I , I 'm planning on like moving up , getting a three eighty-six before I move up to windows although , you know , I do like the , the graphical user environment .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , it 's getting to be more and more like a Macintosh
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , um ,
A: I want , I want to be able I just want it more for multi tasking , which I suppose is also like a Macintosh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh .
B: Well , the one thing I used to use a , uh ,
B: I 've never used an I B M actually .
B: I used to use a , just an Apple two E , which of course is looks pretty primitive now .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what I learned a lot of languages on , was an Apple two E in my high school .
B: But I don't have any , uh , any real programming capabilities on my , uh , Mac right now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't have , uh , any compilers
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I 'm , uh .
A: Well , do you use your computer for , um , just things around the house , or in the .
B: I use it in my business .
A: Well , see , what do you do ?
B: I , uh , do , uh , consultation and , and testing of various kinds for , uh , English as a second language programs .
A: Oh , wow .
A: Um , and , uh , are these like , uh , do these programs , um ,
A: are , are they based on , on a , on a , um , other language ,
A: or are they based , are they based
A: like a lot of the , um , you know , a lot of the English as a second language classes will have people from all sorts of , you know , parts of the world ,
A: and the teacher just tries to , tries to teach English , you know , through natural understanding .
B: That 's , uh , exactly what , yeah , that 's the kind of thing I 'm working with exactly .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You seem to be , uh , better informed than the average person on that .
A: Well , it was just , uh , when I was high school , I worked for the community school ,
A: and they had a English second language class
A: and it always seemed strange to me that , you know , all these , all these people that , you know , spoke English not too well , and spoke , you know , a variety of different languages were all being taught at the same time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I imagine it 's a lot harder on a computer because you have to , you know , you don't have as many cues ,
A: you ca n't , don't have hand gestures and things like that .
B: Right .
B: Well , now , we , uh ,
B: what I use a computer for is to write materials that are later printed , though .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Most of the stuff that I do is not , uh , interactive
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I use it for uh , data analysis on testing ,
B: so .
A: Uh , to see how well they retain the vocabulary and things like that .
B: Well , just , actually , just , uh , item analysis , statistical analysis of the tests , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , when you write a test you have to look at some data from it and see how the different questions are performing and find out which ones are discriminating well and which ones are n't find out how reliable the test is ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: you try correlate it with other tests and things of that sort .
B: So it 's , involves a lot of spreadsheet use .
A: Yeah ,
A: I would imagine so .
A: Um , so , um , what were you doing when you were using an Apple two E ?
B: Well , I was doing some of the same stuff , but doing it more slowly and with smaller files .
B: I ca n't believe , you know , I 've got , uh , five , uh , megabytes on this one now
A: Uh-huh .
A: It , it 's .
B: and on my two E I had a hundred twenty-eight K
A: Yes ,
A: it 's amazing , you know , how , how like in the general user community the expectations have just grown so much .
A: I remember my first computer was a T R S eighty with four K on it
B: Yeah .
A: and you know , then , then we , then I started playing with Apples , you know ,
A: and those had forty-eight ,
A: or , you know , if they were really great they had sixty-four K .
B: Oh , the old the old Apple , uh , the , the original Apple had , what , yeah , forty-eight I guess , did n't it .
A: Uh , I know , I know that in my school they had a bunch that had sixteen K on them , is all ,
A: and
B: My goodness .
A: there 's , I remember that there was one game that I played that required forty-eight K
A: and there was only one computer that had forty-eight K on it at the time .
B: Uh-huh
A: And you know it 's just so amazing that generally , you know , if you , if you ,
A: I 'm not sure about Macintoshes ,
A: but I know I B M you , you generally , you know , you buy a megabyte at a time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , that 's , that 's your that 's the low end . Uh .
B: Well the S P thirty goes up to eight
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I have n't upgraded it quite that far yet .
B: I think probably when I get system seven I may have to do that and , and get another , possibly another hard disk .
B: I don't know .
B: They say that system seven uses a lot of memory .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I imagine .
A: Okay , Bill ,
A: right ?
B: Yes .
A: Okay , Bill ,
A: have you done much camping ?
B: Uh , yes .
B: I 'm a scoutmaster in Boy Scouts .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I camp , uh , every month , uh , camp at least one weekend
B: and during the summer we camp , uh , two or three weeks a year
A: Oh , well , that , that sounds good .
B: I 'd say I camp quite a bit .
A: Yeah ,
A: you do .
A: Um , now do you have a lot mountains ,
A: well , you don't have mountains in Texas , do you .
A: Where do you find places to camp ?
B: Well , uh , we , we do a lot of canoeing when we go camping
A: Oh .
B: and we , uh , we also , uh , carry all our equipment with us
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so we canoe down the river and then , sleep on the river on one of the , um , sand bars and then get up the next morning , cook our breakfast , and go down the river again .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , my word .
A: Well that sounds adventuresome
B: How about yourself ?
A: Well , um , I 've done , oh , I would say quite a bit of camping , mostly with my husband and I .
A: Um , we have five children ,
A: and so we have found that camping with the little ones is n't as enjoyable as just when we go ourselves .
A: So we 've tried to get out once a year and go on a anniversary camp out ,
A: and we have gone up into the mountains and , uh , not necessarily roughed it ,
A: but we have just found it just real enjoyable to be alone up in the mountains .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: And , then the boys are , our boys are old enough now ,
A: they 're twelve and eleven ,
A: and so , they 're involved in the scouting
A: and they do a lot of camping with the scouts
B: Uh-huh .
A: and last time our one twelve year old went to the scout camp for a week ,
A: and so this year they 'll both be going ,
A: and so that 's been real enjoyable for them .
B: Great .
A: So .
B: What , uh , what kind of camping do they like best ?
B: Do they like it where they have tents
B: and , uh , do they cook on stoves ?
A: Um , yes ,
A: they 've , well ,
A: no ,
A: actually they 've , I remember , they have taken the , the the heavy cast iron dutch ovens and done their cooking there over the fire ,
A: and I don't think they 've taken the stoves .
A: Um , last year they camped in tents ,
A: and this year I believe they will be in tents also .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Course I imagine it gets cold in parts of Utah .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: It does n't get very cold in Texas ,
B: so lots of times we don't even take tents .
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: We just use trail tarps .
A: Oh , and what does that consist of ?
B: Uh , it 's just a piece of material that has , uh , that has a lot of places where you can tie off to it and make it into a tent uh , like a , uh ,
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: they 're very light weight
B: and we use them when we go backpacking .
B: So we go backpacking fifteen or twenty miles , then , uh ,
B: they 're not very heavy , see
A: Uh-huh .
B: so you carry them with you ,
B: and they 'll keep you dry or whatever .
A: Oh .
A: Yes ,
A: well , see , when , when we go camping here ,
A: we have to take our big huge , heavy sleeping bags , and lots of tents
A: and , I like to sleep on the air matresses .
A: I 'm not ,
A: my bones are getting so old ,
A: so I like to , I like to sleep on the matresses .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , so , have you had any adventures on your camping trips , with , encounters with wild animals or anything like that ?
B: yes ,
B: in fact , uh , um , last month we went camping ,
B: we saw a lot of deer uh , in the morning and the afternoon just deer everywhere .
A: Oh .
A: My word .
A: Gee .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: so , uh , but , it , even though , uh , it was n't hunting season ,
B: and we were with Boy Scouts ,
B: so of course we don't , uh , want to go hunting .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But we got to see a lot of deer um , out and about
A: Oh .
B: and there 's ,
B: of course , we see smaller animals all the time ,
B: and , uh , one thing that is a big concern in the evening , at night , uh , is , uh , make sure that all the food 's put away and so forth because , uh , we have , uh , armadillos .
A: Oh .
B: Do you know what armadillo is ?
A: Oh .
A: Uh , they 're covered like with a heavy armor type stuff ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh-huh .
B: And possums , and , uh , raccoons .
A: My word .
B: And we have those creatures down here that they like to , uh , they like to go hunting for a midnight snack .
A: Uh-huh
B: And so that , that , uh , that can be a problem if you don't put all your equipment away .
A: But they wo n't necessarily attack a human or bite you or anything .
B: They will if you attack them .
A: Oh .
B: But most time they run away from you if they , if they see you 're up , you know
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they don't have any problem walking right by you if you 're asleep .
A: Oh , my word
B: So .
A: Well , that sounds a little less fierce than bears .
A: We , we want to ,
A: music do you like ?
B: Uh , lots of different kinds I guess .
B: Uh , I like country music , of course
A: Uh-huh .
B: Texas
B: and I listen to Christian music a lot because there 's a Christian music station here in in our city .
B: So I listen to it quite a bit .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: I am more into rock and roll myself .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And I listen cause on Friday nights they have the , uh , they have what they call Saturday Night Alive
B: or they have on Saturday night , Friday night and Saturday night and they have Christian rock and roll .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So
B: you know , they have that type of music ,
B: but they just have different words
B: so , I listen to that too .
A: Do you like any bluegrass ?
B: Uh , no .
B: Not really ,
B: huh-uh .
A: Oh .
B: And I like I like rap music .
A: Well , at least your ,
B: Do you like rap music ?
A: Not really
B: Not really
B: Well , I can tell we 're , we 're together here
A: Yeah .
B: Okay . Uh .
A: Um .
A: Uh , we 'll have to , uh
B: What kind of
A: I have a lot of friends that like country music
B: What kind of rock music do you listen to ?
B: Do you listen to like that really heavy metal stuff
B: or ,
A: No ,
A: I 'm more into , uh , older rock , like the psychedelic era , like , uh
B: Seventies and like that stuff .
A: late sixties , seventies , uh
B: Uh-huh .
A: Greatful Dead , Crosby , Stills and Nash .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have friends that like that .
A: What
B: Yeah
B: So you have never heard of like the Christian music that I listen to probably .
A: Oh , I 've heard a little bit of it .
A: I 've just ,
B: Like have you heard of , uh , of Carmen ?
B: Have you ever heard of Kim ?
A: Uh , now I 've heard of Striper .
A: So the only one I can
B: Striper ,
B: they 're the really heavy , yeah like the heavy metal stuff I guess .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , the first of Amy Grant before
B: Yeah .
A: was , you know , became more mainstream , top forty .
B: Yeah .
B: Cause she , she plays both secular and Christian
B: so ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I like her too .
A: Uh ,
B: I have been to a concert a couple of times of hers .
A: I 've never actually seen her in concert .
A: I imagine that she puts on a pretty good show .
B: She does .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She 's real good . She 's real good .
B: So , I like her .
A: Uh-huh Uh ,
A: I like some country music .
A: It 's just that I like finding a lot of it 's ,
B: I don't like the country music that 's like my wife left me , my dog left me , everybody 's left me .
A: Yeah
A: Mama got run over by the train .
B: Yeah .
B: I don't like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , I like Randy Travis
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , I like more of the real new ones , you know .
A: Like Garth Brooks .
B: Garth Brooks , oh
B: yes ,
B: you know he 's fine .
A: Reba MacIntyre .
B: Yeah .
B: I like them .
B: I don't care for the older , you know , like the dog left me stuff .
A: You don't like Patsy Cline ?
B: Huh ?
A: You don't like Patsy Cline .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
B: I don't even really know who she is , you know
B: You know , so . But , have you ever been to any of them concerts that you like ?
B: That music that you like to .
A: Uh , yeah
A: actually I just went to see the Greatful Dead about , I guess about a week ago .
B: But are n't they done with ?
B: I thought that they
A: No ,
A: they 're they are still on tour .
A: They have been touring , since the late sixties
B: And I just thought that they done broke up and left .
A: No .
A: They 're still together .
A: They 're still making albums .
B: Huh .
B: Wow ,
B: I did n't know that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Huh .
A: Uh ,
B: That 's interesting .
A: In fact , I mean there are people you know that basically just follow them around , from city to city on tour selling tie dye and things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh ,
B: Cause they are on up there in age , are n't they ?
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're , they 're like late forties , early fifties ,
A: but you know like whenever one of them dies off they get a replacement
B: Okay .
B: Alright .
A: You know , they seem to have a really bad time with keyboard players .
A: They keep on dying
A: and they keep on replacing them
A: and the new one 's in this thirties you know . Uh ,
B: Oh , alright .
A: But , uh ,
B: Cause they look pretty rough .
B: I mean , I 've seen like picture of them
B: and they just ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well , they don't actually look as rough as the Rolling Stones .
A: They just ,
A: I don't know if you saw the tour posters of the Rolling Stones when they last toured ,
A: but it looked like leather day at the geriatric ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean cause they just ,
A: All their faces were just all shriveled ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yuck looking , I mean
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh .
A: I mean it just just looked like they , got a bunch of retirees and put them in leather jackets and blue jeans .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well are you into that that rock music , you know , all that druggy stuff and all that I mean ?
A: Well , uh
B: You know what I am saying
B: like , I mean like they come on the stage
B: and like , you know , you ,
B: they don't even know they are there . You know .
B: They are just so out of it .
A: Actually , I prefer my , my performers to be pretty sober , you know , just uh , just so that , you know , that if they 're jamming , you know , that they don't just lose themselves and you know , go into lala land .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I just don't , I just don't like you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That .
B: So , I don't know
A: So , uh , have you seen any concerts lately ?
B: Um . Uh ,
A: Uh , so , do you think our politicians are honest at this point in time ?
B: Generally , I don't think they are .
B: Uh , my , my personal opinion is that , uh , the politicians are out for their own good because they , they 're entrenched .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They don't ever have to go out and get a real job .
B: They just stay in their current job ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know what I mean ?
A: I agree , uh , with , with both of those things ,
A: but , uh , do you see any way of like altering it so that they would become more honest ?
B: I think by putting term limitations on you could , you could slow down some of the problems .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , but it has to be not just at the national level but at the , you know , the state and the local level , too .
B: I know some senators ,
B: and I don't know which ones ,
B: but they 've been in office since the , the nineteen forties
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I ,
B: they 've never had a job .
B: I mean they 've never gone out in the real world and , and paid normal taxes .
A: Um .
B: I know they pay taxes ,
B: but they don't
A: Yeah .
B: you know , they , they get paid a hundred and twenty-five grand a year . Which is more than twice my salary by quite a bit
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , you know , I 'm going , like , I , I don't understand how they 're supposed to be my servants and yet they 're paid more than I am
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they work less , you know , less than I do .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , the only the only problem I see with term limitations , uh , is that I think that the bureaucracy in our government as is in , with most governments is just so complex that there 's a very you know , there , there is a learning curve and that , you know , you ca n't just send someone off to Washington and expect , you know , his first day to be an effective , uh , Congress person .
A: Uh , I think , I think there really is a , there 's a lot they need to learn , you know , when you get there .
B: I think , I think that 's true ,
B: however , I think that 's always been true .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , that 's true of the Presidency , too ,
B: and we seem to be able to get along with the President turnover ever eight years or four years .
B: And , uh ,
A: Yeah
A: but ,
B: They ,
B: I mean , there is a lot to learn ,
B: but maybe it will keep them on their toes and a little bit more active in trying to catch up .
B: I think two years is too short .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think it would have to be extended , uh , you know ,
B: a term limitation for Congress would be like three terms or even four terms
B: or you would increase the length of the , of each term of a Congressman .
B: Uh , but maybe standardizing on , on a , a four year term for Congress Senate and the , the Presidency and then , uh , staggering them so that you don't ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: we are n't tackling a massive ballot every four years .
A: Uh , the other , the other thing that , uh , bothers me about our system is just that , uh , in , for , for , in , in , in Congress the amount of power any , any particular Congress critter has is based on their seniority and how long they 've been there
A: so it 's , you know , for , you know , uh ,
A: so unless you have actual , you know , across the board uh , limitations , the , uh , you know , the idea of ,
A: well , we 're going to just , we 're ,
A: I 'm , I 'm just going to , you know , vote , vote against the incumbent every time does n't work ,
A: you know , it 's going to wind up hurting your state if all the other states are n't doing it at the same time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think , I think that that 's true ,
B: but then you have , you have the same abuse of power on the flip side of that coin .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , the C I A is moving out to West Virginia which is a really stupid location for a large agency like that and for almost any agency .
B: I mean , the action is n't in West Virginia .
B: I hate to tell the the senator from West Virginia this information ,
B: but it really does n't
B: the world does not revolve around West Virginia uh , as far as this country is concerned ,
B: the world does revolve around D C , you know as far as the politics in this country are concerned , the national politics
A: Uh-huh
B: and the C I A is a , a very large , very high profile agency and to have it located out in West Virginia ,
B: yeah , you know ,
B: it might only be two hour drive from here , but that 's a two hour drive
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , you know , it , it 's a , I think it 's a mistake to move large agencies like that
A: Uh-huh .
B: or is it the F B I .
B: I don't remember ,
B: but I think there 's ,
A: Well , I mean ,
A: I don't see why it makes a big difference the C I A because , you know , officially they don't do , they don't have any operations within the United States other than administrative .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's officially .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , we all know that that 's not necessarily true .
B: But I , I think that there are , there are advantages to having seniority and , uh , or , not having a complete turnover every , some small number of years .
B: I think there are , I mean there 's an institutional memory that you need to maintain .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I think that , uh , all , with all the perks that we 've given them ,
B: I mean , I heard on the radio back a , a few weeks ago , uh , during the incidents where they were , you know , like they are n't paying their , their restaurant bills
B: and they 're bouncing checks all over the place
A: Uh-huh
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , one of the radio stations over here listed off every single one of the perks .
B: Well , we have ,
B: we used to , when I was younger
A: Yeah .
B: we 'd go every weekend .
A: All right .
B: But we have n't done whole lot of it lately .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm kind of into it .
A: I 'm , uh , kind of a sailor .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm up in Minneapolis now ,
A: but I was in Florida
A: so , uh , yeah ,
A: I was kind of into it for a while there .
B: Were you sailboating ?
A: Yeah ,
A: for the most part .
A: Yeah
B: Yeah .
A: I had a little sail ,
B: Well , we don't get to do a whole lot of that up here
A: No
B: Just motorboat 's all we ,
A: What part of Texas you from ?
B: Uh , Nacogdoches .
A: Okay ,
A: whereabouts is that ?
B: That 's between Houston and Dallas .
A: Okay ,
A: all right .
B: It 's the oldest town in Texas .
A: Is that right ?
B: Yeah .
A: Wow ,
A: that 's pretty wild .
B: We have , uh , Lake Sam Rayburn out here and Lake Nacogdoches ,
B: so we do a lot of boating on .
A: Okay ,
A: so you got some lakes around you can do that on .
B: Yeah .
A: You do skiing and stuff
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: little bit .
A: Yeah ?
A: All right .
B: Just got through snow skiing
A: Yeah ?
B: Yeah .
A: All right .
B: Just came back from Denver
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that sounds good .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 've , uh , our ,
A: the snow up here is really kind of starting to melt now .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it , it was heavy when we were there though .
A: Yeah .
B: I did n't see any boats there , though .
A: Not , not , not too many , no .
A: But , uh , no ,
A: I just got back from a weekend .
A: We went and , uh , had a , kind of a picnic in the woods type thing .
A: It was pretty nice ,
A: but , uh , no , I , I have , uh , I had a boat last summer that I took out , a catamaran that I do , did a lot of sailing on and stuff .
B: Yeah ?
A: That 's a lot of fun ,
A: but , uh , my parents are pretty big sailors , too ,
A: they 're kind of into it .
B: Uh , all we , all we have up here mostly bass boats .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I guess it 's pretty , uh , fishing 's a pretty big thing , huh ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Lot of , lot of fishing going on up here .
A: Yeah .
A: All right .
A: So , where about in Texas is that ?
A: Is that centrally located
A: or ,
B: It 's , uh , well ,
B: you ever heard of Lufkin ?
A: Uh , no ,
A: what , what major city is nearby ?
B: Houston .
A: Okay ,
A: and that 's south or north of there or something ?
B: Let me see ,
B: Houston 's north .
A: Yeah ?
A: Okay .
B: Dallas is south .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: all right .
A: Well , that sounds pretty good .
A: Does , uh ,
A: I guess the weather ,
A: does that stay pretty constant there
A: or ,
B: It 's , it 's gets cold at night , and then warm in the afternoons .
A: Yeah ?
B: Probably seventies , eighties in the afternoon .
A: Okay ,
A: well , that 's pretty temperate .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's not too bad .
A: But , uh , yeah ,
A: have you done , uh , any other boating then
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: I had n't done any in a uh , lately ,
B: but that 's all ,
B: I used to uh , have a friend that owned , his daddy owned a boat shop .
A: Yeah ?
B: And we used to , when I was in high school , we used to go out , go boating every day just about .
A: Oh , that 's great .
A: Yeah ,
A: I ,
B: And we had a different boat every day .
A: Oh , that 's fantastic .
A: Yeah ,
A: I used to , uh , kind of be that way myself when I lived in , uh , north western Florida in the panhandle ,
A: I used to sail about every day .
A: I 'd work , go to work ,
B: I 'd like to do some sailing .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a lot of fun .
A: It 's , uh ,
A: especially if you get a , a pretty fast boat
A: like those catamarans are pretty fast .
B: Yeah ,
B: what ,
A: You can actually ,
B: Do , if you get one like that do have somebody teach you that
B: or they just ,
A: Well , actually , I , I 've known how to sail pretty much my whole life .
A: Uh , my family 's pretty into it
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , I took sailing lessons when I was about six
A: and then , uh
B: Is it pretty easy ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it 's kind of a thing where you get the hang of it after a while , you know , uh , just kind of get a feel for the wind and how it works and , and the physics behind it .
B: Yeah .
A: So it 's , it 's not too bad ,
A: it 's pretty easy to get the hang of , I think
A: and , uh , generally , everybody I 've , I 've known has kind of gotten into it ,
A: but some people are more motorboaters , you know which is fine .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that 's about all we have
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: lot of people don't , don't see the excitement in sailing ,
A: but , then , again , they may they may never have tried anything like , uh , catamaran
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , that 's when you really start getting into speed . You know ,
A: you actually , some catamarans you can actually pull people behind , the skiers ,
A: they get so fast , you know .
B: I did n't know that .
A: Yeah ,
A: they get pretty quick ,
A: but
B: That that would be something .
A: uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I have n't , I have n't personally done that ,
A: but , uh , the races ,
A: I , I work with a guy right now that , uh , races catamarans in the summertime
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , he 's pretty gassed about it .
A: He 's got a good , uh ,
B: What kind of , what lake do you all use ?
A: Well , he , uh , he 's from Detroit
B: Uh-huh .
A: so he usually goes on one of the Great Lakes , I think , and does his sailing . Uh ,
A: for me , I , I go back to Orlando , uh , in about a month , and so , down there , basically just go to the coast .
A: We 're about thirty miles from Coco Beach and the east coast ,
A: and there 's a lot of places there you can go , you know .
A: So , uh , so that 's a good thing .
B: Yeah .
A: But , yeah , so , what do you do for a job ?
B: Uh , I build transformers .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: is that for T I
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: it 's for Cooper Industries .
A: Okay .
A: Are they primarily electronic , then ?
B: Yeah .
A: Okay .
B: Well
A: Well that ,
B: they have a , you know , worldwide ,
B: but
A: Right .
B: all we do here is make transformers electronics and stuff like that .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Great .
A: Yeah ,
A: how do you like it down there in Texas ?
B: It 's real nice .
A: Yeah ?
B: Been here all my life .
A: Oh , no doubt .
B: Yeah .
A: Okay .
A: I 've never been to Texas .
A: I 've been to Oklahoma ,
A: but , uh , that 's about as far as ,
B: Oh , it 's , Oklahoma 's nothing like it .
A: Yeah ?
A: Okay ,
A: well , that 's good , because I did n't like Oklahoma that well
B: Okay ,
B: so what kind of luck you been having with buying and returning products ?
A: Uh , not too bad really .
A: Uh , I had a razor that I got from Christmas that I just , I really did n't want it ,
A: but I got it anyway
A: and , uh , it was a Braun
A: and they were real good about taking it back .
A: It was n't a problem at all ,
A: so , uh , I was able to get that back pretty easily .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , I don't know ,
A: I really have n't returned a whole lot lately .
A: Have you ?
B: I have n't had to .
B: It 's , uh , the ,
B: every so often ,
B: I mean , I , I , I 'm almost pushing it myself .
B: Maybe I 'll buy a shirt from G I Joe 's
B: and it shrinks too much
B: and say , well , I should have known better ,
B: I mean , I bought it from G I Joe 's
A: Um .
B: and it was probably made in China by slaves .
A: Right
B: But , uh , they , uh ,
B: most of the time pretty careful shopping anyway , I get pretty good stuff .
A: Yeah .
B: I think that , uh , aside from the fact all markets being internationalized
A: Right
A: like ,
B: and if you want to buy American it takes real extra work to find .
A: Exactly .
B: It 's probably a Japanese or a Burmese company owning and hiring people in the U S
A: I was reading ,
A: Right ,
A: I was reading something in , uh , CONSUMER REPORTS tonight about that as a matter of fact .
A: They were talking about cars , uh , the car issue just came out . And about how , yeah , you 'd like to buy an American car maybe
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , you know , the transmission may be made in Japan or whatever .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , like I 've got an eighty-six Ford Ranger
A: and , and I know for a fact that the transmission is made by Mitsubishi .
B: Huh .
A: You know , so it 's like , what are you going to do , you know ?
B: Yeah ,
B: really .
A: But , uh , that 's the way it is .
A: I don't know ,
A: I , I personally feel that , uh , uh , if the Japanese cars are better and Americans buy them , you know , that 's the way it goes
A: and , you know , people , more than manufacturers should get a clue
A: and , you know , they should start making quality products .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think they 're beginning to .
B: The , the days of don't buy a car made on a Monday or a Friday are pretty much going away
B: and ,
A: That 's what I thought , too , until I saw the CONSUMER REPORTS issue .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , they 've got all the American , well , all the , all the cars rated , you know ,
A: and , uh , essentially , I I don't see much of a trend .
A: I mean , just like every other time that you look at it , the Honda Accords and the Civics are right up there .
A: There 's nothing wrong with them . Uh , and the same thing with most of the other Japanese cars .
A: But then again you look at a Ford or especially a Chevy
A: and they 're pieces of junk .
B: I know .
B: Still at it , hey .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's ninety , that 's eighty-six through ninety-one .
B: Wow .
A: But , uh , I don't know ,
A: maybe they 're getting better ,
A: maybe they 're starting to get a clue . Uh ,
B: Well , they got a three year lead time .
B: It probably wo n't start really showing up until ninety-four or so
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's just it .
A: Technology that comes in right now is , is probably not going to be implemented until , you know , quite a few years down the road .
A: But , uh ,
B: The computer industry 's where it 's really dynamic especially for the consumer .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: because technology is so , uh , you know , volatile and changing all the time .
B: And can you think of any other industry where in software they ,
A: Uh ,
B: if the product is upgraded and a better version is put out , you 'll get a free version in the mail .
A: Yeah .
B: Or , uh , maybe I say , well , you know , you paid five hundred bucks for this program , so send us twenty and we 'll give you a really great upgrade .
A: Yeah .
A: It ,
A: uh , they keep up with it pretty quickly
A: and that 's , that 's a real good thing , I guess .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , I don't know .
B: And the hardware , well , I mean , all the chips that make up the hardware are a commodity
B: and the MacIntosh is about the only one that 's going right forcing I B M and the rest of the D O S world to follow along .
A: Yeah .
A: Right ,
A: they 're kind of the leaders right now , you know .
A: I used to see all those commercials for Windows , you know ,
A: and you 're like , oh , gee , they 're reselling a MacIntosh under a different name .
B: Really ,
B: why don't they just say , almost a Mac for half the price .
A: Yeah , you know .
B: They 'd sell more if they were honest .
A: Exactly ,
A: almost is the key word , there , too , you know , because I , I really , I 've used both
A: and I really don't see an advantage of Windows at all .
B: Yeah , it it 's only an advantage for people who had to use pure D O S. base .
A: Uh ,
A: Yeah , yeah that 's true , too .
A: But , uh , I don't know ,
A: I 'm really , I 've gotten a little bit out of the , the personal computer business just because I don't have one at home .
A: I , I do use a Mac at work
A: but , uh uh , I really don't , don't do much with it at home
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh ,
B: Apple 's sort of making a
B: and they 're ones were
B: growling consumer , uh , need to worry about the Mac they 're getting ,
B: like if you bought a power book straight off , a lot of them had to go back .
B: They issued a recall because of improper shielding or possibly other problems with floppy drive .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: you sound like you must , uh , work in the computer business .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have one ,
B: I do desktop publishing at work
B: and I have a machine at home
B: and I belong to the user 's group
B: and I , I 've been a Mac fanatic since they came out .
A: Yeah ?
A: All right .
B: But , uh , technically , I 'm not actually in the industry .
B: I don't work a computer company .
A: No ?
B: I 'm an abuser .
A: Well , that 's , that 's all right .
B: But it 's sort of like surfing on the wave of future shock to you know , keep up with the changes as they happen .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
A: Something that I find uncomfortable is , you know , you , you want to buy something , say you want to buy a personal computer
A: and you got to think about what kind of memory you want to get and what kind of technology that you want to go for , you know ,
A: let , let 's take the example , the modem for , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: what baud rate do you get ?
A: Well , you know , it used to be that you get a twelve hundred
A: So , um , how do you feel about the crime in your city ?
A: Is it , uh ,
B: Well , um , Minneapolis is n't too bad .
B: Uh , I know that there 's been some increases in crime lately in terms of murders .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , that 's kind of gone up in scale and , and some other things .
B: Uh , I personally had a little experience the other day .
B: Uh , somebody broke my passenger window and stole a uniform out of my truck .
A: Oh , really .
B: But , actually , you know , when you look at , at Minneapolis as compared to where I used to live , it 's really quite a bit better . Uh , because I came from Florida
A: Uh-huh .
B: and in Orlando , there 's , crime is getting to be a bigger problem than ever ,
B: so .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: What part of California are you from ?
A: San Jose , California .
B: Oh , really ?
B: I have a good friend there .
A: Here , you know , the real problems are the gangs .
B: Yeah .
A: A lot of gang related , a lot of murders , uh , just in general the whole ,
A: we 've only been here a couple of years .
A: Uh , before that we lived in Colorado
A: but in comparison to Colorado , it 's real noticeable .
B: Oh yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean you can just feel , I mean , I can just sense ,
A: I mean I wo n't even , I wo n't go to the grocery store at night .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's
A: You know .
A: And it , it 's that kind of thing
A: and , uh ,
B: That 's really a shame when it has to constrain your activities like ,
A: Yeah .
A: We have a neighborhood watch program in the house , uh , the development that we live in , which I think is a great way to reduce , uh , home theft , burglary , and things of that sort .
B: Sure .
A: Do you have that where you live
A: or ,
B: Well , uh , interestingly enough , right before I moved up here ,
B: I 'm an intern
B: and then I go back down in May .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , but in Orlando , before I moved up , we had a real problem with it .
B: Uh , we 've been broken into in my apartment about four times in like two and a half weeks .
A: Oh , no .
B: And one of the things that I , I helped organize was a neighborhood watch type situation down there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , because they were just ,
B: it 's one of those things where the new thing is that they operate in the daylight because everybody went to work , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then the houses were left unguarded , uh ,
B: but yeah ,
B: I think given that people are pretty conscientious about it ,
B: that 's a good way to , to work it , with a neighborhood watch .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , you know , uh , also I 've heard that , uh , the newest thing is a lot of people are specializing in robbing people during the time they 're home . Like on the weekends .
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: A high percentage of , uh , free time ,
A: I think it 's like fifty percent of most people 's free time is , uh , spent doing yard work outdoors .
B: Oh .
A: So they wait while you 're out , outdoors .
A: They know the house is unlocked
A: and then they just slip in . Slip in , slip out , you know .
B: That 's amazing .
A: They know exactly what they 're going for .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I 've heard that 's really on the rise as far as uh , you know , a new type of crime .
B: Uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it almost seems like they 're getting quite a bit smarter .
A: Yeah
B: Really , you know .
A: Unfortunately , yes .
B: Yeah ,
B: unfortunately it 's starting to really , you know , look at people 's habits and where they are at particular points of the day .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Like one of the guys I work with really laughs when he looks at Minneapolis because he 's from Detroit
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , the , the crime level there , of course , is quite a bit , quite a bit , uh , more pronounced , uh
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , yeah .
B: I guess ,
A: I mean ,
B: I think we 've got a neighborhood watch program here in Minneapolis ,
B: I 'm not real sure . Uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it helps to know your neighbors , you know .
A: They give you ,
A: you 're supposed to make lists of , uh , cars .
A: Like I know a lot of my neighbors right around my development . If I see a car that 's unfamiliar , we , we have a list
A: is that what you , you did in your program ? Where you have a list of license plates ?
B: Pretty much .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I was , I was basically , involved in that , in the organization of it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then I left right in the middle of it .
B: I 'm not sure where we went from there ,
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: but ,
A: Yeah . Well .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , that whole thing of being alert and kind of noticing your surroundings , noticing people who look suspicious uh , activities like that , sure .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , you , you hate to be paranoid
A: but there are really only so many things you can do .
A: You can have the house alarm , uh neighborhood watch program , you know , uh , as a woman not go out at night
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: uh , you can do that which is what I choose to do .
B: Yeah .
B: One of the frustrating things about that is that you really are limited
A: Yeah .
B: even , even if you know that the threat is there it 's against the law to set traps ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's against the law to do a lot of things , you know .
B: They could basically , uh ,
B: when I was getting robbed down in Florida , I was really considering electrifying doors um , things like that like
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they did in Miami that time .
A: But it 's not , uh ,
A: if you kill someone in your home , as long as they are in your home , it 's considered self-defense though .
B: That 's not always true .
A: It is n't ?
B: No .
B: There was a , there was a case about two years ago where a guy knew he was going to get robbed
A: Uh-huh .
B: and essentially what he had done is set a , a a electrocution trap for the burglar in his own home .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh .
B: The guy came in while he was home
B: and , sure enough , he fell into the trap and was severely burned .
B: He did n't die ,
B: but he was severely burned
B: and he took the guy to court and won a settlement .
A: Really .
B: Yeah .
B: So that really , that makes you think , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's like your hands are very much tied .
A: Yeah .
A: Well I think if , if you had a handgun though , in other words it was n't premeditated , you had a handgun , it 's the middle of the night , someone 's
A: Uh , I 've had , uh , three boys through , I guess , uh , some child care , each one of them
A: and now they 're in school
A: so it 's all over
A: but , uh , I guess I would say it 's not easy to find what most parents would want .
B: Well I can profit by this because I 'm due with my first in about three months .
A: Is that right
A: I guess , uh , the only rule , uh , I can think of is that I like to look for places with , uh , good respectable , nonprofit behind them like a university or a hospital or something like that .
A: If they 're associated with a college or a university , they 're usually a pretty good bet .
B: Huh .
A: Uh , I think it 's sort of the opposite of what you would want when you buy a car or refrigerator something .
A: You 'd like to get it from some good cutthroat capitalist company but not with child care .
B: I guess not ,
B: I suppose you 're absolutely right there .
A: Yeah .
A: For profit places , I would really look at them awfully carefully
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , when I was when my kids were young , I was teaching at a university
A: and , uh , the child care center associated with our university was quite good
A: so I felt confident that they 'd do right .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Of ,
B: are n't don't they kind of use them for , everybody kind of use them for guinea pigs ? For their for their pet theories or some such thing ?
B: Yes .
A: But , yeah ,
A: I suppose , uh , if you 're , if there is a psychology department or an education department around , you might find you might find that they 're pushing one form of education or another ,
A: I guess that 's true .
A: But , uh , I never had bad experience in that respect
A: Of course , you also tend to get people that are associated with the university and the hospital as the parents ,
A: and they , you know ,
A: pretty good people
B: Um . Well , the thing I really worry about is , uh , the sexual abuse cases you read about .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I mean you 'd just feel awful if something like that happened .
A: Yeah .
A: I never really worry very much about it .
A: I tend to think those are very rare but quickly exploited and made public
A: so , I never really worried too much about that being , uh , uh , the case with my boys .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: Uh , I , you know , I think those things get into the headlines immediately when somebody finds out about them
A: but
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't think it 's as common as , uh , the newspapers would make you believe
B: Uh-huh .
B: And another thing is cost .
A: Oh , yeah
A: I mean that ,
B: I know so many of my friends I went to school with who are having babies right now
B: and they finding , in some cases they 're finding it 's just not worth it to work because it 's all going out in daycare .
A: Right .
B: Um .
A: Well , in our case , we made the decision that my wife would stay home until the boys were , uh , in school .
A: And I 'm really happy we did it , although it was very , very difficult .
A: And I think it was the right thing to do
B: Um .
A: and we were , uh , we just decided that we would do it
A: and we went ahead
A: but , uh , not everybody can make that choice
A: and even , even though my wife was n't working , we did have , uh , one or another of the boys in , uh , child care for just for part of the day . Uh , or a couple of days a week just so that , uh , other things could get done around the house and so on ,
A: so , So , we did look around .
B: Huh .
A: I think my wife is much better than I am at that walking into a place and getting a feeling for whether it is a loving and caring place or not
A: and , uh so I would always trust her judgment on that .
B: Huh .
B: Huh . Well I 'm just thanking heaven .
B: My husband just got a new job .
B: His last company , he was only working four days a week .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's ,
B: and he just got a new job .
B: He 's getting lots of overtime ,
B: he got a pay raise
B: and so I 'm just grateful that we don't have to worry so much about my working or not .
A: There 's absolutely no question that you 're going to be the best child care provider for that kid
A: so , yeah , do it as long you can
B: I suppose .
A: But I think , you know , you have to look through a place
A: and you have to get a feel for , uh , how they treat the kids and , uh , uh , what kind of staff members they have and how much turnover they have and things like that before you commit your child to them .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I think you have , the main thing is that you have to determine that they 're perfectly open . That you 're welcome anytime without notice , in the middle of the day and so forth
A: and if they 're at all queasy about that then I 'd look elsewhere , yeah .
B: You have to start wondering if they don't want you .
B: Yes .
A: Right
B: Huh .
A: You have other friends that have kids , uh , being taken care of in , uh , child care ?
B: Uh , I have one
B: but I have n't really had a chance to talk to her about that for a while .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So . But , I really think the news reports are , uh , tend to sensationalize the problems .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think the problems are more ones of cost and resources and , uh , pay and exhaustion and you know , things like that , rather than these , uh , uh , really wild abuse cases that you read about because it make good copy .
B: This is true .
A: Yeah .
B: CURRENT AFFAIR can get several shows child cases .
A: Uh-huh . Well ,
A: Why don't you go ahead and start .
B: Okay .
B: Well I think the court systems could stand some improvement .
B: Uh , trial by jury is good
B: but a lot of time a lot of cases , uh , is circumstantial evidence that , that convicts a person , which I don't think is all the time good . Because sometimes it 's hard to get all the facts and to prove a person innocent , I mean prove a person guilty if you don't really know or you don't really have an eyewitness .
B: And how can you convict somebody on circumstantial evidence is beyond me .
B: I don't know .
A: So you think if , if trials were held by judges or experts , that they , they would tend not to , uh , admit , not to convict people on circumstantial evidence ?
B: I think so .
A: You know , I , I attended a trial in , uh , Germany when I was a student
A: and , uh that 's the sort of system they have .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The trials are held by a panel of three , uh , three or four judges who are , well ,
A: they 're like lawyers I guess .
A: They 're experts in the law
B: Right .
A: and , uh , there , there really is n't a jury
A: and , uh , uh , they do the questioning also .
A: The judges do the questioning
A: and , uh they ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh ,
A: I think it 's a lot harder to get off on technicalities also because they , uh , uh , the judge is also sort of a jury , uh ,
A: but I 'm not sure I like that
A: I think I prefer the jury system myself .
B: You think you prefer the jury ?
B: You think your chances are better ?
A: Uh , well , actually I think in most criminal cases it would n't make any difference whether it was a couple of judges or jury
A: What , what I worry about is cases where it 's the government against the individual .
A: That 's where you really need a jury of peers . Because , uh , anytime the government , uh , is the government against the individual you need you need the protection of ordinary citizens .
B: Well , that 's true .
A: I think that 's really the only thing . I guess where I would like to see the system change is , uh , uh , there ought to be a , a well
A: I guess I don't think that , uh , uh , juries need to decide sentencing all the time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think maybe a judge is a better judge of that
A: or , uh ,
B: Well , sometimes the sentencing is still , is not fair .
B: I mean even if , well the jury , I guess they do decide that
B: but , but , I 'm like you ,
B: in a case like that , most of the time its ,
B: I don't know ,
B: maybe I 'm too , too , uh , uh , conservative when it comes to that .
B: the sentencing is really light compared to what I think they should be in a lot of cases you know , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well if you drag twelve people into a courtroom , I trust them to make the right decision as to whether someone 's guilty or innocent .
A: That 's usually a matter of who to believe and what facts to believe .
B: Right .
A: But people who don't have day in and day out life long experience with what prison is really like and what the options are , to ask them to decide for one case , on one person , based on what they see , I think that is maybe , uh , a little bit naive .
B: Yeah .
A: In Texas here , people tend to get whipped up into a frenzy and slap long sentences on people .
B: Uh-huh
A: Uh , it 's kind of , uh , uh , a hanging jury atmosphere
B: Right .
A: But in a lot of places , I think people bend over the other way ,
A: but I guess , I guess I like the system that they have in some places where the defendant gets to choose whether he 's , goes before a jury for sentencing or whether the judge gets to choose it .
A: Some , some cases in some jurisdictions , they can do that .
B: Oh really ?
A: I kind of like that system .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's , that 's not a bad system .
B: But I , I do think it needs to be shaken up a little bit .
A: Yeah .
B: But , the thing is too , maybe they need more of a , I don't know , more of a expert types to , to be on some of these jury cases because most time you just pick , you know , Joe Blow or whoever and a good citizen or whoever and call them in .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: And lawyers blow sand in their eyes .
B: exactly .
A: I would like to see most civil cases tried before a panel of experts instead of ordinary juries .
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
A: Insurance cases and things like that .
B: Yeah .
A: Where
A: and , uh , there would be more honest settlements instead of this , uh , tugging of people 's heart strings and , uh making them cry and feel like they 're doing somebody good by giving them or giving them two million dollars to make up for the pain and suffering
B: Uh-huh
B: Exactly
B: exactly .
A: So . In , I think , in criminal trials you need the jury as a defense against the government
A: but ,
A: Have you had that experience recently ?
B: Recently , I ca n't really say recently .
B: But I think about , uh , about a year ago , uh , I bought a product from some company down at , uh , in Atlanta , Georgia .
B: I believe it was one of these , uh , one of these , uh , mixers . These , like these juice machines
B: and , uh the , uh , the blade they sent me at first that went into the machine , it looked , you know , perfectly okay
A: Oh , yeah .
B: but I found that , uh , it was made of some material which actually ended up rusting uh , after ,
A: Oh .
B: even , despite , you know , diligent washing , it , it got rusty after about , uh , three weeks of use .
B: And I don't think it was my fault because I , you know , I had made a point of like drying it off and cleaning it
B: but , uh , it was really , uh , it was ,
B: I had to send it back after like , you know , the third week because I realized it was like , it was not ,
B: something was very , very wrong with the blade .
B: Uh , what about you ?
A: Well , I don't have so much trouble with products as service .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't feel like that 's as big a problem .
A: I 've had a few answering machines over the last two years just because I 've had a lot of trouble with them working correctly .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I 'm not convinced that any of them work a hundred percent .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , the one I have now is okay , most of the time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But that 's it .
A: But that 's , that 's probably the worst .
A: My daughter has a charm bracelet I bought her that 's guaranteed . Uh , James Avery .
A: I don't know if you have that up there
A: but it , it 's a very good company . That sells sterling silver things
B: Uh-huh .
A: and uh , she has a charm bracelet with lots of charms on it , a lot of money into it by now
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and the catch broke
A: and she was sitting in school on a carpet
A: and when she stood up , it caught and broke
A: and we took it back
A: and they said oh , this was just obviously yanked .
B: Uh-huh .
A: This was yanked .
A: I mean they were so rude about it .
B: Right .
A: And so we wanted a different kind of catch
A: and she said well it 's not guaranteed .
A: And I said , well put it on because apparently nothing 's guaranteed
A: so do it anyway .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we got the kind we wanted
A: and I was really disappointed with that .
A: I felt that this was a company that should have been more reliable
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I happened to need a birthday present for one of her friends
A: and I called there to see if they had it
A: and the lady was very nice .
A: And I said my goodness ,
A: I said you 've been very nice , what 's your name .
A: And she told me
A: and I said well I really appreciate it .
A: I said there seems to be a big attitude problem in that , store
A: and it turned out she was the assistant manager
A: so ,
A: Right .
A: So I felt kind of good about that , you know .
A: I did n't even know the person 's name that had given me the hard time or anything
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: but I just felt like , well at least I did something .
A: Maybe they 'll fix it .
A: They might work on that , you know .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: But I find attitudes are more of a problem .
A: Service is more of a problem .
B: I find ,
B: up here in the northeast , we have , uh , well we have these mail order companies like L L Bean
B: and , uh , they are famous for , I guess , having really top-notch service .
B: They 've got , uh
A: Really .
B: I mean I 've , I 've , I , I have friends and family who order from them because you can , you can literally , I 've heard stories where you can literally buy something from them one year , wear it for a year and a half ,
B: and even after , like eighteen months of , you know , reasonably satisfactory use , they will accept it in any condition
B: and they will gladly , no questions asked , take it back if for some bizarre reason you decide you don't want it anymore .
B: Uh , they 'll , they 'll actually do things like this .
B: I mean they 're really , they , they bend over backwards service wise for you .
B: I 've , uh I 've found also a lot of companies nowadays , have , they have eight hundred numbers you can call .
A: That 's really great .
B: I guess if , if you call the any eight hundred number , uh , if , you , you can call up any eight hundred number directory assistance , and you can get , uh , the eight hundred number of the customer service support line for a number of companies .
B: And , um , actually I 've tried that with a few companies lately .
B: And they 've , most of them have been pretty good ,
B: but I , I was ,
B: one reason why , I , like I buy a lot of clothing through mail order is that , uh , if you buy through Bean or though ,
B: uh , I guess Bean 's , one of Bean 's big competitors is Land 's End out in , uh , I guess it 's Wisconsin somewhere .
B: They , they are , uh , they 're very good about uh ,
A: Huh .
B: like the customer is always right
B: and you know , no matter how crabby you might be over the phone , they are very understanding
B: and , uh , they usually get , you know , they , they make things are , they make sure things are set properly if you 're any way dissatisfied with their merchandise .
A: That 's really good .
A: It use to be like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But ,
A: I don't think most places are like that anymore .
B: Well I think , I guess nowadays with the , uh , with the economy the way it is , I guess ,
B: there was a , there was a story on the news tonight about how , because a lot of companies are , uh , you know ,
B: things are getting rough out there ,
B: there 's a lot of , you know ,
B: the morale among employees tends to go down and that , in turn , like , you know ,
A: Well , the question was talking about the juries
A: and , uh , one of the things I thought about was a lot of the drunk cases that they were having , that , especially for repeat offenders that , uh ,
A: maybe there should be stiffer penalties for those people who come back again and again .
A: Uh , so that , uh , a judge , I think , would be the most appropriate person to , uh , to be able to sentence somebody since they do it over and over again every day . Right . * slash error should be 'aa '
B: Right .
B: I , I kind of agree with that , because I think in some cases , uh , the jury may not even have , the information about other crimes the person has committed .
B: Uh , I , I think that in some cases that 's considered to prejudice the current case
A: Right
B: so a judge , you 're right , should have the whole dossier of the criminal there
A: Uh-huh .
B: and if they 're judged guilty would probably be in a better position to give an appropriate , uh , sentencing .
A: Yeah .
A: See I agree with you .
A: Uh , one thing I heard was this , where they have , instead of going to the regular court , they have a , a mock court .
A: I mean , it 's supposed to be all legal and everything .
A: Uh , you go
A: and you present your case ,
A: the other side presents their case
A: and you 're done with it .
A: It 's almost like the NIGHT COURT we see on T V .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and , uh , but it 's not that we have , uh , such ,
A: it did n't backlog or all of the , uh , the cases that are , uh , all ready pending .
A: Uh , so I ,
A: that was one thing I thought about that would be really neat if we could do it that way .
B: In other words , not , not ,
B: there would be some types of crimes for which you 're not guaranteed a jury trial ?
A: Yes .
A: Now ,
B: I , I , I don't ,
B: there 's a point on which we don't agree .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I would tend , myself , to say that we should continue to guarantee a jury trial for criminal cases anytime a , anytime a , one of the parties wants one .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I , usually it is the defendant , I guess , that wants to have the jury hear the case .
A: Sure .
B: So I 'm not out for streamlining things to the point where we , uh , take that , you know ,
B: that would require a change in the Bill of Rights , I believe
B: and so ,
A: and , and I was n't , I did n't mean that
B: Oh , oh , okay .
A: I , I did n't mean that , no .
A: Because , I mean , gee whiz , if I was , uh , uh , did n't have that right , you know , not to have a jury that , oh
A: yes , I would feel , uh , you 're right , that my civil rights had been violated .
A: But I meant for some , when both parties agreed that yes , we 're going to have a judge here .
A: We 're not going to have a jury , you know ,
A: let 's get it over with .
A: Sort of like car accidents , you know ,
B: Right .
B: Well I think that 's all ready possible .
A: Yeah .
B: I think , that you can waive the right to a , jury trial uh ,
B: yeah
A: right
B: so . I agree that that should be encouraged .
A: Uh-huh .
B: People should know that that 's an option just in case they feel they have to have a jury trial .
B: But I think most lawyers do a pretty good job of making that evident to , to clients unless they feel they can , you know , tweak a jury into giving a different sentence or possibly , if it 's a civil case , giving higher , uh , you know , awards of money or something since usually the lawyers get a percentage of the , the award .
A: Right .
A: Giving a different sentence .
A: Uh-huh .
A: The take .
A: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: And I suspect it , in cases like ,
B: I guess we were supposed to be doing criminals though , rather than civil .
B: Is that right ?
A: Well , I , I , we 're at liberty to , to talk and , and meander as long as it 's all on the same theme .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , uh , in the case of , civil , uh , things , I think maybe the , the use of the jury is very , often to the lawyer 's advantage
B: and I think that may be where jury use is overdone ,
B: I mean there are cases where they could be settled , maybe out of court a little more efficiently .
A: Right .
B: But the lawyers are really , uh ,
B: it 's to their advantage to play to as big an audience as possible
B: so . Uh , I was wondering too , if they were thinking of about the judge making awards in civil cases not just sentencing in , in a criminal cases .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I 'm not so sure I 'm in favor of that .
B: But I am in favor of it for criminal cases
B: so there 's a difference of my view there for those two .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: well you can tell I have n't been in too many juries judges chambers or anything like that
B: Have you ever had to serve jury duty ?
A: well I was called once when I was nineteen
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , but I was doing so many other things that they took pity on me
A: and , I was doing school and things like
A: they , they let me out .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 've never had to it since
A: and that was almost twenty years ago
B: Uh-huh .
B: It is n't ,
B: sort of amazed me they first caught up with me for the first time , in , uh ,
B: that would have been about , uh , twenty years too
B: uh , uh , just last year
B: and , uh , the case I heard was a criminal case
B: and it seemed it really , trivial .
B: It involved two bicycles .
B: We did n't do the sentencing .
B: The judge did .
A: Huh .
B: So
A: How interesting .
B: we , we rendered a verdict
B: and then the judge was the one to do the sentencing .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: Uh-huh
B: And that was here in Wisconsin .
B: So I , I don't know if that varies from state to state or if it ,
A: I 'm Nevin from Sunnyvale , California .
B: Hi ,
B: this is Jim Bliss from Minneapolis , Minnesota .
B: How you doing ?
A: Pretty good .
B: Good .
B: Uh , I guess the topic is trial by jury and how we should change that or how we would change it .
A: Yep .
B: Uh , I 'm ready whenever you are .
A: Okay
B: So , uh , what are your , what are your thoughts on the subject there ?
A: Well I definitely think , like decisions have to be unanimous .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's probably a good thing .
A: It 's probably the safest thing .
B: Yeah .
B: I mean , it 's to easy to get a quorum
A: Yep
B: and simple majority wo n't do .
A: No .
A: And even like , you know , two-thirds majority , I mean , it 's
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's ,
B: yeah ,
B: quorums are to easy to get .
A: Yep .
B: And there 's always that , that chance that one or two people could be playing devil 's advocate for a good reason , you know .
B: So it 's , it 's
B: definitely
B: but , uh , I don't know .
B: I could , I could n't believe they suggested that judges should be doing the sentencing .
A: Yeah .
A: Like Gives them a little too much power
B: Yeah
B: I , I know of a couple of people at least who would be arguing with that . Or arguing against that pretty vehemently .
B: But , uh ,
A: Plus , you know , you may be , you know , doing , you know , a , a guilty verdict
A: but it may not be , you know , it may be for technical reasons
B: Yeah .
B: About the only good thing I would say about that is it that it would , uh , hurry the process up a bit
A: Yeah .
B: but I mean even now we 've got , I know we 've got plenty of cases out there where people have been wrongly convicted and things like that
B: and that 's what the trial by jury .
A: I know .
B: I mean , jeez if , if the judge was doing it himself , without any checks and balances whose to say .
A: Yeah .
A: It ,
A: there would be much more of that
B: Yeah
B: no doubt .
B: Are you involved in the legal system at all ?
A: No .
A: But I . I tend to follow it just to , just to know what 's going on .
B: Okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: I 've got some friends that are lawyers
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: I do too
A: so .
B: One of them just got his law degree .
B: But , uh , to tell you the truth , I 'm not real familiar with , uh , the system of jurisprudence the way it is right now .
A: No .
B: I really have n't studied it in depth .
A: Yeah .
A: I know a little more about civil cases when , than criminal cases . Which is ,
B: Yeah .
A: it 's more in how you present it versus , you know , who 's right .
B: I 'm sure of it .
B: Because a lot of those things , it 's all , it 's in , it 's largely a matter of viewpoint . And who can argue their case better .
A: Yep .
B: Uh , it 's kind of weird .
B: I don't know ,
B: you I always think about watching the PEOPLE 'S COURT or something . And how weird those cases get .
B: It 's just ,
B: Yeah .
A: like , you know , you go say okay , we ca n't bring up this point because then they 're going to , you know ,
A: the opposition will say this , this and this and
B: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's like , boy , the stuff that they can twist around is ,
A: Yep
B: it 's pretty amazing .
A: And it 's like the , the truth is n't really important anymore .
A: It 's ,
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's not .
B: And then you get people who , who bring in cases just because they want to bring them up just because .
A: Yep .
B: Like this , this friend of mine 's pretty obnoxious
B: and he really gets into suing people .
B: And so he 'll , he 'll sue just about anybody just for the chance to get into court , and argue his case you know , It is . It 's , it 's wasting people 's time and the taxpayers ' money and everything else . * aa , sv
A: but ,
B: But , uh ,
A: Yeah
A: but it 's for the more general ,
A: people don't want to take responsibility .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , it 's ,
B: And , and most of the time they 're looking to place blame . Uh and stuff .
A: Yep
B: See , you 're from California ,
B: is that right ?
A: Uh , yeah .
A: Well originally from Chicago
A: but ,
B: Oh , okay .
B: I was just thinking
B: I wonder , I wonder how , how the civil system or the court system must differ between there and say where I am in Minneapolis .
A: I really ,
B: From what I understand , it 's all pretty the same except when you get to Louisiana .
B: And Louisiana is completely different cause it was based on the ,
B: what is it ,
B: it 's based on common law
B: and the rest of the country is not or something like that .
A: Yeah .
B: Pretty strange .
B: But , uh , fortunately I never have had to go in even , even for jury duty .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have n't either other than ,
B: But , uh , that friend of mine 's telling me that I might have to go in for , uh , as a witness .
B: He may subpoena me .
B: So we 'll see what happens .
B: But , uh ,
A: I 'm not really sure how we could change the legal system to make it better . .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's ,
B: there are too many big problems , you know .
B: There 's , there 's such a backlog of court cases right now . You know , to try to get them all in in a good time
A: I know .
B: and we already have too many lawyers as it is .
A: Yeah .
A: And if it 's criminal cases we , you ca n't put them in jail because there 's no room left .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: And , in fact , they 're even letting some go .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I , I 'm originally from Florida
B: and it 's like it seems like every year they let out more and more just cause they don't have room for them , you know .
A: Huh .
B: That 's not a , that 's not a good solution either .
A: Not at all .
B: I 'm not real sure what the ,
A: What do you think about capital punishment ?
B: Well , I 'm kind of in favor of it for certain crimes .
A: Yeah .
A: Which crimes do you feel that ?
B: Well , I think first degree murder , uh , probably warrants it .
A: Yeah .
A: Because of ,
A: so many times it 's so brutal and just recurrent
B: Right .
A: selling , I think should also .
B: Exactly .
B: Recurrent crimes like serial rapists or serial murderers or whatever .
A: Yeah
B: I come from a state that has , well I originally come from the state that has , uh , the death penalty .
B: I come from Florida .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , they 're pretty liberal on it .
B: They tend to , like , fry people left and right . which ,
A: Yeah
A: that 's ,
B: go ahead .
A: Go ahead .
A: Texas is too .
A: Texas , I saw on T V the other night , is the , has had forty-six in like the past several years .
B: Yeah .
A: So they 're pretty hip on it too , I guess .
A: They do it by lethal injection , at Huntsville .
B: Yeah ,
B: okay .
B: I think Florida still uses electric chair .
A: Yeah
B: Uh , I don't , I don't know .
B: In some ways I don't like it because it 's like they 're playing God .
A: Yeah .
B: And that 's not ,
B: I don't think that 's right .
B: But on the other hand , there 's a lot of advantages to it .
A: Yeah .
B: I think crime rates deterred a little bit by using it
B: and , of course , you have some savings in terms of taxpayer money keeping people in jail or not . Um ,
A: Yeah .
B: with Florida that 's a big problem because there 's so many people in jail that they have to let them out every year .
B: They ,
A: Yeah .
A: That 's what 's happening here .
A: There is ,
A: like , uh , that 's ,
A: in fact , a big gubernatorial issue is the the turnover rates of , uh , uh , repeat offenders being let out and doing it again .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sure .
B: And it 's like , you know , that 's a big problem
B: but there 's not a whole lot you can do about it because there 's only so many jails you can build
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's really , you know , it 's , it gets to be a a big problem .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , go ahead .
A: I wish if they were going to do it , they would be a little more consistent in dealing with who gets lethal injection and who does n't .
B: Right .
A: Be a little more , you know ,
A: not being able to put it off for fifteen years .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Because a lot of these guys , you know , they get in
B: and they , they get off for good behavior
B: and , I don't know ,
B: up in Minnesota where I am now , they don't have the death penalty .
B: And you can almost sense that people are just laughing at the system , you know . Because they figure well , you know , sure I , I get thirty or forty years for maybe rape or something .
B: Uh , but then for ,
B: if I , if I elicit good behavior I 'm out in maybe five or ten .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Oh , sure , you know .
A: Goodness .
B: I mean just because , like we said before , they don't have enough room in the jails uh , you know , there 's a lot of incentive for them to be let out early .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: But if you 've got the death penalty hanging over your head , uh ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I think that may solve a lot of that .
A: Yeah
B: Maybe not solve it ,
B: but , I don't know ,
B: maybe ,
A: I , yeah I tend to think the repeal system for the death penalty is a little , little too lenient .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , kind of takes away from the significance of the death penalty .
B: Uh-huh .
B: What do you do Georgeanne ?
A: I 'm a graduate student at the University of Texas in Dallas .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Great .
B: What program you in ?
A: Uh , audiology .
B: Okay .
B: Fantastic . Uh
A: Yeah .
A: What do you do ?
B: I 'm a doctoral student at the University of Central Florida .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm doing an internship up at Honeywell .
A: Oh really ?
B: Uh , yeah .
A: Neat .
B: But , uh , I don't know .
B: It 's , it 's an interesting issue .
B: There 's , like you say , in Texas there 's been quite a few
B: and , and in Florida in the last few years , I think there 's been a lot .
B: I ca n't , I , you know , I ca n't give you figures
B: but , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: I just ,
A: this was in conjunction with the guy that was put in the gas chamber in California .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I think it ,
A: the forty-sixth in the last twenty-five years I think is what
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: they gave a run down that Texas Texas tends to be a little more robust and disciplined area then .
B: Okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I kind of ,
B: yeah , I 've heard things about that .
B: I 've heard that they don't mess around very much .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , they , they don't get repealed as easily as they do .
A: Like the guy in California got you know , twice before he went to the gas chamber
A: and then they said okay , no ,
A: you don't have to go .
A: And then they took him back .
A: I mean , it just seems , Yeah , it just seemed a little inconsistent .
B: Jeez ,
B: that 's a lot of repeals .
A: And then you have like two ,
A: you have these people who are serial killers that did n't even get the death sentence back when ever you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: I don't know .
B: I , I 'm trying to think about other crimes that would warrant it .
B: Uh , I guess ,
B: what is it , what 's the policy now with treason ?
B: Do they , uh , do they axe you for treason or is it a life sentence ?
A: No ,
A: I don't , I don't think , uh , the military does n't execute anymore
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: Or death before the firing squad or whatever .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I think about the only one is , uh , rape ,
A: Okay ,
A: I 'm here .
A: How do you feel about public schools ?
B: Well , our public schools are , are really poor , I feel .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I 'm not sure where Georgia ranks in the nation
B: but , uh , we 're toward the bottom .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , there 's a lot of things that I see that are so obviously wrong . That you would think it would be easy to correct .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: But the system does n't allow for the corrections
A: Uh-huh .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , that 's interesting .
A: I have a sister who used to live in Kennesaw , Georgia .
B: Oh , yes .
A: And , uh , she has a young boy . Actually has two boys now but only had one when she was there .
A: And she complained quite a bit about their school system there .
B: Yes .
A: And ,
B: And Cobb County is better than the county I 'm in .
A: Right .
B: She was in Cobb County .
A: Right .
A: I 'm ,
A: I ca n't really say much about the schools up here .
A: I really don't come from here
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm only up here temporarily on an internship
A: but uh , I live in Orlando , Florida usually .
B: Okay .
A: And the schools down there , from what I know , are not bad .
A: They 're pretty good .
B: Well , that 's great .
A: But I know that in some , I know in a lot of rural areas they 're not that good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: For example , I have a brother in North Carolina
A: and he says the schools there are , are incredibly bad . Uh , just terrible .
B: Well , I feel that we 're way behind .
B: Uh , I have a son that is in the fourth grade
A: Huh .
B: and , uh , they have just now taken up division .
A: Wow .
B: Yeah
B: And
A: That is slow .
B: uh ,
B: my husband and I go to the store
B: and we buy these math books and fractions and multiplication , division things
B: and I feel like , uh , there are several areas that we 're just really , really slow in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I don't blame the teachers as much as I blame the system .
B: It is ,
A: What do you think 's wrong to cause that ?
B: Well , well , for one thing there 's not enough money in the school system .
B: And the money they do have , they 're not , they do not use it wisely .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , she , my son 's teacher has twenty-seven students .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's certainly is a lot of students for one person to deal with on an every day basis . Uh
A: Yeah .
A: Perhaps .
B: but more than that , I don't think that they have the authority to command the attention of the children .
A: Yeah .
B: And when you have two kids in that class that constantly keeps the class in an uproar and you 're not at liberty to do something about it , other than give them on campus isolation or send them to the principal 's office . It it , you know , it can , it can really be bad .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's one thing I worry about .
B: Uh , also I think , we have a lot of , uh , Hispanics
A: There you go ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and we have a lot of , uh ,
B: the county I am , I 'm in , the minorities are mostly Hispanic .
A: Yeah .
A: Probably quite a few black people up there
A: and and ,
B: No
B: We 're from a county , we 're from the county they marched in .
B: We 're in Forsyth county
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: yes ,
B: and we ,
B: and there 's very , very few blacks .
A: Oh , okay .
B: Uh , so , so that 's , uh ,
B: I , I hate to say , uh ,
B: it 's not a problem , uh , because I hate to feel like they are a problem , although they are .
A: Yeah
A: but , you know , it , it 's ,
A: you don't want to seem racist or prejudice or whatever ,
A: but then again .
B: But it is a problem Uh , especially in the inner schools , inner city .
A: Yeah ,
A: there is no denying that , that ,
A: Sure , you know .
A: Teachers , you have to admit that teachers have to slow things down for people who don't understand , especially if there 's not a very well developed special education program at the school .
B: Well ,
B: and you ca n't put all the children in special education .
A: That 's right ,
A: you ca n't do that .
B: Uh , and if the parents do not care enough to take an interest in whether the homework is done you know .
A: Right .
A: See , I grew up in Nebraska
B: Uh-huh .
A: and the school that I went to there was fantastic .
A: It ,
A: I , I really consider myself very , very lucky .
A: Uh , we had a school that had classes probably about the same size you 're talking , twenty-seven , thirty kids to to a class .
B: Yeah .
A: But ,
B: But your teacher had control .
A: Yeah .
A: We zipped right along , you know .
A: I , I was , I was doing mathematics , fractions and division and multiplication by the third grade , easily .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I believe I was too .
A: Uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: But , you 're right , you know .
A: With all this , don't hurt the kids and don't abuse their rights , you 've also taken something away from the discipline , I think .
B: Uh-huh
B: Uh , well , it , it really is a concern of mine because if we could afford it , my son would be in private school .
A: Yeah .
B: We just can not afford it .
A: Right .
A: I was going to ask you if there , if that was an option .
B: Uh , if ,
A: Uh , I 'm of the age that could have gone , although I did n't
A: and , uh , I guess , uh , looking back on it , I tend to think it was pretty , uh , mostly a mistake .
B: Uh-huh .
A: On the other hand , uh , the more I learn about the history , the more I see it was incremental , uh , decisions . Any one of which was sort of understandable at the time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , but on the whole I think it , uh , probably was the wrong thing to do .
A: How about you ?
B: Well , I 'm , uh , I , I was just , uh , in high school I guess when it , when it ended .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Ended up being ,
B: I was in the last , last lottery .
A: Yeah .
B: And I was glad it was over by then .
A: Right .
B: I 've never really totally understood what our purpose was over there .
B: Just because , you know , we did n't really do anything when we went over it seems like .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , we , uh ,
B: those people that I know ,
B: I work with several that were over there ,
B: and for some of them it was just kind of , I don't know , not so much a holiday ,
B: I guess that 's how they tend to talk about it . But that they just kind of lived out in the woods
B: and ever now and then , they 'd go and shoot their rifles
B: and then they 'd , come back
B: and you know .
B: But that they were n't really allowed to do anything .
B: I , uh ,
B: to me it seems like we only went halfway . If even halfway .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's funny .
A: Tonight I was , uh , helping my kid with an essay on , uh , Stalin .
A: And I was thinking in the course of talking to him about it , how , uh , in World War Two , the personalties of Stalin , Hitler and Churchill more or less defined the war
A: and actually when you think back on the big events of the war , it was , uh , it was almost a personal struggle among these three , uh ,
A: I guess you 'd have to call them great men in some sense .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , they 're certainly all leaders
A: and , uh , and , uh , with their nations pretty , pretty solidly behind each one of them .
B: Yeah .
A: And I got a feeling that some of that was involved in the , uh , early decisions of the Vietnam war . That the , uh , people saw the cold war as , uh , you had to draw a line and , and defend it .
A: Otherwise there 'd be , they 'd get you someplace else .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Looking back , it seems like that was only partly true . That , uh , there might have been a better place to draw the line
A: Uh , I guess you can , I guess you can say that a , a certain amount of resolve and willingness to fight , uh , brought the cold war to an end .
A: But I don't think you can just fight anywhere just , just in order to , uh , call the bully out and beat him .
A: And I have a feeling that that 's part of what was involved in the Vietnamese war .
A: They felt like this was a place where we could draw a line , beat them and they would n't come forward .
A: And , uh we were wrong
A: But I , uh , you know ,
A: the , like I said , the more I hear about it , the more I can see each decision that was made as being understandable .
A: But the accumulative effect was to really get into a , a hopeless situation where ,
A: and as you say , uh , going halfway was probably worse than , uh , committing , uh , committing to a completely and , uh , winning it , whatever that would mean .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I , I , I think we did , I think we did learn some lessons that we were n't , uh , we were n't prepared for ,
B: I guess the best word would be the atrocities of war .
A: Yeah
B: Uh , I mean the other wars seemed like a valiant war . I mean they seemed like a valiant thing .
A: Yeah .
B: You knew , you knew who was good .
B: You knew who was bad .
A: Yeah .
B: And it was a , it was a traditional the traditional battle of , kind of good versus evil , if you , you know whichever way it is .
A: Well you 're not ,
B: But in , in the Vietnam war it seems like it was ,
B: a , a , the sides and the lines that were drawn are all confused as to who 's good and who 's bad
B: and and , uh , you know , the ,
A: It 's ambivalent ,
A: yeah .
B: even ,
B: it seems like even the people , you know ,
B: had the South Vietnamese , the North Vietnamese and , of course , the Laotians
B: and the Cambodians were n't even supposed to be involved .
B: But ,
A: What , what about the domestic effects
A: like I was thinking that maybe the most important effect it had was to make it , uh , possible and even popular to , uh , criticize the government .
A: And they ,
A: that pendulum started to swing , uh , maybe even too far . To the point where , uh , uh , supporting a government decision in foreign policy was sort of optional from the Vietnam war on .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And that tradition is still ,
A: I mean it 's dying now ,
A: but it 's still alive as opposed to ,
A: this Desert Storm stuff may have , uh killed it .
B: Yeah .
A: But I think that was one of the biggest ,
A: that , you know , the , uh , the domestic unrest ,
A: Are you in the middle of anything ?
B: No .
B: I 'm not in the middle of anything .
B: I 've just ,
B: about the last thing I did
B: about maybe , oh , close to a year ago now I guess , I , I helped my dad add on another bedroom on to his house .
B: So , I guess that ,
A: The whole thing ?
B: Yeah .
B: That , that was fairly large undertaking .
B: A , a , it 's a bedroom and a walk-in closet and a bathroom all on one side of the house .
A: Did the framing and all ?
B: Oh , we did it all except for the sheetrocking .
A: Huh .
B: That was the only thing we did n't , you know , putting the ceiling up and things like that
B: we don't , we , we were n't sure how to do that
B: and .
A: and I did all the sheetrocking and the interior work
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's the exact opposite .
B: We did all , put the roof up and did all the roofing and the , put all the interior walls up .
B: We just did n't do any of the sheetrock wall work
B: and that 's it because you have , you know , get those joints to go together
B: and whatever you have to put in there to get the , to take the gaps out between the sheets and on the ceiling and all that .
A: Yeah .
B: I we did n't know a thing about any of that
B: and so , It 's , it looked very hard to do
A: My wife wishes I had n't done that .
B: so ,
B: we figured well just ,
B: I did n't think we could do it and make it look professional .
B: So , we left it , left it to somebody who does it for a living .
B: But ,
A: I think it takes about three or four times before it gets easy . Yeah * should be ' b '
B: Probably so
B: and I , we 'd never done it
B: so we just left it alone .
B: But that 's ,
B: I guess , I 'm only twenty-one
B: so I , my , my vast experience of home , home owner 's knowledge is not very much .
B: So it 's just what I have to do , more or less , around the house , you know , for my parents
B: so .
A: Did you , you framed it in uh , on , on , you framed in new square footage
A: or was it stuff that was already , uh , enclosed ?
B: It was brand new .
A: Brand new .
B: We started with the backyard and turned it into part of the house
B: so it was ,
A: and you knew how , you knew how to do the framing ?
B: Uh , well my dad knew how to do most of it , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He , he 'd , we 'd gotten a couple of books
B: and then he just started doing it .
B: I don't know .
B: He , well he did all the flooring himself .
B: He put the whole , the whole floor in
B: and then I just started with the walls and the roof and started there .
B: And then we were , put a , like a , not , not necessarily a garage , but just like a , off the side of that
B: after we had the house part made , we just decided we 'd carry the roof out a little bit farther and put a carport more or less .
B: It 's not , you know , it 's not enclosed .
B: It 's just somewhere to drive another car to , to park
B: and it 's ,
A: Do , do you build on slabs down there or did you build it up off the ground ?
B: Uh , it 's off the ground .
A: On the piers ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: It 's on about uh , twenty-two inch piers , something like that .
A: Did ,
A: You had those poured
B: So .
A: or you did them yourself ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: those , those are ,
B: we did those ourselves
B: so .
A: You just put forms in the ground and fill them with concrete ?
B: Yeah .
A: Huh .
B: Exactly ,
B: so . It 's ,
A: Well , the last thing I did completely myself was an outside deck which I was pretty proud of
B: Yeah ,
B: those those are ,
B: we 'd , I 've done one ,
B: I helped somebody do one of those before .
B: Those are , those are , you know ,
B: you can buy them in kits
B: but we did n't do that way .
B: But it 's ,
A: No
A: I designed it from scratch and did it did a pretty good job .
B: Yeah .
A: Those are nice .
A: They 're pretty forgiving , you know .
A: You can always tear stuff out and redo it .
A: It 's a ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: That 's not near , like building a house or anything
B: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: those are nice .
B: Especially when you get done , you 've got something , you know .
B: I don't know ,
B: I like them .
B: You just sit down on on the deck and do whatever . Have a barbecue
A: Yeah .
A: I I built it two levels and with a big toy box and some benches and , uh , a backrest and all that stuff .
B: or ,
A: I ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that sounds nice .
B: All done by yourself , huh ?
A: I had a friend with a tractor who dug the pier holes
B: Designed ,
A: so we could pour concrete and support it with a , a nice firm four by four posts .
A: And , uh and then the rest of it I just did .
B: Yeah .
A: A , a contractor friend helped me , uh , with some of the , uh , foundation work
A: but , uh , it was pretty ,
A: it was about four or five hundred square feet .
A: The same size as the addition that I just put on
A: so .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's pretty , that 's a good size deck .
A: Yeah .
B: So , yeah .
B: That 's ,
A: It 's , uh , not that expensive .
A: I think it cost me three dollars a square foot and , uh , you know , no less than that .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's not ,
A: cost me about five hundred dollars , six hundred dollars all together .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's good .
B: That 's not bad at all .
B: Did n't have to ,
A: Yeah .
B: the wood may
B: it got surprising as to the fact that how much wood is , you know .
B: To get , to get good lumber it costs ,
B: I don't know about Dallas , but even in this little town , it 's , it 's not cheap at all .
B: I was surprised .
A: I 'd be surprised if it was n't , uh , cheaper where you are .
B: It 's probably more there .
A: Well , yeah .
A: It probably comes from where you are .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that it probably does .
A: Most
B: I , I 'm not sure
B: but ,
A: When I drive through that area , that 's all I see is pressure treated , pressure treated lumber yards .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's nothing but woods up here , down here .
B: Yeah .
B: I don't , I have n't , I mean , I have n't ,
B: I used to live in Dallas . In Arlington , actually .
B: And , but that was just when I was a kid
B: so I don't really know what the cost of living is even like in Dallas anymore .
B: But it 's , I don't know , we 're a college town
B: so that does n't help us out any .
A: Right .
A: East Texas .
B: We have ,
B: gas is a dollar dollar twelve a gallon ,
B: so that 's probably about what you 're paying
A: Huh .
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: my current project is a walkway which I 'm building around the house and out to the backyard to , uh , you know , digging it out and laying sand and putting , uh , pavers on top of that
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's a lot easier .
B: You 've got something going all the time .
A: Well , what do you think in terms of , uh , benefits ?
B: Well , personally , you know , I think , you know ,
B: of course I 'm sure we 're familiar with the exact same benefit package
B: and I think that , uh , we 've probably got one of the best around , you know ,
B: besides , they tend to offer adequate vacation , I guess .
B: And the paid time off is wonderful ,
B: and , uh , one of the things that we were just talking about as a matter of fact this week at work was the CODA Plan that is offered
B: and I think that is just a , a fabulous one ,
B: so . I don't know if you participate in that or not ,
B: but
A: Absolutely .
B: is n't it great ?
B: It 's just a , it 's just a miracle that how fast that adds up , you know .
A: Well , I have to agree with that .
A: You know , I was thinking about , uh , importance of benefits and that kind of thing , other than salary while I was waiting for , uh , the system to find a , a respondent .
B: Uh-huh
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I started thinking that over the years that importance has changed
A: and I suspect that that 's probably true for everyone .
B: Yeah .
A: When I was much younger it was , uh , less important to consider retirement and less important to consider medical benefits .
A: But as I grow older and my family grows , it , the medical benefits are more important
A: and the retirement is more important .
B: I had never really thought of it that way
B: but I guess that 's true , I guess that 's true .
B: I 'm still young enough that , that , uh , the vacation 's real important to me
B: and the paid time off is real important to me and , and that kind of thing .
B: But , uh , you know , I was just , as a matter of fact , I just , uh , celebrated my fifth year at T I the end of last month and , uh , kind of started looking through the , the book because of that , you know ,
B: now that I 'm a hundred percent vested , you know , you kind of look through the book and see well , what exactly , what does that mean and what is the pension all about
B: and , you know , when you 're , when you 're , you know , in your ,
B: I 'm only in my late twenties now ,
B: so you tend not to think about retirement .
B: But , uh , it 's ,
B: I guess now is the time to think about it ,
B: so . Does T I have a pretty good retirement package , do you think ?
A: I think they have , uh , one that we need to recognize that we 're going to have to supplement ourselves .
B: Yeah .
A: And that 's certainly one of the reasons that I 'm sure that they 've begun the , uh , CODA Plan .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's certainly a , a supplemental way , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I suppose if , maybe in , in your instance , if , if you 're started with T I in your early to mid-twenties , and happen to stay with them until you 're sixty-five , then you 'll have a very good retirement plan .
B: Right .
A: But I had another career first and then came to T I a little later .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it 's not , uh ,
A: all by itself it wo n't be adequate for , for my situation .
B: It 's not going to build up , quite enough ,
B: yeah .
A: So , I have to find a way to supplement that .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , they just , they seem to make it so easy to save .
B: You know , one of the things that we 're doing which is probably the worst investment in the world ,
B: but I 've got money coming out to buy savings bonds , just coming straight out of my check .
B: And it 's probably not a great investment ,
B: but if I was n't doing that the money would n't be being saved anyway , you know .
B: I kind of have to trade off , you know .
B: If you never see it you don't spend it ,
B: so And it 's ,
A: I understand though ,
A: it ,
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , believe me , I do that myself .
B: Do you ?
B: Yeah ?
A: And I disagree with you .
A: I don't think it 's the worst investment , in the world .
B: Do you really not ?
B: I , I , you know , I , I debate about whether it 's really good or not , you know .
A: Well , it 's , in terms of guaranteed return on investment
A: and maybe you don't start looking for that word guaranteed , until later .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , it 's shown a history that , uh , sure beats anything else . Over many , many years .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: That 's very true .
B: We went , uh , and did a , a thing through I B S which is a , like a financial consultant type thing here in Dallas
B: and , uh , one of the things that we talked about with the counselor there was , you know ,
B: they work up this whole big , you know , proposal , profile for you , that , all the things that you need to work on and you need to do .
B: And then one of the things that we talked about with her was , you know , the need to save for our son 's education .
B: We have a two year old , you know ,
B: and , and , you know , we ca n't start saving for college when he 's sixteen , you know ,
B: we have to do that now .
B: And , and uh , they have a way that they can figure , you know , what , you know ,
B: and he 's two now ,
B: in sixteen years when he 's ready to go to college , this is how much it 'll cost , you know ,
B: and it 's just really scary the thought of how much it 's going to ,
B: it 's , what it costs now is ridiculous ,
B: what it 's going to cost sixteen years from now is just really scary .
B: And they sat down and figured up that we needed to save like between fifteen and seventeen hundred dollars a year at a , oh , you know , six percent interest rate , to be able to have , you know , money for his college .
B: And that 's exactly what we have coming out in saving bonds , is , is , you know , about fifteen hundred dollars a year .
B: So , I guess it , you know ,
B: in that way , at least we know that that 's taken care of , you know .
B: We , we can worry about other things
B: so ,
A: I understand , that approach .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's , what , that 's exactly what 's happening in my family .
B: Yeah ,
B: Is it really ?
B: Yeah .
A: except that mine are a little bit older
A: and , and I 've shown them the numbers and said this is what 's going to be available ,
A: all this is going to do is give you a little spending money while you 're there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You better make sure that you 've got a scholarship .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
B: Well , that 's what she said to us .
B: She said , now , do you all want him to go to a , a state college or a private college ?
B: And , and our answer was , that , you know , we will have enough money available for him to attend a state college .
B: And if he wants to go to a private college , he can get a scholarship to attend , you know .
B: And that was kind of our view on it .
B: It just costs too much ,
B: you just ca n't do it , you know .
B: So , I don't know ,
B: it 's , it 's ,
B: I don't , uh ,
B: it just amazing ,
B: it amazes me how much the , the costs are going to go up over the next ten or fifteen years .
B: I just don't know how anybody 's going to do it .
A: And boy , it gets really scary when you start talking to them .
A: Uh , I have a , an eleven year old daughter now who 's saying , gee , Dad , I want to be an allergist ,
B: Oh , goodness .
A: and I said , that 's wonderful .
A: I applaud that .
A: Let , me explain to you how you get scholarships to do that .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Exactly .
A: And , then her little brother 's only two years behind
B: Exactly .
A: and he says , well , I don't know ,
A: I think that I probably want to be a veterinarian .
A: And I said , that 's great .
A: Let me explain to you how you get scholarships to do that .
B: That 's right ,
B: That 's right
B: Well , you know , T I , you know , T I offers some good stuff
B: and then I think there 's , I mean I think there 's some negatives ,
B: but there 's going to be some negatives anywhere , you know , no matter where you go .
B: I have , you know , all ,
B: this is the first really large company I 've worked for . I 've
B: always been involved in little small , you know , privately owned owned firms
B: and so I 've never had the , the big benefit package .
B: So , I really don't know how to compare it to other big companies , you know .
B: It , when I came on it was great because I had never had anything even close to what , what they offered .
B: So , I 've been real pleased .
A: Well , that 's fantastic ,
B: Yeah .
A: and on whole I would say that they 're equal to , uh , most of our competitors .
B: Think so ?
A: Uh , I can see some , some potential changes that probably are , are , would not cost very much but might , uh , make things a little easier . Such as offering a , a smorgasbord . Having a larger variety of benefits
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , but here 's the amount , that , that T I is going to pay for it ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: and you can pick what you want
B: and , yeah .
A: now it 's up to you
A: it 's menu selection , so , to speak .
B: Right .
B: That sounds really good .
B: I read a thing ,
B: I don't even remember if it was in the DALLASITE or the INSITE one , about uh , companies allowing you ,
B: and they said that T I was looking into it , to purchase extra vacation days . Which I thought sounded like a good idea .
B: You know , if you 've been there , you know , under five years and you get two weeks of vacation
B: but that 's really not enough
B: and you want an extra week , then you can purchase an extra week of vacation by saying , okay , I 'm going to want an extra five days this year
B: and they 'll take a set amount out of each paycheck , you know ,
B: and they 're deducting it all along ,
B: so you , you can have an extra five days off and be paid for them at the time , you know ,
B: you 're really not being paid for them ,
B: the money is actually coming out of your own pocket ,
B: but it 's coming out a little bit at a time instead of all at once , you know .
B: So , that is kind of an idea that , that a lot of people sounded like that they were really interested in
B: and T I said that they were looking into something like that
B: so ,
A: Well , I could certainly , personally stand seeing them go to a , a standardized compensatory time for overtime .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I don't believe any of us would have to purchase any extra vacation days , if they did , that .
B: Well ,
B: true .
B: True .
A: Uh , and , and I would certainly support something like four to one or five to one
A: or , or , you know , maybe they want to get generous and make it three to one . Uh , as a repayment for , every three to five days that I work overtime there , they should give me one day .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But it should be a standard and , and not left up to either the whim or the current overhead rate uh , that 's running in each department .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well ,
B: and , yeah ,
B: and , and a lot of that is left up to whoever your supervisor happens to be and what type of relationship you have with that person
B: and , you know , I see a lot of differences , but , from one group to the next , you know , about who gets it and who does n't get it , you know .
B: But that 's , and that 's that way with a lot of things , you know , there .
B: It seems like , it depends on what , what group you happen to be in , what , what you 're going to get and what you 're not going to get
B: so ,
A: Well , that 's for sure .
B: Which is the same ,
B: but , but then it 's probably that way anywhere , you know ,
B: that 's ,
A: Oh , I 'm sure personalities always come into play .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , just in this size of organization ,
A: Our community does n't really have any organized recycling drive .
B: Where do you live ?
A: I live in San Antonio .
B: San Antonio !
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , uh , I live in Garland
B: and we 're just beginning to ,
B: we , we just built a real big recycling center , that recycles everything imaginable
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , as far as , uh , trash pick up and stuff that a lot of the communities are doing , they 're testing that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , they 're really not full , full force into it ,
B: but they 're trying ,
B: so we 're attempting it ,
B: but I wish we could do more .
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's , there 's been no emphasis on recycling at all in San Antonio .
A: I used to work for the power company here
A: and there was discussion for a while about , uh , building a garbage burning , uh , electric generation plant
B: Uh-huh .
A: but it just was n't cost effective , at the time .
B: Oh .
A: And there 's , there 's a little recycling trucks and things throughout the city
A: but there is n't any , uh , advertising campaign .
A: There 's just not any push to recycle .
B: Huh .
A: I recycle my newspapers and , uh , my aluminum stuff .
B: Right ,
B: that 's what I do .
A: But , uh , they make it as hard as possible ,
A: it 's not very convenient to do .
B: Right ,
B: when they put centers and stuff like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: well we have those , uh , which I think is one of the best things is those cash for cans .
B: I don't know if you all have those things around .
A: Yes .
B: And I really like that because that makes it real convenient because they 're in almost every shopping center ,
B: and you can just stop by .
B: Now everything else like the uh , paper and plastic and stuff you still have to go to the centers
B: but , but for aluminum that 's real nice
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I started doing that at work .
B: Um , I put out a , a trash can and , and for people to put their aluminum cans in ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that 's really helped a lot ,
B: I mean , everybody 's pitched in
B: and , you know , it does n't bother them to walk little bit farther put their aluminum in a can rather than just throwing it in their trash can .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I really , I really like that ,
B: but , people are really concerned ,
B: it 's just that sometimes it 's not the right people , which is really , really sad because , I wish we would do more
A: Yeah .
B: At work we started , uh , all the recycling stuff .
B: They 're really trying ,
B: I think what started it at work was that planet earth thing we had last year .
A: Yes .
B: And , uh , that really , started a lot of stuff off ,
B: but , you know sometimes it dwindles down .
A: Yeah ,
A: where I work now we recycle all the computer paper .
B: That 's good .
A: But that 's about the extent of it .
B: Well that 's , uh ,
B: at least your trying something .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
B: It 's just yeah ,
B: it would be nice if it could be more .
A: And I 'm sure that the , uh , driving factor for recycling the computer paper is that we get paid to do so .
B: Oh do you really .
A: We sell the paper back to the , uh , to a paper manufacturing company .
B: Well that 's a neat idea .
A: Well , it , it defrays the cost of buying the paper , I think .
A: I ,
A: not by much , but it does defray it some .
B: Right .
A: Enough to make it worth our while to have several bins through out the building .
B: Well that 's , that 's really good ,
B: I mean at least they 're trying .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah
B: I know a lot of companies that waste so much that ,
B: I 'm even trying ,
B: you know that was one thing we noticed last week that we had some new people move into our building And they were just used one time and thrown in the dumpster
A: Yes .
B: and I thought , I don't understand this , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: We 're trying to cut cost and everything like that , and , and recycle and all that stuff
B: and , and here we are wasting .
B: And I don't understand , sometimes , the way , the thinking , the logic behind it .
A: Well the last time , uh , someone moved offices in my building
A: and , uh , the , uh , properties people came in with all , with the good cardboard boxes .
A: Not the cheap ones of course . And packed everything up and moved them and left them lying around ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I took several home because I 'm moving pretty soon
A: and they 're good boxes .
B: That 's exactly what I did .
A: And they were just going to throw them away .
B: Exactly what I did , exactly .
A: Yeah .
B: Because I did n't want to waste that .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And it 's hard enough to find good packing boxes .
A: Right
A: and , and these boxes are ,
A: you can unfold them .
B: Right .
A: So , you know , there , they don't take up much storage space .
B: Exactly right ,
B: well that 's very good
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
A: I , I felt a little guilty about taking the boxes for about two seconds until I realized they would be thrown away ,
A: so .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
A: I thought , well I was doing them a favor by taking them .
B: I found about five , uh , about nine of them that had not even been folded into boxes , that were in the dumpsters .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh gosh ,
B: so many people need , so many people go to the grocery store and stuff and get those boxes , when , you know , these are perfect ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: the ones at the grocery store , half the time , they 've pulled the lid off
A: so you ca n't use it anyway .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: right .
A: Those
A: and the real sturdy boxes that copy room paper comes in , with the nice lids . Those get thrown away .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: right .
A: And I am constantly scouting out the copy room for those boxes .
B: That 's exactly what I do .
A: Those are perfect boxes to put files in .
B: Uh-huh .
B: They 're good for storage and stuff like that .
B: That 's what I do with a lot of my daughter 's things is I 'll store her , you know , like her out dated or , out of , out of season clothes in them
B: and they 're just perfect .
A: What , what I 've done in the past ,
A: I don't have any now ,
A: but I would buy some cheap wallpaper from somewhere and cover those nice boxes with the lids ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you can stack them up and , and leave them out and put things in them , even .
B: And they look just as good .
B: That 's a smart idea .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: I think I 'll have to try that .
B: That 's really cute .
A: Yeah
A: well , you know , it 's cheaper than going and buying the kind at Target that are all ready with the little design on them or whatever .
B: They 're the exact same thing .
B: That 's all they are ,
B: they just made them look fancy .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: You saved me some money .
B: And you 're recycling
A: yeah .
B: Well that 's neat .
B: Well do you all have , uh ,
B: we have places that , uh , pay for paper to recycle ,
B: I know you do yours at work ,
B: but for newspaper .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But ours are real hard to find .
B: That 's the one thing that really discourages me .
B: I saved you know , I recycle paper ,
B: but they ,
B: it 's almost like they don't want the paper , because they don't pay , at all ,
B: I mean , they 're real hard to find the places that pay .
B: And that 's really discouraging .
B: I mean , I just go ahead and take it to the , the regular place , where it 's , you know , they just accept it .
B: But they , uh , I think they should
B: yeah ,
B: if they want people to recycle I think it 's , uh , you know ,
B: like the aluminum , you know ,
B: it gets people to , uh , doing it , you know ,
B: you might , you don't have to pay them a lot .
A: Yeah ,
A: I live near a Walmart
A: and there 's a big , uh , uh , huge dumpster looking thing sitting out front ,
A: in fact I think there 's two of them , that have several openings ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's for recycling
A: and they have aluminum and newspaper and plastic and some other category ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't ,
A: maybe there 's two for aluminum .
A: And you don't get paid
A: but it 's real convenient just to chunk the newspapers in there .
B: Well that 's , that 's good .
A: Yeah .
B: I ,
B: the one thing I don't like about the newspaper also is , uh ,
B: like at work we have two different trash cans at your desk .
B: You have one for paper and one for just your normal trash ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but in , uh , in the paper one you have to separate .
B: You have to make sure you don't throw away any of the slick paper , like magazines .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You ca n't throw any of that away
B: and you ca n't throw certain file type things away ,
B: and I just think it 's such a hassle ,
B: it seems like it would be , it would be easy to take it all ,
B: I don't know ,
B: of course , I don't know all that about recycling
B: so , it probably is a hassle .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I do get tired of having to separate paper , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It gets to be , uh ,
A: I guess you have to make it a habit ,
A: I mean , you have to get so used to doing it that it 's a habit .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: And we had , uh , a write up in our paper , uh , this last time at work about , um ,
B: they come and empty your trash every other day they do your normal trash
B: and every other day they do your recycling trash .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And somebody was writing in complaining that the people had , uh , dumped all the trash in the same bin .
A: Oh .
B: And when they were questioned about it they said well , we 're running late ,
B: or we did n't have time to do those bins or something
B: and that 's real discouraging . Thinking you 're sitting there working to separate it
B: and then they ,
A: And someone else is n't going to take the time to put it in two separate bags .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: so they 're , they 're really , trying to start keeping an eye out for those , you know
B: talking to the people again about , you know ,
B: separate them
B: because that is discouraging when you , when you do that the
B: It was hard to get used to those two different trash cans .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But luckily that will all get straightened out
B: and , and they 'll , they 'll start separating them .
B: Because , I don't mind doing that ,
B: I feel like I 'm doing , uh , doing something for the community when I 'm doing that .
A: Yeah .
B: But anyway .
A: Well , I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: You too .
A: Well , I , thank you .
A: Bye ,
A: bye .
B: Bye .
A: Okay
A: Where to start .
B: I have n't had that much , of course
B: I just heard ,
B: but I have n't had that much time to think about it , either .
B: I guess the , uh , biggest thing I find is the financial aspects , uh , particularly , the ability of people to access , you know , your financial records or , for example your credit , uh , rating almost at will .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's true .
A: I did n't think about that .
B: And , uh , of course flying , uh ,
B: using your Social Security number , of course , permits people to do that
A: Uh-huh .
B: and almost anything you do now , a Social Security number is required .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , of course there 's another aspect of this , too , uh , in terms of invasion of privacy
B: I just thought about it ,
B: being a professional and , of course , you probably belong to one or more professional organizations ,
B: and that is that
B: some of the organizations sell their mailing lists which I think is a , is an invasion of privacy .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I agree
A: Yes ,
A: I get some of these things in the mail that I wonder , where in the world did they get my address or where did they get my name
A: And in fact , some of these things I get , some of these questionnaires ,
A: it 's funny because I 'm , I was in the process of filling one out when I decided I would make this phone call ,
A: but uh , I have n't got to the end of it yet where it asks all that salary information and everything ,
A: but , when you have to send that back in the mail with your name on it , your salary information , I , I just have a real hard time doing that , uh ,
A: and they ask you what type of household items do you own , like stereos and T V and V C R
A: and , and you hate to send something off with your name and address
A: and what types of things do you own
A: and what kind of money do you make
A: and you wonder , well , who 's going to get ahold of this and think , um , that 's a nice place to go rob
B: And not only that , it , it opens you to phone solicitations for a variety of things from ,
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I got one tonight about six thirty when I sat down to eat dinner ,
A: carpet cleaning
B: I 've had them for carpet cleaning ,
B: I 've had them for , of course , for , you know , real estate investments
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , you get , uh , please send in your , uh , you know , this particular card and you get , uh , a free trip or something along those lines .
A: Right .
B: And so , that , uh , that bothers me because I , of course , I enjoy being at home and I do not enjoy getting called by strangers uh , particularly you know , soliciting .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , having your ,
B: and I know that a lot of these , of course , are random phone calls
A: Uh-huh .
B: they just , you know , start going through the phone book or going through a series of numbers ,
B: but some of them are sold ,
B: and I know you
B: talking about mailing lists , the
B: I ,
B: there is one particular group to which I belong
B: and for some ,
B: the reason they have three different names for me .
A: Um .
B: Now the address is the same you know , my , my office address
A: Uh-huh .
B: But they have one under , you know , my first name , James .
B: They have one under my first name and initial middle initial ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: then they have a , a third one under my , just my two initials .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And and I get mail here at home under each of those names .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , no
B: So I know that they have sold their mailing list .
A: Right .
B: And , uh , I think those two things bother me more than anything else as far as an invasion of privacy .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I ca n't really think of anything else offhand , that , uh ,
A: I think I dislike the phone number part the worst .
A: I mean , it 's , it 's one thing to get junk mail because you can , you can just put it right in the trash ,
A: but it 's the phone calls ,
A: and , you know , usually when they call you , it 's going to be when you right when you sit down to dinner because they know , they pretty much know that you 're at work all day
A: and they call you right when , when you 've just gotten home from work .
A: The last thing you want is a phone call unless it 's , you know , something halfway enjoyable ,
A: but if it 's a salesperson , it 's just something you don't want to have to mess with .
A: And , and I 've gotten a lot of them lately ,
A: or I 'll ,
A: sometimes I come home from work
A: and there 's a lot of hang ups on my answering machine
A: and I 'm just assuming it 's probably a salesman that called during the day
A: and , I was n't home ,
A: and they 'll probably call me up and , you know , call me back and bother me when I sit down to dinner later on ,
A: but I find that very annoying The , uh , mail stuff ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: yeah , you know ,
A: it 's kind of irritating ,
A: but it 's not nearly as obnoxious as the phone calls .
B: I think , I think you mentioning the phone calls during dinner ,
B: I know when I sit down with the family and want to have the opportunity , you know , to talk and see what 's going on and all those things ,
B: even if friends call it irritates me .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: So I try to ,
B: I actually during that period of time from , you know , usually from six o'clock or six thirty , whenever I get home , until eight or so , I will shut off the phone
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , my daughter gets irate when I , when I do that because , you know , she 's a teenager
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , oh .
B: so she 'll , you know , I might get an important phone call ,
B: but , So I guess those three things are the , uh , uh , most irritating to me .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I agree with the phone , too , in that , I 'm single ,
A: but when I come home from work , there 's times I need to pay bills ,
A: I need to balance my checking account ,
A: I need to do all kinds of different things like that ,
A: and even though it 's friends calling , sometimes you just feel like , this is my quiet time ,
A: I need to get things done
A: and the phone ringing bothers me ,
A: but that 's , that 's where answering machines are nice , because if it 's really important they 'll leave a message
A: and I can call them back
B: That 's right .
A: But , uh , at work I have so many phone calls from customers calling in ,
A: sometimes it is just , I just want to get away from the phone ringing because it , it really does annoy me .
A: And , uh , if I 've had a lot of phone calls during the day when occasionally when we have , uh ,
A: like this past week ,
A: we have to do a lot of troubleshooting when the programmers have installed a new system ,
A: and , uh , phone rings like crazy
A: and you come home
A: and the last thing you want to do is have to answer the phone .
A: And if it 's some salesman , that just makes it even that much worse .
A: And , uh , it just ,
A: I get to where I , I turn the answering machine on and just let it pick up the phone ,
A: but now with this thing I 'm participating in , I kind of have to answer it , because you never know if it 's the switchboard or if it 's , uh , you know , somebody calling that you really don't want to talk on the phone .
B: Well I have , now we have a , you know , voice mail system at , uh , at the office .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Now what I have done is , I have forwarded my home phone to the answering service at the office so that I do not have to have a , uh a ring at all . If I , if I want to do that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: A ring at all .
A: Oh , huh .
A: That 's an idea
A: Right .
B: And , uh , or I will just let the phone ring three or four times and know that it will forward to , uh , to the office .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so it 's , you know , it makes it convenient .
B: But at the office when I , you know ,
B: we can , uh , on our system , and I imagine on most systems you can just route it directly to the answering service .
A: Yeah .
A: Ours is that way , too .
B: And when I , when I want to be , you know , not bothered during the day , that 's exactly what I do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so , uh ,
A: Well , yours is probably the same as ours .
A: It 's , uh , Tigon
A: , is n't Tigon , uh , part of G T E or vice versa or something like that .
B: Uh .
A: Seems I read ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well Tigon is part of G T E .
A: Okay .
A: Okay
A: that 's it ,
A: that G T E had purchased Tigon
A: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what we have .
B: Except we call it Aspen .
A: Aspen ?
B: Yes .
A: Huh
B: And , uh , we ,
A: I could n't remember in Tigon had purchased G T E phone mail services or if G T E had purchased Tigon .
A: I knew there was some type of a tie in there .
A: I remember reading in the paper a few months back
A: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: G T E purchased Tigon .
A: Okay .
B: And so , we had , had been using a , the Aspen service before they purchased Tigon
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I imagine we will be , uh , shifting over to that service uh , for a while , or if , in a while As soon as we determine what we 're going to do with Contel after we bought Contel
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , no .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , Dana , I think we have probably conversed long enough .
A: I think we did ,
B: Well ,
A: that 's good
B: All right .
A: I did n't think we could go too far on this privacy thing ,
A: but , uh , I guess it 's close enough
B: well thank you for calling .
B: I I , I enjoyed talking to you .
A: Sure , good talking to you , Jim .
A: All right .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Take care .
A: Okay .
A: Capital punishment ,
A: oh , I honestly don't feel like it 's strict enough in my opinion .
B: In the way that it 's applied or it 's applied at all ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Applied at all .
B: So , I ,
B: how do you feel that it should be applied ?
A: Well , I I just feel like there 's a lot of murderers and rapists , and everything else , just walking the streets . You know ?
B: And that , that , the penalty ought to be out there , and be enforced ?
A: Yes .
A: Yes .
A: Not getting paroled , let 's say in so many , years .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , if your going to sentence somebody , let 's say twenty years , let them stay twenty years .
B: That 's ,
B: I agree with that completely .
B: I know we don't have enough prisons ,
B: but there has got to be some kind of punishment , For these people .
A: There has ,
A: that 's right .
B: Because if they turn around , they can get away , they get away with it ,
B: and they get away with it ,
B: and they get away with it ,
B: and then they do something worse
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they get a slap on the wrist .
B: They get , thirty days in jail
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: and they final get up to where they kill somebody else ,
B: and they go through fourteen appeals , and how many hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's , honestly right .
B: And it 's ,
B: Well , they certainly are living off our at our expense .
A: Uh , they sure are just because , some innocent person , can really ,
B: I did n't ,
A: it seems like , really a rough time
B: Yeah .
A: you know ? I 'm not saying innocent person ,
A: let 's say someone wrote a hot check , for instance .
A: You know , it seems like when they go to prison , it , they really seem like it 's a rough time for them
B: Uh-huh .
A: he 's just there to serve his time , and get back out on the street .
B: And , and be paroled , and and have served the sentence ,
A: Yeah .
B: that 's what , that 's what people face with that choice .
B: One thing I really hate , is they don't explain to the jurors , in a , in a trial , in a capital murder trial , or in cases of rape , or in different things that are so horrible , what it means when they sentence them to , you know ,
B: they 'll sentence them to ninety years and say that it 's , you know , that it 's going to , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: that should be life ,
B: but , instead , in , in
B: given the choice of either sentencing to death , or sentencing to life , they 'll give them ninety years in prison or something , and then turn around in thirty years , that , you know ,
B: and less they 're out .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Even if , if they 're even in that long .
B: Or they appeal ,
B: and then they get an appeal that says it was , you know , an unjust amount of time , an extraordinary long length , or something .
A: Time , uh-huh .
A: Yes .
A: I was , I would just be ,
A: I would love to see them just really get real strict on parole you know .
B: Yeah .
B: I 'd like to see the death penalty more as a deterrent ,
B: I think people know that nobody , that it does n't , you know ,
B: it 's not a deterrent right now , because it 's not really effective .
A: Uh-huh .
B: There 's should be , you know , this , for this crime , this is the penalty .
B: You killed , someone you know , in cold blood or whatever .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: You get , it back ,
A: yeah .
B: This is what 's going to happen .
A: Yeah .
B: And , I mean , it sounds horrible .
B: It ,
B: I hear myself saying this ,
B: and , but , I , don't know what else to do with some of these people , that are ,
A: Yeah .
A: But it 's ,
A: I , I know .
B: because they let them back out again ,
B: and they do the same thing over , and over , again ,
A: Same thing ,
A: Yes .
B: then they put them back in jail ,
B: and they get out ,
B: and and more and more innocent people are hurt or killed
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and these guys just are on the endless merry-go-round in the legal system .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's like I said at our expense .
A: Uh , a lot of people really does n't think that much about it , because it has n't happened to them , which it has n't to me either , you know ?
B: Yes .
A: Thank goodness .
A: But still , it could .
B: I know ,
B: I , you read about it in the paper , every day , somebody who 's done this , or that , something really horrible
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they just get away with it ,
B: and nothing happens .
A: And as far as the other states , I honestly don't know what their capital punishment is .
A: You know , I , I , have n't kept up , you know , anything , like that .
B: Yeah .
B: I think I think Texas is Texas , the southern states seem to be somewhat more conservative and still have the death penalty ,
B: and I think , I know California had it for a long time ,
B: and then they , uh , took it off the books ,
B: they repealed it
A: Uh-huh .
B: and people like Charles Manson , and , and some of these other people , who were sentenced to death at the time they repealed the death penalty , were sentenced to life in prison , and are now , now that even though California has reinstated the death penalty , for whatever various crimes .
B: The people who were there originally , when they , when they changed the laws to revoke the death penalty , are still in there for , are in prison , in quote , for life , and , and are now coming up for parole ,
B: some of them , like Manson who 's come up you know
A: Uh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's been denied fortunately
B: but ,
A: Yes .
A: But still , it came up though , did n't it ,
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , you know
B: Well , the jury that sentenced him , sentenced him to death
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then while he was on appeal on his thousandth and one appeal , the state of California revoked the law in the early seventies ,
B: and then they reinstated it later ,
B: but the penalty did n't go back . You know ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: It seems like a lot of times the law is , is totally on the criminal side , and , and is n't protecting the rest of the people .
A: Yes .
A: The victim is really , seems like left out in the cold , more or less , does n't it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: in a lot of , well , especially in things , you pick up the paper ,
A: and you read , you know , you think , oh my goodness
B: Yeah .
B: And the , the laws are all , the rules .
B: Some of the things that would make sense to , to tell the jury , that this , this guy has a , a prior criminal history , you know , where he 's raped ten women
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then he gets up for this one trial ,
B: and they don't finds anything out about the facts that he 's done this over and over and over again
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so they say , well , this is , you know ,
B: I , I don't know if they say it 's the first time offense or whatever ,
B: but they give him a lighter sentence , thinking he 's not a habitual criminal .
A: Or , you know , plead insanity .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah . Well ,
B: To some extent if they would do something with some of those people .
B: But that seems to be a good way to get off for a lot of them too .
A: Oh yes ,
B: They plead insanity
A: uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then three years later they 're cured , and let loose on society again .
A: Yes .
A: I ,
A: it just , just does n't make sense ,
B: I mean , it 's a it 's a scary world out there anymore , where your afraid to go out ,
A: I ,
B: I know , in , in the Dallas metroplex area , I don't go out hardly if I don't have to at night by myself
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I , I certainly , I , I grew up in a smaller town in Texas ,
B: and it was n't that way when I was younger .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , like I , said , I live in a small place . You know .
B: We could go around ,
B: and , boy and ,
A: But , uh , even the small towns now though , has really changed from when I was a kid ,
A: but now I 'm raising children .
A: It it really is .
B: Yes .
B: Ever ,
B: you ca n't even ,
B: when I was a kid , I would run between my neighbors , three and four blocks sometimes , and , as long as my mom had a general idea where I was and I was back on the time ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and now I don't let my kids out of the front yard , that I ca n't see them .
A: See them .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: It really is .
A: Well , we 're probably fixing to run out of time pretty , soon ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: Well , good talking to you too .
B: Bye ,
A: Bye
B: bye .
A: okay .
A: Bye-bye
A: Okay , um ,
A: now the term personal computer , uh ,
A: I don't happen to have one at home . Um ,
A: but I do have a personal computer on my desk here .
B: A type of work station ?
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , yeah ,
A: just kind of , it 's kind of a kluge that was pieced together to , to , uh , shall we say bypass the formal procurement process .
A: And , uh , it , it works just fine .
A: It says it 's a monochrome monitor , Panasonic printer , uh , no big deal ,
A: it , it does the things I need for it to do .
B: Is it a two eighty-six or three eighty-six base machine ?
A: No ,
A: it 's not even that .
B: It 's eighty eighty-eight ?
A: Uh , I think that 's about where it is .
B: Okay .
B: Uh what type of , uh , utilizations do you make of it ?
B: Word processing obviously .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: I do that ,
A: I , I do , uh , some Lotus on it . Uh , do some , uh , Samna , some , uh , P F M , uh , nothing extremely complex .
B: Okay .
B: Uh , I use them both here at work and at home .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I have I B M clones in both cases .
A: Yep .
B: Here at work I have the T I one thousand which is a three eighty-six base machine .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I bet that 's a pretty nice setup .
B: Yes ,
B: it is .
B: Uh , unfortunately I need all of it .
A: Yep .
B: Uh , for example , I was messing around with a spreadsheet this weekend that 's a third of a meg in beta size .
A: Wow .
B: And that , I know that , uh , brings an eighty eighty-eight machine to its knees because I had taken it over from a friend who was working on it
B: and he had a two eighty-six machine ,
A: Yep .
B: and it brought it to its knees . Just in the ability to handle .
A: Wow .
B: And then I have , uh , a three eighty-six F X a sixteen bit machine , at home .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 'm really pleased with it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It manages to take care of all my home needs in terms of word processing and spreadsheets and , uh , databases , database searches .
A: Sure .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , what I 've gotten into more recently are the tools to use them .
B: Have you ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: To try to make them more effective and useful .
A: Right .
B: Have you been , uh , struggling along those lines ?
A: Well , um , I seem to always be in the , the next to the last generation of word processing software .
A: When everyone was in Samna I was still in P F M ,
A: and now that I finally become proficient in Samna everybody 's going to WordPerfect .
A: So , I can never quite stay current with that .
B: Well , I think you will be real pleased to get away from the banana as I used to call it .
B: It 's , uh ,
B: I used it on , uh , some other machines in days gone by and was real pleased to leave it .
B: It was a real memory hog when you started making large blot changes to it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The ,
B: at least the version I had tended to keep copies of that . Of what you were changing and deleting off in memory until all of , all of a sudden you got a disc full error . Not a fun thing to try to recover from .
A: Oh .
A: Huh .
A: I can I can believe that .
B: Very frustrating .
B: Uh , but again I 've been dealing with large files both data and , and otherwise .
B: Uh , that was a engineering spec on B two .
B: You come here with the B level of specs ?
A: No ,
A: not really .
A: I 'm not that up be on that sort of thing .
B: Well , it 's just a huge file that tries to describe the requirements of what you 're trying to build . Uh , to one level down from assistant description .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Okay .
A: Oh , well , it sounds like you 're pretty much into computers .
B: Well , I sure need them .
B: Uh , there 's no way that I could begin to process and keep up with the kinds of information or the magnitude of information that I need to , to try to do my job without them .
A: I can believe that .
A: Well , it 's , it 's been interesting .
B: Yes , uh ,
B: maybe you 'll play around some and figure out how they can help you do different things .
B: I think that 's when you , you start deciding that you really need greater assets than you already have .
B: When you start seeing what all they can do for you .
A: Yeah ,
A: of course , needs and wants are n't necessarily the same thing .
B: Well , I understand that you know .
B: if , needs and wants were the same I 'd have a four eighty-six machine at home
A: I
A: is , is that the newest thing now , the four eighty-six ?
B: Right .
A: That , that must be a fairly recent release .
B: Uh , that 's ,
B: came out around the first of the year .
A: Okay ,
A: okay .
A: Because I , I had done capital packages for two eighty-sixes and three eighty-sixes ,
A: but I did n't know they had a four eighty-six just yet .
B: It does a few more things , uh , than had been available before .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: But I 'm not sure that it 's such a massive improvement . Uh , you know ,
B: once you get passed thirty-three megahertz , all help is , kind of lost in the , in the translation . Because you no longer can think that fast anyway .
A: Sure .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , okay .
B: I enjoyed our discussion .
A: I did too ,
A: and you have a good day .
B: You do the same .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
A: All Right .
A: Ladies , first .
B: Oh , no .
B: Well , I don't find a lot of time to watch T V .
B: And a lot of time , I find it during the day when , when I 'm rocking my little girl to sleep ,
B: so I watch a lot of reruns , old shows , Like DICK VAN DYKE , all those old crazy shows .
B: Yeah
B: I really enjoy watching ANDY GRIFFITH .
A: Well ,
A: so your a homemaker ?
B: Yeah .
A: I guess , that 's , the right term nowadays .
B: Yeah .
B: I guess so .
B: Yeah ,
B: I am .
B: I stay home with two kids .
A: Yeah .
A: My wife ,
A: we have a new one in the house
A: and she stays home , too , also .
B: Huh-uh .
A: Um , I guess , I have a wide variety .
A: I like watching the T V for things that are interesting ,
A: not so much the things that are n't ,
A: for example , like the COSBY SHOW to me is just kind of like a waste of my time , and DIFFERENT STROKES .
B: Huh-uh .
A: But I like SIXTY MINUTES , PRIME TIME LIVE .
B: Huh-uh .
A: Of course , I have to watch cartoons on Saturday morning , but not the NINJA TURTLES .
A: I like the old-timey ones , TOM AND JERRY .
B: You sound like my husband .
A: There you go .
B: He likes TOM AND JERRY and , uh , BUGS BUNNY AND ALL HIS FRIENDS . And all those guys .
A: Right .
A: JOHNNIE QUEST . the good ones .
B: Yeah . Yeah .
A: Um , now if I 'm ever home during the , during the day on a vacation day , I have to catch at twelve o'clock the ANDY GRIFFITH SHOW , because I usually , because he 's just , he 's one of my idles .
A: And then , uh , but I don't know ,
A: it seems like nowadays everything is so electronic , you know , magnified and animated , that you can grab from the old style movies and old style shows a little bit more insight to family groupings .
B: Huh-uh .
B: Huh-uh .
A: And so , uh , now I do , with the COSBY SHOW ,
A: I have seen it a couple of times
A: and , I do ,
A: I like the show .
A: I just don't watch it . Because of the timing ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh , some of the crap that 's on T V nowadays , it 's about .
B: Yeah .
A: I do watch the special shows that they come out with , the NOVA stuff . And , and , the nature shows .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I think there 's enough out there to pick from .
A: I 'm not ,
A: we don't have cable to the point of , of the H B O or any of that stuff .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: But , uh ,
B: Well , I find myself watching just a whole lot of whatever is geared for children . Because , * two utts with two kids
A: Huh-uh .
B: and , you know , I don't want them watching something that I don't think they should watch
B: or , I used to be really hooked on ALL MY CHILDREN ,
A: Sure .
A: Oh , me .
B: And I watched that for like , oh , ten or fifteen straight years ,
A: Oh , no .
B: and then I had , well , you know , I 'd eat
B: like at work , we 'd have a T V or whatever .
B: And then , um , as my kids got older and started , you know , recognizing what was going on , I thought , this is n't really very good
B: So I gave it up .
A: Fifteen years .
B: Yeah .
A: Bet they hated that .
B: I watched , I had watched it since it started .
B: So ,
A: Oh , goodness .
B: Uh , now I , I don't know who the characters are ,
B: and , um , I 'll turn it on every once in awhile
B: and I don't recognize anybody ,
B: so I guess that 's a good sign
A: Yeah .
A: Really .
A: I used to watch , uh ,
A: I can recall ,
A: this might age me , date me here , uh ,
A: I can remember staying home , when I was five and six , and my mother watching the EDGE OF NIGHT .
B: Huh-uh .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Well , see , you 're probably about the same age as me because my mom watched the SECRET STORM , and the EDGE OF NIGHT .
A: SECRET STORM .
A: Well , I think they were back to back , and black and white .
B: Huh-uh .
B: Huh-uh .
A: I was just a youngster
A: and I was like , oh , my gosh .
B: Yeah ,
B: we used to ,
B: my mother watched all that stuff , too .
B: And AS THE WORLD TURNS . I think AS THE WORLD TURNS may , still on or not .
A: Still be on .
B: It was not too long ago .
A: Yeah .
A: Now they got a lot of other crap involved .
A: And so ,
B: Yeah .
A: You 're right .
A: I think some of the tones of the , the daily prime time is questionable ,
B: Yeah .
A: And that could be , uh ,
A: I have to agree with you .
B: Yeah .
A: You know keep them on the channel eleven , channel twenty one . The nature stuff , you know
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: We do ,
B: and it 's real interesting , too , the difference in my kids ,
B: like um , my oldest loved SESAME STREET , And those kind of shows .
A: Huh-uh .
B: My younger one does n't .
B: She 's more into WALT DISNEY kind , you know ,
B: we watch a lot of movies that we 've got on V C , on tapes , and stuff .
A: Huh-uh .
B: She 's more into the animated stuff , where my other daughter liked puppets and that kind of thing
B: so , But , um , we do a lot of kid watching .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Well , sounds like you got your hands full there ,
A: and I do appreciate speaking with you .
B: Sure .
B: It was fun .
A: Have you gotten your catalog yet ?
B: No ,
B: I don't think so .
A: Yeah .
A: I just spoke with Jim .
A: I just got my in the mail * sp ? mine
A: and it inspired me to make more phone calls
B: Oh , well , see I don't really .
B: I 've had a few people call me ,
B: but , I 've never made one .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah .
B: I need to get brave
A: Yeah .
A: Give them your pen number . * sp : pin
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's what I need to do .
A: Have a good day .
B: Thanks .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
B: All right .
A: All right .
A: What are some of your favorite foods ?
B: Mine , well ,
A: I imagine in Argentina you 've got some great foods .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , we got , um , a lot of , uh , European dishes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We got , we got what some people call the best beef in the world .
A: Yes .
B: So it 's , uh , Bishu
B: like every Sunday you go out ,
B: and you buy all these parts of the cow ,
B: and then you just cook them over a grill .
B: That 's ,
B: like , in our house , it 's already built in .
B: There 's this whole special place in the back
B: so you can make a barbecue .
A: I 've had , I 've had that meal in New York , uh , where they bring you a plank , sort of , with all this wonderful beef parts of beef , cooked and barbecued
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's marvelous .
B: And then .
A: I have to find a place around here that has that .
B: Well , they have one in , uh , they have an Argentinean place down in Georgetown .
B: So .
A: Okay ,
A: I 'll keep that in mind , yeah .
B: Um .
A: You serve that yourself , or the , for a family ?
B: Excuse me ?
A: You ever serve that yourself when you have company ?
B: Oh , no ,
B: well , see , the problem is , I 'm only twenty-two
A: Uh-huh .
B: but like , like when I 'm down at home
A: Yeah .
B: and like somebody says okay , when are , when are we having this , you know ,
B: and I 'll cook it .
A: Oh .
B: You know , like you have to prepare the fire , and then put the sausages on ,
B: and then , you know , you put all these different meats which take different times .
A: Do you buy them , um , separately at , you know , an American grocery store now ,
A: or do you have to ,
A: you don't , you don't go buy it from a wholesaler .
B: No ,
B: but what happens is in Argentina they have like all these little places like the fruit stand , and , you know , the dairy , and products and whatever ,
A: Little butcher shops , yeah . * two utts
B: and so .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've lived in Mexico ,
A: so I know .
B: And so they got , they got the meat place .
A: Yeah .
B: And so you just go there
B: and , you ca n't find chicken there ,
B: you got to go to another place to find the chicken .
A: Yeah ,
A: you have to , you have poultry place .
A: What do you , what other , what dishes do you serve with it ?
B: Well , basically , it 's , what we call it impenadas which is , which is , like ,
A: Yeah .
A: The turnover ,
A: the stuffed turnover .
B: Right ,
B: meat turnovers .
A: Oh , I love those ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And , then we also put sausages on a bun ,
B: and then that 's , that 's to start out with .
A: Yeah .
B: And then what you have is also like , you know , like three different kinds of salad .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And uh , that 's about it .
A: Do you remember when you were in Washington , Sam the Argentine baker ?
B: Uh , no .
A: It used to be in Georgetown , years ago .
A: He moved ,
A: I guess he , he retired and went back to Argentina ,
A: I guess , in the early seventies .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: so that that 's before your time .
B: Yeah .
A: Your parents might remember if they were here then .
B: No ,
B: we were only there for two years .
A: Okay .
A: I mean , he was wonderful .
A: We used to get the most marvelous impenadas and other Argentine things .
B: Yeah .
B: And , uh , what I , what I also eat now , since I graduate ,
B: I have an Italian roommate ,
B: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm Italian .
B: Are you ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: And since being Argentinean we also have a lot of pasta .
A: Yeah , well ,
B: And , you know ,
A: Because there 're many Italians in Argentina .
B: Yeah ,
B: and my mom , you know , like makes like what we call niokes and * sp : gnocchis all this stuff , that it 's just , you know , everything like lasagna and everything .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
A: My grandparents , my grandfather came to the United States through Argentina .
B: Oh , okay .
A: This was around the turn of the century . Actually , actually a little bit later , like nineteen thirteen , nineteen twelve , nineteen thirteen .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: At one point , one third of the population of Argentina was Italian . Like pure Italians .
A: well , I 'll tell you ,
A: it 's interesting , because when we cook here ,
A: I 'm of Italian descent .
A: My husband is Chinese .
B: Okay .
A: So we , and we both love Continental cooking , French cooking .
B: Okay .
A: So we cook , uh ,
A: our meals are , well ,
A: we don't , we don't usually mix .
A: I mean , that sometimes
B: Right . Yeah . * slash error should be ' b '
A: well , if we 're entertaining we 'll do a Chinese recipe
A: and , um , there are really easy recipe
A: that is , you know , with Chinese you always have several dishes
A: And nowadays with microwaves ,
A: you can steam many of the things in a microwave .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know if you have one .
B: Yeah .
A: And if you like Chinese food , you can take filet of fish and put a little bit of soy sauce and a little bit of sesame oil on top of it and chop some scallions and a little ginger and just cover it with some , uh , waxed paper and steam it just until the fish is done ,
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: and it 's a wonderful um , flavorful piece of fish .
B: Is it ?
A: Yeah .
B: Because I was at , you know ,
B: it 's like , when you , when you go buy fish , you know
A: Uh-huh .
B: well like I buy like the fish
B: so you can do it in the microwave the breaded fish ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and yeah ,
B: I 've seen , you know , the filet .
A: Yeah ,
A: buy a fresh filet of fish , a nice one at the fish the fish counter .
B: What kind of fish ?
A: Um , any white fish .
A: Sole is good , uh , um , flounder
B: Okay .
A: sole or flounder is real good . And even grouper .
B: So we put soy sauce and sesame .
A: Little bit of soy sauce and sesame seed oil .
B: Okay .
A: And , not too much soy sauce .
A: Uh , some chopped up um , you know , slivers of scallions . And slivers of ginger . And then just cover it and put it in the microwave for just , just two , say two minutes , check it after two minutes to see if the fish flakes .
B: Okay .
A: And if the fish flakes , it 's done .
A: don't overcook it though .
B: Okay ,
B: because I got , I got , um , one of those little , uh , microwaves ,
B: the ones that take forever to boil a cup of water .
A: Well , you see , just check it , you know , during ,
B: Yeah .
A: And another quick dish if you like , um , do you know what hoi sin sauce is , * two utts ?
A: it 's that sweet Chinese sauce ?
B: No ,
B: I don't .
A: Well if you go in a Chinese store ask for hoi sin , H O I S I N .
B: Wait , wait , wait , H , * three ?
A: H O I ,
B: H O I ,
A: S I N , or S E N
B: S I N ,
A: either way they 'll spell it . Hoi Sin sauce .
A: It 's a very sweet dark , sort of a purplish plum sauce , purplish brown .
A: And if you take , uh , little pieces of pork and you fry them , like little cubes of pork . And you fry them with garlic and a little bit of , couple dashes of hot pepper and then mix some hoi sin sauce with sherry , just a little sherry to thin it , and stir that in . You can even put a spoon of ketchup in ,
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: and that makes a great pork dish with a sort of a spicy sweet sauce , that you can serve over rice .
B: Uh , how much , uh , how much pork do you buy for two people .
A: Um , well ,
A: For two people , um , if it 's American style , I buy a half a pound . If , you know , we , if you 're just serving that ,
A: but if you 're serving another dish with it , say the rice dish um , well , with guys pretty healthy appetites , I 'd probably go a third of a pound
B: Right .
A: and then , you know , you could ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I could probably go half a pound
A: And you can always , you can always heat it up again , and save , you know .
B: So , it 's just , it 's just , since I 'm from Argentina , I just love meat .
A: Yeah .
B: And we ,
A: You can also do the same thing using , um , if you have ground beef .
B: Okay .
A: Just stir fry the ground beef .
A: Drain off the oil .
A: Use the same hoi sin sauce and some of the frozen mixed vegetables .
B: Okay .
A: Just stir that in
A: and you 've got a very colorful side , another dish .
B: And how much does it cost ?
A: Um , the hoi sin sauce ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , a dollar twenty-nine a can .
B: Oh , okay .
A: A can would serve you for , for , you know , for quite a few , um , meals , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: Okay ,
B: I thought it was maybe like , you know , like five fifty or something .
A: Oh , no ,
A: no ,
A: no ,
A: no ,
A: no
A: it 's not expensive at all .
A: It 's one of the Chinese cooking basics .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: well listen , it was good talking with you .
B: Same here .
A: Hope you enjoy your recipe .
B: All right .
B: Thank you .
A: Okay .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: It 's , it 's hard topic because
A: is , is , is it doing a good job or a bad job
A: and you got to divide it two different categories whether you live in the city or whether you live in a more rural place like I do .
B: Yeah ,
B: and are you talking about public schools being lower level , high school level or state school .
A: Well , public school all the way up kindergarten all the way up to , uh , uh , high school .
B: Okay ,
B: but you 're excluding high-level education .
A: Yes ,
A: well , yeah
A: I am . Oh ,
B: Okay .
A: actually I think that , I , higher level education ,
A: I don't think there 's so much of a problem there .
A: It 's pretty much funded well .
A: There are small colleges that I 'm sure are struggling
A: but , uh , it 's the job that the , the high school and the grade schools are doing that I see , in a area like ours ,
A: our school ,
A: even a bad school is a good school up here , where , if I lived in New York City or Washington , D C , uh , I would seriously consider moving if I had a child .
A: I would n't let them go to a public school system there .
A: But , of course , people are trapped economically
A: and they ca n't do that .
B: Yeah .
B: I know down here the schools are , you know ,
B: I don't know ,
B: they rate ,
B: I moved to Arkansas and Texas after living in Ohio
B: and the schools down here rate , you know , bottom ten percent across the country
B: and having been through grade school up there and coming down here to high school I can understand why .
B: Because they 're so far behind and so poorly staffed , half the time the teachers don't know what 's going on .
A: Well , that 's really too bad because it , it 's giving some people unfair advantage .
A: I mean we , our high school up here is like a junior college in Florida
B: Right .
A: what we learned .
B: Well , that was my experience going through junior high up there
B: when I came down south for high school I was just repeating what I 'd already done . Because we were so far advanced .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , you know , I 'd been in a parochial school before junior high
B: and , you know , even the public schools are behind the parochial schools .
A: Yeah .
B: So , you know , I , I like the concept they 've got now where they have more directed education , you know ,
B: you , you pick a career path
B: or you get counseling earlier
B: and then you , you learn the things that help you rather than spending four years learning the same things over and over .
A: Like they have that down there that ,
B: Well , they talk about it
B: and there are a few in some of the more , like in
B: I live in a big Metroplex
B: and some of the , the better parts of the Metroplex , the , the suburbs that are richer have those kind of target schools .
B: But , uh , you know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's like if , if your father owns a grocery store and you 're really interested in that ,
A: there 's no reason that you should take college prep courses when you can get some general business courses in high school .
B: Right .
B: Or if you 're going to go the science route you can go to a target school that specializes in science or art .
B: You know , there 's no point in , you know ,
B: I 'm an engineering student
B: and if I have to go take art classes , you know , I 'm not going to use them .
B: And through high school I could have gone so much further if I 'd gone to a school that was directed .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
A: I was fortunate .
A: I 'm a , I 'm a technician
A: and we had a vocational , uh , electronics in our high school .
B: Right ,
B: in high school .
A: So when I went to my first year of tech school , I had a very easy time because our high school had a , a good program .
B: Right .
B: I think the schools today , you know , the public schools are just , they 're just overrun , you know ,
B: they don't know what to do ,
B: there 's too many kids and not enough teachers
B: and too many of the kids don't care .
A: Yeah ,
A: I find that that the , that in the , in the cities , it 's more like the kids go there so socialize not really to learn
B: And ,
B: Right .
A: and the parents send them there because they 're supposed to ,
A: and plus it gets them out of their hair .
A: And I also find that , that you can send a kid to school ,
A: but if don't work with them as a parent , I think you 're putting your child at a big disadvantage .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , you know , there 's some kids that , you know , want to go learn ,
B: but most of them just want to go play .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I could , I could see if a kid does n't have any encouragement if , they 're , you know , come from a broken home and their parents are more concerned about trying to work * sp : their
A: and , or maybe they 're unemployed
A: and they 're mad at the world ,
A: I can see where that would n't be very good for a , a kid , you know ,
A: he 's coming up , will you help me with my homework
A: and they 're , no , get away from me ,
A: I 've had a terrible day .
A: So , it 's got a lot to do with economics in the area that you come from .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: I 'm wondering with the boom down here .
B: It 's , well , not at the moment ,
B: but a lot of the industry 's moving southward .
A: Yeah ,
A: are they going to move to , uh Mexico ?
B: So ,
B: Uh , I don't know about that ,
B: but a lot of the industry up in , uh , you know , the northern states is moving south
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I 'm wondering if that 's going to have any effect , you know , on what you see now .
B: We 're , we 're , we 're behind down here .
A: On the ,
B: I say we because I live here .
B: If
B: that might not turn around in the next , you know , fifteen , twenty years .
A: Yeah ,
A: maybe the , maybe they 'll bring their good schools with them . You know ,
A: if the industry comes hopefully they 'll promote good schools .
B: Yeah .
A: Because I know the town that I come from the , the , uh , the large I B M plant has something to do with the top rated high school because of their tax base for one
A: and plus for , for the type of student that 's going to that school , it 's going to raise the level of the school because your parents are engineers or chemists .
B: Right .
A: They 're , they 're , you 're most likely to do better in school .
A: They 're going to help you .
B: You hope .
A: Yeah ,
A: you hope
A: Well , I think ,
A: I , I don't know .
A: I just think it , it 's , it 's a duty of the parent to do that .
A: I mean , jeez , my parents always helped me
A: and , I don't know ,
A: it 's just like you say ,
A: it 's the way you 're raised and the economic situation you 're in .
A: I can see some lady ,
A: she 's twenty-one years old
A: and she 's got four kids .
A: A kid in ,
A: her first grader ,
A: I don't see where she 's going to have much time for them .
A: So , I don't know .
A: It 's just like ,
B: I guess you just have to wonder ,
B: is it up to the ,
B: is it , you know ,
B: who , who 's supposed to make the change , the , the state , the the federal government , you know ,
B: where 's the money supposed to come from .
B: Is it , you know
A: I don't know .
A: Actually , I think it 's , I think it should be a civic level , the city level and a , a system level really to find out , and to see what they need and not overinflate it ,
B: what , what do you advocate , more taxes or better management of what they got ?
A: like , if the teachers are getting six percent raises every year when people in industry have been getting cut back , and you 're getting raises every eighteen months you got to go now , hey , wait a minute ,
B: Yeah
A: we 're in a recession here .
A: We , uh , our town did n't pass the school budget this year and for the first time in many , many years just because people are , are in the recession
A: and they 're ,
A: even though we 've , uh , enjoyed very good employment here for the past ten years ,
A: now we got eight percent , uh , unemployment when it used to be four or five .
A: People are going , whoa .
B: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: Starts hitting closer to home .
A: Yeah ,
A: but I always , see it 's all , it 's all money .
A: This ,
A: like a couple other topics we had talked about was crime .
A: It , it 's , it 's all money based .
A: And what you can do unless you just get down to the parent level
A: and , and then if you 're in a bad situation where you have to send your child to a bad school .
A: Who knows ,
A: maybe we do , we need some more Catholic schools ,
A: support the church instead
A: They seem to have done a , the good job in the past .
A: In , uh , some places , uh , you could n't go to a public school .
A: It was miles down the road
A: and the only school you could go to was the Baptist school or the Catholic school
A: so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're a lot more strict .
A: Yeah
A: I don't ,
B: You , uh , have to learn ,
B: you are n't given the chance to , you know , screw off all the time .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't know if I would do that to my child , though .
A: But , so , pretty much , though ,
A: see , I don't have any good ideas or , or anything that would contribute .
A: See , this is n't a subject that I think a lot about because I 'm never faced with it because our school system in Vermont , it seems to do a really good job .
B: Well , I know I 'm in the , you know ,
B: the only reason I asked about secondary schools or , you know , advanced education is because down here , you know , going to the University of Texas , the education I 'm getting I think is kind of shoddy for a public school .
A: Is it ?
B: I , I don't think I 'm getting what I should ,
B: but , you know , in Texas , it 's next to free because they pay so much of it .
B: It 's state supported .
A: Well that ,
B: But at the same time it 's really not , it 's not like going to M I T .
B: My engineering degree will be nothing like somebody coming out of M I T .
B: And that 's , it 's really too bad
A: Well ,
B: but that 's ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I think it just builds on the foundation that they 've already built .
B: You get people out of high schools and junior colleges that don't have the background for an M I T kind of curriculum .
B: So ,
A: So you have to go to a lesser engineering school .
A: We have a very good public school up here
A: and a degree out there means a lot .
A: It 's a very good school .
A: It 's , it 's University of Vermont .
A: Uh , we also have some two year college .
A: Well , there 's a four year colleges .
A: They all have a pretty good reputation .
A: But , like you say , you ,
A: There we go .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , uh , I think the weather lately has been a bit warmer than I would expect this time of year .
A: I think that 's true .
A: The , uh , the Bermuda grass is greening up in March ,
A: and sometimes does n't really start doing that until the first part of April .
A: So . So I think we 're a little ahead of schedule on that .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I was out in my yard yesterday afternoon ,
B: and I noticed all that grass coming up ,
B: and I thought , ooh ,
B: we 've got to start this mowing bit soon
A: That 's true .
A: It 's been a , a fun break ,
A: but the break is over .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , um , oh , I guess another thing I 've noticed , too , here lately is that even though we 've had some pretty warm days , it 's been awfully gray , you know , just ,
A: Yeah ,
A: now , the last couple of weekends have been nice and sunny .
B: Yeah .
B: But it seems like every time at work I look out my window it 's gray
A: Well , yeah ,
A: but I 'd rather have a sunny weekend than a gray weekend .
B: Oh , I go for that ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: In fact , I 'm a little worried about this one coming up here .
B: We have a long weekend
B: and , it sounds like it 's going to be a little bit on the cool side .
A: Yeah .
A: I have n't heard whether it 's going to rain or not .
B: I think there 's an eighty percent chance this evening ,
B: but it 's supposed to be cleared out at least by noon tomorrow
B: and then the rest will be without rain .
A: Well , that 's good .
B: But I think the highs are going to be in the sixties , and the lows in the forties .
B: That 's getting back to a little bit chillier .
A: Yeah ,
A: that probably is a little bit under what it is for this time of year .
A: I think ,
A: I have n't seen the the weather on the news in the evening lately ,
A: but I think the average high would be , should be about seventy .
B: Yeah .
B: I 'm not certain either ,
B: but you 're probably right .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , I like it when it 's sort of a medium temperature , uh , maybe seventy-five to eighty , somewhere in there .
B: I don't like it when it 's too cool or too warm .
B: I 'm much more apt to get things done when it 's at that sort of in between temperature .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
A: Um , one of the remarkable things about the weather in the summertime here is that quite often the average daytime high of say ninety-nine degrees is within five or six degrees of the all time record high .
B: Um .
A: And what that tells me , is that the summer weather is very predictable , that it does n't vary very much .
B: Yeah .
B: You 're probably right .
A: I mean , any other time of year , that 's not the case , because it could be very warm or very cold .
B: Yes ,
B: as a matter of fact , I heard the weather the other day on T V
B: and I think it was one day this week a year ago
A: Uh-huh .
B: they said that we had a freeze and some kind of bad weather . You know
A: Right .
B: it was n't just a super bad storm ,
B: but it was it was that sort of thing that we never like to see in the , the late spring time .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: One of the weirdest things I saw , I think it was around this time last year was a twenty-six degree lightening storm .
B: Oh , wow .
A: I , you know , I was going into the grocery store ,
A: and a , a lightening bolt was almost directly overhead ,
A: and it was six degrees out .
B: Um .
A: And I thought , Well gee , I 've , I 've never known it to lightening at that temperature .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , that is pretty unusual .
B: And you really take notice of it , too .
A: That 's right .
A: It , uh , it probably was a lot warmer up high .
A: Sometimes they get those inversions , like when we had that twelve and a half days a few years ago that it never got up as high as freezing .
A: The air temperature at five thousand feet was fifty degrees .
B: Um .
A: The cold weather was just simply trapped along the ground and could n't get away .
B: Wow .
B: I don't , don't like that super cold stuff .
A: Nope .
B: I just don't move very well when it 's that cold .
A: Yep ,
A: I , I 'm really enjoying this now .
A: Well , this has been interesting .
B: Yeah , well .
A: Not too challenging to the brain .
B: Not , not a real in depth topic , but enjoyed talking to you .
A: Nope .
A: All right , Ellen ,
A: well you have a good day .
B: Okay .
A: Bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Are you a player ?
B: Uh , I , I think I am .
B: It 's , it 's been a while now
A: Has it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've , uh , oh ,
B: just recently I got married
B: and we bought a house .
B: We 're about fifty yards from the golf course
A: Oh .
B: but unfortunately the house is taking up my time .
A: Yeah .
B: So it 's been , uh , it 's been almost a year , I guess , since I 've actually , uh , swung a club for a purpose .
A: Yeah ,
A: I I have n't played in about two years ,
A: and then I went out two weeks ago with the guys here .
A: I work at T I .
B: Yeah .
A: And I played in a tournament out there ,
A: and I shot a net fifty-nine .
A: They were kind of , little upset .
A: I guess I laid off long enough to get rid of all my bad habits .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I have a hard time inventing shots , you know .
A: Let 's go around this tree , and you know , try a slice through a hook here ,
B: Right .
A: and I ca n't do that
A: so .
B: Right .
A: I finally got out ,
A: and I 've been watching quite a few videos .
A: I had not been able to play
A: so I took out a few videos and watched them for a while ,
A: and I , I hope I 'm on the right track .
B: Yeah .
A: Shot a career low eighty-nine , so , and my handicap is twenty nine .
B: That 's , that 's great .
A: I like that .
B: Yeah .
B: Now it 's , uh , like I say , it 's been a while for me , too .
B: I , uh , I 've got my wife motivated about it , um
A: Really .
B: and , uh , I think that 's probably going to be one of the next investments , is get her , get her a set of clubs
B: and , uh , we 'll get out of the driving range and , and get some interest built up
B: and hopefully we can , uh , we can start in .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've tried to get my wife ,
A: I bought her a set of clubs four years ago .
A: She has n't even swung them ,
A: but she wants to get into it now after I came home and won the tournament the other day ,
B: Really .
A: she 's she 's ready to get off into it ,
B: Well , great , great .
B: That 's good ,
A: but , you know , I like , I just like getting out , being in the outdoors ,
A: and I 'm a hunter and fisher anyway ,
A: but , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: same thing here .
A: You know , at least I can get out and play a few hours of golf
A: and it 's not going to cost me an arm and a leg , really .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: And I , you know , I walk ,
A: I don't ride
A: so
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: you know , I get a little exercise there , too ,
A: so .
B: That 's ,
B: I 've got the same attitude .
B: I , uh , I tell you ,
B: I started ,
B: I guess , the first time I played golf has been probably about eight or ten years ago now , when I was in college .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I took , uh , I took it as a P E course and then kind of left it alone for a while ,
B: and then finally got , got into it when I was , while I was still in school
A: Right .
B: and since then , uh , we 've made it , um ,
B: as , as the friends start getting married and things like that , we 've made a tradition of , uh , having a , a Thursday , um ,
B: well , have , have probably like , like a Thursday night bachelor party and a Friday golf day before the wedding .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , so , it ,
B: that 's back in South Dakota where I grew up
A: Oh .
B: and , uh , so that , that 's , uh , that 's been my main , my main involvement ,
B: is it seems like I go home and play golf more than I do around here ,
B: but , uh eventually I get people to come and visit me in Dallas ,
A: Yeah .
B: and then I 'll show them we can play golf in the middle of winter when we ca n't do it back home .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's pretty nice .
A: We played out here a couple of times in the middle of the winter when my parents came down and what not .
A: They were amazed .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , here it is , sixty-five degrees ,
A: we 're out playing golf ,
A: and they 're freezing cold back there ,
A: so . But , I , uh , actually I picked it up when I was in high school , on the same as a P E course , you know ,
B: Yep ,
B: yep .
A: when I got into the service I got into it
B: Oh , okay .
A: and now when I come out here I just kind of let it go ,
A: and then one , one of the guys mentioned to me at work one day if I played golf .
A: And I said , Well , yeah , you know ,
A: I 've got my clubs ,
A: but I have n't swung them in quite a few years .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then I got into it and then back out of it ,
A: and it just seems like every couple of years I get back in there
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
A: You know , I really enjoy it .
A: It 's really nice .
B: Oh , it is , it 's , it 's a lot of fun , especially if you can find somebody that 's , uh , that 's got the same level of interest .
B: That seem to be the hardest thing .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , about ,
B: that 's , that 's true of any sport , you know .
B: If you want to play tennis , or racquetball ,
A: Yeah
A: you don't want to go out and get beat to death ,
A: but .
B: Right ,
B: and , and people don't want to play with somebody that they are going to beat every time , you know
A: No .
B: and , and , uh ,
A: And then , you know , we 've got some guys here that they are , you know , four and five handicappers
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they don't like to play with me because I 'm too slow for them ,
A: so . You know , but get somebody around your own handicap , and you can just mosey on out for three or four hours and have a good time .
B: Right .
B: That 's right ,
B: yeah .
A: And I 've , you know , I 've
A: never , never yet have I walked up ,
A: now I 've walked up a few times on the golf course by myself with nobody else to play with ,
A: and never yet have I met anybody on the golf course that would n't allow me to join their twosome or threesome .
B: That 's true .
A: They are always friendly .
B: That 's true .
A: Sure , come on out , you know ,
A: and they don't mind if you make a mistake ,
A: they don't mind saying , Well , you know , let me tell you how to do that or teach you how to do that , or ,
B: Well .
A: You know , it 's , it 's pretty nice and friendly out there
B: That , that 's , that 's so .
A: and you ca n't find that in all sports .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's absolutely right ,
B: and you can gain a lot of ground doing that , too , if you , if , you know ,
B: you gets , you get in a rut if you do play a lot
B: but you play with the same people , you , you are n't going to learn anything .
A: Yeah ,
B: After a short period , once you learn everything they 've got to offer ,
B: then you 've basically tapped your resources there .
A: Yeah ,
A: you need to ,
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , I 'd like to , uh , eventually I 'd like to work up , if , if my wife does get interested , and maybe get involved in a league in a , in a mixed , mixed doubles league , or something like that .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: we , we have one down here in the summertime .
A: Uh , it runs from like five o'clock to seven thirty or eight o'clock , you know , because it does n't get dark until nine thirty or ten .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And we play in the summertime out here .
A: We get a mixed league in ,
A: and that 's what I 'm trying to get her ready for .
A: It 's going to start , well , when we change time back whenever that is next month , I guess ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it will start then ,
A: and , you know , we had a lot of girls out there a couple of years ago ,
A: and they were just starting to learn ,
A: and , you know , they were shooting a hundred , hundred and twenty
B: Sure .
A: but they were , you know ,
A: now they 're down into the hundreds nineties ,
B: Right .
A: so , it wo n't take her long . You know ,
B: Well , that 's good that 's good , that 's sounds like a lot of fun .
A: And it 's something we can do together ,
A: so . Well , she does n't do much hunting ,
A: she could care less about that .
B: Yeah .
A: She 's does a little fishing ,
A: but , you know , golf would give her the exercise ,
A: she 'd be outside ,
A: give her something to do that we both enjoy ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it sounds like we 've got real similar situations .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I , I go home , uh , I 've gone home every year now since I 've moved to Dallas to , to go pheasant hunting ,
B: and , uh um , the , the last time I , I took my wife along
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , kind of the same situation .
B: She 's , she 's up in the house and talked to my mother the whole time we were out hunting and stuff ,
B: but , She 'll definitely , uh , she 'll make the trip for fishing if that comes along ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh it 's , it 's interesting ,
A: All right .
A: Yeah ,
A: and it 's , you know , it 's a game that you don't ,
A: like bowling , you know , you feel bad if you bowl a hundred .
A: But if you shoot a hundred in golf , you know ,
A: you don't have to be an expert to play ,
B: That 's right .
A: Any novice can pick up a club and learn how to hold one and learn how to do it and do it right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , you know , you don't have to be an expert in any aspect of it at all .
B: That 's right ,
B: well , yeah ,
B: I 've , I 've kind of formed the attitude that , you know , if I could just , if I could pick two or three shots out , uh , out of my game every time and put them together on one hole , then I do pretty good
A: Yeah .
B: and then , and I keep , I keep rationalizing that well , you know , I can do it ,
B: I just got to do it all at on the same hole ,
B: and , and then it will get better ,
B: and you just keep going ,
B: and in the meantime , just enjoy what you 're doing .
A: Yeah .
B: It , it , it really works that way
A: And when , you know when I first got back into it , I used to get mad because I knew I could do something
A: and I did n't get it done .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know ,
A: and I just , well , I need to slice this ball around here ,
A: I naturally slice anyway ,
A: now you know , the ball will go straight
A: and I go
B: Yeah .
A: but , you know I 'd get upset about it sometimes ,
B: Yeah .
A: and now I guess , you know , being in my forties , I just kind of mellowed out a little bit .
B: Sure .
A: I don't get upset any more .
A: So , and ,
B: Sure .
B: And well , that 's great .
A: Well , I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: Well , you bet .
A: I guess I 'll go back to work .
B: Okay ,
B: sounds like it .
A: All right .
A: See you later .
B: Okay .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
B: Well I have n't had too much of a chance to watch T V lately .
A: Yeah .
B: So probably everything I going to say is kind of dated .
A: Well , I can understand that .
A: It 's that time of the year .
B: Yeah .
A: We just , my wife and I just recently moved into our house .
A: So we 're spend a lot of time on the house and out in the yard and things . But . Um , like to keep up to date too .
B: Oh .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess , in the ,
A: since I got out of college , which was about five years ago , my T V viewing started to tend more towards , uh , documentary , news programs , things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Something that 's going to keep mu up to date .
A: I 've kind of , kind of gotten away from , uh , being a series watcher , having to keep up to date with , uh ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: I think when you 're in college you kind of , you have more of a regular schedule in terms of , you can watch every week .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that makes a big difference .
B: So , yeah ,
B: I , I used to ,
B: when my kids were real little and I was home , I watched ,
B: where I was home where I watched things on a more regular basis .
B: But right now , the last things I watched regularly was THIRTY SOMETHING when it first came out .
A: Okay .
B: Did you all ever watch that ?
A: I , yeah , I started , too , and , uh kind of , kind of worked away from that .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I have a hard time sticking with something like , like on T V , because , it , like , it gets real aggravating if you miss it , for a week or two .
B: Yeah .
A: You feel kind of left out
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: But , um , right .
B: I know ,
B: but I tell you what , um ,
B: we 're really strict with our kids about television ,
B: and one night , couple weeks ago , it was just happened that we were exhausted
B: and they wanted to watch ,
B: and we said okay , well we 'll sit down
B: and we 'll , you know , look at what you want to see .
B: Let 's just turn it on and see what 's on .
B: We could not find anything that had any kind of redeeming value in it .
A: I believe that .
B: So , you know , it was prime time ,
B: it was , what , seven thirty , eight o'clock on a week night
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and we have cable ,
B: and there was n't anything on any channel ,
B: and the stuff that was on the prime , the networks , you know , A B C , N B C , C B S , was ,
B: it was just , um , dribble
A: Yeah .
B: you know , I mean , it was n't even funny
A: That 's right .
B: it was n't creative ,
B: it , it was the worst I 've seen .
B: I mean , I have not watched prime time , week night T V , I guess in a real long time because I was shocked .
A: Yeah .
A: I know exactly how you feel .
B: You know what I 'm saying .
A: That 's right .
A: I , uh , when I first moved down here , moved into the apartment and got cable , and I guess I sort of , kind of became numb .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Nothing surprised me any more seeing it on the T V , you know .
A: And then all of a sudden , I started paying , paying attention to soft voices in the network T V again , once in a while .
B: Right .
A: Right now we don't have cable .
B: Right .
A: And it 's surprising how much it 's changed
B: Uh-huh .
A: the whole moral situation , everything , is just gone one whole complete direction different .
A: And we don't have any kids yet ,
A: but I feel the same way .
A: It 's really tough to find something that 's going to be good and interesting for the kids . Even , even cartoons , um
B: Right .
B: Oh .
A: you know , you watch some of the cartoons ,
A: and kids are n't , are n't even going to understand half the humor that 's in there .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's ,
A: none of it 's probably damaging , lot of times .
B: Right ,
B: it 's just , it 's just , uh , like a necessary evil .
B: I mean , when we , when our children were younger , when they were like four years old , three years old , five years old , we just had Sesame Street
B: and that was about it , you know .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: But now , in order to seem , you know , humane and normal , we do allow them to watch cartoons and stuff .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: But it 's , just one of those things , you know ,
B: you have to shut your eyes or not listen or something , because those drive you crazy , if you 're , if you 're in the room .
B: So , But it 's such a shame , because it could be so good .
A: That 's right .
B: I don't understand why , first of all , the public puts up with it . Second of all , why the networks think that , you know , we enjoy that kind of stuff .
A: Well , that 's true .
B: It 's hard to believe that nobody can be any more creative than that .
B: That ca n't be the problem .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It must be the marketing pressures ,
B: and , you know , their demographic studies that they do that show , you know , that everybody 's I Q has dropped dramatically or something .
A: I 'm glad you said it
A: and I did n't have to .
A: But that , that , that 's the ,
A: I feel the exact same way .
A: I sit , I sit and watch some shows ,
A: and I 'm embarrassed for the people that are even involved in the show .
B: I know .
A: You know , why do you do this to yourself ?
B: Why do you do this ?
A: Yeah .
B: I know ,
B: I 'm trying to think if there 's anything I do ,
B: you , like , uh , I like stuff that 's on Great Performances ,
B: and , I , we used to watch mystery quite a bit and things like that .
A: Okay .
B: Stuff I guess that mostly public , on public T V .
A: Right .
B: As a matter of fact , you know when I was a kid , excuse me , my parents used to have ,
B: we had this rule in our house for every hour of regular T V that we watched , we had to watch an hour of public T V
A: Now there 's an idea .
B: That was just the rule .
B: And if they saw us watching the , something ,
B: they 'd say , all right , what did you see on WHAT 'S NEW ,
B: or there was some other ,
B: the children 's program I think at the time was called WHAT 'S NEW .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah .
B: So we had to give a little oral report before we could watch our program .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's pretty good .
B: Do you , do you watch sports on T V ?
B: Are you a sports fan ?
A: I ca n't handle it very long .
B: Yeah
A: I , I mean , I 'm , I 'm a sports fan ,
A: but it 's , well , it 's kind of , it 's kind of like reading magazines any more .
A: If half of the time was n't spent watching commercials , it probably would n't be so bad .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: But , uh , it , it 's ,
A: you 're missing an awful lot .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'd rather , personally rather watch , see a game on T V than fight the crowds at the stadium .
A: but uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: the traffic .
A: But , uh , no ,
B: Uh .
A: I don't sit down ,
A: I 'll sit down for the big games , the Super Bowl , and the championship you know , things like that .
B: Yeah .
A: But I don't follow any team .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I check the scores the next morning ,
A: and I know how everybody 's doing ,
A: and that suffices me .
A: But , I like , I like good comedy , good humor once in a while .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I enjoy that ,
B: but what do you , where do you do you get that
B: You don't have cable now ,
B: I was going to say they have a comedy channel now .
B: But again you 're in a situation where you 're watching mostly , uh , commercials ,
B: and then you 're , you know , trying to pass the time to wait until the next comedian comes up .
B: You know what I did .
B: There was a time there where I could tape things
B: and then I 'd fast forward through the commercials .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Saved a lot of time that way .
A: Yeah ,
A: it works ,
A: you bet ,
A: yeah .
B: But , that takes too much planning .
A: Yeah ,
A: no ,
A: I don't know ,
A: if there 's any , any series that I pay attention to , I try to watch CHEERS once in a while .
B: Now that , yeah , is that still real good .
B: It used to be real good .
B: But .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
B: Is it .
A: In fact , it 's , I think it 's on tonight
B: Oh
A: I just got in from outside ,
A: so I
B: Oh , okay .
A: so I 'm kind of out of it .
A: Things like that ,
A: and I consider that fairly intelligent humor . You know .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: You can tell ,
A: they pick up the words every once in a while .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: Is n't it such a long running program .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: they do have a good , they do have good writers for that .
B: Oh , that makes me think ,
B: do you watch SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE at all ?
A: I try to .
B: Yeah ,
B: we try to stay up , too
A: Yeah
B: It 's getting harder and harder .
B: Ten years ago was n't so hard to stay up .
A: Yeah ,
A: you know , it was , it was just automatic , too ,
A: no matter where you were you stopped and sat down and watched it .
A: I think it 's come around again .
A: It 's gone through cycles .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was ,
B: we stopped watching for a couple of years in the middle there ,
B: but we started watching again .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But it 's real different show than it was when it started .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's funny now ,
B: and it 's better ,
B: but it 's real different than what it used to be .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: But you ca n't be so , ca n't be outrageous .
A: Right .
B: You know , if you keep that same format .
B: There 's only so long that you can be outrageous .
B: So ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's for sure , that is for sure .
A: Well , I guess there are a few things around still
A: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: but you have to hunt hard for them .
A: Sounds like you pretty much agree .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess so .
A: Well .
B: Well .
A: Been , uh , good talking to you .
B: Yeah ,
B: good talking to you .
A: Okay .
B: Take care .
A: You too .
A: Bye .
B: Bye .
A: Okay ,
A: so what kind of cars are you looking at ?
B: Well , we 've , uh , we 've , we 've test driven the Oldsmobile Delta Eighty-eight and a Cutlass Supreme and a used Cadillac , about three or four years old because , uh , I get married in a couple of weeks
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I have two kids
B: and my fiancee has two kids
A: Uh-huh .
B: so we need a car that 's big enough for six .
A: Yeah
B: And so we went , I guess it was two weekends ago , we went , uh , car shopping and looked around .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We found something interesting at Crest Oldsmobile Cadillac up there on Central Expressway
A: Uh-huh .
B: that , uh , in addition to getting a new car there , they can get you a car that 's new
B: but it 's been , uh , a demonstrator model for two or three thousand dollars even cheaper than the best deal they can give you for a new car .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , they call this program cars ,
B: and they come , with a new car warranty ,
B: and it just seems to make sense to me to get the most car for your money to get something like that .
A: Right .
A: That 's a real good deal .
A: In fact my dad recently got a , um , a Pontiac , uh , believe six thousand
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he got a demo .
B: Okay .
A: And it 's been a real good car
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's , it 's like new
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it only had , had very , very low mileage on it .
B: Sure .
A: And so I think he got a real good deal .
A: Of course , they 're fully loaded usually .
B: Oh yeah .
A: So it 's , I think it 's a pretty good option .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think so too .
A: Are the , uh , Oldsmobiles that you 're looking at , are they the demos
A: or they used ,
A: are they new
B: Well , the ones that we were test driving were the , uh , were the new ones there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well now , uh , now , they may be the demonstrator models that the sales reps drive around in .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And then the Cadillac is , is definitely a used car
A: or ,
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The guy said it 'd been on the lot about thirty minutes .
B: He says it 'll probably be gone in a done ,
B: and it 's probably gone by now .
A: Oh no
B: Those things go fast .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , of course we 're not , we ca n't consider getting a brand new Cadillac , because those are twenty-five to thirty thousand dollars .
A: Yeah .
B: But when they 're three years old they 're ,
B: the price already drops in half .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So then it becomes , uh , more realistic .
A: Right .
A: That 's what I 'm thinking about on my next car is do I want to get another brand new car because last two cars are brand new
B: Uh-huh .
A: or do I look for a used car that 's maybe two , three years old that but that 's , you know , low mileage and in good shape .
B: Yeah .
A: But I just , I kind of worry about getting a car that 's that new with low mileage on it because you wonder why did the person that owned it want to get rid of it .
A: Is it a lemon ,
A: or or is something wrong with it
B: That 's right .
A: but I guess that 's a risk you have to take .
B: That 's right .
B: Well , you can reduce that risk by , uh , having the car checked out ,
B: I mean , you know , if you 're going to look at fifty different cars you don't want to do this
A: Uh-huh .
B: but if you 've narrowed it down to one or two you can have the car , uh , uh , checked at , uh , an independent service station and have them go through it from top to bottom and tell you if they can find anything wrong , because they don't have any financial interest in it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: And then you 'll have a realistic assessment of what you 're getting .
A: Uh-huh .
A: About how much do they charge to do something like that ,
A: do you know ?
B: Oh , I 'm thinking around twenty or twenty-five dollars .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's not bad .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: It 'd be well worth it if you 're considering buying a car to find out .
B: I would , I would think so .
B: I would think so .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Well , it 's kind of hard for me to talk about buying cars because I just got mine paid off about a month ago ,
A: and I ,
B: Is n't that a good feeling .
A: Yes ,
A: I don't want to think about buying a car for a while .
A: I just want to enjoy not having any car payments for a while and enjoy watching my savings account get larger and , uh , you know , hang on to the one I 've got for a few years because it 's , it 's , it 's almost four years old ,
B: That 's right .
A: but it 's still in great shape .
A: I have a Mazda R X seven .
B: Well , what you can do is take your car payment and put it in the bank for three or four years
A: Uh-huh .
B: and when you 're ready to get another car just pay cash for it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I just about could really because I think my car ,
B: Yeah .
A: if I continue taking good care of it , it 's going to hold a pretty good resale value
B: Oh yeah .
A: and , uh , if I consider going the used car route and save up some money , I should n't have too much trouble at all .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I would think that 's true .
A: Could you hold on for just a moment ?
B: Sure .
A: Okay .
A: I 'm on a cordless phone ,
A: and I was picking up , uh , some background noise ,
A: so I just switched the channel up on it .
A: I did n't want to interfere with whatever they 're trying to record .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: that 's fine .
A: Anyway .
A: But , uh , I really , I really enjoy the car I have now ,
A: and I do want to hold onto it and , and you know , enjoy it while it 's not having any mechanical problems whatsoever ,
B: That 's right .
A: in fact it never has
B: That 's right .
A: and , uh , it 's been kind of nice ,
A: and I , surprisingly enough after four years , I 'm not tired of the car at all
A: and I want to hang on to it while it 's still being a good car and while I 'm not tired of it and while I 'm single and can handle a two seater for now and get that out of my system .
B: Well .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
A: Because one of these days I 'll be getting a six seater probably too .
B: Eventually .
A: So
B: Yeah ,
B: the first two cars I ever bought , well , uh , uh ,
B: I 've bought three cars ,
B: and I 've always bought them new .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The first car I kept for thirteen and a half years and got a hundred and sixty-one thousand out of it .
A: Wow .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The second car I ever bought I drive to work now .
B: That just turned ten years old ,
B: and I 've got a hundred and twenty-two thousand miles on that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So that , that 's kind of in the way I 've done things is to get things that are new and then keep them forever .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , my car is using two quarts of oil a week now .
A: Oh my gosh
B: About , about a quart every hundred miles .
A: Oh , no .
B: So , but , uh , it runs fine ,
B: all you
B: it 's just very thirsty .
A: Yeah .
B: If I just keep the oil in , it seems to be okay .
B: But , you know , that 's a sign that I 'm going to have to do something sooner or later .
A: Right .
A: What kind of car is it ?
B: It 's a , a Buick Century .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Are you going to trade it in on this new one
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: my fiance is selling , uh , a nineteen seventy-eight Cutlass Supreme that she has .
B: It 's actually , in better condition than my car .
A: Okay .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so she 's going to get some money for that and take some money from the bank and then try to make as much down payment as possible to keep the monthly payment low .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So she 's going to sell it rather than trade it in .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's probably the best thing .
B: You lose four to six hundred dollars a trade in .
A: Or maybe more than that , as I 've learned .
B: Oh really .
A: Yeah .
A: When I bought my R X seven , I , uh , best offer I got for my other car was twenty-five hundred .
A: Well I turned around and sold it myself for forty-two hundred .
A: So ,
B: Oh there you go .
A: You can do much better .
A: I 'm glad you 're , you 're taking care of it yourself .
A: I , I think trading it in , they just use that as additional ,
A: they may give you supposedly a better deal on your new car you 're buying ,
A: but they just , are going to give you that much less for your trade in .
B: Well that 's fact .
A: What I think .
A: So ,
B: I think you 're right .
A: But strangely enough , the best I mean , the best bargaining I had made with a dealer on my car was also the same place I got the best price trade in ,
B: Interesting .
A: but it 's a place in Arlington ,
A: and I think , maybe , as you get outside the Dallas area ,
A: I kind of ,
A: I bet you it 's kind of what I decided .
A: Well , maybe because it 's outside of Dallas they are giving a little bit better prices ,
A: plus I was going through that T I fleet discount program .
B: Okay ,
B: did , did you use it at the car shop place .
A: Well , it 's before they had that .
B: Oh , okay .
A: I had gone over to Texins
A: and they had a little file where they said which dealers participated in the , in the fleet program ,
B: That 's right ,
B: yeah .
A: and what you could expect , they said , you know , a five percent over cost and then options at cost and everything .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: So , I figured out a price based on that .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's good .
A: But I , I guess I got a pretty good deal , because I went back to the Town North Mazda right off Central and offered them the same price as what I knew I was going to be able to get it for in Arlington
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: and they said there is no way you can get this car for that price , especially if we add on the equalizer and the cruise control .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: He said , You 're going to get a car that 's got flood damage or hail damage .
A: And they just laughed at me .
A: And I went the next morning to Arlington ,
A: and they gave it to me for that price .
A: And what 's so funny ,
A: they took the car , they , I knew they were going to pull it from Town North because that 's where the white one was .
B: Is that right .
A: And they had already told me , We located one at Town North .
A: So it was that same car .
B: My gosh .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , unless you 're selling car with hail damage and flood damage I got the car off your lot for that price
B: And you laughed all the way to the bank .
A: Oh I did .
A: And I laughed real hard when I took it in for the two thousand mile checkup
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , that they required you to do .
A: And I took it to Town North ,
A: and sure enough I saw that guy ,
A: and he recognized me .
B: Yeah .
A: He said , Oh , hi , Dana ,
A: and he kind of looked down and saw that car ,
A: and I 'm sure he probably knew what was going on the very next day
B: Yeah .
A: of course , when the place in Arlington went and took the car because I told him there 's a place in Arlington that 's going to give it to me for that price .
B: That 's right .
A: He said , No they 're not .
B: Yeah .
A: And the next day they pulled the white car and took it to Arlington .
A: So I 'm sure he knew
B: Such a deal .
A: So I loved it .
A: I sat there ,
A: and I just had the biggest grin on my face .
B: I 'll bet you did .
A: It was kind of nice .
B: Well , Dana , it 's been really interesting ,
B: I appreciate talking with you .
A: Yeah .
A: Good talking to you too , Don .
B: Okay
B: have a good evening .
A: Okay ,
A: good luck in your car hunting .
B: Thank you much .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: what kind of hobbies do you have ?
B: Um , mostly what I do ,
B: I do do some crafts like it mentioned in the thing ,
B: and then I , I read a lot .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I like to read , too
A: I was trying to think of some while , while it was , uh , talking about it ,
A: and then I ,
A: it took so long for someone to answer ,
A: I started reading the newspaper , and kind of forgot about it
B: Oh .
A: But , uh , yeah ,
A: I 'd say reading is probably one of my biggest ones , because it 's the type of thing that you can , you can do a little bit at a time , whereas , I would love to do crafts and stuff if I just had the time to do it or if I had the space .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I live in a pretty small apartment ,
A: and , uh , I would have to , you know , put stuff away .
A: I have two cats ,
A: so I could n't really leave it out if I was working on something .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Reading is a little bit easier to work around .
B: Yeah ,
B: you can pick it up and take it wherever you go . any space .
A: That 's right .
B: I get too involved in reading sometimes that I neglect what I should be doing .
A: That 's true ,
A: I do the same thing
B: You get so involved in what you 're reading .
A: What types of crafts do you do ?
B: I do a little bit of woodworking ,
B: well , I used to .
B: I don't have the equipment here .
B: We moved to Dallas about a year ago
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my dad had a lot of woodworking equipment
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I did some of that . Um ,
B: here I 've mostly done things that I can do strictly by hand , um , sewing and quilting and , um ,
B: what else have I done
B: Things to hang on the wall .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Mostly just stuff that I can , you know , use right around the house or give away as gifts .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: I 've been making a lot of quilts , well , not a lot , but several quilts lately .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So .
A: I enjoy , uh , sewing and needlework also .
A: I 've , I 've , uh , made some small things , cross stitch things .
A: And , um back when I was in high school , I worked at a needlework shop ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I , I used to do the latch hook rugs and needlepoint and things like that ,
A: and I , I still remember how to do it .
A: It 's just been so long since I 've actually sat down and taken the time to do something like that .
A: But I have recently done some cross stitch .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I enjoy doing that .
A: It 's just the same old thing ,
A: it 's just getting the time to do it
B: Yeah .
B: I 've done some cross , um , cross stitch ,
B: but I never count right ,
B: and I always have to either take it out or have my picture slightly off centered or , or something .
A: Uh-huh
B: It never has worked out completely .
A: Yeah ,
A: it takes a lot of concentration .
A: I mean , it was the type of thing ,
A: I was , I was making some little things for Christmas ,
A: and I also made a little thing for a baby gift ,
A: and , uh , I thought , Oh , I can do this while I watch T V .
A: Wrong
B: Right .
A: No ,
A: you must pay all attention to what you 're doing .
A: It 's , it is a lot more difficult than it seems like it would be .
A: It took me , uh , quite a bit of time .
A: I though , Oh , this wo n't take long at all .
A: But I was wrong .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It took , it took a while to do .
A: But , it was fun ,
A: I enjoyed it .
B: Yeah .
B: The first project I started out one was a big one ,
B: it was , uh , it was of a lady
B: and she was kneeling ,
B: and it was about fifteen by twenty maybe .
A: Oh my gosh .
B: And I ,
B: it was just too much to start with .
B: And I still have n't finished it , because I , I stopped ,
B: and I thought I better do some simple things and work up to this because it was just so difficult to get it done .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And there were so many different shadings and colors ,
B: and , and , it was just too much to begin with .
B: And I think kind of discouraged me from doing much more with it .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's pretty understandable .
B: And I 've done some of the crewel and the , um something similar to that
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it does n't have the specific stitches .
B: Anyway , it 's a little bit more loose , and not quite as structured ,
B: and I like that a little bit better the variety of stitches and stuff in that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: More like embroidery or something .
A: I 'm trying to think of anything else I do as a hobby . Um . I don't even watch T V very much .
A: I was tonight ,
A: but
B: Yeah .
B: I was reading when you called .
A: Yeah .
B: How about movies ,
B: do you like to go to movies ?
A: Yeah
A: I do , I do like to go to movies ,
A: and I have a V C R ,
A: so I like to rent movies ,
A: and , um , I have , right now I have the movie channel ,
A: so I 've recorded quite a few movies off of that . Um ,
A: just , I 've kind of got a collection going of tapes now ,
A: and whenever I go visit my parents , they 're always saying , Well , bring some of your tapes
A: They always borrow a few of them .
A: I was over there ,
A: they live in Duncanville
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I was over there at Easter ,
A: and they said , Bring some tapes with you .
A: So they are always borrowing my tapes .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh ,
B: Well we ,
A: I like to , I like to do , uh , stuff with plants .
A: I like , um , I have a lot of plants in my apartment ,
A: and I 've got a pretty small porch ,
A: but it 's , it 's , uh ,
A: I 've got a few planters out there that I , I 'll , uh , you know ,
A: in the winter time I usually plant some pansies in there ,
A: and then in the summer I 'll plant petunias ,
A: or something that 's colorful
A: and like , that blooms a lot .
A: But have n't done that yet .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I kept thinking that it was going to get cold one more time ,
A: but I think we 're probably past that now .
A: I probably should go buy some .
B: Yeah .
A: I guess if I had a house I might enjoy gardening , some .
A: I 'm not real crazy about pulling weeds and things like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's the hard work .
A: Yeah ,
A: I like the planting , and watering is okay .
B: It 's so nice though when you have a nice yard full of flowers ,
B: it 's so
B: I mean , we don't .
B: We live in an apartment also .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've got a few plants here ,
B: but I 'm not really knowledgeable .
B: I feel real good if I water them
B: and they continue to grow .
B: You know , I feel like , Oh , I 've accomplished something .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I enjoy it ,
B: but I 'm just not experienced enough with
A: Yeah .
A: I don't know too much about it either .
A: Mine 's pretty limited to my little , uh , porch plants
A: And then the ones in my apartment , half of which don't look real healthy ,
A: but I don't always get direct sun except in certain spots .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And so that 's probably my problem there .
A: But ,
B: Have you tried any , growing any , um , like fruits and vegetables or anything ?
B: I guess vegetables are in , like in pots and stuff ?
A: No ,
A: I never have tried that , just because I don't have that much space on this little porch here in this apartment or this little balcony .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And my other two pots are ,
A: they 're kind of , they 're pretty big ,
A: and I have enough plants in them that it takes up a lot of my porch area ,
A: so between that and the chairs and the barbecue grill and the fireplace wood , there 's no room for much else .
A: But my dad , uh , my dad used to grow tomatoes and things at the house .
A: And I 'd , I think when I was real little I probably had a finger in on that every time he did it and had to be out there and watch and that type of stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I 've never really tried anything like that since then .
B: Well , I considered it last year
B: and this year both ,
B: but I have n't done anything about it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So . I think it would be nice to just go out and pick some tomatoes off the porch .
B: We get lots of sunlight here ,
B: and the porch is screened in
B: and it 's pretty large .
A: Oh , wow .
B: So , um , I think if I just would be ,
B: if I 'd do something , be motivated enough to do something , I think it would work out well .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , but there goes that motivation thing again
A: Right .
A: Well , I enjoy playing with my cats .
A: I don't know if you 'd call that a hobby ,
A: but I have two cats ,
A: and I gave them a bath tonight ,
A: so they 're a little bit angry at me
B: . Can you can you put them right in the water ?
A: They did n't like it too much .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh yeah
B: Oh , that 's good ,
A: right in the tub ,
A: and it helps because its the time of the year that they 're shedding a lot , and cleaning cat fur off the couch and off the floor is not a hobby of mine .
A: So I thought , this 'll help , you know , help them shed ,
A: and sure enough , boy the fur just came off like crazy once I got them in the tub .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: So , they 're pretty content now ,
A: but they were mad at me for quite a while .
A: They went and hid after they , after they got dried off .
B: Sulked for a while , huh
A: Yeah .
B: Well , I like animals ,
B: but we don't have any yet .
B: We have a nine month old with another on the way
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we thought , well maybe when they 're a little bit bigger then we 'll ,
A: Yeah .
B: or get into a house with a little more space .
B: I 'd love to have , have some animals .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I like dogs
B: and my husband likes cats .
B: So we have n't reached a real agreement on that yet .
B: If we get a place where we can have both , it 'll be great ,
B: but until then ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I like both ,
A: but since I 'm in an apartment , I just , I don't think an apartment is big enough for a dog .
A: Dogs , to me , dogs need a yard , even little dogs .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They just need a yard .
A: Cats can deal with being inside all the time just fine .
A: But I just think dogs need , need to be outside , though .
A: So ,
B: I agree with you .
B: I ,
B: if we were going to get anything now it would definitely be a cat , or even a bird or a fish tank or something , you know Something small
A: Yeah ,
A: now that 's an idea
A: with the small babies .
B: that she can watch , but wo n't take too much care .
A: Yeah ,
A: because , you kind of ,
A: even , even a cat , you never know when they might bite or scratch or something .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There not as likely to as a dog might , I guess .
A: But with little ones , I 'd be kind of scared to get anything that has teeth or claws .
B: Especially when they 're not quite to the age of understanding that they 're hurting , you know ,
B: that
B: they grab hold with both hands and then just jerk .
A: Oh yeah .
B: And if I was a cat or dog , I 'd respond probably by biting or something .
B: I don't know .
A: Oh , yeah
B: That 'd be my self defense .
B: But , Well , I think we probably reached our time limit .
A: Uh-huh
A: Yeah ,
A: probably
A: so , and I 'm out of , out of good ideas for a hobby anyway .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Well it was good talking to you .
B: Thank you for calling .
A: All right .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: do you have any pets ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I have three cats and a dog .
A: Oh , boy .
A: Sound like us ,
A: we have ,
B: Um ,
A: go ahead .
B: Um , we just got the , the dog less than a year ago
B: so , he 's still a puppy .
A: Oh , what kind is it ?
B: He 's a mixed breed ,
B: he 's part Collie , part Shepherd , and part Chow . More Collie and Shepherd than Chow ,
A: Oh , so you ,
B: the only Chow he 's got is , is his tongue .
A: Oh , he 's got a blue tongue ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: He 's got little spots on them .
A: We have two Chows and , a miniature Schnauzer , and recently added , a guinea pig , which was n't by my choice ,
A: but I was out ruled ,
A: so , but the dogs are mainly mine and my
A: but I just love them to death .
B: Was the guinea pig for your , for your child ?
A: Daughter ,
A: yes .
A: Yes ,
A: as if the dogs were n't enough , had to have , a guinea pig ,
A: so , anyway she 's , she enjoys her though ,
A: so that 's , that 's what matters .
A: But , um , our Chows , we 've had them , I 'd say , right around six maybe seven years
A: and ,
B: Really ?
A: they 're , um , registered
A: and we 've been breeding them .
A: She 's had about four or five litters .
B: Oh , my , my husband 's always wanted a Chow
B: but I 'm kind of concerned about , um , with having cats , and how , how they socialize with cats . Um , which is one of the reasons why we got a mixed breed .
A: Oh .
A: Right .
B: Um , because we thought they would socialize easier ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , my husband had originally wanted an
B: and his brother has an
B: and he , so far he 's bitten ten people .
A: Oh , man .
B: So ,
A: Goodness .
B: And the people that he got the from , used to have cats
B: and they no longer have any other cats .
B: So ,
A: It 's telling , um , you know
A: when we had , um , we had a cat when we first married , no , took ,
A: yeah ,
A: we had the cat first ,
A: and then we got , uh , the Chow .
A: And , bring , um , bringing them in as puppies they got along just fabulous with her .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , you would think , you know , that they were all dogs the way she would prance around them and , and paw at their face
A: and they 'd just play
A: and they were never , they never harmed her .
A: So , uh , they got along great ,
A: now I don't know how , how it would be bringing in , uh , like cat to a full , full grown dog .
B: Yeah ,
B: I would n't want to bring a cat into a full grown dog ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I , I would n't feel , um , hesitant about bringing a puppy in , to adult cats ,
A: Right .
B: I think they would socialize easier .
A: I think , so , too .
B: Um , how , how old is your child ?
A: Five
B: Five ?
A: She 's a real .
B: So , you had the dogs before you had the baby ?
A: Right .
A: And I was , not really concerned about , um , them harming her , uh ,
A: I think , I think a lot of that , that , that we hear all the time is how you bring them up .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And ours are real friendly ,
A: they 're protective ,
A: but they 're very friendly , and lovable ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , you think they 're lapdogs . You know ,
A: they 'll just come jump on your lap and want to be , have their bellies rubbed and everything
A: and ,
B: What color are they ?
A: Uh , the female 's red
A: and the male is black .
B: Oh , I bet the black one 's pretty .
A: Yeah ,
A: he is , he 's a big old thing .
A: And , um , I was concerned about the female mainly ,
A: and as luck had it , uh , she had puppies the same week my daughter was born ,
A: so , it was kind of like , she had her babies and understood about , you know ,
B: About your baby .
A: yeah ,
A: and that ,
A: yeah ,
A: I think that really helped and , um , my daughter , you know , since , since she 's little has been playing with them
A: and they let her tug their hair and , and get on their back or whatever
A: and she 's , she 's grown up with them and loves them to death
A: and they love her ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it 's good for kids to grow up around pets , as , as long as they don't have any allergies to them or anything .
A: I do , too .
A: Yeah .
B: But I think it really helps them to understand when , when they go to other people 's houses
B: and they have pets ,
B: I see so many times kids just , you know ,
B: they , mean to animals not really understanding that the animals have feelings .
A: Yeah , exactly ,
A: that or , or , uh , the other extreme ,
A: they 're , they 're terrified of them
A: and I hate that ,
B: Yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: and they should n't be ,
A: I mean , some maybe
A: but , but , um , like our miniature Schnauzer , she 's just , she 's just like , um , a little hyper thing and just prances around and jumps all over everybody acting silly ,
A: and a lot of kids are scared of that . And which I understand because she is , you know , a lot of movement and everything
A: but when she calms down they 're so scared of her
A: it 's ,
B: Huh .
A: it , that bothers me because she 's the friendliest thing ,
A: she would n't you know , harm them at all
A: and , and , and that 's mainly people that have never had pets around their children ,
A: so , I think , I think it 's a good idea to have them .
A: We 've had , um , in the past , we 've had birds , too , uh , like Cockatoos . And parrots and , The big white , birds with the , the orange crest on top .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Now ,
B: the , the Cockatoos , are those the big ones ?
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: We 've had those ,
A: and those are neat ,
A: they 're messy , very messy , yeah , and loud .
B: Are they ?
A: Oh , a lot louder than a dog , you know ,
A: a dog you can tell , stop barking , you know , or whatever .
B: Yeah .
A: But the birds , you , it 's hard to keep them from squawking or whatever
A: but , but they were neat , enjoyable animals to have .
B: Well , we 've thought about getting an aquarium , partly , partly for the cats ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think the cats would really enjoy it , um ,
A: Yeah ,
A: with a lid ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: of course , um ,
B: but so far we just
B: and starting up an an aquarium ,
B: we , we 're , thinking about getting a saltwater ,
A: Oh , yeah
A: they ,
B: and they 're so , expensive to start up .
A: Yes ,
A: yes ,
A: they are ,
A: and in your , the luck of keeping them alive , through those first , you know , few days .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: The , the saltwater fish have so much more color
B: and they 're so , much more beautiful ,
A: I know they are .
B: Um , the freshwater tank 's just ,
B: really to me they 'll , there 's ,
B: most of them really are n't that pretty ,
A: no .
B: you know , I really I really don't care much for them .
A: Right ,
A: I don't blame you there ,
A: I think the saltwater are a lot more attractive than ,
A: I don't know ,
A: those fish are just beautiful .
A: Just so ,
A: like you have a little bit of ocean with you or something
B: Yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: Rather than just little fish .
A: But I don't mind having ,
A: Wren
A: my daughter had a , like a little goldfish , a about a year or two ago
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it finally died
A: and that was neat ,
A: but and they 're , you know ,
A: she ca n't play with it ,
A: you can just look at it .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: You know , you ca n't roll around and tussle around with it like you can a dog or a cat
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I would n't , I would n't dare have a , a goldfish here because , it would probably be in a small bowl
B: and then my cats would knock it over .
A: Yeah .
B: I have to be real careful about where I put things ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: if the cats will , will jump up on things and knock things over all the time ,
A: Oh , no .
A: Oh , no .
B: They 're always up where they don't , where they 're not supposed to be .
A: Yes ,
A: yeah ,
A: and that 's hard .
B: that 's just like kids , you know ,
B: they know that they 're not supposed to do it ,
B: but they 're going to do it anyway because they know they 're not supposed to .
A: That 's right
A: and they 're so , independent .
A: I love having them for that reason .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and until we got the dog , um , it was real easy to , to go to town for three three day weekend or whatever ,
A: Sure .
B: and now , it 's like a major production , trying to find somebody to take care of the dog while you 're gone .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's right ,
A: that is hard .
B: And , I ,
B: we knew it ,
B: but we never even thought that about when we got the dog
B: we just saw him , oh ,
B: he 's so , cute ,
A: Oh .
B: let 's take him home .
A: Yes .
B: You know , and then the first weekend we had him we had , we were in a apartment , in a two bedroom apartment ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my husband went out of town , and left me with , with the brand new puppy ,
A: Oh , fun .
B: and I had to work twelve hours that day ,
A: Oh , no .
B: and so , I left the dog locked in the bedroom
B: and I put paper all over the floor .
B: Well , when I came home , I opened the door
B: and there were chunks of carpet , padding everything , all over the place
A: Oh .
A: Oh , no .
B: and he had tried to dig his way out from underneath the door ,
A: Oh , no .
A: I guess you did n't get your deposit back , did you ?
B: Well , I had the carpet fixed ,
A: Oh , good .
B: um , I , yeah , I did n't even tell the apartment manager , who got it .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Oh , no .
A: Bless your heart .
B: But that , that was my first real experience with , with a puppy
B: when , when we had our family dog growing up I was eleven or twelve , I think , when we first got him ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I was n't really involved in the , the paper training , and , you know , teaching him commands and stuff
A: Sure .
A: Yeah .
B: so , this was , and to me , a whole new experience .
A: Yes
A: it is .
B: Only it was n't like cats at all .
A: No ,
A: no .
A: I wish it was .
A: I wish they were in that instinct .
A: But they don't .
B: So ,
A: Our only problem with our Schnauzer , she 's an indoor dog most of the time
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , we found , she 's right at a year
A: and we finally got her , you know , house trained and everything , uh ,
A: her only problem is trash .
A: If you do not pick the trash up , you know , the container , and put it on a table or chair or something , she 'll knock it over ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't care how full she is ,
A: so , it 's not like she 's hungry ,
A: it 's just she wants to get into trouble .
B: My cats do that it .
B: If I through anything away that 's any kind of meat or anything , like that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: anything that , that they think is good ,
B: they 'll get into the trash ,
A: Yeah .
B: and then it does n't matter where you put it and where you hide it ,
A: Yeah .
B: and how , how tight you have the lid down on it ,
B: they 'll get into it .
B: I 've come home many a days from work to find trash all over the kitchen floor .
A: Oh , I hate that .
B: And the cat 's just looking at me like , sorry .
A: Yeah ,
A: you should n't have left it there .
B: I could n't help myself .
A: I just hate that when she does that ,
A: I just , oh ,
A: and she knows it 's wrong ,
A: you 'll walk in the door
A: and she 'll cower and go hide under the table .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , you , she knows she does wrong .
A: But she , uh , she continues to do it ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: the problem that we 're having with our puppy right now he 's not
B: he 's actually not really a puppy anymore
B: he 's like sixteen months old ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , but he 's still chewing .
A: Oh , is he ?
B: Um , the last thing he chewed up was , uh , when we ...
A: Okay .
B: All set .
B: Do you want to start ?
A: I can go ahead and start ,
B: Sure , go ahead .
A: uh , in Dallas there 's definitely a crime problem ,
A: I know it 's , you know , worse in the larger cities .
A: Um , it 's kind of a concern for me ,
A: in fact , at the moment I 'm thinking of possibly moving to a new apartment
A: and , uh , it 's ,
A: I am single and female ,
A: you definitely are going to worry about the location , and , uh , you know , accessibility of people to be able to break in .
A: I live on a third floor now ,
A: but , I , you know , I 'm real concerned that I , I don't want to be on a first floor where you can have problems with things like that ,
A: and , the , um ,
B: Do they have many buildings that have security there ?
A: Some buildings do ,
A: it depends on the location .
A: The area I live in right now , is , is real good as far as crime rate is concerned
A: and we don't have anything at all , no burglar alarms , no guards .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: well I , I went to Dallas , uh , when I worked for T I in Abilene
B: and , uh , I 'm a little familiar with the city area , Forest Lane and , you know , through that , off , off the freeway .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it did n't seem like it was that congested in that , that part .
B: You know because to me where we live out here in the north east , it , it 's there are a lot of buildings very close to each other ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the cities are very populated with tenement housing , where there are more than one family in a house . And with the , uh , people that are coming into the country from other countries , not knowing the language
A: Uh-huh .
A: Um .
B: and , uh , they 're going to the big cities .
B: It makes it very difficult .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It really does ,
B: and , and I 've seen the same thing that you 're talking about , uh , much more crime than ever before . Drugs of course , uh , a big part of it I think .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I don't know ,
B: a lot of younger people , you know , into more violent crimes .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: that , that 's really sad , you know ,
B: you got young boys or girls , that at fourteen or twelve years old that are committing murders and , no remorse , what so ever .
A: Uh-huh .
A: There 's a lot of that going on in Dallas , too .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's really sad .
B: It is
B: and , and I don't know if it 's , uh , the family , you know , thing where they 're not bonding anymore , where mothers are working all the time and , the kids are n't getting the attention that they need , or the television .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I , I really think that we 're , we 're falling by the wayside with not incarcerating these people .
A: Oh , I agree .
A: I think that people are getting off too easy .
A: They 're getting , they 're getting paroled too easily .
B: Uh , uh .
A: They 're just getting , uh , put on probation or something , because the prisons don't have enough room
A: so they get , they get lighter sentences ,
B: Yeah , exactly .
A: and some of those people , they don't deserve to be let loose .
B: And , uh , you know , they had , uh ,
B: in fact on the news last night we were watching this , uh , man who lost his ten year old daughter .
B: He ran out to the store for a few minutes
B: and he had left her home alone .
B: now ten years old ,
B: she 's old enough to be alone for a few minutes , you know .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And while he was gone , he had looked , went looking for a job and stopped at the store ,
B: that 's what it was .
B: And , uh , someone who was in the neighborhood cleaning carpets , these two men , went in , raped the girl , murdered her , and the whole bit .
A: Oh my gosh .
B: And one of the men got , uh , I think it was seventeen years
B: and the other one was in for , uh , life imprisonment .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The one that was in for the seventeen years , actually served seven ,
B: and he 's out .
A: Uh , that 's terrible .
B: And the man said , that , you know , if it were n't for the fact that he would go to jail , that he would eliminate this person himself . And then go to McDonalds and have a hamburger and not thing a thing , think a thing about it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I mean , I think that what this is going to lead to is people will take things into their own hands . And that innocent people ,
A: Yeah .
B: I , I should n't say innocent , because I mean , actually if they commit a crime that they 're in the same circumstances
B: but ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: the reasons that they 're doing it compared to the reason someone else is in jail for it , you know , it 's like two different things .
A: Yeah .
B: Sometimes when you lose someone that you really love , you do some crazy things
B: I don't know ,
A: Right ,
A: it 's a little more understandable under the circumstances , I guess .
B: I , I like the idea that , uh , if someone is from a foreign country , and they come to this country and uh , commit , a crime , I think that irregardless of whether they have already become a citizen or anything , they should be immediately deported .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Especially if they 're found guilty of the crime .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , once they , they have been arrested
B: and if they know beyond a shadow of a doubt , these people are guilty .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's it ,
B: we don't take care of them ,
B: we don't support them , nothing ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean they go right back where they came from .
A: Right ,
A: we have enough , enough problems with overcrowding in the jails as it is .
A: So let , let their country take care of it .
B: Exactly
B: and ,
A: We don't have , I guess too much trouble in Dallas with ,
A: well , I guess , I guess we do have a lot of people come in from Mexico , that cause problems ,
A: but , uh .
B: But that 's , uh , they 're , so close ,
B: I , I don't consider Mexican people in the same category with , uh , especially like , uh , people who come from cultures that don't have the same , uh , kind of moral upbringing that we have .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like you take Asian countries , or , uh , the Eastern countries where women are like in the foreground , uh , in the background and the men are in the foreground ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's like , you know , um , they live back in where we came from two hundred years ago .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , we 've advanced beyond that ,
B: and I think that their , uh , mentality as far as the way they treat them and that kind of thing ,
B: you know what I mean .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It was amazing
A: I went to the Far East , uh , back in October to do some training for T I
A: and I ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , some of those countries were so safe , it was unreal .
A: Singapore is very , supposed to be very safe
A: and , in fact , Tokyo ,
A: and I thought Tokyo would be dangerous being such a huge large city with so many people ,
B: Yeah .
A: but they ,
A: at , at the T I there , I said is there any area I should avoid .
A: And the guy said let me ask another girl here
A: and he turned and asked this girl , and said , can you think of any place where Dana should n't go by herself , or anything .
A: And she , she thought for a few minutes
A: and she said , no .
A: And he said is there any place you would n't go by yourself .
A: She said , no .
A: And they said , it is so safe there that you can leave your purse on the subway
B: Wow .
A: and somebody will turn it in
A: and , and nothing will be missing .
A: They said they can just about guarantee that there , that , that would happen if you did that .
A: I thought , boy , in America , if you left a purse on a subway , you would never see it again .
B: Wow .
B: You better believe it ,
B: if ,
B: you would n't even have to leave it ,
B: I mean ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true ,
B: it would get snatched right off your arm
A: that 's true .
A: But I was thinking boy , in Dallas , if somebody asked me if there were places you would n't go by yourself at night , I 'd have to set them down for about five or ten minutes to list all the places out .
B: Oh sure .
A: I mean , I could n't believe that she could n't think of any place .
A: They said , the , apparently the crime , is , just , uh ,
B: That 's amazing ,
B: well , what 's the difference there ,
B: do you know ?
A: I 'm not sure what it is there .
A: Now , I know what it is in Singapore , is they have the death penalty
A: and they really enforce it ,
B: Oh , I , I believe in the death penalty ,
B: I really do .
A: like for drugs , for drugs they , they enforce the death penalty for that .
A: Uh , they 're just , very , very tough ,
A: and I guess maybe that 's the way Tokyo is too , or Japan is too .
A: They 're just very tough on criminals .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I think that we 're too easy .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and we take the , the , uh , civil liberties , uh , stuff too far .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know like people that are in prison , I mean we did n't put them there .
B: They put themselves in that situation .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: oh yeah .
B: And as far as like them , uh , entertaining the rights that they should have .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , we educate them ,
B: we feed them ,
B: we take care of them
B: and they no sooner get out on the street and they 're back in again .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm not saying they 're all bad ,
B: but I think people who are guilty of really serious heinous crimes , do not deserve to be cared for for the rest of their lives .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: I think that they should be put away .
A: Right ,
A: and if they 're overcrowded , well , you know they should n't have gotten theirself there in the first place .
B: Get rid of them .
B: Exactly .
B: I , I really , I , I think that that 's the whole key here .
B: This plea bargaining baloney , where , uh , you know , they plead to a lesser crime , or , uh , they plead guilty in , or , you know , tell about someone else and they , they get less time ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Or , if they 're in there and they 've got seventeen years and they 're on good behavior , for every year they 're in they get so many less , you know , that they don't serve the full penalty .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I , I really think we 're going to far overboard with all of this .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I agree , because it 's not fair to those of us that , that deserve a safe , you know , life to have to ,
B: Yeah ,
B: same with drunk drivers .
A: Right .
B: I think it 's too easy for them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That if the , the laws , and , and were , were harsher and were enforced ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean you have to set an example .
B: You have to start somewhere .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I think that people know that they 're going to get a slap on the wrist , they might serve a little bit of time and that they 'll be out on the street again .
A: Uh-huh .
B: An , it , an I feel bad for the policeman , because he 's out there every day facing these people . This , this craziness , you know , people with , uh , automatic weapons and , uh , all this other stuff and trying to do a job
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: and let 's face it ,
B: what do they get paid .
A: Right ,
A: not much .
B: Twenty thousand dollars a year , if they 're lucky .
B: I would n't do it for that .
A: Yeah ,
A: huh-uh ,
A: and especially not in some of these big cities ,
A: like in Dallas I mean they 've had ,
A: they 're up in the top , top five I think of cities that are getting policeman killed on , on , in the line of duty
A: and that 's really sad .
B: It is , it really is .
B: And I mean , they 're the first ones that take the brunt of everything .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , and I 'm not saying that they 're all good either , because there 's good and bad in everything ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they , they 're already , uh , have three strikes against them when they 're out there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because they 'll arrest someone and , you know , go through all that paperwork and writing a report and all this , and having all kinds of evidence
B: and you have to even be careful how you arrest them , how you talk to them , uh , you know , what they say ,
A: Okay .
A: What , uh , go ahead and tell me about your home
B: Well , my home at the moment is an apartment .
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: Yeah
B: I work here in Germantown ,
B: but I live in Pensacola , Florida .
A: Oh , that 's interesting .
B: So , I own a home in Pensacola ,
B: and , uh , let 's see ,
B: we are to compare homes . Correct ?
A: Okay .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , my home is , well , is typical for the area .
B: I live in a development , uh ,
B: it 's a relatively , I would say , well ,
B: God , it sounds like , sounds like I 'm bragging
A: No ,
A: that 's okay
B: But it 's upper middle class , uh , kind of an environment .
A: Okay .
B: It 's a two story colonial , which my wife and I designed .
A: Oh , that 's neat .
B: Uh , it has around thirty-two hundred square feet . Uh , five bedrooms and so forth and so on ,
A: Wow , that 's large
B: and it is , I would imagine in terms of , of size and so forth , it 's relatively typical for the area .
B: It might be ,
B: I would say it 's probably midsized for the area .
B: There are some smaller ,
B: and there are , you know , several larger .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , but based , you know , in terms of , you know , in , in Pensacola , in that area of Florida it , uh , it 's what now ,
B: it is , uh , probably ten years old .
A: Oh , well , that 's not too bad ,
B: Yeah .
A: that 's still fairly new .
B: And so it 's ,
B: in terms of cost and , and , and size and so forth , it , uh ,
B: the you know , housing there is extremely affordable , and , uh , compared to other parts of the country , you know ,
B: let 's say compared to Maryland that same house here would probably cost three-quarters of a million dollars
A: Well ,
B: but ,
A: Oh , you 're kidding
A: Well , do you mind if I ask what it 's worth down there ,
A: I mean , what it 's ,
B: I really have n't , I really have n't , uh ,
B: when we built it ten years ago , it was , it ran around a hundred and forty thousand dollars .
A: Okay .
B: So , I , I would have really , I have n't really priced , you know , in the market ,
B: so I ,
A: It , it sounds like ,
A: I mean , from the way you described it a home like that here would be at least two hundred and fifty thousand
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , Dallas is a very marked up area ,
A: although right now it 's a lot lower um , because of all the layoffs and everything
B: Uh-huh .
A: the economy around here is real poor
B: I thought that was on the upswing again now .
A: Well , no ,
A: not really
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , the area itself , uh , the Fort Worth Dallas area , um , has become kind of depressed because there 's been so many layoffs with big companies , including Texas Instruments
B: Yes .
A: Um , there 's been tremendous amounts of , of , uh , layoffs
A: so , really housing is real bad .
A: The economy itself around here is not too terribly bad ,
A: but housing is still real bad
B: Uh-huh
A: Yeah .
B: Well , Pensacola has
B: it 's really is a buyer 's market there now
A: Yeah .
A: This is ,
B: And it is n't because of the , well ,
B: there has been a lot of speculative building . Uh , I don't know , perhaps not in Dallas ,
A: Oh .
B: but , uh , I 'm sure people in , uh , you know , in , uh , Galveston and so forth would be knowledgeable about it , uh ,
B: Pensacola is a Navy town .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And home porting was a possibility a few years ago .
A: Oh .
B: They were expecting an influx of something on the order of fifty thousand people or more from the Navy ,
A: Wow .
B: a new carrier was coming in and , uh , the , uh , attendant , uh , support vessels .
B: Well , that 's no longer , the case .
A: So , do you think ,
A: it was overdeveloped then ?
B: Oh , it 's , it is .
B: I mean , the , the number of single family units on sale is phenomenal compared to the population .
A: Wow .
B: And so
B: overbuilding is , has been a real problem there .
A: Um .
B: So you can still get a , get a , a good house for a very , very reasonable price .
B: And I mean good , I would ,
B: let 's say typical , say three bedroom , uh , two and a half baths , on a half acre or so of land uh , reasonable construction would probably run you , uh , right now anywhere between , somewhere between a hundred and a hundred and forty thousand dollars . And probably , perhaps , cheaper , depending upon the neighborhood .
A: Um
A: yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: What about your home ?
A: Well , right now we 're just renting ,
A: but it is a home . Um ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's a four bedroom home
A: It has about , I guess , eighteen hundred square feet
A: It 's on one floor
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , we have no basement
A: I don't know ,
B: Nor do we ,
B: but ,
A: Okay
A: I was n't sure .
A: Most of the ones , you know , up north and everything do ,
A: but , um , anyway , it 's , uh , it 's pretty , also pretty typical for the area .
A: Most of this area was developed ,
A: this house was built in seventy-four .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So most of the ,
A: it 's almost twenty years old ,
A: and most of the houses around here were built pretty much the same style
A: Uh , we have a friend that lives two blocks over ,
A: and his house is almost identical to us , except his is three bedrooms and ours is four
B: Uh-huh .
A: but otherwise the layout is pretty much the same .
A: So I , I think most of them are
A: there was ,
A: it ,
A: like most areas that are built , um ,
A: there were probably , like two or three styles you could choose from
B: Right .
A: And , and , uh , that 's pretty much all the houses in the area , for probably a square mile , I 'd say , at least , maybe even a little bit more than that .
B: Well , the housing here in Maryland is just atrocious . And in , in the entire D C area .
B: I 'm , I 'm only about , uh , twelve miles or so from the , uh , border of Washington D C , and Montgomery County ,
B: Maryland is probably one of the most expensive , places to ,
A: Where are you in relation to Sevren ?
A: are you close to Sevren ?
B: No ,
B: we are west .
A: Okay .
B: Sevren is east , near the eastern shore ,
A: Well , I just ,
B: if I had ,
A: I have a sister that used to live in Sevren .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they bought their home in I , I want to say like around nineteen seventy-five or something like that ,
A: and they paid like ,
A: they , they had it built from , you know ,
A: they , they designed it and everything ,
A: and to have it built they only paid forty thousand for it ,
A: and when they left the area they sold it for a hundred and twenty thousand
B: Oh , that 's not unusual , yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: so I just wondered , you know , if the whole area was like that or ,
B: Well , that 's , that area over there is not as expensive as in the , the immediate , you know , Washington area .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so , we , uh , I was just looking ,
B: for example there is a , uh , condominium complex next to the apartment complex where I live ,
B: and I was over there recently looking at the possibility of buying a two bedroom condominium .
B: And ninety-two thousand dollars for a two bedroom , which is essentially a two bedroom apartment .
A: Um .
B: Now , it was very nicely done .
A: Yeah .
B: I would have thought ,
A: Sounds like a lot of money though
B: Yes .
B: I , I ca n't , I ca n't envision spending that much money , and on , on something along those lines .
A: sure .
A: Yeah .
B: So , you know , it 's ,
B: I guess you pay the piper
B: but , Plus the , the , the taxes around here are phenomenally , high .
A: Right .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh , for the ,
B: and so , you , on that
B: it 's not unusual , for example , for somewhere around here on a , on a , on a ,
B: what we would , you know , what you described as your house and what I would describe as my house
B: say , for example , in Pensacola , Florida , on that house with the homestead exemption and so forth and so on , might pay three or four hundred dollars a year taxes . maybe , you know , maybe a little bit higher than that now ,
A: Wow .
A: Yeah .
B: but that same house here , you 'd pay almost six thousand dollars a year , taxes on it .
A: Wow
A: Wow , that 's ,
B: So , it 's , uh , so , the question of whether to buy here or move to another county , say , drive twenty more miles north , buy a condominium for approximately , uh , the same price , maybe a little lower ,
B: but the taxes would be , you know , perhaps , maybe one-third uh , of ,
A: Really ?
A: That much of a difference ?
B: Oh , absolutely . Yeah ,
A: Wow .
B: so ,
B: it 's , it 's really sad
A: Yeah
B: This is one , this is one of the most highly taxed areas in the country .
A: Wow .
A: Why is that ?
A: Do you know ?
A: I mean
B: Well , they it , the , their , they do have an extremely good , such things as extremely good school systems , for example .
B: It has one of the best school systems in the country .
A: Uh-huh
B: Uh , and because the cost of living around here is so high ,
A: Oh .
B: public employees make great salaries around here
A: Oh
B: I was reading just recently where the typical administrator in the , Montgomery County Public Schools makes ,
B: and I 'm not ,
B: this is , uh , the figure ,
B: he makes eighty thousand dollars a year .
A: My goodness
B: That 's ,
A: Wow
B: and I ,
B: by administrator I , I think I mean ,
B: I , they did n't , they did not define it ,
B: but for example , a curriculum supervisor or principal or someone , you know , in that , uh , in that range .
A: Well , what do you think about it ?
B: Well , um , most of the stuff up until now , in the recent months , I , I , I don't have any problem with .
A: No ,
A: I don't either .
B: Uh , I mean it 's ,
B: you know it ,
A: I don't think it 's going to change very much
A: but
B: No ,
B: I agree with that . As , as far as the , as far as the mess that 's developing as a result , um , you know ,
B: as a country , the United States , uh ,
B: I think our hands are tied as far as , as , as any further involvement , until the U N sanctions it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: In fact , it really was to begin with .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I just , I heard a comment on the radio this morning that , uh , you know , it , it gets to a point where , uh , if enough people are , are going to be slaughtered over there over the , the , the internal problems , um , somebody may step in again .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I really think it 's , it 's a U N issue , at that point because it is internal .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , you know the funny thing I find about American opinion is that when we have gone in to destabilize a government before , the American public goes crazy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And now the fact that we 're not interfering with the internal rebellion in , in Iraq , they 're going crazy .
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: You know , I mean you ca n't please them one way or the other .
B: Absolutely right .
A: You know , and I , and I think that , I , I agree with you ,
A: this is exactly the right course .
A: I mean that 's an internal problem to Iraq .
A: It has nothing to do with us .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And until he starts doing something so inhumane that the U N gets involved , then it 's nobody 's business .
B: That 's right .
A: Um ,
B: I mean these , these types of internal things go on all over the world all the time .
A: All the time .
A: I mean , yeah ,
A: I mean ,
B: Some of them have been going on for , for tens of years , if , if I understand it right in places like the Sudan and ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: and it 's certainly , and it 's certainly been going on over there for hundreds of years .
B: Yeah .
A: And it 's going to continue .
B: That 's right .
A: As long as you have so many diverse groups that are , that are vying for power , it 's going to happen all the time .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's absolutely right .
A: I mean the Kurds have tried it before .
A: They 've gotten their butts kicked ,
B: Yeah .
A: and this is just another time that it 's happening .
B: That 's , that 's absolutely right .
A: You know , they 'll regroup out in the mountains
A: and they 'll try it again in a couple of years .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was just , you know , it was ,
B: it 's a very opportune moment for them to try .
B: You know you ,
A: Sure ,
A: and , and , and I don't have any doubt that through some back channels that we encouraged it . You know .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I 'm not real sure that we promised them anything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I ,
A: that would have been stupid ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , and I don't think we did it .
A: Everything else we handled in this seemed to be perfectly right .
A: I don't think they would have done that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I agree .
A: But it just , it , it really does n't make any difference .
A: This is just a , a , another chapter in Middle Eastern history .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , you know , and it , there are many of them .
B: There 's no doubt about it .
A: Oh , sure ,
A: I mean the , the British occupied the place ,
A: the French occupied it ,
A: we 've done it .
A: It , it 's happened so many times ,
A: this is , this is really nothing special . Uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , and , and , and so many of the , so many of the conflicts , um , really don't have a basis in , in , uh , politics or , or human rights or anything like that .
B: It , It 's , it 's religious based
A: That 's right ,
A: it 's it 's mostly religious anyway .
B: and , uh , you know , by , by self-proclamation this is a holy war
B: and it is right .
A: Yeah .
B: And then , uh , we , we go on from there
B: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: exactly .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it 's , it 's a mess .
B: It , it 's ,
B: there 's no doubt about it ,
B: and , uh ,
A: Well , I , I , I think one of the big problems ,
A: I mean looking at it from the the American public 's standpoints , they don't understand the Middle Easterners .
B: That 's right .
A: They don't understand what ,
A: I mean their politics really is n't politics .
A: It 's religion couched as politics .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And there 's a big difference .
B: Absolutely .
A: You know , uh , we sit there
A: and , and we think that they think the way we think .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that 's a big mistake , because they don't .
B: You bet .
B: You bet .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: because there 's no , uh , you know , there 's , there 's , there 's a complete different set of values .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , there 's , there 's different value placed on human life , and , uh , right down the list , you know , possessions and , and everything else .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , what 's right is wrong and what 's wrong is right in some cases .
A: That 's , that 's it a lot of the time .
A: I , I was stationed in , in Turkey for , for a year and a half .
B: Okay .
A: And it , it was tough , understanding those folks .
B: Yeah
B: Yeah .
A: You know , it , they , they 're , they 're so completely different culturally and socially and and religiously ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's just , it was very strange .
B: I believe it .
A: It was very interesting .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I can , I can , I can believe that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I don't claim to have an in-depth understanding by any means ,
B: but , uh ,
A: Now I ,
A: shoot , I , I think some of these people that they claim as Middle Eastern experts don't , don't have a clue sometimes .
B: That 's probably true ,
B: that 's probably true .
A: You know they , they sit there and , and read their books and then proclaim themselves an expert .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I 'm not real sure that 's , that 's appropriate .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: that 's , that 's , uh ,
B: a , a little bit of background study has never made an expert in any field .
A: No .
B: But , uh ,
A: Well , I sort ,
A: that sort of goes to my pet peeve about the education system in this country , too .
B: Yeah .
A: And we make experts by reading books .
B: That 's right .
A: You know , and the Japanese and the Germans and everybody else make experts by doing .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: absolutely ,
A: Yeah .
B: Absolutely .
A: Yeah .
A: I , uh , I , I guess you work for T I .
B: That 's right , yes .
A: So you guys are well aware of the problems with the Japanese markets and everything else .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: that 's an everyday occurrence .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's , it 's like our car industry ,
A: the only reason our car industry has n't gone down the tubes is because the Japanese , you know , came into it and helped , us out .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I agree .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's , uh , there , there is , there is , it 's an overall problem in , in , in this country understanding , uh , foreign cultures , or even accepting them .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it , it , it bites us over and over
B: again , the , the , the ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and until we , until we start changing our educational system , I mean we 're , we 're going to be ,
A: we 're , we 've already been overtaken ,
A: but it 's going to get even worse later .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean looks who 's , looks who 's getting the engineering degrees and the , the math and the science and everything .
B: That 's right .
A: It 's not us .
B: That 's right .
A: You know , we , we 've got folks running around here who get , who get degrees in basket weaving and you know , underwater psychology , or some , some ridiculous stuff like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Absolutely .
A: And , and where are the engineers coming from ?
B: Uh , well , they 're , they 're coming from various places ,
B: and a lot of them are going back there .
A: Yeah ,
A: exactly .
B: That 's
A: My , uh , my roommate is a , uh ,
A: he 's getting his doctorate in industrial ,
A: well , it 's not industrial engineering ,
A: it 's human factors .
B: Okay .
A: His degree was in , uh , industrial engineering .
B: I see .
A: Uh , and he 's from the Philippines .
B: Yeah .
A: And the only reason he came here was because the education is so much better for those who will go after it .
B: Right .
A: He has no intention of going back to the Philippines because there 's no jobs .
B: Sure ,
B: okay .
A: You know , uh , but I , I see it all too often .
A: I mean we 've got loads of foreign students
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they 're coming here , going after the hard degrees
A: and then they 're going back to Korea and Japan , and Hong Kong and everywhere else
B: Absolutely .
A: and they 're applying it there .
B: That 's right .
A: And I don't know ,
A: it 's , to me it 's amazing .
A: I don't know what we 're going to do as a country .
A: We 're , we 're going to become dependent on these other folks sooner or later .
B: Yeah ,
B: you know , every , every ,
B: the , the country 's got a problem with , uh , with quarterly reports and annual statements and things like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the long , long-range views are , are just kind of , become a thing of the past .
A: Yeah
A: you ,
B: And , uh ,
A: I don't , I don't think there can be anymore long range planning .
A: I think it , it 's , it 's sticking your finger in the holes in the dike .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , it , oh , here 's a crisis .
A: Well , let 's plug it up .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I don't know .
A: I don't know what the answer is .
A: It 's far beyond me .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's for sure .
B: That 's , that 's the way things have gotten .
A: Yeah ,
A: all we can do is keep plugging .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , I , I wonder ,
A: I , I read in the paper just last week , I B M 's unveiling their new laptop computer .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , at a price tag of six thousand bucks , I don't know if they 're going to have a whole lot of takers .
B: No ,
B: absolutely .
A: now I have the I have the I B M , P S two
B: Okay .
A: but I 'm sorry I got it .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's slow ,
A: it 's , uh , there are many better machines on the market right now for a ,
B: Yeah .
A: the only reason I got it is because I got it through an educational purchase plan through the school
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: and I saved forty-eight percent ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I said , yeah , if I can have an I B M for forty-eight percent discount , I 'll take it .
B: Absolutely .
A: But up to that point I had I had always said I would never have one because I would n't pay that kind of money for their name .
B: That 's right .
A: But
B: That 's absolutely right ,
B: yeah .
A: now you watch ,
A: just sure as anything , the Japanese are going to come out with a laptop at half the price with more stuff on it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: the , the ,
B: unfortunately the way the , the way the high tech market goes , by the time you can get , get something in your hands ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: um ,
A: It 's already outdated .
B: it , it 's , it 's obsolete ,
B: and , uh we 're , we , we fight that battle every day here at work ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I , I can imagine .
B: and , uh ,
A: I , uh , years ago , I remember when I had a T I ninety-nine . Put all the money into the expansion box and all this , that and the other
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , things just kept changing so much
A: and I kept getting rid of them ,
A: and I finally said , well , you ca n't do this
B: That 's right .
A: You 've got to buy something and stick with it ,
A: so I so I just ,
B: That 's right .
A: at an opportune time I got one that , that suited my needs
A: and I 've just stuck with it .
A: The only thing I 've done to it is just add a , uh , add a mouse and a hard drive .
B: Okay ,
B: yeah .
A: And that 's all I plan to do .
A: Of course , I 'm limited on memory now because I 've got the low line .
A: I got the model twenty-five .
B: Oh , okay .
A: So I 'm stuck with six forty ,
A: but I 'm not a power user
A: so it does n't matter .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that , that 's , that 's the key , you know , whatever works for you .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , if it does the job , then that 's , that 's what you need .
A: Yeah ,
A: now my roomie , on the other hand , he is a power user .
A: He 's , he 's looking now to get rid of his .
A: He 's got a three eighty-six and wants to get a four eighty-six . You know , this kind of stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , on this subject of invasion of privacy , yes , it 's very easy for anybody to find out about you .
A: Your ,
B: Well , I don't really like that very much .
A: Yeah , uh ,
A: the special on channel thirteen that was broadcast , I think , last week or so ago , it detailed how this one person went about finding out this particular from this particular person his home mortgage , how much he pays for it , what his payments are , uh , his , uh , Social Security number , driver 's license , any kind of records he may have . Uh , their credit card and the status of their credit .
B: What was the reason why somebody was trying to find out all that stuff ?
A: It was just as a demonstration to show those who were watching it how easily obtainable information is on any single person .
B: Oh .
A: And it was ,
A: mostly it dealt with , uh , marketing companies , these , uh , direct marketing , associations .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That was the primary subject .
A: That 's how they obtain information about segments of society and group them into age brackets , uh , their habits , their hobbies , their income .
B: Um .
A: And they 're able to do that through all the manipulations of the computer .
B: Well , that , that 's not really good .
B: I don't know ,
B: I guess that 's an invasion of privacy .
B: I 'm not sure that that 's an everyday thing , though , at least not for , you know , an individual .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Something that I feel is a , is a , pretty much an invasion of privacy is something that 's really so common that it 's accepted as the norm now , is the the open office concept .
A: The open office ?
B: Uh-huh ,
B: where they have the , you know , the little partition dividers , throughout a , a large room
A: Yeah .
B: and , and people have little cubicles .
B: Well , that 's all fine and good ,
B: but you don't really have any privacy at all .
A: Not insofar as maybe making conversation with somebody , I suppose , because it , you can easily be overheard
B: Right .
A: and they get ,
A: I suppose any items that you have laying out can be easily seen .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's , there is ,
B: And , and it 's not , it 's not just that ,
B: it 's , uh , the whole thing about , you know , if , if you 're trying to concentrate , well , it 's rather hard ,
B: sometimes it 's almost impossible to do because , um , you know , your , uh , your time , your space is , is not your own space .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I work in a situation like that
B: and I , I really kind of have a problem with that .
A: Do you work with , uh , mixed company , male and female
A: or ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Is there anybody who does n't ?
A: Well , there are a few out there .
B: Um .
A: It 's , I suppose it depends on who you 're working for and where at .
B: Yeah .
A: But , um , my own environment is open totally .
A: There are no cubicles .
A: There 's nothing to block anything .
B: Um .
A: So , yeah ,
A: but , um , I guess we 're changing ever so rapidly in the devices of communications that anything can be obtained from anybody 's record ,
B: Yeah .
A: or the computers , the , the big advent of that , I believe , because it , they can all hold such large data bases on anybody that all you have to do is touch a button
A: and it appears in front of them ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you don't have to ,
A: I , I know the government sells information to private companies about individuals or families .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's no secret ,
A: and it should n't be that way I don't think .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't , I don't think that 's , that 's quite right either .
A: I mean it 's not really government for the people and by the people ,
A: I 'll tell you that .
B: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: Hum , what do you think could be done about it ?
A: Uh , the only way it can change is , um , if , if everybody bands together .
A: It 's just like we need to get rid of these clowns that 's serving in the office .
A: The only thing really that can be changed is for us to , everybody to say , we 've had enough of you , out you go .
A: But , uh , I don't see anything like that to occur unless everybody bands together to do that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It has to be one common ideal goal for that to be done .
A: Um , I don't know ,
A: it 's , it 's still a , a free , I suppose , country insofar as we 're , we 're able to obtain information .
A: And I would n't be for total banning of , uh , all information
A: or , it 's mostly the private information that we 're all concerned about .
A: But it 's , it 's hard to define uh , a lot of those boundaries .
B: Yeah .
B: It really is .
B: It 's
B: something that , something that I 've just had a , a dealing with is like a credit bureau .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , they take , they take my name , which is a very common name ,
B: and my last name is even more common
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they they check that name against , uh , their list
B: and they find several .
B: And without even bothering to try to match up any other information at all , they just report everything under that name .
A: So you 've received a lot of , uh , flack ?
B: They don't , they don't even check my Social Security number .
A: Um .
B: And companies are paying them good money to report accurately ,
B: and they 're not ,
B: they 're so lazy .
B: They 're just not doing it .
B: I mean they just find your name
B: and they match it up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , and that just drives me crazy because they 're ,
B: and then they want ,
B: then , you know , to get it removed they say , well , you know , you have to write this , write this long detailed letter and everything like that to them , you know ,
B: and then it takes three weeks and all .
B: And I 'm like , baloney .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You messed it up ,
B: you fix it .
A: Is that usually what you tell them in the letter ?
B: No ,
B: what I 've taken to doing lately is calling the company that they report
A: Uh-huh .
B: like , uh , uh , recently I was reported as having J C Penney accounts
B: and I don't .
B: So I called J C Penney
B: and I said , uh , I just wanted to let you know that the credit agency you 're using is incorrectly reporting the information that you 're providing to them .
B: And they say , uh-huh , because they really don't want to pay for a service that 's not being done properly either .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So then they can call the credit bureau and say , hey , you know , we 're paying you good money to report this properly
B: and you 're not doing your job .
A: Good idea .
B: So that 's what I 've taken to doing lately ,
B: and it seems to work pretty well so far .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , that 's good .
A: Uh , any other problems ?
B: Not that I can think of .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I guess I 've just about run out of ,
B: Yeah
A: I , I can probably go on ,
A: but it 's , it 's , uh ,
A: I 'm clouding up right now .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I probably better let you get back to work .
A: Well , it 's nice talking to you .
B: Okay .
A: Maybe again .
B: All rightie .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: I don't know what the , the last thing I 've done as far as car repairs go is , is change oil and filter an , and that kind of stuff .
A: I have n't gotten really involved in anything , uh , extensive in car repairs in , oh , oh , probably a year or so .
A: I think the last thing I did of any significance was change the water pump on an Oldsmobile .
B: Yeah ,
B: I had a similar thing , that I 've worked on cars ever since I was , uh , a kid
B: And that was some time ago ,
B: but I 've gotten to the point where , uh , the newer cars are getting so complicated to work on that , uh , oh , most of the cars
B: I buy , I try to buy as simple a car as possible .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know what you mean .
B: So , you know , changing the oil , changing the spark plugs
B: and most of them now , you know , you don't go through the ignition stuff anymore because that 's all solid state or , or fuel injected
A: Yeah ,
A: or fuel injected ,
A: and so there 's ,
B: so there goes the carburetor
B: and if the fuel injection system breaks down , there 's no way in the world you 're going to work on that .
A: Yeah .
A: No
A: there 's no way .
A: Somebody once said , uh , I had a car that said fuel injection on the side of it
A: and a woman asked me what that meant
A: and I said that means that I ca n't work on it .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: basically that 's it .
A: You know , they 've gotten so complicated or so high tech that , uh , the guys , average guys ca n't really go out in the , in the garage and do a whole lot of repairs , uh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've got , uh , an eighty-four Chevy van that 's , uh , a one ton van with a camper conversion on it .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's got the , the , the good old three fifty , standard engine in it .
A: Absolutely .
B: Regular gas engine ,
B: and that engine I understand ,
B: I can , I can actually work on that engine .
A: Yeah ,
A: I used to have , uh , Chevy van ,
A: it was a short van , that had the , the three fifty in it .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And basically it , it was a motor
A: and you did n't have all the other junk around it ,
B: Right .
A: and you could get to it to work on it .
B: Yeah ,
B: I had to change the water pump in that , here about a year ago .
B: And it was really fairly easy .
B: Take the grill out and the radiator out
B: and you can just stand there and work on it .
A: Yeah ,
A: the hardest part about , uh , water pump changes is getting all the junk off , before you can get too it .
B: Well that 's true
B: You 're right , you know ,
B: by the time you 've finally got down to it ,
B: I was hoping I could remember where all those other things went .
A: Well that 's kind of the way I was ,
A: I tried to remember as I took stuff off where it went ,
A: and I don't think I had too many nuts and bolts left over when I got it all put back together .
B: A few years ago I had an Oldsmobile diesel
B: and , uh , the ,
B: uh , it ,
B: after about a hundred thousand miles the injector pump went out on it .
B: And , uh , I bought it when we were living in Lubbock ,
B: when I came back here , I brought the car back here
B: and , uh , I don't know , diesels got pretty unpopular
B: and you could n't sell the
B: I mean , though for what you could get for one , you might as well drive it over a cliff .
B: And , uh , the injector pump went bad
B: so I found a outfit down here to rebuild it . And , uh , reinstalled that
B: and that was probably one of the most miserable things I had gotten into in a long time .
A: I don't think I 'd know where to start with a diesel .
B: Oh , well , it , you know ,
B: diesels don't require mechanics ,
B: they require plumbers .
A: Well that 's true .
B: And , uh ,
A: I think the closest thing I 've come to , to a diesel is , I 've worked for a tractor repair shop , uh , when I was in high school
A: and , uh , we used to overhaul farm tractors basically ,
B: Yeah .
A: and they were nearly all , all diesel ,
A: but as far as cars I 've never , never been involved with them .
B: Well the injector nozzle and stuff in , you know , the big diesel farm tractors , you know , what are about the size of your thumb ,
B: and
A: Well , yeah ,
A: and you you can get to them .
B: yeah
B: you can get to them ,
B: and the ones in , in the diesel cars were little tiny things and just almost impossible to do anything with .
A: Well I ,
B: I 've had a lot of good service out of that car ,
B: but , uh , uh , I finally gave it to my son
B: and he drove it literally into the ground , you know
A: Yeah .
B: He was out at Tech
B: and he , he finished it off .
A: I 'm , I guess you 're right
A: the , the diesel has almost fallen into unpopular status .
A: I don't know exactly why .
A: One of the reasons is
A: I , I 'm beginning to wonder is , where do you get gas at .
A: I
A: I don't know if it 's still , uh , limited like it was ,
A: I don't notice it , probably because I
B: What ,
B: the availability ?
A: Huh ?
B: You mean the diesel availability ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't , I don't notice
A: but maybe because I 'm not looking for it .
B: Yeah ,
B: well I 'd bought , uh , a G M C diesel pickup and , uh , loved that thing , you know ,
B: I really liked it .
B: But it turns out a pickup was n't what I really needed ,
A: Yeah .
B: and it was the van that I needed then , to buy the , you know ,
B: traded it in on the Chevy van .
B: But , uh , sure enjoyed it .
A: But you got the , the three fifty in the van ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: the three fifty regular gas engine .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what I like because , they 've got plenty of power ,
A: and , uh , if you treat them right , they 're not the gas guzzlers I think that they 've got the reputation to be .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm convinced that , uh , Detroit or whoever it is made a major mistake , years ago when they stopped putting the small V eights in and went to the fours and some of the sixes .
B: Yeah
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm convinced that the small V eight like the , the Mustang 's original two eighty-nine or some of the Chevy two eighty-threes , were good little V eight engines that were not gas guzzlers
B: Uh-huh .
A: but they had enough power pull all this weight .
B: Yeah .
A: And the four cylinders just don't have it .
B: I think that little , the little Chevy V eight when it started out in sixty , in fifty-five , I think was two sixty-five , something like that .
A: Yeah .
B: Little , you know , not whole lot more than the , than the , than the six cylinder that I think was like about two thirty-five or so .
B: But , uh , they kept boring that block out to where you could a get a four hundred , small block four hundred that was , uh , the same block , you know , just , just kept boring it out and boring it out and stroking it a little bit more , an .
A: I think those those little V eights could have been made to be pretty powerful little engines , if they would have gone with it ,
A: but .
B: Well that was , uh , that was a short stroke engine it could really wind up .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: The two little cars I 've got now ,
B: bought a Mitsubishi Mirage here a couple of years ago
B: and , and it was normally carbureted
B: and it 's fairly easy to work with because there 's not just a whole lot in it to go wrong , and you know changing the plugs and stuff .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's kind of like ,
A: the , the first , well my first car was a fifty-six Mustang
A: and , uh , over the years , uh , all
A: I had a , uh , Dodge pickup several years ago ,
A: and , uh , I ca n't remember the size of the engine
A: it was a three oh , seven or something like that ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh , I remember working on those cars ,
A: you 'd open the hood
A: and there was basically nothing in there but an engine , and a few things .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Now , you open the hood and it 's scary .
B: Yeah .
A: Like you say it takes a plumber to figure out where all this stuff goes .
B: The friend of ours over here , he 's got , uh , sixty-five , or sixty-six Mustang the six cylinder .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , I was look under the hood of that the other day
B: and like you say , you can see the road .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's amazing .
A: Well if you had to you could climb up in there and do what you needed to .
B: You yeah , you could stand in there if you really wanted to , I guess .
A: My dad 's got a new , um ,
A: I guess it 's an eighty-nine or ninety , uh , Chrysler something or other .
A: It 's one of those transverse mounted V sixes , front wheel drive .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And , uh , he was showing it to me
A: and we 're looking under the hood and everything 's nice and clean
A: and , you know , you can see the three spark plugs there in the front .
A: And I said well where are the other three .
A: And he 'd never really thought about it .
B: Yeah .
A: And he says well , hopefully I wo n't have to change them , before I trade it off .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's going to be a problem getting back there because it was shoved right up against the fire wall .
B: Yeah .
A: So they just about complicated the things so much that shade tree mechanics ca n't do much with them .
B: Yeah .
B: Well when they went to the ,
B: started with the newer engines , you know ,
B: when they started putting all that pollution control stuff on the older engines is where they started getting into so much , you know , trouble . Because the three fifty with all the , you know ,
B: like well , actually , I guess ,
B: within a couple of years ago anyway was the last I 've paid any attention to it .
B: The three oh five was that , that , V eight that they put in the , the three quarter and , and half ton van .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it had all the air pump and , uh , uh , I don't know , all that , all that stuff .
A: Right .
A: Yeah
A: the anti-smog pumps .
B: And all the anti-smog stuff .
B: And , uh , boy that was , uh , really a mess back under there under the , in that van .
A: And all that stuff loads the motor down .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: So it 's trying to push the weight plus have all this drain on it from all sorts of belts and things .
A: But that 's one good thing
A: I 've got a , uh , eight ninety , uh , Chevy Blazer now
A: and it 's got one , uh , belt on it a serpentine belt .
B: Oh , it 's that one that 's about , uh , what an inch and a half wide .
A: Yeah .
B: Got a bunch of groves in it .
A: I have n't had to replace the thing yet .
A: It looks like it would be , uh , better than having ,
A: I 've got an , an Olds Toronado that , I think 's got six belts on the sucker .
B: Yeah .
A: And I had to get all those off , you know , when I was replace that , uh , water pump .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I had to struggle with that for a while to figure which belt goes where .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's kind of like the inside dual on a truck .
B: You know , when one of them breaks , it 's not the outside one ,
A: Oh man .
B: it 's , it 's the , it 's usually that power steering
B: or something that 's way back in there .
A: You bet ,
A: everything else 's got to come off first .
B: Everything 's got to come off .
A: Well , it 's a pleasure meeting you .
B: Yeah ,
B: and we 'll , uh ,
B: how many times have you done this now ?
B: Is this ,
A: Uh , I 've got , uh , five stickers here from T I ,
A: so I guess I 've done probably , uh , I 'd say seven or eight of them .
B: Yeah ,
B: I had n't , uh , had n't , not gotten any calls here in the last , uh ,
B: this is the first one in a week or so .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have n't gotten any calls in two weeks ,
A: so I don't know , if , if it 's tapering off , or what .
B: If it 's winding down or what .
A: I had a difficult time the past couple of times of getting , uh , answers .
B: Finding a taker .
A: So it sounds ,
A: it 's taken them ten , fifteen minutes at a time ,
A: so , people are either not ,
A: maybe they 're burnt out or ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah , well .
A: Anyway let you go .
A: Thanks for talking .
B: Okay ,
B: all right .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: so do you do a lot of cooking in your family ?
B: Um , I do some every now and then ,
B: I , I work
B: and my wife 's home during the day
B: so she usually ends up doing most of it .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: When I was single we used to always cook , around the house .
A: Yeah ,
A: do , do you like to cook .
B: Huh , yeah ,
B: I really like it ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: um , there 's a few dishes ,
B: like , I , I grew up with the , um , you know , having Polish and Ukrainian food .
A: Oh , really .
B: And my wife , she likes Italian and stuff ,
A: Oh .
B: so we , we definitely have different tastes ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: but that 's neat though , because you get to have different stuff
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm not , I 'm a pretty bad cook
A: I 'm pretty bad .
A: My husband is really good ,
A: he put himself through college working in restaurants .
B: Oh , wow .
A: And , uh , he 's much better cook than I am ,
A: so , when I was home I still cooked a lot
A: and I was in to a lot of vegetarian stuff .
A: And now , I went back to work about a year and a half ago
A: so , one of the things that he took over was the cooking
A: and the kids are thrilled ,
A: they 're really happy , that I don't cook anymore .
B: Uh , they 're like , uh , preferring it now , right
A: Yeah ,
A: they say oh dad , let dad cook mom ,
A: let him do it
A: But , um , so , so do you all , do you have kids ?
A: You obviously have one .
B: Yeah ,
B: two ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: you have two .
B: Yeah ,
B: one is , uh , nine months
B: and the other is two and a half .
A: Two and half , oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's the hard part is cooking with , uh , kids around because , uh ,
A: I was just going to say , makes a difference in what you eat does n't it
A: Or are you not at that stage yet ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it does
A: Yeah .
B: We try our hardest to get them to eat what we , eat , you know .
A: Right .
B: And my sister , uh , she 's the master of the fast order grill , you know ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: she can make , uh , she makes six different meals ,
B: but .
A: Oh my gosh .
B: Like to have one thing , you know ,
B: one likes chicken nuggets , the other one like hot dogs ,
A: Oh my gosh ,
A: I could n't
B: and then she makes noodles with , uh , with , soy sauce or whatever ,
A: Yeah .
B: so , all things .
A: Boy , I could n't do that ,
A: I
B: But , um , yeah ,
B: our favorite ,
B: let me think ,
B: I was thinking of the one recipe that , uh , that we made .
B: I guess the thing that always turned out the best for us was something we thought looked really fancy but was real easy ,
B: and that was , um , uh , scallops , uh , scallop , um ,
A: What 's that .
A: Oh really .
B: it has a French name ,
B: it basically means that it has a Swiss cheese , cream sauce with it
B: and you pour it over rice ,
A: Oh yeah ,
A: what 's , what is that , Saint Jack or something .
B: Yeah , uh .
A: Scallops Saint something ,
A: or , yeah , .
B: Yeah ,
B: I ca n't even remember what the recipe 's name is anymore ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: but , uh , it was basically just ground up Swiss cheese and then , uh , standard cream sauce base and then , uh the scallops .
A: Really ,
A: with scallops .
B: An , and it sounds sort of funny
B: but it tastes really good .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I 'm from New England ,
A: so we , we had , um , a lot of seafood before we moved down here .
A: And , uh , that sounds delicious to me .
B: Yeah .
A: That sounds great .
B: Yeah ,
B: but , uh ,
A: I think , we 're just thinking of having , a , uh , dinner party .
A: We went to this dinner party the other night that was kind of like a game ,
A: they had , uh , a murder mystery ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you came dressed as one of the characters
A: and you had to solve the mystery during the dinner ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it was really fun
A: and so we , we were thinking we wanted to do , you know , we were going to try doing it ourselves ,
A: but we 're trying to decide what can we serve because at this one the hostess was pretty busy running around trying to get stuff ready for the table
A: and that kind of interrupted the game ,
A: so , so I was thinking there 's this Beef Bourguignonne recipe that I 've tried before that 's pretty good
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: and then you can make that ahead
A: and you can just leave it in the pot on a stove until you 're ready .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So that 's , uh ,
B: Yeah
B: that 's another thing
B: I have a problem with my wife ,
A: Yeah .
B: she , uh , she likes to , um , she does n't like the beef dishes .
B: She likes the chicken and fish ,
A: Uh , yeah .
B: and , like I said , we always ate beef and , uh , pork , you know , a lot ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: so
A: I know ,
A: my husband did too
A: His parents are Austrian
A: and they , uh , always made sure they had a lot of meat at the table
B: Oh yeah ,
B: red meat , plenty of good red meat .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: My dad could eat , a , a meal with out any vegetables at all .
A: Oh , my gosh .
B: And , uh , Susan 's , you know , they had , you know meatless meals , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: My dad would n't know what to do .
A: Oh , gosh ,
A: so do you ,
B: Course , she grew up Catholic
B: so you know , they , they sort of come with the ,
A: Oh , they did the ,
B: there 's a certain amount of meatless meals you have to have
A: That you do ,
A: right ,
A: right ,
A: that 's just part of it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: we did n't , my family did n't ,
A: but when I got into the vegetarian cooking we got kind of used to that ,
A: but my husband always did it kind of grudgingly ,
A: he never ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: There was dishes that he really enjoyed , eating .
B: Uh-huh .
A: there were several things that he liked
A: but it never was really , something that he would have chosen .
A: It 's just that I cooked
A: so he had to put up with it
B: Right .
A: So , but there was one thing that he could n't stand
A: and that was soybeans .
A: I tried it like once or twice
A: and he just could not eat it ,
A: so I never ,
A: I had ,
A: I was limited .
A: I had to make vegetarian meals without using soy beans ,
A: but .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's hard to get a protein content up then
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's true
B: Yeah ,
B: I like , I like them every now and then for a change ,
B: it 's nice .
A: Yeah ,
A: some of the stuff is good ,
A: but it just , it was a tremendous amount of cooking
A: Because you do have to make sure you have the right combinations of different proteins to make sure they 're complete ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we had little kids at the time , you know ,
A: when I was home with them , and it , it was just so much cooking ,
A: I could n't , I don't like to cook .
A: And I 'm not really that great at it
A: so it just turned out to be too much of a , too much , too much cooking .
A: So , well , I guess I 'll let you get back to feeding your little one there .
B: No , uh ,
B: he 's all done .
A: He 's set ,
A: oh okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I set him down .
A: Okay .
A: Do you like to bake at all ,
A: or do you , do you get into that 's , that ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we used to do that , um ,
B: my mom , used to go crazy , every Sunday , until my dad like blew up , you know
A: Yeah
B: after he gained about eighty pounds after coming back from the Navy , she stopped doing it .
B: But , um , she used to have , you know , two dozen sticky buns , three bread rolls , you know , every week .
A: Really ,
A: no kidding .
B: And , um , the sticky buns , of course , would last , you know three or four days
B: and that would be it .
A: Yeah ,
A: then be gone .
A: I know ,
A: that 's the thing about baking .
A: I used to , I , I don't mind baking at all
A: and I , I can do a pretty good pie ,
A: we have this pie crust recipe in our family that my grandmother gave my mother
A: and my mother taught me how to make it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , so I can make a pretty mean pie ,
A: but , um , I don't do it anymore because it 's just too fattening .
A: We had the same kind of problem .
A: If you make homemade bread ,
B: Uh-huh
A: I mean , it 's supposed to save you money
A: but you eat like three times the amount of bread that you usually eat
A: It tastes so good .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: we always , we had that bread that was , uh , um ,
B: you ever seen the , the starter bread ,
B: I ca n't remember what it 's called ,
B: they call it the , um , Amish bread here
B: but ,
A: Oh , uh , yeah .
B: uh , it 's made with ,
B: you just leave it out ,
A: Yeah .
B: you know , and you let it spoil sort of .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: I 've heard of that , I 've heard of it ,
A: but I 've never done it .
B: You know , yeah .
A: That sounds pretty good .
B: Yeah ,
B: it tasted pretty good , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh yeah .
B: But , uh , it 's the sort of thing where you let a portion of it go bad
B: and then you add all these other ingredients to it ,
B: but .
A: Yeah ,
A: and then you you make the bread
A: but you pinch off a portion , or save a portion of it for the next time , or something .
B: Yeah
B: right ,
B: you take some of the batter out and give it to someone else
B: and that 's how they continue the thing .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I know , it sounds , it always sounded ,
A: I don't know how safe that was
B: Yeah ,
B: I know it sounded strange to me too ,
B: I figure , well you 're baking it
B: so , you know , yeah .
A: Yeah
A: that 's true ,
A: that 's , that 's got to kill anything I guess ,
A: but .
B: Okay ,
B: well , I 'll talk to you later .
A: All right ,
A: well , yeah
A: thanks .
B: Where are you calling from by the way , Texas .
A: Plano .
B: Where ?
A: Yeah ,
A: Plano , in Texas .
B: Plano ,
B: okay .
A: Are you in Texas ?
B: No ,
B: Falls Church , Virginia .
A: No kidding ,
A: gosh it sounds so close .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know we 've got a good connection ,
B: must be a , uh , T I connection ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I thought for sure , I thought for sure you were in Dallas or something .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I talked to so many people from Texas
B: that 's where practically everybody I talked to is from .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: I think that 's why they call me because they want to get people outside the state , you know .
A: Yes
A: they 're they 're trying to get all different amount of people .
A: Well gee , my husband is from Richmond
A: and I went to U V A ,
A: that 's where we went .
B: Oh , oh really .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah
B: I went to school at , uh , well I went to school at West Virginia University ,
A: Oh you did ,
A: yeah .
B: but I grew up right here in Falls Church , right outside D C .
A: Yeah ,
A: boy we 'd like to get back over to the East Coast ,
A: I 'll tell you .
A: It 's nice over there .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's sort of funny ,
B: I have people that want to go to Dallas .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: one of my , one of my friends here , he was just talking how he 's thinking of leaving the company and going to Dallas ,
B: saying how ,
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: no kidding .
A: Well , things are doing pretty good down here ,
A: we , we were , we tried to move over to Raleigh last year
A: and there just was , there was so little , such little going on in Raleigh , you know ,
A: you could n't get a job to save yourself over there
A: so we decided we 'll try in a couple of years ,
A: but , but business is ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: We were saying we could sell our house here and buy one down there cash , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: you probably could , you probably could ,
B: Well Northern Virginia .
B: Okay .
A: Okay ,
A: well it 's good talking to you .
B: Nice talking to you too .
A: Take care .
B: Bye , bye ,
A: Bye .
A: Well , I don't , I mean , I don't know what you think about the , subject ,
A: I 'd , the , I had never really thought of what they said before about allowing the , the sentencing to , uh , to go to the judge instead of the jury and allowing him to do that .
A: I 've been kind of sitting here thinking about that a little bit while I was waiting for them to phone somebody ,
A: and I don't know that that 's not a good idea .
B: That 's not a bad idea
B: I ,
B: um , uh , that , you know ,
B: they probably , need to change it somehow , uh ,
B: the whole system needs changing ,
B: we 've just got too many people in there , and , uh , , are putting too many , uh , people in jail that probably don't need to be there
A: I agree .
B: and it 's another form of sentencing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But on that one thing , I , I still think it should be a unanimous decision ,
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I agree .
A: Yeah .
B: uh , I think we 're getting to the point now where they 're going to eventually let it be , um , majority vote .
B: And that 's not going to be good .
A: I don't like that ,
A: no ,
B: No .
A: I don't like that at all .
A: I know my husband served on a , on a jury a few months ago up here in Denton ,
A: but , uh , it was a guy , it was , it was a drug conviction
A: and I don't remember
A: he had some cocaine and it was accused of selling it ,
A: and I don't remember exactly how much he had
A: but , uh , actually not selling it ,
A: there 's a difference ,
A: couriering it is what ,
A: is supposedly a difference from selling then being a courier
A: and , he was a courier .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , they , he 's , he sat on that jury
A: and they found him guilty ,
A: and they went through the sentencing phase and everything
A: and , uh , you know , they were told that , you know , during the trial that this is this guy 's first offense
A: and he 's got this clean record ,
A: and , and they ended up ,
A: the jury , you know , decided , hey , it 's time to crackdown here , you know ,
A: and it was time to do this drug thing
A: and let 's crackdown
A: and let 's really ,
A: and they sentenced him to fifteen years , you know , which they thought first offense , okay , this is , they thought that that was , that was a good thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they sentencing him to fifteen years
A: and , um , after it was all over , uh , the they sit down with the judge and with the other two lawyers , to someone in the let me come over in just a second , okay , and sit down with the judge and with the other two lawyers
A: and they were told that , uh , he would probably serve three , of the fifteen , and that he had three previous convictions .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: However , they could not tell the the jury that during the trial because all three of them were in appeal .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: So , the jury did n't know about it ,
A: so here they based their sentencing thinking that this was this guy 's first offense ,
B: Sure .
A: and so , you know , we 'll give him fifteen which will teach him a lesson
A: but it 's not just , you know , horrible , since it was first offense
B: Yeah .
A: and he 'd been convicted three times before , you know ,
B: Oh .
A: and , and the jury was very upset
A: and my husband came home , a home , very upset ,
A: I mean , he felt like that , that they had been tricked , you know ,
B: Right .
A: and so something ,
A: I wonder if a judge did n't have control of that if some of that would change , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: the judge might know
B: or at least it , it would n't hurt to switch over there and see if it worked any better ,
B: if it did n't we can come back for something else
B: or ,
A: That 's true .
A: That 's very true .
B: or , or what we 've got ,
B: so .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , we definitely need a change in the system
B: and , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: obviously what we are doing is not working , you know .
B: It 's not working , too .
A: No .
B: It 's just piling up on us .
A: Yeah ,
A: and there 's , you know , there 's people in our prisons that are not being rehabilitated in any way , shape , or form ,
B: Right .
A: and either they 're in there , forever or when they get out they 're , you know , it 's a matter of a few months
B: Right .
A: and they 're going to be right back for the same thing
A: so the system ,
B: We 're just not willing to set a society not willing to spend the time or the money to do what it takes ,
B: so .
A: That 's very true .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I was talking to a friend of mine about this the other day
A: and I said , you know , I understand that there are a lot of countries that rely on the United States , to
A: and , and the , and the people in those countries rely on our money to survive
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I really believe that we need to take care of ourselves ,
B: Right .
A: I mean , we ,
A: and , and
A: I know people say , oh , it would be cruel to , you know , pull our aid from these other countries
A: and , and maybe so ,
A: so tell them , you 've got five years . To work out a plan , to make it on your own .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: And , we will continue funding you for the next two years ,
A: after two years we 'll cut it down seven to seventy you know , seventy-five percent .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And after another year we 'll cut it fifty percent ,
A: and in five years , it
A: by then you should all should have a plan worked where you can make it on your own without our help .
B: Sure .
A: And then we 'll have all , we 'll have , we will have the money if we would do that to , to work on your own system because we 've got some serious problems here
B: Yeah .
A: and we 're trying to , heal the world , you know ,
B: Very serious , yeah .
A: it 's just not , it 's just not working .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: your right , .
A: I look at the , I look at what , you know , what , the aid presented to the Kurds
A: and I , I feel sorry for them
A: and I know they 're suffering
A: and I know they 're dying everyday ,
A: but we 've got , you know , kids here in the United States that are dying everyday , too . You know , and being , abused and neglected
B: Sure .
B: Oh .
A: and , you know , I don't know .
A: I just have this problem with , uh , trying to heal the world when you 're so sick yourself , you know ,
B: You bet .
A: so .
B: Right .
B: Well , we seem to agree on the jury thing
B: and , uh , but , uh , we 'll need an unanimous verdict
B: and , maybe let the judge have a opportunity to make , a decision .
A: Yep .
A: I think we should try it , like you say ,
B: Yeah .
A: if it does n't work , we can always come back ,
A: but I think it would be a good idea to try it .
B: I do too .
A: So , anyway , well , we all agree .
B: Well , good .
B: Good to hear from you .
A: You too , bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: So I own a , a P C A T at my home .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: I could never justify owning a personal computer at home , uh ,
B: I mean , that 's quite an expense to look for , uh ,
B: well , who is this ,
B: what do you use yours at home for ?
A: Well , that 's actually a good question .
A: My wife works out of the home , our home .
A: She has an office
A: and in fact she sits in the office
A: and she uses it to compose and print out letters .
B: Okay ,
B: well now .
A: So that 's a very regular use of it that she has .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And in addition to that I tinker around with it .
A: I 'm a computer scientist .
B: Oh .
A: And so I write programs to do little things
A: I 'm actually working on a data base at home just to keep track of things nothing special .
A: And also I 'm interested in writing some programs that will kind of like remind me of things like remind me that Wednesdays is trash day and the like .
B: Uh , huh , well , excuse me , I , uh , uh , well I 'm a technician , electronics tech .
B: Years ago T I sent me to their , uh , computer school down in Austin .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , I learned to repair one
B: but you know I never really learned to operate one .
A: Oh , that 's a key thing .
A: Well , actually that 's a ,
A: there 's really two issues to that that there 's so many software packages available today . That just require no programming .
B: Yes .
A: So that
A: in other words when someone built that software packet they had to use the programming
A: but if they were careful , they could make the use of it totally without understanding how the computer works .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I think you you really hit the nail on the head .
A: For the average person is exactly what he can use it for .
A: And if your wife is n't working out of the home and sending letters
A: or if you don't want to build a data base to keep track of the nuts and bolts in your garage ,
A: whatever
A: there , your issue is then there really ,
B: Well , uh , space is a handicap with me ,
B: I live in a motor home .
A: Oh , I see
A: well .
B: And I 'm preparing for retirement .
A: I see
A: well , congratulations on that .
B: And I 'm not to far from it another year and a half .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , actually one other thing I might ought to mention is that they are actually getting quite cheap .
B: Yes ,
B: definitely ,
B: but just like the computers .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , remember how they started out running three , four hundred dollars .
A: Right .
A: Oh , the calculators you mean .
B: I mean calculators ,
B: I beg your pardon .
A: Yeah ,
A: they sure do .
A: Yeah
A: I actually was thinking about upgrading mine very recently and kind of look at the whole spectrum .
A: You can actually buy a whole brand new computer with a not not a necessarily a slow one or inadequate one but a pretty good one for six hundred dollars .
B: You 're kidding .
A: No .
B: Including a printer ?
A: Well , actually I was n't including a printer ,
A: but you you can buy a printer now for a hundred dollars
A: so make it seven hundred .
B: A hundred ?
A: Yeah .
B: Wholly smoke ,
B: a respectable one ?
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Well , see of not being particularly interested I don't keep track of prices on them ,
B: but I 'm , I 'm , that does amaze me .
A: Yeah ,
A: the prices had plummeted ,
A: you can buy the computer the guts just the guts with the power supply , the box and the mother board of a type of computer called an eighty , eighty-eight , for about two hundred dollars .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Huh .
A: And then the keyboard is another fifty ,
A: the monitor with the card that drives is another hundred
A: and then the disk drive is two fifty .
B: Well , what , what is a a good brand a inexpensive .
A: Well , that 's that 's the deal is you 're not buying brands now ,
A: you 're buying these knock offs ,
A: so there 's ,
A: probably the way to do it if you really wanted to buy one is there 's a magazine called COMPUTER SHOPPER .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's a big magazine ,
A: it 's twelve inches narrow , the narrow side and seventeen inches the tall side
B: Oh , wow .
A: and it 's probably an inch thick a thousand pages .
A: But the book is , the magazine is full of these mail order , computer mail-order houses
A: and they 're all competing with each .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So you just flip through there until you find a eighty , eighty-eight computer
A: that that 's called , it 's the original P C .
A: So it 's ,
A: we call the T I , I 'm sorry an I B M P C compatible .
A: And you 'll find all these things and you 'll find the monitors forty dollars and the card that drives the monitor that goes in the back of the board for twenty-five dollars which is amazing to me .
B: Uh .
A: And you mix and match
A: and then you do it by mail-order .
A: But there 's no real brands
A: it 's probably a half a dozen companies around the world that are making those mother boards , the main computer , the circuit board .
B: I see .
B: How do you go about getting one of those a catalogs ?
A: They 're available in , you know , the B Daltons , that that type of thing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You 'll notice that in that it 's , it 's a , it 's a , although it 's a magazine it 's large .
A: And like I said it 's about an inch thick
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well , getting back to the P C
B: I 'll tell you ,
B: I ya ,
B: first of all I don't like a machine that 's smarter than me .
B: And secondly , I did learn this much about computers ,
B: they they are pretty stupid because they add one and one up and come up with ten .
B: In binary .
A: That 's right
A: There 's great .
B: Well , anyway that 's one ever my favorite jokes .
A: Oh , yeah
B: One and one equals ten .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's great .
B: Course it 's it 's kind of an inside joke , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: You can only tell that to somebody who understands binary .
A: I understand ,
A: that 's great ,
A: that 's a good joke .
B: So what ,
B: do you , uh , uh , work with a computers a at T I ?
A: I did for years
A: and then I was a scientist over in central research labs
A: and just recently I 've changed my job to actually do some of the marketing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , now I I type that one ,
A: but I don't use it anymore .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well I just recently started using one . In connection with my work .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: Uh , I keep track of an inventory here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And of course now that is where a computer is very handy .
A: Yes ,
A: I agree .
B: And , well I , it 's my responsibility to see that equipment is sent off to be calibrated .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: See I 'm with the Q R A lab . Qualification and evaluation
A: Oh , I see
A: that 's fascinating .
B: so naturally our equipment has to be in top condition and is constantly calibrated ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 're dated .
B: So I have to keep up with them , uh ,
B: and and it 's very handy doing it on the computer .
A: Yeah .
B: I just run a printout every week
B: and and it puts me right up-to-date what I 'm , what I have to do , what I have to ship , what I should be expecting to be returned .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So a ,
B: it it is handy .
A: Right .
B: And I must admit that up until I did start using one , uh , it was , I had very little interest in computers .
A: Yes
B: But they are amazing .
A: Yeah ,
A: they certainly are .
A: So let 's see , see
A: so I guess with respect to the question ,
A: yeah ,
A: I guess we 've kind of covered it .
B: I think we did .
A: Great ,
A: nice little conversation with you Jack .
B: Yeah ,
B: Mike you take care now .
A: Good day .
B: Good luck to you .
A: Thank you .
A: Same to you .
A: Uh , I guess I 've had to return something
A: but I 'm ca n't decide ,
A: mostly it 's been because I did n't like the color ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: or , um , I 'm not sure whether I 've had to return that many things , uh ,
B: Well , I 'm having a problem right now with a computer that we 've just returned .
A: Oh , are you ?
B: So , for me it 's actually a pretty good topic .
A: Okay ,
A: good ,
A: so , we 'll talk about that some .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , we could talk about that ,
B: and then we could talk a bit about , um , just quality of products in general , if they 're better or worse like if they last longer or something like that .
A: Right .
A: Okay ,
A: I 'm going to let you kind of lead the pack , because you sound like you 're ,
A: let me tell you just a little bit about myself .
A: I , for years I did all that shopping and whatnot ,
A: but for the last four or five years I 've had eye problem ,
B: Oh .
A: and I 've had two cornea transplants .
A: Shopping is no fun anymore
B: I can imagine .
B: Well , see I don't ,
A: I ca n't see good enough , you know ,
A: and , uh , it 's hard to tell what I 'm doing ,
A: and it 's just
B: You ca n't read labels
B: and you ca n't ,
A: Oh , I just thought of something we have to return
B: Good .
B: There you go .
A: All right .
A: It , it 'll come to us ,
A: okay ?
B: Okay .
A: Are you ready ?
B: Yeah .
A: Laurie , all right
B: Right .
A: All right , uh ,
A: tell me about your computer , Laurie ,
A: I think that sounds fascinating .
B: Well , we bought a computer because my husband needed to use it to do some work for a consulting project ,
B: and we called up the company and asked them details on it .
B: We bought it sort of , your not a name brand because the clones are so much cheaper .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we called up the company that somebody else we knew had dealt with ,
B: and they were very happy with the system ,
B: and they felt they 've gotten a good price .
B: And we went in ,
B: we explained what we needed
B: and yes
B: we had to go across the George Washington Bridge to New Jersey to get , to meet these people .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so we went there ,
B: we told them about the stuff
B: and the guy said , uh , that the computer would fit our needs .
B: And we
B: these things wo n't make any sense to you probably
B: but he told us there were , we need user positions to put our own equipment in the computer .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , yes .
B: And it 's called a user boards
B: or slots is what it 's called .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And he told us there 's two sixteen bit slots and two eight bit , sorry , two four sixteen bit slots and two eight bit slots available for the user ,
B: and we can put full size cards in there .
B: And so we said , great , you know ,
B: we 'll buy it ,
B: and we put in our order .
B: And a week later we went back and picked up the computer .
B: And then we got it home and tried to put our own board in it
B: and there 's only one slot we could put it in .
A: Oh , lovely .
B: And at this point we only have one board
B: so it was n't so bad
B: so we used it a bit ,
B: but we tried to figure out whether we could put three in because we really need to be able to put at least three in .
A: Huh .
B: And ,
A: Oh , no ,
A: the computer was supposed to have two .
B: Well , it has them
B: but the problem is that you ca n't put the type of card that we need to put in it , in it . And even though they told us in advance that you could ,
A: Oh , I see .
B: they told us there would be no problem because , you know , the salesman just does n't really know .
A: I see .
A: In some ways it has more to do with the people who sold it .
A: They probably did n't know what they were talking about .
B: Right .
B: That 's completely it .
B: The salesman did n't know .
A: Right .
B: So , we went back in ,
B: and we struck an agreement with the people
B: who said change the casing it comes in so that we could put in extra boards .
A: Huh .
B: Okay .
B: So they did that .
B: And we said are you sure this will work ,
B: we don't want you to go through the work and then find out that this does n't really work anyway , and et cetera ,
B: and they 're , they were doing it at their own costs .
B: And so we said , fine .
B: And we went back
B: and we talked to the person a second time and things like that ,
B: and then we come , we get the computer home ,
B: my husband goes to pick it up last week
B: and we could n't go get it sooner because I just had the baby ,
B: and you know , life 's just a little bit complicated .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , he goes and gets it , brings it home ,
B: first of all they 're missing components of it like cables so you ca n't really test it out .
B: And then second thing , we still ca n't put the boards in , because they have other things blocking where we need to do it .
A: Oh , jeez .
A: Huh .
B: And see now we 're dealing with having to bring it back again
B: and they say they can , you know , do something different and change some connectors
B: and we hope so ,
B: but it 's a hassle .
A: Yeah ,
A: it really is .
B: You you know , it 's just this problem with sales people just not knowing what goes on .
A: Right ,
A: and , and so much time goes past before you finally get any kind of satisfaction .
B: Right .
A: I think that 's the worst part .
A: I ,
B: So , well , actually some things are pretty good with that because I put it on a gold credit card
B: and I just called the credit card company and explained to them the situation ,
B: and they said , well , you don't have to pay for it yet .
A: Now that 's an advantage , is n't it ?
B: Yes .
A: It really is .
A: I think , uh , uh , there 's a lot not to be said for credit
A: but that 's one thing to be said for credit .
A: It , how , it gets you some muscle where you need it .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: So , and so , you know ,
A: And I think that 's really important .
B: Well , because these guys if they , um , give us a hard time we 're going to say , you , look , you know ,
B: if , if you ca n't fix this to our satisfaction , we 're just returning the computer .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: And if we do that ,
B: I just tell the credit card company , don't pay the charge , even though they 've already paid it .
A: That 's right .
A: No .
B: But they 'll just , you know , undo the credit that they did to them .
A: Yeah ,
A: they will ,
A: That 's right .
A: They will ,
B: Yeah .
A: they will put the kind of clout on them that you ca n't really do .
B: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: And ,
A: We ,
A: Hal bought me , uh , uh , small , uh , well , uh , uh , little jam box kind of thing
A: so I 'd ,
A: my , I have my ninety-three year old mother living with us ,
A: and so I , she does n't remember anything
A: but to keep her entertained , music and some of these things do help .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I thought well , if I had , uh , a a nice little , um , tape recorder , you know , so that I could put some good music on in there for her every once in a while . And then also so that I can , uh , uh , copy , uh , parts off , I , I do some musicals and things like this and if I can copy sections off that I can use someplace so I figured well this will be good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , the first , uh , uh , the first time I turned it on , uh , I was recording ,
A: and the next thing I knew the tape was chewed up in the , thing .
B: Oh , no .
A: Okay ,
A: so after that then you could n't get a you could n't get a tape to play at the right speed in that side .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then on the other side , when I , when I , uh , I loaned it to my daughter the other day to take it over to , uh , to , uh , videotaping they were doing ,
A: and she says it 's wrong too because the little thing pokes out too far ,
A: and so you ca n't , you ca n't get it to run the right , the right way , either ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , uh ,
B: What brand is it ?
B: Do you know ?
A: Yeah ,
A: so I , I wish I could tell you
A: I really don't know which brand it is .
A: It 's ,
B: But I was wondering like , you know
B: in our case where we knew we were buying a copy
B: we were n't buying , on I B M P C
A: Yeah .
B: and I was wondering if you ,
A: No ,
A: I think this is a , I think this is maybe a name brand
A: and I suspect that it 's probably just a fluke , you know .
A: I have the papers and everything
A: and we 're going to get , just take it back
A: but , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Do you buy it at some major store ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I think just , uh , just , uh , one of the major , I think it was a , you know , I don't , I think it was , uh , you know , like a Highlands or something like this .
B: Highlands
B: chain down there that I don't know up here .
A: Do they have Highlands up there ?
B: Nope .
A: don't they ?
A: Well , this is , is was a regular , uh , electronics store , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I don't think , I don't think there will be too much problem
A: but I , I guess I 'm not sure whether I think things are not made as well .
A: I think they deliberately sometimes , um ,
B: I think a lot of things are not made as well .
A: don't you ?
A: What , what , for instance , what are you ,
B: Um , oh ,
B: of course , it 's hard to think of an exact example ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I think that , um , I
A: That 's good
A: they 're getting a kind of a , attitude of , not ,
B: yeah ,
B: I just have , well , I like electronic stuff , you know
A: Yeah .
B: for one thing . I know their , work , you know ,
B: cars I think are not made , as well as they could be .
A: Well ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
B: Um ,
A: I think that 's right .
A: The fact that ,
B: because I ,
B: they want people to replace it after , a couple of years .
A: Right .
A: The fact that they , that they have competition with the Japanese and whatnot sometimes , uh , dwells on a fact that , you know , uh ,
A: I 've had , I 've known people who have had Toyotas for years that have had almost no repair work to do on them .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , they may cost a little more ,
A: but they don't have to take them to the shop every other day .
B: Yeah ,
B: I had a Toyota
B: and I loved it .
A: Yeah .
B: My Toyota did , really well .
A: It does the , it did a good job ,
A: so , part of it is that we need to develop more of a , of a pride in , in , uh , the kinds of things we do so we make them better .
B: Good .
B: Yeah .
A: And it kind of has to start from the top and , and go or from the bottom maybe and go clear up .
A: People ,
B: Well , I think part of the problem comes in sort of shoddy workmanship .
B: The people just don't care about , what they 're doing .
A: No .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , the whole ,
B: nobody cares , no , nobody 's , really paying ,
A: Yeah .
A: Attitude is , is just get me my dollar so I can go do what I want to do , and , on ,
B: Right ,
B: give me my paycheck , so I can go home .
A: what I 'm doing , right .
A: I think that 's too bad .
A: And it 's a shame too because , uh , when you get right down to it most things , there is n't any , if you do a good job , nobody can pay you enough
A: There is n't , any way to get paid enough .
B: Yeah .
A: But if you do a good job , you feel enough satisfaction ,
A: so whatever you 're paid is enough .
B: Yeah ,
B: and also I think ,
B: well , I do research
B: and so I 'm used to sort of being underpaid for whatever work gets done .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , and you get satisfaction out of it .
A: That 's right ,
B: And , But I think a lot of it , you know , I think things come both from the , uh , individual side and also from the company side
A: I think they underestimate how much , how much value the satisfaction
B: because the companies that , let , give the attitude that , well , you know ,
B: you 're the last one hired
B: so you 'll be the first one fired ,
B: and we just want you to do your day 's work ,
A: Yeah .
B: and we don't really care about you , as an individual .
A: Yeah .
B: When you 've got that type of attitude on it , the people don't care , about their work .
A: No .
B: And so ,
A: It it probably basically goes right back into the home though unfortunately .
A: Starts with the one person that , you know ,
A: and so you need to really work hard at helping your kids to understand that there is value just in work for itself without any pay , you know .
B: Little value just in whatever you do .
A: Yeah .
A: The , the , the that the value is in doing it well
B: Doing a good job of it .
A: and ,
A: Okay ,
A: Jay , where do you live in Texas ?
B: I live in Dallas ,
A: In Dallas .
B: uh , right at the intersection of the busiest highway in the state . And a , uh , it goes east and west , and a north south tollway .
A: What 's that , the I Thirty and Central express ?
B: It 's ,
B: no ,
B: it 's called Six Thirty-Five 's the highway .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah .
B: It 's the looper that goes around the city
A: Right .
B: and then , uh , the tollway is called the Dallas North Tollway .
A: Yeah .
B: Just moved here about , uh , oh , uh , one , about a month ago after twenty-one years , two miles to the east .
A: Oh , is that right ?
A: Oh , how about that ?
B: So , it 's a very different house from the typical Dallas , uh , house .
A: It 's a new home ?
B: It 's about eight years old ,
A: About eight years .
B: it 's , uh , it 's a duplex type thing . Uh , very modern and , uh , very open and airy light .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's different than the , than the long Texas ramblers .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well we we live in a brick story and a half , uh ,
B: What 's your house like ?
A: Cape Cod style , I guess you 'd call it .
B: Oh , great ,
B: yeah .
A: And , uh , have a big sun room on the back of it .
B: So it 's got a lot of openness and light , also ?
A: No ,
B: Oh , it does n't ?
A: it does n't have
B: Well , that 's what my wife really wanted
B: and so , uh ,
A: With openness and light ?
B: Yeah
B: that 's ,
A: I understand that ,
A: I would love that too
B: Uh , our , our last house was n't too bad ,
B: but it was just too traditional ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so , if , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: this is very traditional .
B: the the next time , uh , probably a year and a half from now , we 're going to try to build .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: So make one really , uh , contemporary and , and very modern and very open and very light .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you have children at home ?
B: No ,
B: I have three in college .
A: Three ?
A: Oh , boy .
B: They , they usually , get back for the , at least two of them for the summer ,
B: so , But ,
A: You still need space , plenty of space
B: Still need a little bit of space .
B: We , we have a lot less than we had , uh , recently .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh
B: Already cut back .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well ,
B: How big is your place ?
A: It 's , uh , oh , about twenty-five thousand , twenty-five hundred square feet , I guess .
B: Oh that 's good size .
A: It 's four bedrooms and two baths and that ,
B: Yeah .
B: We , we had ,
A: It has one wing built on that 's a kitchen family room , and then the big room on the back . Uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we had four bedrooms , two and a half baths , uh , in the place we just left .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So down , now we 're down to , two and two .
A: Two and two ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So it wo n't be terribly wonderful when the kids are home ,
B: but it wo n't be that long , because we , not for sure , you know , how long they 're going to stay or whatever .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: I was just reading an article , uh , that there were nineteen thousand properties available in Texas , uh , for sale by the Resolution Trust Corporation ?
B: Oh , yes .
A: Repossessed
B: Yes ,
B: and if you get in the , if , if you can find one in the right area you can really pick up a steal .
A: I , I guess so .
B: Uh , we , we really did n't go that route and did n't look .
B: Uh , but , uh , the planning of them
B: and the , the housing market probably still going to even go lower .
B: There are many , many houses for sale just by the regular route .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh ,
A: That 's discouraging if you own property
B: Yeah .
B: And we just decided , uh , uh , sell .
B: And we got , we got a pretty good price , uh , for , for what we had .
B: Uh , not as good as it would have been say three or four years ago .
A: Few years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But that , uh , that was just the timing .
A: Right .
A: Well our daughter and son-in-law moved up , back up here . He 's from Texas , but course she 's from here , uh , about a year and a half ago , and had their house on the market down there ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they never did sell it .
A: So they stayed six months ,
A: and she got her job back , and he got a job down there .
B: Oh .
A: Because ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're not moving very well .
A: Huh-uh .
B: For sure .
A: Nope .
B: And that 's a good , uh , example of it .
A: They live in Rowlett .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: I know where that is .
B: I 've been , we 've been here for twenty-five years .
A: Have you ?
B: I 'm from Missouri ,
B: and my wife 's from Kansas ,
B: so I I teach at a college here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's , uh , it 's sort of home now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: What college are you teaching at ?
B: I 'm at , uh , one of the uh , it 's called Brookhaven College .
B: It 's one of the community colleges .
A: Oh .
B: And it 's just about two miles to the west of where I 'm living .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's very nice , very convenient .
A: The only one I know is Richardson
B: Yeah .
B: Now Richland College is out , it serves Richardson and , uh , Garland .
A: Garland ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And that 's about nine miles to the east of here .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh , anyway , well , it 's good to hear from you .
A: Well I enjoyed talking to you .
B: And I hope we , hope we did them some good , uh , on their little computer dealy .
A: I hope so
A: Right .
B: And , uh , have a good life , the rest of it .
A: Okay ,
A: thank you ,
A: same to you .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: what are your suggestions in making a family reunion successful
B: Have a big family , I guess ,
B: that 's a start .
A: Well I guess so .
A: Have you had any in the
A: well how old are you ?
B: Twenty-five ,
B: so ,
A: Okay
A: so you you have been to some family reunions , perhaps .
B: I just got married .
B: Right ,
B: every four years on one side of my family they plan on having , uh , like my grandparents and all their brothers and sisters and then all their kids and grandkids .
A: Now how long in advance do they , uh , let them know ?
B: Well , we plan on it ,
B: it 's like the third weekend in August ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so it 's every four years
B: and so ,
A: So they all know it .
B: Yeah
B: and then , you know , arrangements are made like during the Summer for you know , um , food and who 's , who 's staying where , because a lot of people are from down here , in Texas .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And , uh , a lot of my family is in Indiana .
B: That 's where I 'm originally from .
A: Yes .
B: So , um , we usually meet like at my uncle 's cottage in the , um , at the lake and , uh , make a couple days of it .
A: Well that sounds like fun ,
A: do they all have the small children too , that come ?
B: Yeah ,
B: pretty much .
A: So all ages .
B: Yeah
B: and , uh , you know , there 's some my age
B: and then there are some a lot younger , an , about four generations , I guess .
A: Well my husband has , uh , on one side has an extended family ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they don't ever plan it as , like you do .
B: Uh-huh
A: I think if you can count on it every four years then people have it in mind
A: so they have to start talking about it , or getting their act together about six months ahead to get in touch with everybody , because they 're rather socially active too .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: And so it has , it seems by doing it about six months ahead , they can pretty much get everybody there .
A: If they don't , you know , they 'll say , oh we 're planning to go so and so that , go to , to a certain place that weekend with somebody else
A: and we 're already locked in
A: but six months ahead has seemed to be okay for them .
B: Uh-huh .
A: My family , uh , my parents are the youngest of very large families .
B: Oh .
A: Therefore , they don't have many people left .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , the few previous ones I 've had , uh ,
A: I have n't known many of those people ,
A: but , uh , in the last few years it really has just been our immediate family
A: and that 's been very nice ,
A: with , uh ,
A: I have one sister , and three brothers
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they 're only three out of five of us who have children .
B: Oh .
A: So , uh , we get to spend a lot of quality time with each other .
B: Yeah .
A: And that 's kind of nice because my husband 's family reunions are so large ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they don't see each other very often ,
A: we don't really know many of them .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's kind of bad .
A: It really is ,
A: they 're fun ,
A: they 're a lot of fun ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh , still , uh , they 're not done on a regular basis
A: and , uh , you kind of forget what happened , and who they were from the time before .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's fun getting together with immediate family .
B: A lot of my cousins are real close
B: and we always get together during holidays and weddings and stuff like that ,
B: so .
A: Uh , those are the ones that are in Texas ?
B: Uh , no ,
A: Or you go to Indiana on that ?
B: the ones in Indiana ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: where in Indiana ?
B: Lafayette .
A: Lafayette , I don't know where ,
A: I used to live in Indianapolis .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's a little north of Indianapolis , about an hour .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: it 's very pretty country in there I think ,
A: it 's gorgeous .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: so .
A: Well I ,
A: uh , when is your next one , uh , scheduled now .
B: Well it 's like , the last one was my high school graduation
B: the next one was when I graduated from college ,
B: so I guess about two more years .
A: Yes , well ,
A: and do you think you 'll have a baby to take back with you
B: Uh , maybe ,
B: I don't know ,
A: Maybe
B: two more years ,
B: I don't know ,
B: probably .
A: I mean you need another milestone , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess that 's , that 's what ,
B: I mean I 've been married now for about nine months
B: so that was another milestone , I guess
A: Yes ,
A: well I 'm sure ,
A: and then all of your family probably has not met your husband .
B: Um , yeah ,
B: he 's from Indiana ,
A: Oh , is he ?
B: so they all met ,
B: yeah .
A: And , and he 's living , your both living in Sherman .
B: Yeah .
A: Do you work to T I ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and does he ?
B: No ,
B: he 's trying to get in med school ,
B: so .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: well , we don't either ,
A: but , uh , I have a friend who , uh , is working on this project .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yes ,
A: and ,
B: Are they getting all the data they need ?
A: Well , I don't know , uh ,
A: I , I have a hard time getting , uh , people on the telephone .
B: Oh really .
A: Uh-huh , getting through to anybody .
A: Sometimes I call off and on all day ,
B: Huh .
A: but anyway , uh , I guess we 're supposed to be talking about family reunions are n't we
A: But I got off that .
B: Well we 've kind of exhausted everything I guess .
A: Yes ,
A: well , um , I think we have been talking probably about four and a half minutes .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And , uh , uh , we both look forward to going to our next reunions , I 'm sure .
B: Oh yeah .
A: But it has been fun talking to you .
B: Well you too .
A: Thank you .
B: And maybe I 'll talk to you again .
A: Okay ,
A: good .
B: Okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: All right .
B: What , what changes do you think have taken place in the last generation ?
A: I guess the biggest one is number of women in the work force .
B: Yeah .
A: Few are , uh , basically staying home and being homemakers , and raising kids exclusively .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I , I grew up in , uh , sixties and early seventies
B: and , uh , my mom did n't work at all when I was growing up .
B: She did n't start working until I was , um , well into high school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I , I had the advantage of having a mom at home that nowadays kids , it 's a luxury item for mothers to be home with their kids .
A: Yeah ,
A: true .
A: Well , mine taught kindergarten
A: but she was always , uh ,
A: I guess her schedule was shorter
A: so she was always , uh , home ,
B: Always home by the time you got home .
A: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that , that statistic I guess has been growing every year
A: it 's like something around sixty , sixty-five percent or so now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I 'm not sure what the future holds for that
A: whether ,
B: It seems like there 's , it seems that there 's a grass roots , um , effort or whatever going on
B: I , I , um , clean houses part-time ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and almost all the people that I clean for , believe it or not , are mothers that don't work
A: Huh .
B: Um ,
A: That 's unusual
B: they are , they 're all , um ,
B: it 's , and it 's , I think it 's kind of a new movement
B: it 's going back towards , you know ,
B: women have come into the work force in the last twenty , thirty years
B: and now they 're wanting to go back to the old days where , you know , women stayed home with the kids , you know , and try to give the kids quality time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I , I think that in the future you 're , I think you 're going to see a lot more , um , women choosing to not work after they have a baby .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , I think with , uh , the , uh , the work force with the , the salaries that
B: a lot of , a lot of the women that I work for have husbands who are , um , vice-presidents of companies
B: and I think with , uh , um , this , it seems like it 's more the upper-class people ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , I don't see it as much , the , like in my situation where I don't , I don't have children yet ,
B: but ideally I would like to be able to stay home with my kids .
B: But realistically that 's , I 'm , I 'm realizing that 's probably not going to be possible , um , for middle-class people to be able to live just on one income .
A: Yeah ,
A: that is tough .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 're looking at that now ,
A: my wife 's about six months along .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think it 's going to be a luxury item to be able to stay home with your kids .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , it 's going to kind of kind of go along with the B M W in the driveway and , or in the garage or whatever .
A: True .
B: Um , and the quarter of a million dollar home or whatever .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm surprised that the main people you work for are women that do stay home .
A: I would think it would be women that were working full-time .
B: Yeah ,
B: believe it or not though the , all the women that stay home are real busy when they are home .
A: Huh .
B: Um , they 're real active in volunteer work .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , one of the women is real active with , uh , Muscular Dystrophy . And , uh , does a lot of , of work with them on a volunteer basis
B: but it 's still , it 's almost like a job ,
B: she just does n't get paid for it .
A: Huh . Well , I guess that 's good that they , they 've got something to keep them active .
B: Yeah .
B: When , when your wife has her baby , is she going to stay home
B: or is she going to , go back to work ?
A: Yeah ,
A: we 're , we 're going to try and have her stay home , for as long as possible .
A: What do you think ?
B: That , that , that ,
B: I would , I would like to be able to do that .
A: Yeah ,
A: we think it 's , uh , that important
A: and I , I kind of hope that the trend goes back in that direction .
A: I 'm a , a counselor and a therapist ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I work with adolescents ,
A: and I see some of the problems the kids have when they don't have a real good family structure .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I see a difference in the generation of , even the generation before me , uh , were , you know , mom was like , um , Mrs Cleaver , uh , you know , June Cleaver or whatever ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: where the , the attitudes were a lot different .
B: Um , as far as , I think the kids back then seemed to be a lot more ,
B: um , there was n't a lot of the drugs and alcohol and , um , a lot of the , the things that are going on in today 's society ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think morally , um , it seems like there was , people were a lot better back then as far as higher standards .
A: True .
A: Well , the husbands ' roles are almost nonexistent in family anymore in terms of being the father figure
A: and with women working so much they 're kind of pulled out of it too .
B: Yeah .
A: So , kids are raised around their friends and by the media .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: And that 's , you know , that 's contributed ,
B: And I think , I think you 're going to see a lot more of that in the future .
A: Yeah ,
A: maybe that 's contributed to a lot of the problems that we see all the time ,
A: so . If there was some way for , for women to , to stay home even if they could work , you know ,
A: there are a lot of jobs that are coming about , like in computers at home , and those types of things , that would at least in some ways , um , bridge the gap
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think that , um , in the future , um , the , the family unit as it , as it once was known , is , is going to be nonexistent
B: What , how do you , what do you think ?
A: About ?
B: That as far as
B: do you think there 's going to be still a family unit
B: or , or do you think that , um , the trend is going more towards single parenting ?
A: The balance
A: I don't ,
A: the , the divorce rate keeps hovering around fifty percent or so
A: and it got higher than that for a while .
A: Um , that 's hard to say .
A: Families are such a strange configuration anymore .
A: Um , I , I see a lot of families where ,
A: you know , in the , in the back ,
A: I grew up about the same time you did ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and back in those times we pretty much were taught how to be responsible .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , nowadays it 's not the case ,
A: kids don't , kids are bombarded with all kinds of junk
A: and one of the reasons , I guess , is because there 's so much more income in the family with both parents working .
A: They get bombarded with junk
A: and they don't have to do anything around the house .
A: They never learned to be responsible when ,
B: Yeah .
A: the bigger trend called the boomerang kids where they move out for a while
A: and they come back ,
A: and you got twenty and thirty year olds who are living at home with mom and dad
A: so ,
B: Yeah .
A: you know , you create a bigger , bigger family , generation after generation but not really on purpose .
B: Yeah .
A: So . It 's not , not a real functional situation anyway .
A: So , you know , I don't know it 's , I don't know that that trend 's going to change the single parent type families
A: and the families , as long as we 've got so many other crazy things going on in society .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think that eventually the , the family unit 's just not going to even exist anymore .
B: like you said the divorce rate is getting so high that I think there 's going to be more single parent families than there are , um , you know , two parent families .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's pretty sad .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is ,
A: I guess unless , unless there 's a , a major swing in the change of what 's important to people , you know , probably keep going downhill .
A: And I , I don't know
A: we , we feel like that , that we can make it on one income
A: it , it may be tough
A: but we may have to give up on some , some things .
B: I , I think in the long run though your child will benefit from that .
A: Yeah .
B: And it will , it will make the , the strain worthwhile .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think so too .
B: Well , I , I need to go ahead and , and wrap it up .
A: Okay .
B: Um , it was really nice talking to you .
A: Well , I 've enjoyed it , Stephanie .
B: And , uh , thanks a lot .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay , uh ,
A: have you , did you , have you grown up in Dallas , Stephanie ?
B: Uh , no
B: I 've only been here for the last ten years , uh ,
A: Oh , where are you from ?
B: I grew up most of my childhood in Germany .
A: In Germany .
B: Uh , and ,
A: Well ,
B: we , we took a lot of vacations while we were there because everything was within driving distance .
A: Now there 's a place I 'd like to visit
B: So we , we travelled all over Europe . When I was , when I was very young . Unfortunately , a , a little bit too young to really appreciate .
A: Oh , that 's neat .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I was grade school age . Uh ,
A: My my husband had a bicycle tour of Europe , or took a bicycle tour about five months right after the second world war
A: and so we 've seen lots of pictures of the , of the beautiful , spots and , areas ,
B: Um .
B: That , that would be a , to me , a really nice vacation because I 'm , I 'm not in physical shape for something like that , but , uh , I , I sure would work on it if I had an opportunity like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's neat , neat
A: What kind of vacations do you like ?
B: Uh , well my husband and I are scuba divers .
A: Oh .
B: So , we both like to go to dive resorts .
B: Uh , we went to Hawaii on our honeymoon ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we dove there .
B: Uh , but , we , we did about six dives while we were there .
B: And , uh , we were originally planning on going to Cayman , uh , last year
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , but , we were n't able to get enough people together for the trip .
B: We had to have , like , eleven people for , this package , uh , deal .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , and we could n't get enough people together , uh , to go ,
B: so it ended up falling falling through .
A: Yeah .
B: We were going to get a really good price .
A: When , when our children were younger , we enjoyed , we lived up in , uh , New York , or New Jersey and , and used to like , uh , traveling into upstate New York and camping
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we had a little collapsible sailboat and liked to sail and , that sort of thing ,
A: but we 've never really , uh , did any diving or anything .
A: Little bit of of , uh , uh , oh , water skiing .
B: Snorkeling ?
B: Oh , really .
A: But , not much of , uh , of anything else .
B: Um .
A: Uh ,
B: Well , my husband and I both like water ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so any , any vacation that we go on is usually , involves , close to the ocean , or , or something like that .
A: It 's got to be the water .
A: Right .
A: When , when we were in Jersey , we used to go down to the Jersey beach a lot , and really enjoyed that a lot .
A: It 's really , they had , a really nice beach areas there .
B: Yeah ,
B: we , After we moved away from Germany , we moved to New Hampshire .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I lived there for seven years .
A: Oh , I see .
B: Uh , and I really enjoyed that because , you know , the mountains were real close ,
A: That 's a really pretty area , too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: we like the , we like the white mountains
B: and , Uh , unfortunately , I did n't really get to go skiing much while I was there .
A: Yeah .
B: I went skiing once .
A: Yeah ,
A: we loved the , we loved the , the New Jersey area , too , because the the lakes were really pretty close , you know ,
A: you could , you could drive within twenty minutes to an hour and just be at a real nice vacation spot where you could sail and , and just really ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then we were n't too for from the Appalachian Trail ,
A: we did quite a bit of hiking ,
A: which is kind of fun .
A: Are you a , you a hiker , or not ?
B: Uh ,
A: Not so much , huh ?
B: Not , not really so much .
B: If , if , if there was some place that , that we went to where there was hiking involved , I , I would be you know , happy to go hiking ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but we , we never have really planned a vacation around , uh , places to go hiking .
A: So your , your next , your plans are try to find someplace to scuba dive .
B: Yeah .
B: Our next vacation will , will be scuba diving ,
B: I 'm sure .
A: You have any children ?
B: No ,
B: not yet .
A: Okay ,
A: then that 's probably one of the reasons our ,
A: we had little children all the time ,
B: Yeah .
A: so some of the things are not as , quite as , uh , adaptable .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's a , it 's a little more , difficult planning a vacation , when you have , have children .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
A: You have to try to figure out kinds of things that you can do that they will enjoy , too ,
A: and ,
B: Yeah .
A: so , I think ,
B: Yeah ,
B: and diving is something that ,
B: especially for small children , uh ,
B: I think the , the minimum age for diving is , is probably , legal anyway , would be probably about sixteen .
A: Yeah .
A: Eleven or twelve , I would think , probably
A: but , maybe fifteen even .
B: Yeah .
A: I know that , uh , uh , one of , one thing that happens to us to vacation trips now is that usually that try to involve some of the members of the family .
A: You know , we go wherever somebody is , that we have n't seen for a while
B: Uh-huh .
A: So that , that 's kind of ,
A: uh , we just came back from , uh , uh , Grand Rapids where we saw one of our sons graduate , from , uh , with his Master 's Degree in social work
A: and so that was fun ,
A: and , and the summer we have a , we have a , a reunion in , in Salt Lake area up by Park Cities . Where we 're going to camp for a week with as many members of , of a rather large reunion group that , uh , as we can get together
A: so ,
B: That , that sounds like a lot of fun .
B: Our family had a reunion last year that was kind of like that , too ,
A: Yeah .
B: that there were several hundred , uh , people
B: and they all kind of met at a central place .
B: I , I did n't go ,
A: Um .
B: uh , but it would have been nice . It would have been a nice vacation .
A: We , we 've we 've moved around enough so that we now have people in different parts of the country .
A: I guess my favorite vacation idea would be to somehow figure out something kind of mobile where you could stop and sleep maybe , you know , like a , a small camper .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We 've , we 've travelled in a big one .
A: I hate them because they 're hard to jockey around , you know ,
A: but maybe a pickup with the back on ,
B: or something like , uh , what 's the , like the Volkswagen Vanagon . I 've heard is really nice .
A: Yeah .
A: So you could kind of sleep in it sometimes ,
A: but you would n't want to do it all the time .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , we have enough friends here and there ,
A: I would just love to just drive through the United States and stop and see people I know , and visit for a day and then go on and , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: My dad has been talking for years about , uh , getting a fifth wheel and just picking up ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: he 's retired
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , he 's in his sixties ,
B: and he , uh , would like to just get a fifth wheel and just travel across the country and spend a month here or a couple of weeks there , and just , you know , not , be settled anywhere ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think , I think that would real ,
B: just see , see the rest of the country .
A: and I would like to maybe not take great long trips , but , but have your home base , where your home is and then just travel out for , like , maybe , oh , a month , maybe go ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: He , he does that quite a bit .
A: And ,
B: He , he has n't lately , though , uh , because he 's been ill ,
A: Yeah .
B: uh , but he 's been known to be gone for a month or two at a time
B: and , you know , he 'll say , this is my itinerary .
B: I 'm going here , here and here
B: and I 'll be back in about two months
A: Yeah .
A: There are a lot of neat , neat places to visit in America ,
A: that 's for sure .
A: We 've , I have n't been much to the south ,
A: I have n't been in , in Georgia or Florida or Mississippi or Alabama .
A: I guess that 's , those are the only states I have not visited .
A: But , uh , up the coast , uh , at , uh , uh , in Maryland and around there , where the , where the early history is , there 's some
A: Johnstown and , uh , in in that area is just really neat ,
A: interesting things to
A: so , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: so ,
B: Have you been a , to a lot of the different historical sites ?
A: Yeah ,
A: we took a trip , uh , around to the , uh , Civil War battle grounds and things back in nineteen sixty when it was the centennial or something ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I believe it was .
A: Uh , had about three kids then I think ,
A: but that was a really fun , interesting trip .
A: I we , we read Bruce book before we went , you know ,
A: and , so we were ready to look up the places we read about .
B: Yeah ,
B: I I think right , right now while my husband and I don't have any kids we 'll probably take as many vacations as we can doing things like scuba diving and , and adventurous types of things ,
A: Yeah .
B: and then when eventually , when we have kids ,
A: Yeah .
B: Now , his , his folks did a lot of traveling across country .
B: You know they went to the Grand Canyon and did things like that .
A: Well , now , camping is fun with kids .
A: If you 're , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: once they get a little bigger , not teeny tiny ones ,
A: but , even , even some little ones do pretty good
A: but , but when they get a little bigger so they can help ,
B: Yeah .
A: that , that 's a fun way to to , uh , cut costs
A: and it 's enjoyable , too .
A: Very restful .
A: I mean I find ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I do enjoy camping .
A: Yeah ,
A: I find the outdoors very relaxing and , you know , kind of a change .
B: As long as I have a shower nearby , I 'm fine And electricity .
A: Yeah
A: Well , I 'm with you .
A: I need my creature comforts , too .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , it was great to talk to you .
B: It was nice talking to you , too , Beth .
A: Okay ,
A: see you later .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Okay .
B: Bye-bye .
A: What kind of painting are you planning to do ?
B: Well I have wallpaper in both of my bathrooms right now which is really pretty disgusting .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , um , it 's a rent house
B: and I decided it 's too expensive to rewallpaper
B: so I decided I 'm going to paint .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 've been buying some magazines and stuff and looking at different ways to paint .
B: And I 'm thinking about maybe sponge painting them . Either that or maybe rag rolling . To give it kind of a country look .
A: Oh , what would be interesting .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've never done any of those fancy kinds of paint treatments ,
A: but they look very interesting
A: and you get some beautiful effects with them .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , one of the books that I bought , where it 's describing the sponge painting , said you can like layer different colors
B: and ,
A: Yes ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 've seen that done , where there 's uh , oh ,
A: I saw one that was kind on an ecru undercoat
A: and then it had , a little bit darker sort of peachy color ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and in between there was a sort of a rust , uh , put on very sparingly .
B: Ugh .
A: And it gave the impression of very old weathered stucco .
B: Yeah .
B: Um , what I , what I 'm trying to do is I 've got yellow tile in both the bathrooms
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I want something that 's going to tie that together
B: and I 'm changing the , like the towel racks and stuff , the , the fixtures out to make them wood ,
B: I 'm going to put wood in there .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: that should be nice .
B: So it 's going to have kind of a country look .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , and I have n't even decided as far as , um , what kind of paint to buy .
B: I don't have an actual instruction book
B: so I 'm really in kind of the beginning stages right now .
A: Well , uh .
B: Um , it 's going to be a big experiment .
A: Yeah ,
A: I was about to say , you ought to experiment on at least a small part of it before you just tackle the whole thing
B: Yeah .
A: Because you might find that it 's beyond , uh , what you 're willing to put into it . Although I think it could turn out really nice .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've ,
A: I have n't ever done fancy painting
A: but I sure did my share of just regular painting .
A: Uh , I 've painted several houses , inside .
A: I , never painted the outside .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: inside .
B: What , what kind of , what kind of paint do you normally use ?
A: Well , uh , we used a latex , uh , wall paint and then a semigloss enamel for the woodwork
A: and my job was mostly the woodwork .
B: Okay ,
B: uh-huh .
A: My husband would paint the walls and ceilings with the rollers
A: and I got to do all of the masking tape and then all of the little fine , uh , trim work , where I 'd use a small brush and , uh , try to keep the paint from dripping on the windows and things like that
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well we only have only one of our bathroom has a window in it
B: so I 'm hoping that , um , it wo n't be too much of a , a problem .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I 'm wondering if my bigger problem is getting the wallpaper taken down first . Because I , I think ,
A: Well I was going to ask if you planned to paint over it or try to strip it .
B: No ,
B: I 'm , I 'm planning on taking it off .
A: I have heard that they 've got these steamers you can rent now , which make it much easier to get wallpaper off .
B: Um .
A: Um , I tried to get wallpaper off once twenty years ago , oh , with a just a scraper and wet sponge
A: and it took forever .
A: I would not recommend that method .
B: Okay .
A: Uh , if if you can rent a steamer , if it 's modern wallpaper it should come off without too much trouble .
B: Well that 's something that , that 's worthwhile checking into then . 'Cause I ,
A: If it 's really old , you don't know what it 's put on with .
B: It , it 's hard to tell ,
B: it 's ,
B: the patterns look like they 're nineteen sixties style .
A: Yeah .
B: And I know the house , um , was built around the mid fifties .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it may be the original wallpaper
A: Could be ,
A: yeah .
A: Um , if it 's vinyl it should be easier to strip too .
A: If it 's paper it will probably shred .
B: Um , in one bathroom it 's , um , it 's probably paper , uh ,
B: it 's silver , silver and yellow , and white .
A: Um , uh-huh
A: Well the wallpaper that I was trying to remove was black ,
A: this was in a bathroom too .
A: And the , the tiles were sort of a mottled grey and had a little trim strip of maroon and white
A: and the , the wallpaper in that bathroom had a black background
A: and then it had vivid , uh , almost neon colors of hot pink and turquoise , and lime green and silver , and , uh , a little bit of yellow that looked like coral sands and sea horses and things like that
B: Um , that 's kind of an odd color for a bathroom .
A: Oh it was awful ,
A: it was absolutely hideous
A: and , and we had a dinner party before we started renovating it
A: and a , a guest went in there
A: and he said it 's a good thing I went to the bathroom before dinner because if I had had something to drink and went in there I would think I was having hallucinations
B: Really .
B: Well I , I 've also been thinking about , after looking at all these magazines , um , these design magazines and stuff , I 'm thinking about maybe painting the bedroom walls too , in a color that will kind of , um , tie in our , um , our , um , our , uh , comforter , with a color that 's kind of a , um , burgundy and green and yellow and blue and beige floral design .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , and I 'm not really quite sure ,
B: I don't know if maybe I 'm biting off more than I can chew .
A: Well I 'd say tackle one project first and see how it goes
A: and if you discover you like it then you can always upscale .
B: Yeah ,
B: well the bedroom would probably be the easier of the two because it would be just plain painting .
A: Sure .
B: It would n't be any kind of special , um , special effects type thing .
A: Yeah .
B: It would be just plain paint .
A: Well it 's not hard to do if you get everything prepared ahead of time .
A: Because if you , uh , use drop cloths to cover everything and you use masking tape to trim out , uh , all the parts that you don't want to slop over onto , you don't have to be quite as precise about how you do it
A: and it can be done a whole lot faster . And with rollers and , uh , modern latex paints ,
B: Um , okay .
A: you can wash up easily because they 're water soluble .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they dry fast
A: so you really don't have to be disrupted for more than about a weekend . If you have some help .
B: Um .
A: And then if that , if you discover the little tricks and tips about , you know , how you get through corners and how you do trim and , uh , how long to leave the masking tape down , because if you leave it too long and it dries it can flake when it , when you pull it up .
B: It , it peels the paint off when you take it off ,
B: yeah .
A: Well , not ,
A: if you leave it on for weeks , it will do that .
A: If you take it up the next day it should be fine .
A: You want it to get dry , but not , uh , just real hard .
B: Yeah ,
B: okay .
A: You don't want the gum on the back of the masking tape to get dried to hard .
A: That 's the problem .
B: Yeah .
A: It will come up a lot easier if you don't wait too long .
A: And I 've , I was told ,
A: I always used the nice wide masking tape ,
A: but I 've heard from people who tried to get by and skimp on narrow masking tape that it was more trouble than it was worth . Because it , it rips as you pull it off for one thing
B: Oh really ,
B: okay .
A: and then you end up tediously scraping these tiny little shreds of masking tape
B: Um .
A: And the whole point of using it is to save yourself work .
A: You can do a little faster painting and much easier clean up if you use the masking tape .
A: But use , use good , uh , stuff and buy it at a paint store where they have the right brands , that will go down and come up easily .
B: Okay .
B: Well I really appreciate all the helpful tips ,
B: I think you are , just made my project a lot easier
A: Well I wish you very good luck with it
A: and I will tell you that I have retired from the painting business .
A: The last time I had something done was my kitchen cabinets
A: and I decided that was too much to tackle ,
A: I 'd hire a professional .
B: If you were , if you were closer I 'd , I 'd , I 'd tell you you could come over and supervise
A: Well if I were closer I might .
A: Oh , well I hope your project turns out great
A: and I , really think that it 's exciting that you 're going to try the sponge painting .
A: I think that could give it a really a ,
B: Well , we 'll see how it goes ,
B: I may just be flat painting over it .
A: Well , of course that 's the other advantage of paint .
A: If you don't like it all you do is put on another coat .
B: Yeah .
A: I guess we 'd better go because our time looks like it 's about up .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I need to go to the dentist ,
B: so .
A: Okay ,
A: bye-bye .
B: It 's was nice talking to you Kathleen .
A: Thank you .
B: Bye-bye .
B: I think I get most of my news , uh , in headlines from the radio ,
B: and then I follow-up by reading the newspaper and news magazines about things that attract my attention .
A: Well , I , I do about the same , I guess , but in a different fashion .
A: I , I , I 'm from New York originally
A: and now that I live in Florida ,
A: I live in the Florida in the winter and then go back up north in the , in the summertime
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I , I feel that the , the only legitimate paper although it might sound , a little elitist is the NEW YORK TIMES .
A: I 've always read the NEW YORK TIMES when I was younger ,
A: and I try
A: now that it has a national edition , I read that .
A: I also read , uh , I , I , I guess I do watch , uh , MCNEIL LEHRER on P B S because I , I lean to that coverage ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and I guess I 'm ,
B: I like them
B: but they take so long .
B: I don't always have time
A: Yeah .
A: Well , there
A: , it 's a whole hour show .
A: Actually , it 's an hour show each evening ,
A: and , and , we , we turn it on when we start dinner .
A: We seem to start dinner around six and finish it up .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I find that I 'm leaning on , uh ,
A: I travel a great deal , uh , even overseas ,
A: and I find that I lean on , uh , C N N quite a bit for concise and quick stuff .
A: And , I 'm , I , I 'm quite satisfied with the way they put it out .
A: I mean , I , I don't believe everything they say ,
A: but it 's , it 's coverage , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think C N N does a pretty good job .
B: I had not watched them very much except when I was abroad , until the Gulf War .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And they seemed to have the best coverage .
B: They had more information sooner than , most of the other networks .
A: Uh .
A: Well , yeah ,
A: I , I , I , uh ,
A: Peter Arnet was reporting direct from , uh , Iraq .
A: I think this is scandalous the way everybody 's picking on him .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I think that what he , he reported what he saw
B: Yeah .
A: and if you did n't like it , that was just too bad , you know .
B: Well , uh , I know that the coverage he was allowed to present was slanted ,
B: but I think they said that frequently enough . That , uh , you should n't criticize the man for giving us one perspective .
A: Yeah
A: , oh , yeah ,
A: I mean , uh .
A: No .
B: Uh ,
A: That , that 's right , I think so .
A: And , and I guess when it comes to , um , to magazines , I don't read ,
A: I used to when I was younger ,
A: I subscribed to TIME and U S NEWS AND WORLD REPORT .
A: I , I have seemed to slide away from that and rely more on the local paper
A: or , I , I , I also subscribe to something called WORLD PRESS , which is a magazine that only talks about other , excerpts from the WORLD PRESS ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: which sort of gives you a different slant , than ,
A: it 's not as slanted as the NEW YORK TIMES or as biased perhaps as the local paper .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , that I guess , and the radio .
A: Uh , I listen to P B S radio a lot
A: and I also listen to , uh , these twenty-four hour news stations , when I 'm driving .
A: I ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we have a C B S twenty-four hour station that I listen to on the way to and from work
A: Yeah .
B: and ,
A: Do you read ,
A: are you from Southern or Northern California ?
B: Northern .
B: I 'm from , uh , the peninsula ,
A: So well ,
A: Yeah ,
A: is that , what is that ,
B: Palo Alto .
A: the San Francisco paper out there is , uh , the major paper ?
B: Well ,
B: it 's horrible .
A: Yeah ,
A: and that 's a terrible paper .
B: The San Francisco paper is just wretched .
B: So I subscribe to the SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS .
A: Is that pretty good ?
B: Palo Alto is about midway between .
B: Well it 's a whole lot better than that San Francisco paper
B: and ,
A: Oh the , what is that , the CHRONICLE is n't it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: there 's the CHRONICLE , and the EXAMINER ,
A: Oh .
B: but they 're , uh , both run by the same
A: Oh yeah ,
A: they they really are probably the worse papers I 've ever read .
A: I , uh , uh ,
B: They 're just horrid
A: Yeah .
B: so we read ,
A: Well , can you get the L A paper up there ?
A: That 's a pretty decent paper is n't it
A: or ,
B: Uh , we can ,
B: but I don't like it .
A: Yeah .
B: So we subscribe to the NEW YORK TIMES and the WALL STREET JOURNAL and uh , MERCURY NEWS .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Well that 's another one I read ,
A: I forgot that .
A: I read the WALL STREET JOURNAL ,
A: not as in depth as I used to , because they , their articles seem to be getting even longer and longer
A: but ,
B: Yes ,
B: well again , I read that , uh , two columns on the front .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I think I , I agree with you that the problem seems to be they don't have enough time to do all the stuff .
A: I feel pretty well versed in , in what I 'm doing because I , I do spend more time on that than I do , say , on sports , or although I watch that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I spend a lot of time reading about these things .
A: I 'm quite interested .
A: I find it very exciting to , for the coverage we have now , today .
B: Yes
B: and I think we do get pretty good coverage .
B: I don't feel that the American people is being shortchanged by the , uh , the news coverage .
A: If anything , they , I think they
B: We almost have too much .
A: Well , I don't know ,
A: I , I hear a lot of criticism about listening to these , the Dan Rathers of the world and , and and taking their word for it , or their comment ,
A: actually , they , I think they slant things
A: but ,
B: Well , I can not stand Dan Rather .
B: I remember him when he was a local newscaster in Houston .
A: No kidding !
A: Oh , wow !
B: And I hated him then .
A: I did n't know that .
A: Yeah ?
B: And I would not watch that man for money .
A: Yeah .
B: And he and Barbara Walters just really turn my stomach .
A: Yeah ,
A: was , was he ,
B: So I watch Peter Jennings , and , uh and Tom Brokaw . Sort of alternately .
A: Yeah .
A: How do you feel about it ?
A: I guess I , I got to say , if that 's the subject , if the subject is do I feel that we 're well enough equipped to ,
A: I don't know
A: if , if it said that . I feel I 'm well enough equipped .
B: Do we get enough news or something like that ?
A: Yeah .
A: To ,
B: Do we get , uh do we get the news that we want ?
A: Yeah .
B: And I do .
B: I really think .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think I do too .
A: I think you have to let , you got to segregate some of it .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , that 's about all I have to say
B: Okay ,
B: well nice to talk to you .
A: Nice talking to you .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Well , we , uh ,
A: taxes ,
A: everyone thinks taxes are too high I 'm sure .
A: But , uh , I think we do get quite a good value for the tax dollars we spend in most cases .
A: What do you think ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: I , I think so .
B: I , I 'm , uh , I think I 'm , I think I 'm , uh , a little out of the ordinary in that , that I , I , uh , I think I 'm more worried about the deficit , the national deficit than , than , uh , a lot of other people are and think that we need to , we need to either raise our taxes or , or cutback on something
B: and I don't know what to cutback on to , to get , to get that , to get that settled .
A: At this stage it 's hard , to tell .
B: And , and , uh , and , uh , I know I 'm a real , a real , uh , out of it in terms of taxes
B: so I 'm I 'm , uh , think that the , we really ought to seriously consider what an income tax might do that , uh , for Texas
B: and , and ,
A: Well , at this stage I think we 've taxed property almost to the limit because , like the , the property taxes on the homes have reached the point that it 's precluding people from being able to own a home because of the cost of the taxes on them .
B: Yeah .
B: I think so .
B: Yeah .
A: I know
A: I live in Richardson
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's up over two thousand dollars a year for taxes on my house .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But now we 're getting public services , the schools , the hospitals
A: and if it were n't for the taxes we 're putting in there , uh , look what the schools could cost you .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: now I 'm , uh , uh , oh , I ,
B: we 'd , when we moved to Richardson , one of the reasons we chose it was for the , uh , for the schools . And , and realizing that that , that , that quality of schools might well have higher taxes than other places but that we were willing to , uh , to go for that , because we supported the ,
A: Yeah .
A: Then again the , the community college system here is excellent for the dollar spent ,
A: and the public , colleges also , the tuition has got to be among the lowest in the country .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: one of the ,
A: uh , I believe , I don't know which one it is , uh , down there whether it 's Hobby or , uh , the other ex-governor down there that are proposing doubling the tuition .
A: Well if you double the tuition , it would still be considerably less than the public school tuition in most other states .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's right .
A: Yeah .
A: That would provide , uh , possibly some relief there to utilize some of the property taxes for other things , see .
B: Yeah .
A: The so-called sin taxes on liquor and the cigarettes and such as that generate a considerable amount ,
A: but I eventually I think you may tax people out of smoking even .
B: I , I don't , I don't know about that ,
B: I , I ,
A: Yeah
A: Well , I quit ten years ago
A: so I , I could n't afford to start again
B: I see .
B: Okay .
B: No , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well , that , that , that would be true .
B: That would be true .
B: But ,
A: I know , uh ,
A: my children would give up eating before they gave up their cigarettes I think .
B: Huh .
A: But all the various taxing authorities that come through , I think the one tax I resent the most though is the additional sales tax for DART which is probably never going to be in existence in my lifetime .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and even if it is , is n't going to , uh , uh , provide you with any , any services in that it 's not doing to provide a route from your , your home to a business , for instance , you know .
A: Well , this , this is a thing
A: I think it 's like , uh , back east .
A: You had to start your public transportation when you started your cities .
A: You ca n't come in afterward and really be successful or economical at it .
A: If we had been like a Chicago or a New York City or Philadelphia or someone like that , and had a public transportation system starting in the horse and buggy days and when land was cheap and , uh , construction costs were cheap , you could afford it .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But now , digging tunnels under Central Expressway and things like that becomes cost prohibitive .
B: And ,
B: and that was pretty much it .
B: And they had like three or four basic packages that they they offer .
A: Yeah .
A: Sounds like the Lincoln Mercury dealer I used to work for .
A: They did n't order anything but the extra luxury version of whatever they got .
A: Little Mercury Tracer
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've been
B: I 've been ,
A: imagine , or not , they make a , they make a luxury Mercury Tracer .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've seen that in the dealership .
B: I was driving a Lincoln , a Mark Seven for the last four years before I traded it for this
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , I 'm leasing the Lexus .
B: I usually lease them since I own a business
A: Yeah .
B: I just run it through my business ,
B: but but it ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: the Lincoln ride is certainly good , too , but the , this Lexus is nothing like I have ever been in before . * one or two utt ?
B: It 's just ,
A: Like sitting in your living room .
B: Yeah ,
B: it really is ,
B: and it 's got a lumbar support in the seats .
A: Adjustable ?
B: Adjustable , uh power
A: Yeah
B: and just kind of brings that support up in the
A: tell me what you think about the Vietnam war .
B: Okay .
B: Well , I 'm a Vietnam era veteran ,
B: and , uh , I was , uh , fortunate not to have to serve in the theater ,
B: however , my support roll in the service was to support those in the theater of operation . Uh ,
B: I 'm of the old school that believes that , uh , the , uh , uh , contracts that we made back years ago needed to be honored .
B: However , uh , I think we could have executed the war and gotten it over a whole lot quicker . Uh ,
B: but those are my personal thoughts ,
B: and I think that if we 'd let the generals run the war like we let the generals run World War Two we 'd had got it over a whole lot quicker and lost a lot fewer people .
B: But as it was , the politicians ran the , the Korean conflict and ultimately the Vietnam thing ,
B: and we managed to come out , uh , losers all the way around .
B: And so this is what ultimately triggered us , uh , United States , uh , per se , being , uh , deciding to get out of the role of world policeman .
B: Your views ,
A: Uh , as I understand it , and I , uh , don't know a lot about it , uh , we got in there because of France
B: Well .
A: uh , France was there first .
A: They had ,
B: We got into it because of SEATO agreement , back just right after World War Two that , uh , we pledged a mutual , uh , uh , defense of , of the South Vietnamese ,
B: and as it turned out they were in a civil war one with another ,
B: and really we
B: I , I question us , you know , now ,
B: of course hindsight is all too clear .
A: Sure .
B: Uh , so , we 're , we , we have to , have to deal with , with the , uh , situation as , as we played it .
A: Jerry , what did you think of people like , uh , Jane Fonda , another war anti-war activist .
B: I ,
B: don't get me started on those people .
B: You know , before she , before Jane Fonda did , did what she did , I thought she was a wonderful person ,
B: but after , uh , uh , well ,
B: I , I just don't have anything , want anything to do with her any more ,
B: because you support , uh , you support your government .
A: Right or wrong ?
B: Uh , okay ,
B: right or wrong ,
B: I don't think is , is , we can determine whether we were right or wrong ,
B: because , you 're , you 're having to deal with , again , uh ,
B: I think we could have made a different agreement back in the the late forties era that would have kept of there .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , you know , I , I did n't realize that we 'd signed some type of deal like that .
A: I thought we came in as first advisors to the French , and then they decided to pull out
A: and ,
B: Can you hold just a second , Terry ?
A: Sure .
B: One moment please .
A: Sure to someone else or
A: Wonder what happens to this little beastie on call waiting or something .
A: Huh , fascinating .
A: Well that 's not ,
B: Sorry for the delay .
A: That 's okay .
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: this is ,
B: the , uh , the , the , uh , mutual defense thing was , uh ,
B: we , we ,
B: it was complicated ,
B: and I don't think everybody knows the whole situation .
B: I don't .
B: But from what I can gather , is we went and said yeah , we will help the South Vietnamese , uh , should they ask .
B: Well , the French went in and tried their old style warfare , and , uh , got soundly thrashed .
B: And we did n't do a whole lot better .
A: Um . No ,
A: I had thought that they had , uh , colonies there , or something .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: that was the old French colony , but see , the French , the French were our , uh , allies in NATO
A: Right .
B: and they 're also our allies in SEATO , which was the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization , which has since been , uh , disbanded as far as I know ,
B: you know , NATO is , is on the way of being disbanded . Uh ,
B: but , uh , the , you know , the French , yeah
B: we go in as an ally to the French and says yeah , we 'll , we 'll help you out , if you get in a bind .
B: Well , they got in a bind and says we don't want to , you know , play any more
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , we , we kind of , we kind of got , got the ball rolling ourselves versus a bunch of top secret silly uh , um , oh , operations and then the full scale , you know , full scale troops , et cetera , et cetera , et cetera .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm thirty-two ,
A: so , uh , I
A: well , I missed it .
A: Seventy-four is when they quit sending troops .
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: yeah
B: roughly .
A: Yeah .
A: I was just probably three or four years ,
A: Okay , uh ,
A: what kind of hobbies do you have Lori ?
B: Uh , I guess , I , uh , I like to play golf .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I also like to plant flowers and do do some gardening and do arts and crafts .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Where do you play golf in this area ?
B: Well , we live , uh , pretty close , to the Mesquite Golf Course .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , we will play either out there or at Firewheel .
B: That is usually where we play ,
B: but I have played you know different courses in in the Dallas area .
A: Do you , uh , do you ride or do you pull a cart when you play golf ?
B: Uh , both
A: Oh .
B: Not at the same time .
A: I was going to say , that could be difficult
B: No , sometimes we ride
B: and sometimes , uh , we , pull ,
B: we like to , to , uh , a lot of the times just walk , uh , for the exercise .
B: But
A: Uh-huh .
B: I find that when I ride in a cart , I play better
B: and I think it is cause I don't get as tired
A: I think that might be true .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't like pulling a cart on Firewell golf course because they want you to pull the cart on the path .
B: I know ,
B: and that makes me so mad
B: You know , it is like it is not going to do that much damage to the course , but apparently they think differently
A: That is the reason , I don't play over there .
B: Yeah .
A: I like the course , but I don't play over there because , you , they don't , uh , you know don't allow you to pull a cart .
B: Right .
A: And , I don't think a cart damages the turf .
B: Right .
B: Well , the reason why we play over there is because its where , since we are a Garland resident , they gave us a special deal where you can get , uh , ten rounds of golf for a hundred dollars ,
B: yeah ,
B: a hundred dollars
B: cause it is half price what the normal green fees are .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So that is why we you know play over there
B: cause we have got our card
A: Well , I guess I could use a card too .
A: I live , uh , very near , uh , very close to the Firewheel Golf Course .
B: Oh , do you ?
B: So you live in Garland then .
A: Yes ,
A: I live in northwest Garland .
A: Right up there near the golf course .
B: Okay ,
B: well we are in south Garland ,
B: but yeah , next time you go , uh , you know , check into it ,
B: they have , uh ,
B: it is just like , uh , a bus card
B: and they just punch it . You know ,
B: it has got one through ten on it
B: and every time you go they just punch it for you .
A: Well , in the last two years , I have not played very much golf because I am involved in Boy Scouts .
B: Oh , okay .
A: So , I have , uh , I have , uh , I have children Boy Scout age .
B: You must have a , a son .
A: I have two boys that are boy scout age ,
A: and , uh , so I am very active in Boy Scouts
B: Oh , okay .
A: so I would have to say that camping and hiking and canoeing and Boy Scouts is my hobby .
B: Yeah .
A: But I
B: Oh well that sounds like fun too
A: but my golf clubs will probably rust before I get to use them again
A: because my boys are still right at the beginning age
A: and it is probably going to be six to eight years before they go to college .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , you need to , uh , teach them how to play and take them out on the course with you
A: That 's right .
A: Lessons are expensive though .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Well you can teach them
A: Well , they would probably never make it then
A: because I don't think , uh ,
A: I only took lessons for golf when I was in college .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , as a course for P E you know so I could graduate .
B: Right ,
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , that is the only time I think I have ever really taken golf lessons
A: and that was kind of a group scenario and not individual .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: I took one lesson one other time .
A: Besides that , uh , I just , uh , try to make the club hit the ball .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know what you mean
A: I don't want to play strike out , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I have fun doing it ,
A: some , uh , you know , I have some good shots and some bad shots .
B: Oh yeah .
B: It , it is just nice to get outdoors and do something .
A: So you said you work , uh , in the gardens too .
A: Do you have , uh , a special flowers ?
B: Well flower gardens .
B: I like to have ,
B: matter of fact this past weekend I just got finished planting a bunch of tulips and daffodil bulbs .
B: So , those ought to be coming up around spring time
A: My wife had , uh , just put in a bunch of , I want to say , they are pansies .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She put them in like two months ago cause they are winter plants .
B: Right .
A: And they have been ,
A: we thought even with all the cold weather weather we have had they have been blooming just fine .
B: Oh , they do great .
B: I put mine in probably in November .
A: That is when she did , I think .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it was November
B: and I don't do anything to mine , water them or anything
B: And they just ,
B: they do really good
B: and I even had , uh , I guess it was last year or the year before , I had some out
B: and it froze
B: and the pansies looked terrible , but they came back later .
B: I did n't do anything to them
B: so they are , uh , they are good to plant in the winter time .
B: They last for a long time then .
B: So , if you start putting them , you know , you can put them out in the spring too ,
B: but once it starts getting real hot then it just kills them cause they ca n't stand the hot weather .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do they survive longer if you plant them in the winter time ?
A: Will they make it through the summer sun ?
B: No ,
B: they wo n't make it through the summer because it gets too hot ,
B: but they make it through probably winter and spring .
B: So ,
A: Well .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have got some of those too ,
B: cause I love flowers
A: Well , that is good .
B: Yeah .
B: And I do , I try to do some arts and crafts
B: and I love to go ,
A: So you have a child Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
B: we ,
B: Two year old daughter in child care
B: and we went through the process of searching for child care and uh , finding what we consider to be , real good child care at a , uh , pretty reasonable price , we think .
A: Uh ,
B: How about you ,
B: do you have any children ?
A: Yes ,
A: our first
A: and he just turned three months .
B: Oh , boy .
A: So , we 're just starting into hunting for child care .
B: Yeah .
A: Right now , both of us are students .
B: Are you ?
B: Where are a student ?
A: Uh ,
A: Uh , University of Southern Mississippi .
B: No kidding .
A: Uh , she 's ,
B: I was a professor in a university here in California for a while .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , are you going to , uh , put your son in child care in a , a year or two ?
A: Uh , probably . Uh ,
A: actually spring semester a year from now he 's going to have to be in child care uh , five days a week more than likely . Uh , depending on how my class schedule runs
B: Yeah .
A: because my wife will be doing her internship that semester .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It will be forty hour week , not , no , eight to five type of thing .
B: Yeah .
A: So depending on what my class schedule looks like , he may spend four , anywhere from four to eight hours a day in child care at that point .
A: Right now we 're trying to avoid it ,
A: but we just , as a matter of fact just yesterday hired a , a girl to , uh , watch him .
A: Uh , I get out of class at certain time
A: and my wife is already supposed to be on her way to her class . You know ,
A: once a day this overlap happens where we ca n't , one of us be home .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: So for about twenty twenty , thirty minutes a day we got a baby-sitter comes in .
B: Well , that 's a good experience , I think ,
B: and , uh , there are a lot of things to think about
B: and the articles that are written on the topic , are pretty good
B: and they kind of boil down to , uh ,
B: any other important decision you really have to explore the alternative
A: Uh-huh
B: and what we found , uh , to be the best guide was our own instincts about , people who were going to be loving
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , that 's more important than anything else .
B: We could have sent , uh , her to a fancier , uh , facility .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , she goes to a home .
B: This is a , uh , a couple , uh , emigrated from China early in , in their lives .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They 've been here probably thirty , forty years .
A: Yeah .
B: They 've got three daughters .
B: Uh , and , they have a loving home
B: and , uh , they 're both there
B: and they have a kid that comes in and helps them in the afternoon .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And our daughter is healthy , happy , well adjusted and enjoys going to see her friends ,
A: Yeah .
B: so it 's a good experience .
A: Uh , that makes a big difference .
B: I
B: if it 's good ,
B: I think it 's very good for the child .
A: Yes .
B: And if it 's , a loving environment , I think it 's very good
B: and , and that 's really what we 've learned about it .
B: She 'll have to go on to something more stimulating in terms of preschool in a year
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , we feel real fortunate
B: and we were able to , uh , just , uh , choose in the marketplace .
B: I don't know what it 's like around , uh , Hattiesburg .
A: There 's a lot of child care available , but invariably there 's waiting lists .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: And we were a little slow getting on the waiting list with the , uh , okay , the university , uh , university 's , uh uh , department of , uh , uh , their Home Ec Department
B: Yeah .
B: I 'll bet they 're involved .
B: Yeah .
A: uh , they , uh , they have a subbranch , uh , American Family Counseling
A: and their people staff this , this , uh , the child care center just off campus .
A: But , uh , they have a pretty good size waiting list .
B: Yeah
A: So ,
B: Well , that 's , uh ,
B: I know it 's , it 's a real hard thing to do , even for people in , in , uh , university communities .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Out here at Manford , they have a , you know , a , a , a real good facility
B: and there , uh , is quite a waiting list to get into that .
A: Yeah .
B: So it 's , uh , uh , you know , it 's a , it 's a , it 's an important , decision ,
B: it 's an industry that 's still a cottage industry
A: Yeah . Yeah ,
B: and I think this is really is buyer beware . Well , it is the best way to do it , interestingly .
A: a cottage industry 's the best way to do it really ,
A: because if you over ,
B: I think that , uh , my own interest in , in development , human development leads me to believe that that 's a good sign and that , uh , private enterprise is the way to go and that it will lead to a fundamental change in the way we learn .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Because , I think what we 're going to go to is much more commercial entrepreneurial learning ventures in the market .
B: As a matter of fact , my future is banked on that , uh , professionally because I believe that , that there are , uh , pressing needs in the marketplace , unmet by schools , colleges universities for , uh , learning a lot of things that kids can learn watching Sesame Street and in child care .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Primary skills which turn out to be the most important skills in life .
A: Yes .
A: And it 's amazing how much good things like , uh , Sesame Street will do .
B: It 's , it 's phenomenal .
B: It 's phenomenal , the programming , the human operating system ,
A: favorite type of music or musician or any .
B: I don't really have a favorite type .
B: I like , uh , a lot of different types of music .
A: Do you ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I have a , a tape collection that I like to listen to , uh , cassette tapes
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it 's pretty varied .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: How about you ?
A: Oh , I , I 'm very , uh , I 'm very varied as well .
A: I , uh , I don't think I 've ever met a type of music I don't like except for , uh , maybe , you know , heavy metal and that .
B: That 's exactly me .
B: The acid rock or the heavy metal .
A: Yeah .
B: Even some of that I like okay but not , mostly , as a general rule ,
A: Yeah .
B: I don't care for that at all .
A: Yeah .
A: I don't enjoy rap too much , either .
A: That , that does n't appeal to , uh , my ears .
B: Well , as far as the rap goes , I think there are a few artists that appeal to me themselves
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I like some of their songs .
A: Oh .
B: But as , as
B: I agree , with the general rule , I , I would n't choose rap either .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I , I like to listen to , uh , what you might call pop , easy listening country western , jazz uh , classical , um ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I don't ,
B: I like , uh , like I said , pretty varied , uh , music .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I have a couple that my husband really hates that I listen to , like Billy Holiday
A: Oh
B: I really love to listen to her ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I even have a , a tape of Lady Smith Blackman Bazo
A: Oh , gosh .
B: and , well , I mean , they 're very harmonic
A: Uh-huh
B: they really are .
A: uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: sure .
B: So , they 're interesting to listen to .
B: You might try that .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , um , I listen to , uh , specific ,
A: most , most likely I would be listen to , uh , jazz or classical music .
A: Um I , in college I took , uh , four years of classical guitar ,
A: and I played in the , in the jazz combo all four years .
A: I play guitar for the jazz combo .
B: Oh , yeah ?
A: So , uh , that 's where my two , my two listening enjoyments are ,
A: but , you know , jazz can get on my nerves after a while .
A: Uh , you ca n't just listen to it , you know , to , uh , especially a lot of the deeper stuff , Yeah , unless , unless you 're playing it , * sv
B: It 's too , um , uh ,
B: you have to concentrate on it , it seems .
A: it just , it just does n't do anything .
B: What about the blues or something like that ?
A: Uh , uh , blues are okay .
A: I , I tell you , I do like , um ,
A: I grew up on blue grass music .
A: My dad is a big blue grass fan ,
A: and so
B: Uh-huh .
A: um , I would n't have admitted it when I was in high school
A: but , I really do like it a lot .
A: So .
B: I , I like some of it , um ,
B: as far as like the what they now call country western , it does n't sound like the old country music at all , does it ? * two utts ? ?
A: No ,
A: it does n't ,
A: it does n't .
B: Um , some of it sounds more like pop music .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh they 've all got , you know , the real screechy electric guitars now .
B: Oh ,
B: yeah , If I 'm going to listen to today 's country western , I have tapes of like Randy Travis and Clint Black
A: Yeah .
B: and I even liked Jim Reeves you know
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I ,
A: yeah , Uh-huh .
B: or , uh , what , what Merle Haggard and Faron Young
A: Uh-huh .
B: that type of country western is what I , I like to listen to . Uh , Sons of the Pioneers , you know , stuff like that . * all caps for titles
A: Sure .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , oh , I like sound tracks a lot .
A: Oh , do you ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it seems like you get a lot of original music that way .
A: Yeah ,
A: you sure do .
B: I mean , you know , think about like the Twin Peaks and stuff like that that 's just real recent
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: things like that I like to listen to .
B: Um , I like instrumental things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , I have some Spiro Gyro tapes .
A: Oh , they 're great are n't they .
B: Oh , they 're wonderful .
A: Yeah .
B: I love them .
B: I have some dulcimer music .
B: I mean , like I said , that , that 's pretty varied .
A: Yeah ,
A: it sure is ,
A: yeah .
B: Al Jarreau , he 's somebody I like .
B: He 's pretty , kind of jazz inspired but but still kind of pop , too .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I like his ,
A: he has a nice smooth voice .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: and , you know , what I like the most about him , is , I 've gone to see him in concert , and he always , he looks like he 's having fun .
A: Yeah ,
A: sure .
B: I mean , some people sing ,
B: and they have their faced all contorted , like it hurts them or something
B: But he looks like he 's having a good time .
B: I mean , he 's up there moving around and smiling like he 's happy and , and like all he wants to do is , is make the audience enjoy it , too .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Sure .
B: And he , he is real fun to listen to .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , Bonnie Rait , I like her a lot .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , in fact , whenever she won her big Grammy
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think it was like five of them or something
A: Uh-huh .
B: was , was it five ,
B: or .
A: Yeah ,
A: something like that ,
A: it was last , last , last year was n't it .
B: Yeah ,
B: last year or the year before , I ca n't remember ,
B: but , um , I was listening to a particular radio station
B: and , and the one D J said , who the heck is Bonnie Rait and why does she deserve five Grammies ?
B: Well , I vowed then that I was not going to listen to that radio station any more , if that D J can make such a
A: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: well , Mark , our situation is that we do have a daughter that is , uh , in the situation of choosing college .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She 's actually at Bible College for this current year .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I guess uh , first and foremost , it , really it 's a question of what the student wants to have in the way of a career and then , uh , uh , which colleges or universities can best offer that program ,
B: and then it comes down to the dollar .
B: You have to , uh ,
B: it 's whether or not you 're a resident for that jurisdiction , you know , it does , * sv
A: Uh-huh .
B: it comes down to , uh trying to come with a trade off of the costs .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , what do you feel about come of the things that need to ,
A: Damn it , I agree with pretty much with everything you 've said .
A: Uh , the one , the one thing that I , you know , I 'd advise any parent , uh , you know , or any , or any person looking for a college , uh , is that I think , I think , you know , it 's really important for them to actually visit the college and actually try and get away from , you know , the guided tour of the college and try and talk to the , you know , actual students there
A: because , you know , they 're just , uh , in my experience ,
A: I 've talked to people at other colleges , uh , that , you know ,
A: the , the , the way , the , you know , the , the , the lifestyle pictured in the catalogs is n't always the whole story .
B: No ,
B: the , the college ,
B: the , the catalogs are sales material .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It does n't matter whether , you know , they 're , they 're selling school .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , and , true ,
B: it , uh , really is helpful if a parent and the student can get there and see the real character of the school and the real life experiences of the school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I guess there 's a difference in ,
B: here the ,
B: at least , the university here in Saskatoon is primarily , uh , off campus resident students .
B: Like , they just live in the community .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , you know , I know that there are a lot of colleges and universities , particularly as they get to be a little bit on the smaller side where dormitory life is , uh , is right on campus as well
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that , you know , that changes the character of it quite a bit .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I go to Georgia Tech which is , you know , primarily an engineering school
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , you know , I think I really do miss the fact , you know , that it 's not a university , that there 's , there 's not , the , the , you know ,
A: it tends to be a very conservative school
A: and there , and there does n't seem to be the diversity of views that a lot of , you know , universities will , will have .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , I guess we 're here ,
B: this is the university that has , for years had the , the car , that , uh , will travel the farthest on , uh , on a small quantity of gas , * utt 3 & 4 one utt ? ?
B: our engineering students .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , in competitions
B: and that 's the kind of thing that also you see , uh , if you can see the kinds of achievements that have been made by students as well as graduates can give you idea of the character of the school .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , whether you , you know , in one sense , whether you 've got a spirit of innovation and excellence or whether you 've got a , a spirit of , somewhat unkind , but producing graduates .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , you know , as sort of some development and some training , uh ,
B: like it 's easy enough to crank out graduates , but to really challenge them
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , and that can vary between colleges , and faculties even , as to how , you know , what the attitude towards achievement is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , do you , uh , have anyone that you 're seriously needing to , uh , feed information to ?
B: I suppose if you 're actually at Georgia Tech as a student , you 're a ways away from that .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , I don't really know of anyone that 's like that 's looking for colleges now , you know , because it , with the exception of , uh , people 's younger brothers and sisters .
A: Then the only advise passed down is , don't go to Georgia Tech
A: Uh , but , uh , no ,
A: actually I 'm , I 'm , I 'm more interested in , in , in choosing the right job when you graduate type information
B: Right .
B: Well , that 's , that 's one of the , really , a valid point that people need to consider as well .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , you know , to ,
B: going to college , university is going to take four to eight years depending on the programs person 's involved in
A: Program .
B: and after that , you have to be out in the real world and have to be able to support yourself
A: Uh-huh .
B: and if you go in an area that there is just not much of a job market
A: Uh-uh .
B: jeez ,
B: if that 's ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: like a fine arts education ,
A: I ,
B: Right .
B: Best training in the world is not going to put food on your table .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh ,
A: You have any pets ?
B: Do I have pets ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yes ,
B: I have a cat
B: and I have two dogs .
A: Two dogs ,
A: what kind ?
B: I have a Schnauzer
B: and I have a Sheltie .
A: Schnauzers .
A: Is it a miniature or a standard Schnauzer ?
B: It , it 's a miniature .
A: Uh . I 'm going into all this because I used to I just got done working at a pet shop actually .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , the Schnauzer I 'm , I 'm watching for one of , uh , the managers where I work
B: and he 's been transferred to Germany for a while
A: Uh .
B: and I 'm taking care of his dog
B: and , uh , and I had just got the kitten when he asked me that
B: and he says , well , my dog does n't like cats ,
B: and I said , well , we wo n't tell him it 's a we wo n't tell her it 's a cat , because it was a kitten ,
B: and , you know , they just , they just love kittens .
A: Yeah .
B: They just are fascinated .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: So she does n't know that this is a cat yet .
A: That 's good .
A: They say ,
B: And they get along real good .
B: I said if Tom could see dog lick this kitty , he 'd flip . * listen
B: So that was interesting .
A: Did n't expect that would happen .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's cool ,
A: that 's nice .
A: Uh , let 's see ,
A: what was the other dog you had ?
B: It 's a sheltie .
A: Oh , a sheltie .
B: She 's real sweet little dog .
B: She 's got a very nice temperament .
B: Uh , they 're not as aggressive as a Schnauzer .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , the Schnauzers are a little aggressive .
A: They can be nippy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: shelties are nice .
A: Everybody seems to be really happy with them .
A: They 're good temperament .
B: They 're a good temperament
A: They put up with a lot .
B: and they , and they just , uh ,
B: they ,
B: I think they have a good head on their shoulders .
B: I think they have a , a higher level of intelligence than other , uh , dogs that I have encountered .
A: Schnauzers , in particular probably .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: but also some poodles , uh
A: Oh , yeah .
B: they 're kind of ,
B: there are some smart ones out there ,
B: but there 's some also some , uh , not so smart ones
A: Yeah ,
A: I
A: it seems the smaller the are , the , the worse off they are
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's , maybe that 's , there 's , uh , some credence in that statement .
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're bred down so much .
A: It 's ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: They are n't the best pets .
B: I , I 'd , I really don't know what the best pet is .
A: Yeah .
B: I guess it 's up to the individual and how they relate to their animal . And bull dogs
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , some people seem fairly well suited for for , uh , miniature poodles and such .
B: But I don't know about these , uh , these , uh , uh , these pincers , these , now , what are they called . Pit bulls , pit bulls that are so vicious .
A: Pit bull .
A: They might ,
A: they 're actually very friendly dogs .
B: Are they really ?
B: I don't think I 've ever seen one .
A: Uh , they 're really nice .
A: I , I 've dealt with quite a few of them .
A: People , uh , customers that bring them into the shop and ask me like , they , uh , fit collars and stuff on them
A: and they are , they are just really nice , really friendly , uh , kind of like medium intelligence . Uh ,
B: Well , how do they become
B: how did they get their reputation , then ?
A: Well , because some people , uh , want to train them as ,
B: Oh , they train them to be that way , then .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , okay .
A: You really ca n't get a pit bull from birth that 's that way .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: it takes a lot of training and a lot of abuse to get a dog to really respond .
B: Oh , dear ,
B: so the the poor animal is doing it in self protection .
A: Right .
B: Oh , dear .
A: Yeah ,
A: they are n't , they are n't by nature really nasty critters .
A: They are very determined critters
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so once you get them going , it 's not good to to deal with , but , they , I , I really like them . * two utts ?
A: I was , I was impressed by them .
A: They 're , they 're real sturdy little critters
A: and they are n't that big . And , uh , just really friendly .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , that 's unusual .
A: I was , I was overwhelmed .
B: I ,
B: Huh , well , I suppose you were surprised .
A: Yeah .
B: After the reputation that , you know
A: Yeah ,
A: right now ,
B: they have quite an , uh , uh , notable reputation as far as , you know ,
A: They picked up a lot of bad press lately .
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're banned from , in some areas I understand .
A: Well , yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , any , any , any pet 's going to , can , can be bad if you train it to be that way .
B: You know , that ,
B: they must have just targeted that breed and said , boy , we 're going
A: Well , yeah ,
A: it 's , when ,
A: in my hometown , they just outlawed ferrets because they had one incident of a ferret , uh , attacking a a child in a house .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , these people had left this infant in the same room with this loose ferret .
A: The , the ferret is used to running the house and was kind of wild
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , they should expect something like that to happen .
A: And so
A: now it 's like ferrets are outlawed in the town .
B: Oh , did it attack the child , then ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it bit him .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that was , that was not a good thing ,
A: but I think it was probably a , an individual ferret thing , because it was it was a fairly wild ferret .
B: Well , the the people that owned him should have been on the lookout for that . Sure ,
A: Had n't , they had n't ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean they really should have , should have expected it . And taken the precautions .
A: They did n't .
B: yeah .
A: It 's too bad it happened , though .
B: Yeah ,
B: because then the , the animal 's in trouble , and not the person .
A: Right .
A: Go ahead
B: Uh , have you every been tested for a new job or anything ?
A: Uh , no
A: I have n't .
A: But , in my job , I 'm a nurse , and we are allowed to be .
A: I mean , you know , this is the rules that they can do this anytime .
A: Uh , I don't know of anyone who ever has been picked out and been tested .
B: So it 's just sort of , uh ,
B: they can if they ,
A: They can if they choose to .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Right .
A: Have you , well have you had any experience with it at all ?
B: Uh , not really
B: but I 've always worked on a university level
B: but a lot of my friends had to be tested before they got summer jobs and stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So what do you think about that ?
B: Uh , I don't , I don't think they 're very accurate
B: because , I mean , I know their lifestyles changed prior to the drug test
B: and I know they changed afterwards .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: See I know of that too .
A: And I also know that things like antihistamines , Sudafeds , things like that , can really throw it off .
A: And you can not get a job because of it Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I had a friend ,
B: it did n't cause her any problems with her job
B: but it came back that she tested positive for using a hallucinogen .
B: But what it was , was she had been she had been , uh , in the jungle
B: and it was some Malaria medication
B: and she tested positive for that .
A: See , and so it really is a dangerous thing that way
A: because I know of somebody that tested for an airline and did n't get the job
A: and they were n't told why .
A: But a lot of people say the reason why , after you take a physical , will be because of the drug testing
A: or they would tell you .
A: Or this person never use any drugs .
B: See , I always ,
B: I thought they got , you got called back if you tested positive , for more tests .
A: Uh , you should .
A: Because you should be given another chance or at least be able to justify it or something .
A: I have real mixed feelings about it .
A: I don't know .
B: How , do you know how wrong they are ?
B: Are they , I mean , is there a margin of error ?
A: The accuracy ?
A: I don't know .
A: I don't know .
A: But , I know there are a lot of things that can influence them
A: and I think that a person deserves a second chance with it or something because most things will stay in your system for a long time .
B: Yeah .
A: And if you could show that ,
A: I , I interviewed for a job recently
A: and I was taking Entex . And my doctor gave me a prescription for it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And he said this way if it were to make the drug test positive , you have proof that your doctor ordered this for you , you know .
A: And it did n't come up that I needed to do it
A: but this could happen to anybody
A: and if they would just say oh , this person 's drug test is positive we wo n't hire them you know . Then you could lose out on a job when really you did n't do anything .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: So I don't know .
B: And I , I 'm not so sure they are that needed . * b
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm not sure either .
A: The only way I can see it is that if they really suspect a person of using it , then they have the right to go ahead and prove it
A: because they say they can spot check .
B: if you 're using it while at a job , I can see a problem .
A: Yeah .
B: But the occasional person , then it 's almost like , it 's almost an infringement of your privacy .
A: Well , it sort of is .
A: And this is it ,
A: this ,
A: I 'm not real sure how I feel about it because I can see it from two ways .
A: You know , as a health professional , I would n't want somebody to take care of me that was using drugs .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , so as a patient , I feel well , yeah , we probably should be protected .
A: But , on the other hand , there 's a lot of things I should be protected from that they don't test my patients for too .
A: So you know , I guess you sort of , you have to have trust some place along the way .
B: Yeah .
A: You ca n't go around testing everybody for everything .
B: Yeah
A: So , I don't know .
A: And I , I think it could be used to hassle somebody .
A: If someone was out to get you , I think that a company or a boss could use this .
A: You know , they could keep on doing this to you or something , I guess .
A: I can see where it could become a problem .
B: And it , it 's like , it seems like now they have tests
B: I guess they can test your hair
B: and they can find out if you use drugs up to several years ago .
A: Really . maybe you should n't be held responsible for something you did several years ago . * sv
B: So ,
B: I know .
A: That 's the other thing .
A: I mean a lot of , a lot of people as kids or , you know , young people get into some things that they get out of later on
A: and I don't think they should really have to pay for that forever .
B: Yeah .
B: There 's a lot of things you do as a kid that you would n't do as an adult
A: Yeah .
B: but you ca n't say it was wrong at the time .
A: I think that 's true .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: So that probably would n't be too good either .
B: How many children do you have now ?
A: Well I have five .
B: You have five ?
A: Right .
B: Well you do have a hard time finding time then don't you ?
A: Well , five are , I mean four of them are grown ,
A: they 're in college or just out of college
A: so I really have just a thirteen year old at home .
B: Uh-huh .
B: You sound so young .
A: Well , I work at it
B: All right
B: To have them , uh ,
A: I try to fool everybody
B: I think you 're doing a good job .
B: I just have one child .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I don't think , uh ,
B: well there 's not much I can do about it .
B: My , my wife and I are , in our forties , you know ,
B: so , uh
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it 's hard to raise one child without them thinking they 're the , they 're the pivot point of the universe .
A: I think you are right
A: because I was an only child too .
A: And that 's one reason I have so many because I really , I enjoy the big family .
B: Yeah .
A: And my thirteen year old is pretty separate from her brother and sisters
A: and so she is sort of like an only child
A: and it 's the same type of thing , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: I have a younger brother like that .
B: I 'm in my forties , like I say
B: and I have a brother in his twenties .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I was , I was the youngest .
A: Yeah .
B: So I understand how that worked .
B: And he was treated like he had five fathers or something .
A: Right .
A: That 's exactly how it is , you know .
A: She 's got all these sisters and her brother to take care of her .
A: When things don't go right , she just calls one of them , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , yeah ,
A: it , it 's a little bit difficult , though .
A: I think it was easier when they all had each other and could entertain each other and I was home more .
A: And ,
B: Did you all do a lot of organized things like , uh , Little League , uh , soccer ?
A: We , we really did not .
A: My next oldest daughter that 's in college in California is a world twirling champion .
A: She twirls a baton
A: and we did a lot of things together .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She and I did a lot of things together and flew ,
A: we have flown all over the world for her to compete and to perform .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that was a lot of fun .
A: But that , that , I guess you could consider that organized .
A: I mean , there is a competition all the time .
B: Yeah .
A: We were very heavy into that .
A: Other than that , they were pretty much ,
A: and maybe dancing school for a while or mainly school sports and things like that .
B: You know , I think that 's probably true . The ,
B: if you have one child or fewer , you get involved in organized events or activities
A: Uh-huh .
B: and if you have a large number of children or , then you don't .
A: Well , you ca n't afford to .
B: No ,
B: you
B: and there 's not enough time , uh
A: Right .
B: like my son is in , uh , Little League this year .
B: He 's ten .
B: And they practice three times a week
B: and they have a game
B: and it 's just , uh , if there were more than one child , I don't know , there would be no way to do it .
A: Right .
A: That 's right .
B: You know , one parent go one direction
B: and I 'd have to go in the other
B: and we could only cover two at that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Well I know I spent hours in the gym every day with my daughter
A: and my little one also competed because really she had no choice .
A: She had to go with me .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So the three of us just spent a lot of time traveling and , and competing
A: and , of course , the competing itself , really did n't matter what it was ,
A: it was making the friends and going all the places
A: and it was a really neat experience ,
A: but it took our total time .
A: I did not work , uh , when I did this .
A: Now I do work full-time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it 's just , my thirteen year old and myself
A: and so we really have to keep it together to get just her activities in and still have time to spend with each other .
A: So ,
B: I don't think , although
B: I think a , a , more than one child , probably three children is probably the ideal to me
B: but I 'm not sure I could afford three .
B: I most certainly could n't educate three .
B: I don't know how my , my parents did it .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , there were five of us
B: and I don't recall , you know , wanting anything in particular .
B: Uh , but I don't know how my father did it .
B: He worked at a truck line
B: and he just did n't make that kind of money with five children .
B: But we did okay .
B: We had a house and a home and ,
B: but now , my wife and I both work
B: and we don't , I don't believe we have as much as my parents did
B: and we only have one child .
A: Really ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , things cost a lot more .
A: I don't know how it is in Georgia
B: Huh .
A: and I don't think our part of the country is particularly bad compared to some .
B: Atlanta is horrible .
A: Is it ?
B: Yes .
B: we have a lot of people moving here from Boston and , and different areas
B: and from talking to them , they 're shocked .
A: Really ?
B: and they , you know ,
B: the housing is so cheap in comparison to Boston that they jump on it .
A: Right .
A: That 's what I 've heard .
B: They sell their house ,
B: they stash away a good bit of money and come down here
B: and I work with a lot of them ,
B: they , they think they , they have really done something .
B: Then when they get down here , they realize the cost of living is outrageous compared to , to where they came from .
A: Huh .
A: Yeah .
B: The housing is cheaper ,
B: but that 's about it .
A: I 'm surprised to hear that .
A: I 've heard very positive things about Atlanta ,
B: Oh so ,
A: Okay .
A: I 'm not as ashamed to claim them this year as I have been so
B: Well , it ,
B: let 's put it this way .
B: We 've got the New England Patriots up here
B: so .
A: Oh yeah .
A: Right . Well ,
B: They 've had some serious problems in the past couple of years .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Why ?
B: Um , well , uh , partly due to ownership .
B: You know , uh , Victor Kiam owned the , uh , the Patriots uh , for a period of a number of years
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he always had this , uh , this wonderful quality of being able to put his foot in his mouth every time he went to say something
B: and , uh , they 've had some financial problems with the team and so forth .
B: And it recently was sold to , uh , some other people
B: so , hopefully , this ownership can set up new direction and , uh , keep , uh , the Patriots in the New England area anyways
A: Yeah .
A: Well it will be fun for you to watch up there anyway to see what happens now you ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: I 've been to a couple , I 've been to a few games before .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Now you , you 're , you 're from Texas .
A: Right .
B: So you 've got two football teams down there .
A: Well , it depends on where you 're from in Texas .
A: I live right by Dallas so we have one football team as far as we 're concerned
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , I see .
A: That 's how it is .
B: There 's that type of segregation , huh ?
A: It 's divided ,
A: yeah .
B: Wow !
A: It really is ,
A: so we 've got our Cowboys here
A: and and , uh , I don't think anybody roots differently
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I have a boyfriend that lives in Fresno
B: Do you ,
A: and he is for the L , the , uh , Raiders . L A Raiders ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so .
B: Do you follow professional sports at all ?
A: Well , I just started to this year because of these silly Raiders that did n't do very well
A: but I 've been trying more this year .
A: I think I know a little more than I use to .
B: Yeah .
A: I never knew very much at all
A: so I 'm trying
B: Well , it 's a good past time , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: Particularly football .
B: They say , uh , football attracts more men because of the , you know , the , you see the , the physical aggression on the field
B: and supposedly , psychologists say that , uh , that , uh , men take out their frustrations by watching football
B: and , you know , they get together with a bunch of guys
B: and they , uh , uh , and they have a good time and everything
B: and that 's suppose to be some of the , uh , the male bonding and the , and the , uh , the male instincts , I guess , or something about the , uh ,
A: So I should n't even try to do it , huh
B: Well , no .
B: It , it 's good as , in terms of , in terms of , uh , of a contest .
A: Yes .
B: I think that , uh ,
B: I personally like hockey better because it has contact , it 's a contact sport .
B: It has the speed .
A: Right .
B: And the hand eye coordination
B: and it takes a certain skill to play hockey .
B: Not everybody can play hockey .
A: Yeah .
B: So we ,
B: and
B: that 's ,
B: we 're a big hockey area up here ,
B: I bet up here in New England as well as , you know , in , in the Minnesota area
A: Really .
B: but ,
A: I don't even think we have that in Texas .
B: What , hockey ?
A: We might .
A: Do we ?
A: I mean , no
A: you probably know ,
A: I don't know .
B: No ,
B: there 's no hockey ,
B: there 's no
A: Nobody talks about it
A: so I don't think we do .
B: There 's no professional hockey teams in , in Texas
A: No ,
A: uh-huh .
A: And we have a soccer team that comes and goes .
A: We don't even have that very much ,
A: so .
B: Yeah .
B: I think though that professional football in particular , is becoming so diluted now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Like they have this World Football League .
B: You see , we have the N F L that , that Dallas and Houston are in and New England Patriots and L A Raiders and those teams
A: Yeah .
B: There are those teams that play in professional , National Football League
B: but , uh , now they have what 's called the World Football League
B: and they have all these teams from ,
B: there 's a team in London
B: and there 's a team there , there 's , uh , teams , other European teams
A: Oh .
B: and there 's teams in the United States
B: and they 're playing now during the summer months
B: and it 's really you know , overkill
A: Oh yeah .
B: And there 's only so much football you can watch .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I like to do ,
A: I don't like to watch .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's good .
A: I don't like to watch anything .
A: So it kind of annoys me when people just lay in front of a T V and watch all this stuff .
A: I think it 's an , excuse to do nothing
A: and I , I can see what you 're saying about the male bonding
A: and the guys get together
B: Yeah .
A: and that 's kind of cool .
A: That 's fun , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it can get really overdone .
B: Now , have you ever been to a professional football game ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I have .
B: Have you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I have .
B: Did you do the whole big , the whole thing , the tailgate party and the whole ,
A: Uh , no
A: actually , no .
B: Well see , now see that 's what you got to do , see .
B: Now we talked our ,
A: I 've done that for college football .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: You , the ,
B: well the same thing .
A: Yeah .
B: We , we talked our wives ,
B: there 's about six or eight guys that we use to go out for these games .
B: And , uh , we talked our wives into going with us one time
B: and they had a real good time
B: and it was , basically , for the social atmosphere .
A: Right .
A: And that 's the thing , you know .
B: You go , you know three or four hours before the game .
B: You go set up .
B: We set a table up ,
B: we do some cooking , some barbecueing , have a few drinks and then go in and see the game and see the Patriots lose and then go home and eat , drink some more .
A: Yeah .
B: But , but that whole ,
B: it , it 's not so much , sure the contest itself and the game itself ,
A: Yeah .
B: that you miss sitting home in your parlor , you know , uh , with , with a six pack of beer and some , uh , potato chips , you know
A: That 's right .
B: you , you miss that .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's right .
B: And , and any professional sport I think , you miss that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The atmosphere of being there , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , in high school I went to every football game
A: and , well , I twirled , you know .
B: Yep .
A: And I , you know , I did n't ,
A: I still don't know that much about football , obviously .
A: But I still had a good time . You know ,
B: Well
A: think about this ?
B: Uh , do you have children in school ?
A: I do .
B: Uh , I have two that are , uh , now just about ready to graduate from college
A: Uh .
B: but I also have two that are just entering school . Uh , well * sv I think they 're just pushing them entirely to fast .
A: So you see a big difference then in before and now do you
A: or ,
A: A lot of testing ?
B: Uh , well it seems to me that kindergarten is now the equivalent of first grade .
A: Uh-huh .
B: My son leaves the house at seven thirty and does n't get home until three o'clock .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I think that 's such a long day for a kindergartner .
A: I do too ,
A: I , oh , I think that 's awful .
B: And , uh , I have a preschooler .
B: Uh , I was told by her preschool teacher that she thought maybe she was to immature for kindergarten
B: and I thought well how mature do you have to be
A: I know .
A: What 's the new criteria , huh .
B: And , uh , there is a ,
B: do you have the standardized testing now ?
A: We have all kinds of testing
A: and it 's over and over .
A: It 's I T B S or , and , uh , just everything , everything .
B: Yeah .
A: And they test , test , test .
A: I live in Plano actually
A: and I don't know if you 've heard of Plano
A: but it 's a very transient community .
B: No .
A: A lot of people from everywhere ,
A: it 's just north of Dallas
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's grown in leaps and bounds .
A: I , we must have maybe a hundred and fifty thousand people now .
B: Oh .
A: And most of them from other places .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , J C Penney 's come down from New York and , of course , T I and Xerox from Rochester
A: and we just , have lots of people from everywhere . Lots of industry coming in ,
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's a very wealthy community .
A: Uh , not that I am
A: but other people seem , to be
A: and I would love to know why
A: but I mean they do .
A: They have ,
B: you would like to know what they 're doing right
A: I , I would ,
A: I really would .
A: I mean , they just have beautiful , beautiful homes
A: and they have everything .
A: The kids only wear name brand things to school
A: and it 's one of these things ,
B: Oh me .
B: Well that makes it hard for you , does n't it .
A: Well it does , you know .
A: It really does because I 'm a single mom and I have a thirteen year old now
A: and uh , you know , it does .
B: Oh , me .
A: I mean , we do it to a point
A: but uh , not to where she feels different ,
B: Yeah .
A: but some of them are very rich
B: It 's hard to explain to them why you ca n't .
A: and so , uh , we just kind of have , everything here
A: and we have a very goal oriented population because their parents are .
B: Right .
A: And so I don't know how much of it , is us and how much of it is Texas
A: but the kids are expected to excel in , everything .
B: Oh , dear .
A: And it 's almost impossible because you have so many children and just so many activities that everybody ca n't be first
A: and they 're expected to be .
B: Right .
A: You know , their parents expect it ,
A: the teachers expect it ,
A: Texas wants very badly to be considered tops in the school system
B: Right
A: and if you read national surveys , they 're far from it .
A: And so there 's just a whole lot of testing and a whole lot of pushing to do well on these tests .
B: How about the kids .
B: How are they coping with it ?
A: Well , not very well .
A: They bring home notes that say they have to get a good night 's sleep and eat right in the morning before , tests .
B: Huh .
A: I mean they make a big deal .
A: To me , the paper should just be put on the desk that day
A: and say just do this .
B: Right .
A: You know , I just feel they do better that way .
B: Yeah .
B: Rather than anticipating .
A: And ,
A: Yeah .
A: And , and I have older children too that now are out of high school
A: and they 've always done this here .
A: I mean it 's always been the same
A: but it is , it 's getting worse and worse ,
A: is more pressure for everything . * listen
A: And I just think it 's really awful
A: and I , I 'm with you on that .
A: You don't hear too many people say this ,
A: but I think it 's a very long day .
B: Oh , it is .
A: And my feeling is that , you know , you 're only a kid once , and you don't want to spend your whole life in school .
B: That 's right .
B: My son said that , came home
B: and he said , he said Mom , all we do is work .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: We hardly ever play
B: and ,
A: And I don't think that 's right .
A: I think we should do what Europe does and include cultural activities in our school system .
B: Oh , likewise .
A: I don't think I should have to pay for dancing lessons , gymnastics , piano .
B: Right .
A: I would like to see those things included in our school system because I think we should have well-rounded kids not just book smart kids .
B: Would n't that be great .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And so I just find this a real problem .
A: I think if they 're going to be there all day , they should find time .
A: One of my daughters , once , was out of school with Mono in her junior year I think it was .
A: And she had a home teacher for like four hours a week
A: and when she went back in six weeks , she was ahead .
A: So what does that tell you ?
B: Is that right ?
A: It tells you there 's a whole lot of wasted time .
B: Oh , my gosh .
B: Oh , my gosh .
A: And they could be using this time better .
B: Well , for example , in my son 's kindergarten . They 're really finished at lunch time .
B: After lunch , they have some , uh ,
B: I 'm trying to think if they have recess after lunch ,
B: and then they have naps or rest period .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I think either send them home or do something a little more interesting .
A: That 's a very long day for kindergartners .
B: I agree .
A: But I think that working parents have kind of demanded this .
B: I would n't be surprised .
A: You know , because they don't , they don't want to send them to daycare .
B: I doubt if they would say it was too long
A: That 's why they want them there because them somebody takes care of them all day
B: Uh , do you have the before school care , at your school and the after school care ?
A: We have them at one school like ,
A: This is Archie .
B: Hi , Archie .
B: I 'm Sharon .
A: Have you seen DANCING WITH WOLVES ?
B: Yeah .
B: I 've seen that ,
B: that 's , uh , that was a really good movie .
B: Probably one of the best things about it was the scenery
B: and , uh , I thought the story was pretty good , too .
B: I , I think Kevin Costner did a really good job with it .
A: Have you ever lived in that part of the country ?
B: No .
B: I have n't .
A: Have you ever visited it ?
B: Um , I 've visited the Wyoming area .
B: I 'm not sure exactly where DANCES WITH WOLVES was filmed .
A: I think it was the black hills of South Dakota .
B: Could be .
B: I , I have n't been to South Dakota .
B: Have , have you been up to that ?
A: Well , I lived in Omaha for five , winters ,
B: Oh .
B: Okay .
A: and that rolling kind of , uh ,
B: Terrain .
A: Yeah .
A: Is , is fairly .
A: The thing that I thought was interesting was that the critics ,
A: apparently it 's going to win everything .
B: Really ?
A: Uh , and I had been told , you know , you would n't notice that it was three hours long , and all this , kind of ,
B: That 's true .
B: I agree with that .
B: Um , I , I noticed yesterday in the paper , something said that it ,
B: I think it 's been nominated for twelve awards
B: and , and all the critics initially said that , you know , it would n't go anywhere , that it was just going to be a dud .
B: So , it , it has surprised everybody .
A: Well , the interesting thing was is I had heard that ,
A: and I , I , I tend to , I think , overreact occasionally when somebody tells me it 's that great .
A: And , and it was , the thing is , it was , it was a good story .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And , and , and I guess that 's what I really like .
A: Although , I must admit I did look at my watch after about an hour .
B: Did you ?
A: Yeah .
B: Have you seen SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY ?
A: No .
A: I 've heard , I 've heard that 's really great , though .
B: you have to go see that one .
B: And how about SILENCE OF THE LAMB ?
A: No ,
B: Go .
A: You must really keep up .
B: I do .
B: I go every weekend
B: I , I , uh ,
B: those are two definite must see movies , I think .
A: Well , is n't , is n't SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY , is n't that a ,
A: is it , is it a terror movie
A: or is it just suspenseful ?
B: It 's suspenseful .
B: I don't think it 's very
B: I mean , there 's not really any , uh , blood and guts in it or anything like that .
B: It 's , it 's more suspense .
B: Um , the other one , SILENCE OF THE LAMBS , is kind of a , a gory movie , if , if somebody 's not into that kind of stuff .
B: It 's , it 's pretty graphic at points .
B: But , uh , I think they 're both excellent movies .
A: Do you , do you listen to Gary Cogill ?
B: No . Huh-uh . * two utts
A: Is , uh ,
A: do you know who he is ?
B: Yeah .
B: Somebody in South Carolina told me about him .
A: He 's a , the movie critic .
A: Um , oh , you 've , oh ,
A: okay .
A: He 's a movie critic on channel eight in Dallas .
B: Yeah .
A: And he does , uh , he has a talk show on the , K L I F .
A: Anyway , it 's on from seven to nine , or something .
A: And , and , and people call in
A: and it 's , if you keep up with movies , it 's kind of interesting .
A: There 's a certain a mount of dribble that they do .
A: They 've got , uh , they 've got a couple of kids , ten or twelve years old ,
A: and they call in
A: and they review movies .
A: But it 's , uh
B: Oh .
A: he , anyway , he ,
A: it 's interesting .
A: You listen to him
A: and then you , you go watch the movie .
A: In fact , they had , people had just seen ,
A: I was listening Sunday night a little bit when , I was going to pick up my daughter .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , anyway , it was , uh , the ,
A: it , it 's interesting , though ,
A: or did he just do it ?
B: I think that , I think he really ,
B: his heart was in it ,
B: but I , I don't think he really knew it was going to be as big as it was .
B: I think it was something that he really wanted to do .
B: He wanted to direct it ,
B: he wanted to , to star in it .
B: You know , he , he enjoyed the story line
B: and I think he just really he really wanted it .
B: And whether it , whether it won all kinds of awards or whether it just was okay at the box office , I think he would have been happy .
B: Because I think that , I think he did a good job
B: and , and the self-satisfaction he got out of it is much greater than any awards that they can give him .
A: Do you know who the guy was that was playing the , uh , the , the wagon driver ?
B: Um .
A: A little piece of trivia .
A: You know , the guy when he first headed out from the army post .
B: Yeah .
B: Who ,
B: no
B: I don't know who that guy is .
A: He , he plays on MURPHY BROWN .
B: Oh , he does ?
A: Yes .
A: He 's , he 's Eldon , her housepainter .
B: As a recurring character every week ?
B: Oh .
A: Can you , believe that ?
B: No ,
B: now see , I 'd , I 'd a never put those two together .
A: That 's , that 's one of those interesting pieces of trivia that somebody said , did you notice that ?
B: Huh-uh .
A: I thought , no , it 's really funny .
A: But I thought , it , it ,
A: you think back ,
A: and yeah ,
A: it was him , but with a you know , with the beard and all that stuff .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , it 's , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: real scruffy looking
A: Yeah .
A: Real scruffy looking ,
A: and it it was really funny , it 's , uh , that , that he winds up playing in the movie .
A: But I thought , it 's good that , you know ,
A: it was a lot of fun .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know how long this conversation is supposed to go
A: but we 're at about five minutes .
A: I should think we 've done enough .
B: You think so ?
B: I mean , I have n't been watching my watch .
B: Um , I guess ,
B: yeah .
B: Does it usually cut off ?
B: Is that what , it does ?
A: Well , I don't know .
A: Why do we end this thing ?
B: It used to , it used to just automatically cut off
A: I think it just says hang up .
B: but it says when the conversation is over just say your good-byes and hang up .
B: So , I , I guess so .
A: Why don't we do that ?
B: Okay .
A: Good-bye Sharon .
B: Good talking to you Archie
A: Uh , well how is it appropriate to be talking about exercise attitudes ?
B: We , uh ,
B: well , uh , my , my husband is right now teaching an aerobics class .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He 's an aerobics instructor . And , um , is going to be , uh , entering North Texas for uh , a Kinesiology program there . * two utts ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , um , the , the
B: how I met him was through , uh , the aerobics class that he used to teach .
A: Uh-huh .
A: You 're a student ?
B: Yeah ,
B: so . I 'm , I 'm an avid aerobics , uh , person and just very , very athletic .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Enjoying a you know , uh , anything dealing with sports .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: So , and how do you feel about it ?
A: Uh , I 'm , I am a person who wishes I had more time to exercise .
A: I , I don't feel like I ,
A: I don't very often do things for the sake of exercise .
A: I don't feel well unless I am exercising
A: and I try to do things that involve exercise ,
A: but , I very rarely do things like , um ,
A: I 've never done aerobics or any sort of structured ,
A: this is my exercise time
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , I do lots of outdoor sports and things , bicycling , uh , you know , mountaineering , a little mountaineering , this and that ,
A: and I spend a lot of time
A: and I probably get more exercise than your average person .
A: But , it 's not a , a structured sort of thing ,
A: and I have to admit I have a certain resistance to the idea of exercising for exercising 's sake ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and perhaps , it 's because somehow that implies to me it 's not fun , or something like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: well I , I 've ,
B: my ,
B: that 's the way my mother stands on it .
B: She feels like if it 's something that you have to do , you know , if you look at it as if you have to do it , then it becomes , it becomes a chore ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
B: and , and , she does n't enjoy it when it 's a chore .
B: So , um , and I feel that way too as far as , you know , just sitting and doing , you know , to , the idea of doing fifty sit-ups or something , you know ,
B: to ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: you 're a you know
B: calculated down
B: and do your calisthenics , you know , three times a week
A: Uh-huh .
B: or , but , but I do try and , um , I do try and regulate how much exercise I get a week .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Is that why you like aerobics classes , because you 're not , sort of , someone else is doing the counting for you , so , it makes it less of a chore ?
B: Yeah .
B: And , it 's got ,
B: and I 've always enjoyed dance .
A: Yeah .
B: So it involves , you know ,
B: I , I ca n't get out to dance all the time
B: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: would that we could
B: Yeah ,
B: and it 's , and it 's more regulated ,
B: I mean you 're , you 're using different parts of the body .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: So , it , it is like dance ,
B: and it 's structured like that ,
B: but you have the music , and someone , like you said , someone else is counting , so , it makes it easier for me .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , someone else is telling me , okay , you know , let 's move this way , let 's move that way , instead of me having to think about it so much .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: You can just trust someone else to give you full exercise
A: and all you do is follow along and enjoy yourself .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: But , I 'm like you ,
B: I also , um , like to participate in , uh , things like ,
B: well , we just went to the , uh , Myererson Symphony Run this past weekend ,
B: and , and that was a lot of fun
B: and you get to meet different people , and , um , just get out , you know , out and about ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and it 's , it , it 's something you can all ,
B: like our ,
B: we did it as a family ,
B: so , it was , it was quite a lot of fun .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , biking
B: and I , I , I love to swim ,
B: so I love it when , you know , it 's swimming weather ,
A: Um .
B: and , uh ,
A: Well , you 're talking to someone from California where it 's often swimming weather
B: Oh ,
B: I did n't realize that .
A: Uh
B: I 'm sorry .
B: Well , I 'm in Texas .
B: I , I just assumed that I had ,
B: this is the first call I 've done ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , I did n't realize that they were going to reach out to people from , all over the country .
B: You would n't know that
B: Oh , I ,
A: So , it 's the , it 's , it 's the , the well it 's actually ,
A: it 's interesting , because there are real regional differences .
A: Um , in California there 's , uh , almost an assumption , um , unless you 're , sort of , clearly of an older generation , or something , you know , in your sixties , or something like that ,
A: I 'm , I 'm , I 'm not . Uh ,
A: there 's an assumption that you do something for your physical fitness , and , and , at least in urban California .
A: And , maybe not ,
A: I don't know about rural California too well .
A: But , in urban California it 's just , you know ,
A: for all I know aerobics started out here .
A: I don't know where they actually started ,
A: but they , you know , the craze really picked up big here
A: and before that there was the running craze .
A: And , they ,
A: California gets , you know , tends to be a bit faddish ,
A: but , the remarkable thing is how well the fads catch on elsewhere .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , there must be something to some of them .
A: And , uh ,
B: Well , I think people are , are more um , um ,
B: people from California seem to be more health motivated all around . I mean , as far as the diet , and everything . Uh , the diet and , uh , just your health consciousness ,
B: and , I mean , it just , seems like , uh , a lot of those ideas generate out of California .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Not just exercise , but , health , health related ideas .
A: Yeah .
B: And , I ,
B: it 's curious , I don't know why , don't know if it 's ,
B: do you ,
B: does California have a ,
A: Well , there 's a sense of it being a package ,
A: I think . There , there is a sense of , you know , whole ,
A: there 's a lot of , you know ,
A: you 'll get organizations , like institutes for the whole health , or whatever .
A: And , uh , oh the , the , the University of California at Berkeley puts out THE WELLNESS LETTER . Which is , uh , turned into a fairly well subscribed to , uh , newsletter , monthly or biweekly newsletter or something like that
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and , it does n't deal with just exercise , or just stress management , or just diet , or anything .
A: It , it 's on fairly solid scientific ground .
A: Uh , it 's just dispensed with these distinctions .
A: It says all sorts of factors go into health and there 's no reason to talk about one rather than another , so that they , they combined them all together .
A: And , uh , so it 's had that orientation for quite some time .
A: Um , there 's been some progressive medical schools out here , that have taken that approach .
B: Uh-huh
A: And , um ,
B: Now do you think that 's because they 've realized that for whole health , that , the , you know , you have to have that combination , or that people are motivated that way so that they 've incorporated that into their program .
A: Boy ,
B: Do you think the program came first or the ,
A: yeah ,
A: that ,
A: there 's a ,
A: I , I can say there 's a correlation , but I could n't say which , which caused the other .
A: They sort of , you know , each developed a little bit and then would feed off one another and develop a little bit more , and a little bit more .
B: Yeah ,
B: the more money they put into it .
A: Yeah .
A: And ,
B: I can see that .
B: And , cause , I ,
B: knowing
B: from institutes of learning like that , I know that they 've got to get their money somewhere ,
B: and somebody 's got to be willing to pay for it , and believe in it ,
B: so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Exactly .
A: And , part of it is California , you know , in , back in the sixties , had a lot of alternative movements
A: and some of them fizzled out
A: and some of them were disastrous
A: and others of them , um , had an impact on the society around here .
A: And one of the ones that had an impact was , uh , people becoming interested in alternate practices ,
A: I 'm not sure if it was a meditation practice , or if it was , you know , which is similar to a stress management practice or alternates to , uh , A M A approved medicine .
A: Uh , you have , you know , major , um , acupuncture schools and things out here .
A: And , and you could have them around long enough
A: and more and more people start believing them or wondering how to combine them with other things ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , before long , you , you get this , this whole kind of Gestalt , this whole package of , of health , of health care and options
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , and exercise is , is strongly considered one of them .
A: The irony is , is its people in the cities , in my experience , that are most oriented towards doing the exercise .
A: And , I guess because they spend all day in back of their desks .
A: The average person out on the farm , at least traditionally , now they drive fancy tractors as much as anything but at least traditionally , the laborers ,
B: Yeah .
A: last thing ,
B: Or they 're older .
A: Pardon me .
B: Well , don't you think they tend to be older in the rural
B: I , I sometimes think that it 's almost frantic effort on the part of the people in the city .
A: Oh , like everything else .
B: I live in a rural area , you know , I see that . * sd
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: The rat race to exercise
B: It 's , yeah , it 's , it 's like it 's frantic , to ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I , I think so .
B: as a fit person
A: I mean you , you 've ,
A: if you look at if you look at other cultures ,
A: like I know a little bit about people who were considered very healthy in China
A: and they don't do very much vigorous exercise at all .
A: But , they do a lot of low keyed , low impact , low stress exercise ,
A: and they combine it with a , you know , meditation or whatever . Some sort of relaxation
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , they seem pretty , you know ,
A: they don't have the hard body .
A: They don't have that perfect look ,
A: and an awful lot of exercise is sort of image conscious .
A: But they , you know , they live to a hundred and ten some you know ,
B: Yeah ,
A: And , that , that 's ,
B: Well , don't you think a lot of that is diet too ?
A: and , a lot of that is diet .
A: That 's true .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean , they eat , they eat a lot of carbohydrates , and not much fat . Um , for economical reasons , not for preference .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um ,
B: Yeah
B: and as we can see .
B: Well , I 'm a , I 'm a practicing vegetarian
B: so , uh , I 've read a lot of information , knowing that to be true ,
A: Yeah
A: am I actually .
B: What 's that ?
A: I , as am I .
B: Oh , are you also
A: Yes
B: Well that 's , that 's good as far as the
B: is that , is that , um , pretty predominant as far as California
A: It is in the urban areas ,
A: yes .
B: In the urban areas ?
A: Most , for example most restaurants in an urban area will have a little vegetarian section now .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh that 's wonderful .
A: Well most , most , sort of modern looking restaurants will ,
B: Yeah .
A: you can ,
B: That 's great ,
B: I mean , we , uh ,
B: it 's such a it 's such a trouble here .
B: I mean , you just have to eat at home basically .
A: I was wondering that ,
A: because I was actually applying for a job in Texas ,
A: and , and , and , uh , it occurred to me ,
B: Well of course in the cities ,
B: yeah ,
B: well , in the cities ,
B: we live close to Dallas ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , which , you know ,
B: you get , uh , an influx of a lot of people from all over the country ,
B: so , you 're going to have a lot of more choices ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: but , but , in urban areas it 's , you know , steak places ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: an , and it 's not a , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: it 's , uh , it 's definitely ,
B: it , it 's , it 's changing to a degree , And , even , even with health food stores and stores where you can buy natural products or , uh , organic , you know , materials , and foods and things .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: You don't really have that ,
B: I mean , you would think .
A: All righty .
A: Uh , I 'll just hand it off to you
A: and hobbies in our spare time is what we 've been selected to discuss today .
B: Well , uh , the hobbies that I pursue in my spare time , are crafts
B: and , uh , I 've been involved in making , uh , hat stands and , uh , rag dolls and , uh , different type hats with , uh , flowers and roses , you know , and , uh , that kind of thing , straw hats and , all that kind of stuff .
A: Oh like typing noises in
B: And I enjoy it ,
B: it 's relaxing .
B: And you kind of get absorbed in it
B: so the time goes by , you know , before you realize anything is going on .
B: And I play the organ sometimes , uh , just for my own satisfaction Not for anybody else 's ears
B: because I 'm not that good at it ,
B: but I like to bang on the keyboards once in a while .
A: Oh really ?
B: How about yourself ?
A: Well , oh , hobbies , gee whiz ,
A: I guess I got too many hobbies
A: so I never have time to deal with them .
B: Really ?
A: I like photography a lot ,
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: that 's neat .
A: uh , I used to do that a lot
A: and then I like , um ,
A: we have a new child that will be a year old here next week ,
A: so I 'll take a lot of pictures of her , you know , and spoil them ,
B: Oh , that 's great ,
B: uh-huh .
A: first one , you know how that is .
A: And , um , uh , I play the guitar and a banjo .
A: I mainly play the guitar a lot ,
A: I play about every night .
A: And , um , I really love that ,
A: if I had a druther ,
A: if I could have , if I could make it on the road , I 'd like to play on like a bluegrass band or something ,
A: because that 's ,
A: I 've ,
B: Oh , that sounds nice .
B: I like bluegrass , too .
A: yeah ,
A: I 've done it before and when I was in in high school and college , and thoroughly enjoyed it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's really a , a blast .
A: My wife hates it ,
A: but that 's the way life is , I guess .
B: That 's the hard part , right ?
A: Exactly .
B: If you can do things together , that really helps a lot .
A: yeah ,
A: we , uh ,
A: she 's , uh , into aerobics ,
A: and , uh , and we did aerobics together for about a month and a half
B: Oh , that 's good , too .
A: and that went over real well ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , that 's about it there .
B: Oh , it 's good
B: and it 's healthy , too .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: We do that too ,
B: we have a , uh , a treadmill and , uh , a bicycle and that kind of stuff ,
B: we try to get twenty minutes like at least three for four times a week , you know .
A: Oh , that 's great .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's great .
B: And we like movies ,
B: that
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , uh ,
A: spare time ,
A: with a child it 's , kind of
A: she 's ,
A: we have , uh ,
A: we 're looking for a baby-sitter
A: so we 've been out twice in in this year so far . By ourselves without the child
B: Uh-huh .
A: so it 's kind of , uh , become an issue you could say .
B: Sure .
A: Um , hobbies ,
A: I like , messing around in your house building things , and , you know , putting cabinets up , and , those kind of things , um ,
B: Oh yeah ,
B: that 's great , too .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: we did some remodeling when we bought a house ,
B: we built , put a kitchen in and , um , that kind of stuff , and painting and some wallpapering ,
B: that 's fun .
A: It 's really kind of fun .
B: It is .
B: It really is .
A: Especially if your spouse will get in there with you and get dirty ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly .
B: I like things that , you know , two people can do ,
B: but I like the quiet of doing things away , you know ,
B: kind of gives you some space for yourself ,
B: and that 's what I find in making the dolls and things , that it gives me something that I can create ,
B: and I like to crochet and knit .
B: I made some afghans and that kind of stuff .
B: I like doing things with my hands .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Sounds like it .
B: Yeah .
A: Do you like to cook ?
B: Yes ,
B: I love to cook .
A: Yeah ,
A: I love to cook , too ,
A: I 'm , uh ,
B: Italian food
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: pizzas and spaghettis and lasagnas and that kind of stuff .
A: Well , we 're all skinny farts
A: so , I ,
A: it ,
A: so when it comes to ,
A: I like to cook and eat and , to have , mainly , I guess , I get to
B: Yeah .
A: amount of people eat , * listen and then say , man this is really good ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
A: um , um , but it just ,
A: work in the garden , work around the yard , of course ,
B: Do you do barbecues ?
A: Yes ,
A: we sure do ,
A: smoke them
B: Well , uh , uh , smoking and all that stuff ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: all that hoedown stuff .
B: Yeah ,
B: yep ,
A: All that stuff that 's bad for you .
B: I , I lived in Abilene for a little while , and , uh , worked in the Abilene plant ,
A: Oh , sure ,
A: yeah .
B: and we used to go to Joe Allen 's Barbecue ,
B: and , uh , oh , that was great .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Really great ,
A: That 's , uh , only way to do it .
B: they have some nice stuff down there .
B: I miss it
A: Well , yeah ,
A: it 's , uh , it 's , uh , it 's , uh ,
A: there 's , uh , there 's pluses to everything ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: but , you know , seems like there 's just so many things to do down here ,
A: I like the sports ,
A: I play a lot of racquetball .
B: We did , I did horseback riding , too ,
B: in fact , when my children were growing up , we always had horses
B: and , uh , that was kind of for them ,
B: but they were n't as interested in it as we were , you know ,
B: so , uh , that was a real ,
B: I 'd say probably for maybe fifteen years , we dabbled in that , you know ,
B: we always had horses around ,
B: and I really enjoyed that ,
A: Oh , that 's great ,
A: sounds like you ,
B: and I was disappointed when I went to Texas .
B: I did n't see that many of them .
A: Horses ?
B: Yes
A: Yeah ,
A: you really don't .
A: Yeah ,
A: the ,
A: you have to look real hard to see a lot of things besides concrete , uh ,
B: I know ,
B: I know ,
B: it 's true .
A: there 's buildings and concrete and a lot of people
A: and that 's about it down here ,
A: and so ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: But , uh , that 's great .
A: Well , sounds like you have a lot of nice hobbies there .
B: Yeah ,
B: you too ,
B: you too .
A: Well , great ,
A: well look , uh ,
A: I know it 's probably late for you ,
B: Okay .
A: I enjoyed speaking with you
B: Me too .
A: have a good weekend .
B: Okay .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye , now .
A: Well , the thing is , is that I , um ,
A: since I 'm in school I don't , like , basically have a monthly budget because I 'm living off my dad ,
A: but the thing is , is that , um , I have to keep it under control because , for example , you know , it 's like the , the beginning of the semester when you go to pay for everything , everything is pretty rough ,
A: but he controls that part
A: but , then whenever , you know ,
A: it 's like , once the semester starts I 'm the one who has to control how much spending there is .
A: And the only thing that I , I basically spend my money on is just food
B: Uh-huh ,
B: that 's right .
A: and so neat .
B: Yeah ,
B: ours is kind of a little ranch style with a great big , oh , I guess , it 's twenty-eight by fifteen front porch .
A: Oh .
B: Next door , we 've got an Austin stone .
B: Across the street , the guy ,
B: it was burnt out about two years ago
B: and , and the guy moved in and completely redid
B: it 's got , oh , it 's got a rounded front on it .
B: It 's all brick ,
B: and he 's , he 's landscaped his yard
B: and he 's about ready to put in a pool and things like that .
B: So , yeah ,
B: there 's a variety ,
B: you just don't see it anywhere else , as far as the different styles in the houses and whatnot .
A: Now , why could n't your wife run around the golf course ?
A: Is that not good ?
B: Oh , she could , a little bit .
B: We ,
B: I tell you what ,
B: we got into the fitness center at Methodist
B: and they have a quarter mile track there .
B: So she has started doing that rather than uh , rather than take off .
B: The problem is she 's a school teacher
B: and for her , she ca n't run in the morning .
B: For her to get home and try to run at six o'clock in the night , in the winter time , it 's starting to get dark
B: and , you know , you don't want to ,
B: she does n't want to be out by herself anywhere in Dallas .
B: Regardless whether it 's north Dallas or whatnot , when she goes over to this fitness center , it 's fenced in ,
B: and there 's somebody in the building , watching her and all that ,
B: so there 's a lot of consideration .
A: Yes ,
A: I , I really hear that , you know ,
A: I think , you know , you 're in Oak Cliff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , I 'm in Plano .
A: In west Plano .
B: Yeah .
A: And we live on one of those blocks that it 's a neighborhood watch block .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We all know each other ,
A: and the street does n't go anywhere .
B: Right .
A: If you are on the street , you better belong there . Because it 's not a through street .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
A: And , still , I want to get up early in the morning and walk . Before this knee business .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And my husband had a lot of heartburn with that .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , it looked darker to him , because he , he was in the house with the lights on .
B: Right .
A: When I was out walking , it , was more of a predawn type ,
A: pretty , but ,
A: huh-huh ,
A: he did n't think it looked predawn to him .
B: Yeah .
A: It looked dark .
B: Yeah .
A: And even he was real concerned about that .
A: So , it 's not just because you are in Oak Cliff ,
A: it 's just because you 're smart .
B: That 's true .
A: That you don't do things like that .
B: It only takes one time .
A: That 's right .
B: It 's a hard lesson to learn .
A: There 's only one crazy out there , you know , to make any difference .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: you know , it goes all over
B: well , you got the .
A: Ready to talk ?
B: I guess so
A: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: Uh , I want to talk about , um , our family budget , and the times that it 's worked and the times that it has n't worked and , give you a general description of it
B: Okay .
B: Yeah .
A: bit .
A: Tell me how yours works .
A: Well , at the
A: I introduced you a little bit to it , a few minutes ago , when I said that we are , uh , we 're on the east coast now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: My husband quit a perfectly wonderful job and decided that ,
A: well , we both decided we wanted to move to North Carolina .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so naturally we put ourselves ,
A: we looked at our budget ,
B: Yeah .
A: and so , what we did was draw up a budget that we thought , uh , was realistic .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , so , we had to make some adjustments
A: because we really are kind of looking for something that we want to do and he wants to do that 's satisfactory ,
A: and we 've been here seven months
A: and he 's still has n't hit up on anything permanently .
B: Oh , no .
A: So , you see ,
B: That throws the budget out of whack real fast .
A: Well , we actually planned for about one year .
B: Oh , good .
A: Uh , that God because , * listen it never occurred to it never occurred to us that it would take seven months .
B: Really .
B: That was smart .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , what we did was just , uh , decide how we had been spending our money before ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then we put that on the computer
A: and then we took about three months and , uh , and adjusted , where we could come down and where we did n't want to come down ,
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: and we really , uh , lessened it , uh , our living expenses , uh , more than what we thought we would .
B: Wow , that 's great .
A: But ,
B: Did you have a special program on your computer to do that
B: or was this just your own design of ,
A: Oh , just our own design .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Gosh .
A: And the ,
A: so , but we 've had budgets that did n't work when our , uh , you know ,
A: of
A: our first fifteen years or eighteen years of being married nothing worked
B: Yeah
A: We spent too much money , until our children went to college ,
A: so . So , tell me about ,
B: Yeah .
A: do you all , uh , have a budget ?
B: Well , we 've been married for five and a half years
B: and we started out without kids , of course , and found it much easier to save and used to do a lot more fun kinds of of things and , uh , did really , um , you know , have a real strict but , budget
B: but , uh , the
B: about and
B: to our ,
B: when we first got married we were in graduate school
B: and we were just , you know , dirt poor .
B: Then when we got our first jobs after about a year of marriage we decided we 'd bank my salary so we could buy a house .
B: So , we virtually did that for about two years , which worked real well , and then moved from California where we realized we could never buy a house anyway no matter how much we saved , and moved to Texas , bought a house immediately , you know , which , of course , is now devalued with the housing market ,
A: Wonderful .
A: Yes .
B: so , I don't know if we , we did a good thing to buy a house or not
B: but at least we 've got a place to live .
B: Um , so , now , since , uh , we have a three year old and a two year old now , um ,
A: Three and a two year old .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Bang , * one utt ? ?
A: bang .
B: That 's , that 's , that threw our budget really out of whack too .
B: An we , um , have been just forced to budget much more because I quit working to be home with the kids .
B: And , um , we just really have , uh ,
B: I don't know ,
B: we , we 've tried different times ,
B: we 've done like a survey of like taking , you know , the past three months of where all the money went .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we really don't spend on anything much of a luxury or anything at all ,
B: but it seems like there 's , um , times when we just have to get out where we 'll go and like get a baby-sitter and we 'll go and we 'll blow , you know , fifty , sixty dollars in one night going out to eat , going to a show or doing something , you know .
A: Well , I think that 's important for your budget to be
A: for it to work though , you have to do something .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's the hard part because when we sit down to make it , we try to make it real spartan and real narrow so we can put a certain amount in savings every week
B: and then it 's not really that realistic
B: because we do find that we want to go and do something or splurge for , you know , birthday for somebody
B: or , you know , even we , we even do things real frugally for the kids ,
B: we get a lot of toys and clothes and stuff at garage sales or from friends because they don't know the difference at this age , you know , whether they 're JORDACHE new or whether they 're * listen ; `` because '' may start new utt unit you know , something
A: Of course not .
B: and they 're both boys
B: so they just one year after the other in each other 's clothes ,
B: so . But , um , that 's the hardest part for us is that it 's really , um , you know , budgeting and some extra things , you know , that are more , you know , nonessential items .
A: Well , I found , uh , that , in the place that it was harder for me to stick to a budget was not where we were concerned , but where maybe our friends were concerned and our relatives and parents .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , we , we tended to want to keep on giving lavish , gifts as , we had done before .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I really believe that if you 're going to cut down on yourself , you need to cut down somewhat on your friends .
B: On your friends ,
B: that 's true ,
B: that 's true .
B: Well , we have so many unexpected things come up so often it seems with ,
B: we both have older cars
B: and something will come up and wind up having to spend a thousand dollars , you know , on the car in two months or something ,
A: Yes .
B: and , you know , a lot of things like that that really are hard to plan for .
B: And , uh ,
A: Well , I really do ,
A: I think you have to budget those things though .
B: Yeah ,
B: kind of put in a certain amount per year , * 82 and 84 same utt ?
A: Yes .
B: you 're going to have on extra expenses for car .
A: Exactly ,
A: although so much per month anyway .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And , uh , that really should be in your
A: but if you don't spend it , it should be in your bank account at the end of the month
B: Yeah
B: our biggest way of saving money is then to stop all these deductions , um , you know , is to ,
B: let 's see ,
B: now , I forget which way we do it .
B: We don't list all the deductions
B: and then we get more money back , you know , at the end of the year ,
A: Oh , no ,
A: no ,
A: no ,
A: no .
B: so , that 's not a good way to
A: You don't want the government to spend your money .
A: You want to be able ,
B: that 's what my husband said ,
B: so this last year he changed it , of course ,
B: we did n't get hardly and then nearly as much back
B: and it was like oh , no .
B: Better find another way of saving money
A: Well , uh , but I do realize that , that is realistic for some people ,
B: Yeah .
A: and it was for us many years , for many years .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , and if , and if that 's the only way that will , it will make you save and have a little nest egg at the end of the , the year then doggone it that 's what you should do .
B: Yeah ,
B: because we don't miss it ,
B: we really don't , when it 's just taking out of the paycheck and stuff ,
B: so . But we 're trying to put a little money away for the kids because we can envision the , uh , expenses for college already , you know , eighteen years away or whatever .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Well , I was just reading an article in , uh , a North Carolina paper today where a high school student obtained over two hundred thousand dollars worth of scholarships for herself by sitting up at night and typing at , uh , letters of applications to universities .
B: Gosh .
A: She was she was third out of a class of two hundred and twenty ,
A: so , it can be done .
B: I guess ,
A: Where there 's a will , where there 's a will , there 's a way , right ?
B: that 's fantastic .
B: Yeah
A: Well , I have enjoyed talking to you .
B: Well , I enjoyed talking to you too ,
B: good luck
B: and don't spend any money this weekend
A: Oh , I know
A: we 'll have to stay home and mow the yard
B: Oh , boy .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
A: Okay ?
B: Sure ,
B: go ahead .
A: What kind of books do you like to read ?
B: Oh , I like all kinds of books .
A: Yeah .
B: Mostly , uh , something , I like like true life , not , uh , you know , documentaries or real stories about real people and that kind of stuff or dramas in real life .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I also like romantic novels .
B: I like , uh , I like READERS DIGEST , believe it or not .
A: Yeah ,
A: so do I .
B: I usually read that from cover to cover .
A: Yeah .
B: I like it because there 's a little bit of everything in it .
A: Right .
B: You know , that kind of a thing .
B: Uh , as far as like real novels , I have n't gotten into Shakespeare or any of that type of thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I wish I had in , in some senses
B: but I don't have time really as much as I would like to , to get into that kind of thing .
B: How about you ?
A: Um , well , I like , like you said , real life , um ,
A: I like biographies of people 's lives , like , especially like athletes ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: for some reason it seems to interest me , like people that make a big comeback or , you know , Orel Hershiser , things like that .
B: Sure .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , I like to read books on improve , like family , marriage , you know , things that are written by like Christian authors or , um , doctors about family and , you know , how to improve your home and all that kind of thing .
A: Um , I like to
A: the magazines I
A: to
A: I like to read ,
A: I read a lot of bicycling magazines .
A: They 're ,
A: I mainly look at the pictures and stuff ,
A: but they usually have some good articles in it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , I don't know
A: I have n't really found any romance type stuff I like to read .
A: I , I 'm more true , you know , uh , nonfiction .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I have n't found a lot of , uh , fiction books that I really like
A: but , uh , not to say I would n't ,
B: Yeah .
A: eventually I mean . * one utt or two with a.29 ?
A: What was the last book you read ?
B: Uh , jeez ,
B: let me think ,
B: it ,
B: I tell you I have n't read a book in a long time .
B: And it ,
B: I ca n't even really remember .
B: Uh , I think it was a romantic novel by Danielle Steel or one of those .
A: Really ?
B: You know yeah ,
B: honestly .
B: Um , I don't do as much reading , like I say , as I would like to .
A: Yeah .
B: working a lot of hours at work
B: and ,
A: Really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and then , of course , we have a home
A: I know .
B: so it 's , you know ,
B: a lot time is spent doing things as far as the yard work or housework or , you know , that type of thing .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I set a goal for myself to read a book a month this year which is like about eleven more books than I would have read last year ,
A: but so far I 've only read like two books
A: and so I 'm not doing very well
A: but ,
B: But see I do crafts too ,
A: Yeah .
B: so it 's hard ,
B: I , if I have a minute that 's what I , I do .
A: Yeah ,
A: I find it 's real hard ,
A: I let papers , newspapers stack up and magazines stack up , if I don't really set aside a time to look or read them .
B: That 's the ,
B: and , and that 's like myself
B: I 've , I 've , I miss it , because I really find it a very relaxing hobby too .
A: Yeah .
B: I really do
B: and , um , I don't know
B: it seems like you can get lost in a book , you know ,
B: it , it , it 's like an escape for me .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know about you .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's ,
B: if I 'm really interested in what I 'm reading , I mean , hours can go by
B: and I , I look up at the clock and say , oh , my word , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: In fact , I 'd rather read sometimes than watch T V .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , I would too . Kind of train your mind . * sv^2
B: But I think you get out of the habit , like you say ,
B: you have to like kind of set yourself ,
B: Yep .
A: Have you ever read , uh , or heard of the book THIS PRESENT DARKNESS ?
B: No .
A: That was one of the books I read this year ,
A: and it 's really fast paced and intense .
A: It was a nonfiction book or is a fiction book
A: but it was
A: it was one of the best I read ,
A: I mean , it was real good ,
A: and it was , um , it was one of the few books that
A: like it , you know ,
A: just hurry up and go through without putting down , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
B: See that 's the other problem I have .
B: If I start into something and I really enjoy what I 'm reading , then I have a terrible time getting away from it too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'll stay up until two or three o'clock in the morning , you know , because I 'm so engrossed in it
B: and then before you know it , it 's time to get up and go to work .
B: You know , that type of thing .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's why
B: I , I don't know
B: I 'm , I 'm kind of a nut when it comes to stuff like that .
B: Even if I 'm , uh , doing something like an afghan , if I 'm close to the end , sometimes I 'll do the same thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know what you would call it ,
B: maybe I have a problem
A: No ,
A: I 'm sure it 's fast or something .
B: It 's terrible ,
B: I , I really like books that , that you can get into
B: and that 's that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I know what you mean .
A: I like reading late at night right before I go to bed sometimes
A: I just sleep better or something .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: you do
B: you kind of get relaxed ,
B: that 's true .
A: But , uh ,
B: I have a lot of craft books that I have too and , uh , magazines .
B: I like PEOPLE , you know , those things that are about real people .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , um , I , I like to , uh , read about people who have been a successful , you know , who , who made a success of their lives . To , to give you specific titles I , I ca n't . * sd
A: Yeah .
A: Which , what book have you read that is along those lines , that was really good ?
A: Well , how about who ,
B: Like I say , have n't done it in , in such a long time .
A: Do you know who it was about ?
B: Um , well , I went to , uh , seminar on , uh ,
B: it was for , by American business
B: and some of the people , uh ,
B: what the heck was his name ,
B: I 'm trying to think .
B: He 's one of the , uh ,
B: Paroe , * spelling : Perot
B: and um , it was more like , oh ,
B: it was tapes and things that they had about him , too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: How he started out as just a salesman and now he 's , you know , multimillionaire and that type of thing ,
B: and how you have to , uh , be aggressive and , you know , really want something for yourself and that type of stuff .
B: It 's like up to you , in other words , whatever happens in your life .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's not up ,
B: it 's not someone else ,
B: you have to do it .
A: Yeah .
A: And then do it .
B: Do it .
B: I ca n't ,
B: I 'm not that focused on something .
B: I , I 'm off in all directions .
B: Um , and I 'm not , uh , uh , a planner which I wish I was .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , kind of off the wall .
B: If someone says , do you want to do this tonight , uh , and I got a mountain of things to do , it 's okay , you know , we do it .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: huh . Well , that 's all right .
B: I know ,
B: I know ,
B: but I wish I was more the other way .
A: You 're more fun though , see .
A: You 're not ridged right ? * spelling : rigid
B: Yeah ,
B: right * listen : sarcastic or not ?
B: I , I ,
B: that 's
B: see , I like it that way though .
B: I , I , I would , I don't want to change that part of me .
A: That 's good .
B: That 's funny ,
B: even though I admire someone who is n't , like I am , you know , and , and I wish I could be more that way
A: Yeah .
B: but ,
A: There may be some schools you could read about and learn .
B: That 's true ,
B: that 's true .
B: How many people do you supervise ?
A: Uh , about twenty .
B: Oh , that 's not bad .
A: No .
B: That 's not bad at all .
A: No .
B: Do you like your job ?
A: Sometimes .
A: Sometimes more than others .
A: But , yeah ,
A: I do .
B: Oh , that 's , oh , that 's important .
A: I 've been there about three years .
B: Do you have a family ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I just got married last year
A: and , um , most of my family 's in Indiana .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: So , I 've only been in Texas three years .
B: Do you like it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I do .
A: I love the weather down here .
B: I , I loved , I loved Abilene too .
B: That 's what I liked , too , is the weather .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
B: Except for tornados
A: Boy they , they have storms here
A: I 've ,
B: Yes
B: they do .
B: And it , it , it 's so surprising how it just happens , you know .
A: Hail and thunder and ,
A: Yeah .
B: Unpredictable .
A: Were you here during the hailstorm two years ago ?
B: Uh , no .
B: Oh , I 've been up here about three .
B: Uh , we were down there , uh , from eighty-six to , eighty-five to eighty-six ,
B: no , uh ,
B: well , part of eighty-four to eighty-six I should say .
A: Yeah ,
A: boy I had thirty-three hundred dollars damage done on my car ,
A: a lot of people had their cars totaled just from hail .
B: Oh , wow .
A: I think State Farm went bankrupt . Just about
B: Oh , jeez .
A: But , uh ,
B: I know the whole situation is bad up here ,
B: we 're having a terrible time with the recession .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: It 's not good at all .
A: Huh .
B: I know things are pretty booming down there .
B: I heard they sold Johnson City though .
A: Yeah ,
A: and Colorado Springs .
B: And Colorado Springs ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I talked to a guy on the phone on this the other day
A: and he was telling me about it .
B: Oh , wow .
A: They just sold it .
B: Amazing .
A: Closed up and moved down to McKinney .
B: Oh , well , that 's good .
B: At least they kept the business part of it .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's scary though I 'm telling you .
A: I know .
B: I don't know ,
B: and , well , you know , with the other part of this thing was , how do you feel that this influences family .
A: How do I feel what ?
B: That , that books influence ,
B: do you know how to use them in your life or to influence ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , I feel like it 's important for young children to read too . And what you read to them .
A: Yeah .
B: When my children were younger , of course ,
B: they were all married and grown
B: and I have grandchildren now ,
B: they were , uh ,
B: I , I read to them a lot .
A: That 's good .
B: And , uh , I think they 've all developed kind of an interest in reading also .
A: That 's
A: yeah .
B: I 'm not saying they read all the right things
B: but they do read . Uh , where a lot of people don't have any interest in it at all ,
B: and I think it 's important ,
A: Oh , yeah .
B: because , uh , even today where people are so illiterate and they go off to school and really nothing happens , I mean , they don't learn anything .
B: It 's because they ca n't read .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's really surprising how many people graduate from high school , and that I work with
B: Yeah .
A: and people , I mean ,
A: I get memos all the time across my desk
A: and things are misspelled
A: and , it 's really , It 's pretty sad .
B: Oh , it 's unbelievable ,
B: is n't it ?
B: Yeah .
A: A lot of people that work for me that ca n't even spell or read , you know .
B: Exactly ,
B: and I think that that 's why reading is so important ,
A: Yeah .
B: because , uh , I think even mentally when you can do some ,
A: I don't ,
A: guess we got our first , uh , credit card , oh , back in the seventies , early seventies when , I first got married
B: Uh-huh .
A: was a Visa card . Uh , issued out of a Liberty Bank in Oklahoma City ,
B: Uh-huh
A: because my sister worked at the , uh , the Visa some Bank Americard center there . * one utt with a.3 utt2 ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , we were still in college
A: and had she not worked there I 'm not sure that I would have qualified .
A: They 've come in handy over the years .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , and they have become , or , also a , a real bother sometimes .
B: Oh , tell me about it
A: Especially , you know , if you catch yourself short on cash or if you 're on vacation , it 's just easier to put everything on a card .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I find if you 're not careful you wind up , uh , a month or so , staring those bills in the face
A: and you go I don't remember doing all that stuff
A: and it adds up .
B: Yeah ,
B: they add up quick
A: So , sometimes , uh , especially traveling with T I , you know , everything goes on American Express ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it makes it a whole lot easier for bookkeeping .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , as far as personal life goes , I guess , I really try to use them as little as possible , uh ,
A: I kind of like having them for , uh , gasoline purchases .
B: Yeah ,
B: we like to keep one on hand just for emergencies , you know .
B: But ,
A: Yeah .
A: But other than that , uh , I , I guess over the years tried to avoid the national credit card syndrome , of just putting everything on there day after day after day
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then , then you really get socked to it , if you don't watch it .
B: Yeah .
A: How , how do you look at counting credit cards ?
B: We just , uh , quit using them
A: Well , that 's ,
B: And they got us in trouble ,
B: we took a loan and paid them all off .
B: We keep them , uh , we keep , uh , one gas card and , uh , and , uh , Visa just , you know , in case there 's an emergency or , something
A: Right .
B: but other than that we don't use them anymore
A: Well , that 's kind of the way we were doing
A: it 's , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess for that very reason that , that , uh , if you 're not real conscious of what you 're doing , it 's just too much by the time you get ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: well , if you got a bunch of cards , you get a bunch of bills every month
B: Uh-huh .
A: and for some strange reason those people think they need to get paid .
B: I know ,
B: is n't that funny ?
A: Yeah .
A: And I give them ,
A: maybe not , maybe they 're not really concerned about getting paid
A: because they 're ,
A: know if you don't , then they 're adding on , what , eighteen , nineteen , twenty percent .
A: Sometimes , it 's twenty-two percent interest .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: and then some of them add late fees on it , if they don't get paid
A: Yeah .
B: and ,
A: I guess that 's one of the motivations behind the , the , uh , the , uh , American Express card with T I ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Huh .
A: there 's no ,
B: Huh ?
A: with the American Express card from T I , there 's no , um , late fee ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: there 's no , uh , interest rate ,
B: Oh , really ?
A: you you either pay the thing off
A: or they come get it .
A: And it 's turned into personnel
A: and they come get you
A: So , they 've got quite a bit more motivation I think to get paid then , some of the others do .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But that 's the one that your call center manager sees every month ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , you 're a little bit more careful about what you put on that , even though you can use it however you want to .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Oh , you can ?
A: You can use it like any other card ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , but , it , you know , you kind of , you know that somebody every month ,
B: Oh , I see , huh .
A: and who knows how many people , are looking at those , uh , bills that come in , and those statements ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: you 're not the only one .
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , you want to make sure that , uh , is that okay ,
A: is that okay , that those people see what it is that you are buying ,
B: Yeah .
A: and most of the time it is .
A: But , most of the others I 've sent back , I mean , all you get is card offers , * two utts
A: I 've got three card offers now , uh , from gas companies and , uh , Visa Gold and , uh , some , other bank , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Citibank I think is always sending the Visa stuff out .
A: And I usually just throw them away because I , I don't want another one ,
B: Oh , I do too ,
B: I don't even open them much ,
B: I throw them out .
A: I don't want to have to mess with it .
A: You know you carry around a wallet full of credit cards ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , one of these days it 's going to all be full .
B: A girlfriend of mine found a ,
B: it was a Visa or MasterCard ,
B: she found an ad for one in like a GOOD HOUSEKEEPING magazine for eleven percent .
A: Oh , that 's not bad .
B: shoot I need one of those
A: Yeah .
A: No ,
A: if they don't say , no annual membership on them , I 'll throw them away . years ago , well , I had my Visa card through this bank in Oklahoma City for , * sd oh , probably fifteen years ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then they started charging , uh , annual membership fees ,
A: and I said , adios , I 'm , you know , I 'm not paying you ,
B: Why do they do that ?
A: It 's just another way to make money , as far as I can tell .
B: I mean , I mean they get enough , you know , on the interest
A: I mean , they 've been ,
A: Well , sure .
A: And they , I guess , they figure they 've got enough people out there with cards ,
A: they 're going to get cards at the , twenty bucks a pop .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There 's going to be that much more .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , so , then a couple years ago I found , uh , a bank here in Plano that if you kept a minimum balance in any kind of account whether it was a savings account or what it was , you can get a Visa card through them and no annual membership .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I went over and just stuck three hundred dollars in my son 's savings account , in his name , and got my Visa card ,
A: so , as long as they have no annual membership fee , I , it would be okay ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Huh .
A: but I ca n't see paying someone to use their card .
B: No ,
B: I ca n't either .
A: Be charged their eighteen percent interest , Yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: I think you 're right .
A: The best philosophy is have them if you need them , but otherwise leave them tucked away somewhere .
B: Yeah ,
B: really .
A: Yeah .
B: gets a lot of people in , in trouble
A: Yeah ,
A: it sure does .
A: Maybe they 're counting on that ,
A: I don't know .
A: Well , I guess that 's it .
B: Okay .
A: Thanks for talking .
B: Nice talking to you .
A: Bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Do you have any particular thoughts about the school system ?
B: or Well , um , I , I think that in , in , uh ,
B: recently with the ,
B: I 'm not sure if it 's more a problem with American families or a problem with the school system .
B: They seem to be burdening the school system more and more with problems , any problems that a child might have , whether it 's actually a school related thing or not
B: and , I .
A: I say agree with you a hundred percent there
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and , well , it 's gotten to a point where the schools are expected to take care of everything .
A: Yeah .
B: If , uh , you 've some kid who does n't have , uh , who 's from a broken family , the schools are supposed to fill that void . uh , you know , teaching classes and maybe providing extracurricular sports activities or something like , oh , were kind of traditionally the school 's roles .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's interesting
A: because , uh , we 're just having conversation on this , uh , with a couple of people yesterday .
A: And I was expressing my frustrations that , uh , some of the , so many problems , I work in a high school , are that kids don't have a , a degree of self-discipline which may be reflected in society at large .
A: Uh , and you ca n't expect in a classroom for a particular course an hour a day to counteract , uh , sixteen or seventeen years of influence at home .
B: Right .
A: Um , and , it 's seen more so because when you call parents up , many parents wo n't even recognize that there is a problem
A: and I 'll say , they 'll say , oh , well , our kids , my kid ,
A: I 've never heard anything about this before .
A: This is the first time there have been problems .
A: And , and , you wonder , don't these parents know that teachers talk ,
A: and , you know , we do check with other teachers ,
A: and other teachers find the same things in this child .
B: Right .
A: And , you know , how do you tell your parent 's , the parent , hey , wake up , and smell the coffee
B: Right .
A: But , um , it , it is a problem ,
A: and I 'm not sure just , uh , how , how the school system could operate in a vacuum on it .
B: Yeah .
A: Whether maybe through a commitment of the P T A , uh , and the parents being informed better , that in fact that the problems that are nationwide are problems , um , of society , and that , that the school can only do so much on it .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , then , then again when you have , uh , a society where a certain percentage of the parents are , uh , doing drugs in the home uh , either unemployed and don't care about a , uh , just a have their own problems how , how do you expect the school to , um , or how do you expect the ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: you ca n't really expect that parent who 's , quite frankly a loser in life , as it is to , to care about the , the situation with their child ,
A: That 's right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and ,
A: water You know what scares me too , is that we have yet to see other , the biggest effect of the crack children uh , in the school system .
B: Right .
A: These are children that are born with low deficit , attention deficit
B: Right .
A: and , gosh , what 's going to happen when these kids start coming into the school system .
A: That 's really scary water
B: Yeah .
A: But there are , I think there are a couple of areas where the school system can improve ,
A: and this is something that I see .
A: Too many times students get diagnosed as slow learners ,
A: and in fact they 're not .
A: They 're behavior problems .
B: Right .
A: And so , they get put in , in , in our school system , in a class that 's limited for skills children that have , really have to master skills .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that 's not their problem .
A: Um , at the same time , I 've seen , we , we have a , an international population .
A: There 's no bridge area for students coming out of the E S O L , which is English for Speakers of Other Languages program .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The ,
A: once they 're past E S O L , they get out ,
A: they got thrown right into the total mainstream
B: Right .
A: and , uh , there really needs to be a bridge , some sort of transition for that .
B: Right .
A: So the school systems can improve , both in standing up for splitting classes , you know , having learning learning , slow , slow children in slow classes , but not mixing them with behavior problems .
B: Right .
A: And then , you know , the case where they put the behavior problems in the average classes ,
A: you get these kids that are average students but highly motivated .
B: Right .
A: And then you throw in kids that are not motivated , maybe bright , but they 're discipline problems .
A: And you sometimes
A: the average classes really are problems because you 've got such a mixed bag there .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: You know , the gifted and talented are fast classes .
A: There 's really not that much of a problem with .
A: But it 's ,
B: Well , I , I 've seen more , uh , incredibly intelligent underachievers than , than , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I personally I will , I would take a person who 's motivated and a little , uh , less intelligent than the person who , uh , is one of these very intelligent people who just kind of , is n't motivated to do anything .
A: That 's ,
A: yeah .
A: I remember I had a college professor who once said that genius is one percent inspiration , and ninety-nine percent perspiration .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I , not to toot my own horn here or anything , but I , I was graduated from my high school ,
B: I was the valedictorian ,
B: and I know that there were a lot of kids that were an awful lot smarter than me ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they proved out late when it came time to take the S A T
B: Mine were good ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they were n't great .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , when I got into college I struggled , I struggled just to , uh , get my degree in the , in the field that I was in .
A: Yeah .
B: Whereas I knew people that in high school were kind of lazy and all ,
B: but they got motivated in college
B: and they did a lot better than I did .
B: And when it ,
A: Yeah .
A: I guess kids do mature at different ages too .
B: Right .
A: That 's ,
A: and , you know , as a teacher you , you try to make , be understanding that , you know , there are different ages ,
A: kids are ,
A: is this a ,
A: got a kid that just a question of maturity ,
A: or is he a problem child .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But teachers are asked to diagnose so much .
A: Um , there , I mean , I mean we 're , have to be ,
A: we 're alerted
B: Right .
A: there 's all sorts of systems where suicide , uh , predisposition .
A: I mean , we 're alerted to what the moment we see something .
A: If we see a child that we have any reason , that 's on drugs , such as if he 's got a beeper or if they 're , if they 're flashing lots of money around . We 've , there are certain things to do .
A: I mean , so the school system 's asked to do so much ,
A: but you ca n't operate in a vacuum .
B: You actually have students with , with beepers ?
A: This is a , we 're in a rather wealthy suburb of Washington .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And a student with a beeper immediately gets sent down to the , uh , principal .
B: I mean , where ,
B: what are the ,
B: what could they possibly be thinking .
B: I mean how .
A: It 's for drug use .
A: They ca n't imagine for anything else .
B: Yeah
A: Yeah .
A: You know , it 's , it 's amazing ,
A: but uh , you get all sorts , you get all , all sorts of things , uh , in the schools , uh , uh ,
A: and it 's ,
A: and you know , as a teacher you 're alert , you 're alert for the kid who 's very drowsy .
A: You 're alert to the kid who suddenly has a , um , behavioral change ,
A: and you refer them to the nurse .
B: Right .
A: And , so , I mean , you have to find out whether there 's a legitimate reason , or whether this is a warning signal .
B: Yeah ,
B: can you , how can you , how can you expect to ,
B: Oh yeah ,
B: I , I , I was , uh , sitting in the barber shop .
B: I 'm an officer in the Air Force ,
B: and I was having my hair cut
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the barber got a call while I was there , uh , from his son 's school .
B: His son 's in high school .
B: And his son was failing gym and , uh , and having trouble , with a few other things .
B: But , you know , it 's like , uh , this guy was like , why now , there 's no problem with my kid .
B: My kid 's a great kid and all this .
B: The kid had missed all these classes ,
B: and basically he , his answer was , Oh , I gave him permission to , to miss .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: the denial mechanism is really strong
A: and so many parents are facilitators .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , they 're manipulated by their children .
B: Right .
A: I 've been fortunate .
A: I have , uh , a son who 's a sophomore in college up in Massachusetts at , uh , Amherst ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and my other son is a senior in high school ,
A: and he 's going on to Williams .
A: And I mean , they 're really super .
A: They 're both national level swimmers ,
B: Sure .
A: and where we 've been very fortunate ,
A: but , you know , they had to be held accountable too .
B: Right .
A: I mean , you know , at some point a parent does help their kid , but in , in some ways ,
A: but , but you have to say at what point is n't the help becoming negative .
B: Sure .
A: And I think this is where the school system at , is suffering , and not through any fault of the effort of the school system .
B: Right .
A: But gee it was good talking with you .
B: It was good talking to you too .
A: Yeah ,
A: so there are people throughout the country that feel the same ways that you do , and , and are connected with the schools .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've had interesting conversations on several subjects not , uh , not just this but different , the different things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's amazing how the , you know , people you talk to have some interesting conversations
B: and , uh , it 's too bad that all this stuff is just being thrown into a data base , and that none of the ideas or thoughts are being used at all
A: Well , we are , though
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: Listen ,
A: good luck .
A: Take care ,
B: Yep .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: well what movies do you like ?
B: Gosh ,
B: I like just about anything .
B: We , I think the last one we saw was , uh , TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES PART TWO .
A: Oh , now , I I like the turtles .
A: My little boy 's four
A: and he loves them .
B: Well , we don't have any kids
B: but we like them anyway .
A: Oh , that 's okay .
A: How old are you all ?
B: Um , we 're late twenties .
A: Oh , and you just don't have any yet ,
A: okay .
B: No .
A: Well I 've got two .
B: Oh , gosh .
A: Yeah ,
A: my little girl is three months old
A: and my little boy just turned four .
A: I had his birthday party yesterday .
B: Oh .
A: But he 's a turtle fanatic .
A: He even had turtle cake yesterday
A: But I 've been wanting to see TURTLE TWO .
A: Is it as good as they say it is ?
B: It was ,
B: it was actually better than the first one , I thought .
A: Good .
B: What 's the last movie you saw ?
A: GHOST .
B: Oh
B: we were just , when , when the topic came up , we , I was asking my husband right quick , what 's the last movies we saw .
B: He said well GHOST and TURTLES .
B: I really liked it .
A: Now GHOST ,
A: yeah ,
A: I love tearjerker movies .
A: But that was n't too bad on tearjerker
A: but , It was , oh , it was good movie ,
B: Not too awful bad .
B: Yeah .
A: Because that was just so good .
A: And I like Demi Moore .
B: Did you see PRETTY WOMAN ?
A: No ,
A: but I 've been hearing a lot about it .
A: I we don't get to the video store very often
A: and we don't have cable .
B: Oh , gosh .
A: Well we don't really want cable ,
A: it 's just , you know , glued to the T V all the time anyway .
B: Yeah .
A: So we get two channels down here .
A: I 'm from Kentucky originally ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we used to get five channels without cable .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , forty ,
A: well I don't think you all have the same channels ,
A: but here in Texas we only get two channels ,
A: and that 's , um ,
A: do you watch soap operas ?
B: Uh , once in a while , when I 'm home .
A: Okay ,
A: you work then ?
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: well we get the channel with YOUNG AND THE RESTLESS on it .
B: Okay .
A: And then , uh , I think GENERAL HOSPITAL
A: and that comes on different channel .
B: Yeah ,
B: it does .
A: But that 's all we get ,
A: and that 's no cartoons for my little boy .
A: But we 've got a V C R and a lot of tapes .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , my husband is a movie fanatic .
B: I think you would really like PRETTY WOMAN ,
B: it was , it was really a ,
B: it made you feel really good .
B: It was just a happy movie .
A: Oh , what about TOTAL RECALL ,
A: have you seen that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I saw that one .
A: That 's good .
B: I , I was disappointed in it just because of how violent it was .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was violent .
A: I try to get away from that .
A: My little boy , oh , he loves ROBO COP .
A: And that movie , I have to , I 'll fast forward it every time they come to the part where there is ,
A: have you seen it ?
B: Yeah .
A: The part where they 're shooting mercy .
B: I don't like that .
A: That , oh , that 's horrible ,
A: that is horrible
A: and their , their , the language on that 's filthy .
B: I don't see why they have to do that ,
B: I mean , I mean everybody knows that it , that the , the language is there so they could just ignore it and , you know , use different words instead , I think .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I know .
B: But I , I think lately PRETTY WOMAN 'S been my favorite .
B: I went and bought the video .
B: I 've probably seen it about fifteen or twenty times .
A: Um , my husband bought me , like , um , uh , I think PRETTY IN PINK for my birthday .
A: With , a ,
A: wait a second ,
A: I will in a minute Kyle , to child in the
A: Sorry .
B: That 's okay .
A: Uh , he bought me PRETTY IN PINK .
A: Just a second .
A: the phone and talks to Sorry ,
A: now , you 're glad you ai n't got a four year old .
B: That 's okay
B: Now , Now I have n't seen PRETTY IN PINK , Molly Ringwald ? * br
A: It this is the first time he 's interrupted my phone calls .
A: Molly Ringwald .
A: Yeah .
A: It was cute ,
A: but , it was n't ,
A: I like the , um , SIXTEEN CANDLES , or sixteenth birthday or ,
B: I think , I think SIXTEEN CANDLES was the name of it .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , that was so good .
A: Of course I was a teenager when I seen that
A: and I loved it .
B: I have n't seen it either .
A: Oh , well if you like love stories , it 's sweet .
B: I do .
A: Oh , it 's sweet ,
A: it really is
A: And that 's a tearjerker
A: it gets you ,
A: I mean it makes you feel really sorry for her .
B: Oh , gosh .
A: But it 's hilarious too , especially with that , uh , little guy in it .
A: Oh he looks like little , I don't know , he looks like a little boy next door ,
B: Oh .
A: but he 's sixteen .
A: Oh , it 's a cute movie .
A: I ca n't remember his name .
A: He kind of looks like DOOGIE HOWSER .
B: Huh , I don't know .
A: don't know either .
A: He 's got curly blonde hair ,
A: he just a little freckly , little boy .
B: Probably know him if I saw him .
A: Yeah ,
A: if I could remember the name , I know you 'd know his name , because he 's played in a few movies .
A: But , uh ,
B: I was just thinking another good one I saw not too long ago was , um , SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY .
A: Okay ,
A: I 've heard about that
A: but I ca n't remember it .
B: That , that 's , that 's Julia Roberts ' new movie .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah ,
A: Julia Roberts is good .
B: Yeah
B: she 's ,
B: this one ,
B: you know PRETTY WOMAN was kind of a light comedy and a romance ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and this one was a lot more dramatic .
A: Was n't it a murder mystery ?
B: well ,
A: Like , sort of
B: it was like , uh , it was a , it was a mystery .
B: She disappeared from her uh , husband who was abusing her .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: the , yeah , that 's the one I wanted to see where he was on , she was on a carnival , at a carnival on a Ferris wheel or something .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Well did that come on T V
A: or did it come out in the ,
B: No ,
B: it came out in the theater .
A: Oh .
B: And I think , you know , around here , it 's all ready quit playing .
B: But I don't , I don't know if it 's still playing any where else .
A: Well I , I think ,
B: But it was , it was , it was one of those that kept you on the edge of your seat .
A: Real good .
A: I want to see that .
A: Yeah ,
A: I seen the , uh , previews for it on T V down here ,
A: but it 's just been down here a couple weeks , I think .
B: Oh , okay ,
A: Yeah .
B: because we saw it , probably , four or five months ago .
A: A month
A: Well I know it has n't been that long since I 've seen the previews for it ,
A: but yeah ,
A: I wanted to see it .
A: Her husband was a , dark haired guy with a beard and moustache ,
A: or
A: no
A: he shaved the beard off .
B: Yeah ,
B: he 's , uh , he was a real psycho in the movie .
A: Yeah .
B: It was , it was scary .
A: Oh , I 'd like to see that .
A: What about , oh ,
A: there was a ,
A: we got one back here a while ,
A: I want to see WAR OF THE ROSES too ,
A: have you seen that ?
B: Oh yeah ,
B: boy I , I did n't like it .
A: You did n't ?
B: No ,
B: it was ,
B: I did n't like the way it ended .
A: I know ,
A: well the only reason I know why it ended is on ARSENIO HALL one night , Christopher Reeves told , that , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I ca n't believe they killed them .
A: Or , or who was it
A: Christopher Reeve or Mike Douglas .
B: Might have been Michael Douglas . Oh , that starred in it . * listen
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was Michael Douglas .
A: Christopher Reeve was n't in it at all ?
B: Huh-uh .
A: Okay .
A: Well Arsenio Hall is the one that jumped up and said that I ca n't believe they killed them
A: and Christopher Reeve , or , Mike Douglas went after his throat , you dummy
A: So I know that they die ,
A: but I have n't told my husband .
A: We 've both been wanting to see it .
B: It was , I , I , it was , it was weird .
B: It was a different movie from anything I 've ever seen .
A: well we was , uh , teasing , about , you know , splitting our house down the middle
B: Yeah
A: They did that did n't they
A: and they marked off routes that they could go or something
B: Yeah ,
B: that would be kind of hard for us ,
B: we 've only got one bathroom ,
B: I don't know
A: We 've got two bathrooms
A: but , well
A: actually , if he takes ,
A: my house kind of looks like two trailers put together .
A: And one bathroom is at the end of one side
A: and one 's in the middle of the other ,
A: so we could do it .
B: That would n't be too bad .
A: No ,
A: and he could climb out the window
A: and we , our whole house has , you know ,
A: every room leads to three rooms ,
A: so we can , you know
B: Get around .
A: yeah ,
A: you can get around
A: You just ca n't go out the front door honey ,
A: sorry .
B: Well did you see FATAL ATTRACTION ?
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's coming back , on too
B: I know it 's going to be on , on the , on C B S Tuesday night
B: an , and that 's kind of what , in a way , you know , how it kind of bothered you , the way it ended and stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's kind of how WAR OF THE ROSES was .
A: Huh , I ,
B: Parts of , parts of WAR OF THE ROSES was funny
B: but then other times it was like it was just deadly serious ,
B: and it just left you with this kind of uneasy feeling , you know .
A: Eerie feeling ,
A: or , I want to see it though .
A: I 'd like to see that and , uh , THE NEVER ENDING STORY , came out on Disney this month , I think .
B: I I 've heard about that
A: I wanted to see that .
B: but I don't know what it 's about .
A: THE NEVER ENDING STORY ?
B: Yeah .
A: It 's a child 's movie ,
A: but , oh , it 's good ,
A: I enjoyed it .
B: I love Disney movies .
A: Yeah ,
A: I do too Yeah ,
B: I mean , they 're some of the best of , that are made .
A: yeah .
A: And , uh , well it 's about this little boy who , uh ,
A: I think he 's up in a attic , or some part of school .
A: He got locked in the school
A: and he got scared ,
A: but he starts dreaming
A: and then , uh , he 's saving the land of , uh , oh ,
A: it 's been so long since I 've seen it .
A: All I know , all 's I can really remember is him flying this great big dog , this great big huge sheep dog sort of looking thing ,
B: Oh
A: it flies through the air .
A: And he 's trying to save the land from some , ooze
A: But it 's really good ,
A: I mean it sounds
A: it , it had , uh , Fred Savage in it .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: no ,
A: no ,
A: no .
A: Did you see that movie with Fred Savage in it , though ,
B: I don't think so .
A: with , uh , oh ,
A: he had , uh , uh ,
A: oh it was THE PRINCESS BRIDE .
B: Nope ,
B: I did n't see that .
A: You did n't see that ,
A: that was cute ,
A: that was real , that was a good one .
A: I , I like , I like slapstick comedy .
B: So do I
B: and a lot of times we 'll go to rent a movie or something
B: and , and you 're not sure whether it will be any good or not
B: so sometimes we stick with the stuff we 've heard more about than ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well I heard ,
A: a friend of mine told me she got NAKED GUN last night
A: and she said that was hilarious .
B: Yeah ,
B: now , we saw that ,
B: and and they 're coming out with a sequel to it .
A: Two and a half * is this a title ? ?
B: It was funny .
A: It
A: yeah ,
A: I want to see that .
A: She said she rented it last night
A: and said it was real good
A: an ,
B: And , and WORKING GIRL is really good .
A: Now , I seen that ,
B: That was good .
A: was that with that blonde ,
A: she pretended to be the boss or something .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I rented that one night by myself .
A: I was home alone .
A: Did you see HOME ALONE ?
B: Yes ,
B: I did ,
B: that , that just reminded me of that .
B: Did you like it ?
B: There you go .
B: First question ,
B: do you own your house ?
A: Uh , right ,
A: well , we try .
A: I mean it 's a big mortgage in the sky
A: and someday , maybe , we might even own it ,
A: but , um , for all practical purposes , I guess we hold the mortgage
B: Our name is on the till ,
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: so that implies ownership .
A: No one else has offered to pay for it .
B: That 's right .
B: I would not object if anybody did .
A: Yeah ,
A: really they could move right into the spare room
B: Yeah .
B: Well , we have , we have had this one for five years now .
B: Before that we lived in Garland , uh , probably about , you know , four blocks away .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Liked the area , chose to stay inside of Spring Park .
B: It 's a , uh ,
B: I don't know if you have been up here ,
B: but it is a residential homeowners , association .
A: Right ,
A: yeah ,
B: So , there 's a lot of , you know , activities , a lot of pluses and common land .
B: But , uh , we thought we were buying at the bottom of the market , you know ,
B: it could not possibly have gone any lower
B: and so we were wrong
A: Oh , five years ago .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
B: I think ,
B: what ,
B: it bottom out about a year later .
A: Yeah ,
A: it , well ,
A: I mean just recently , I would say , I would give it two years back , when it was , I think , bottomed out .
B: Oddly enough , two years , you know ,
B: I , uh , I think that ,
A: But , maybe not in your area ,
A: see , it was just different areas ,
B: not in , in , uh , this area .
B: Cause this is about like the ,
A: That 's a really nice area .
B: Yeah .
A: Besides , it 's , you know , it 's not , it 's not Richardson . Is it ?
A: It 's still considered Garland .
B: No ,
B: it 's , it 's Richardson .
A: Oh , ok ,
A: yeah .
B: It 's , Richardson
B: and , hold on a second .
B: to someone in Paul , I can hear you perfectly , perfectly well ,
B: I don't want to hear you .
B: You are being rude .
B: Whatever you ask or scream when I 'm on the phone , the answer is no .
B: Do you understand ?
B: to talking on How does that sound ?
A: There you go .
A: Write that one down .
B: Yeah ,
B: there I go .
A: It sounded good to me
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I hate to say how long that will last too .
B: No ,
B: this area up here is , uh , all custom homes ,
B: and , it 's ,
A: Right .
B: I don't think that many by the builder that built this house .
B: And , we were not the first people , the first owners ,
B: I think we are the third owners .
A: Uh , okay .
B: It was built by the architect for himself , who never moved into it . Who sold it to a couple who had no idea that homes ever needed upkeep .
A: Oh , no .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: caulking windows was a great mystery to them .
A: Oh , gee .
B: So , they just watched the water pour in on the carpet .
B: But , it 's a Sharif Myneer Homes , if that means anything ,
B: it did not really mean anything to me except , I liked it .
A: I , I , kept thinking of Omar Sharif every time I saw that name somewhere ,
A: so ,
B: He builds eight hundred thousand dollar houses now .
B: I think he got out of the lower end market . And decided ,
A: Uh .
B: but , the houses here in , in this class of housing never dropped below two hundred .
A: Oh , wow .
B: Yeah ,
B: well but , still I know that this one was built for two ninety nine , which is nowhere near what we paid for it .
A: Right .
B: And I think somebody told me it 's also on a creek side lot , heavily wooded off the golf course .
A: Oh , great .
B: Yeah ,
B: and the guy around the corner is being transferred
B: so he said , uh , well , he did comparables that it 's about eighty dollars ,
B: let 's see what ,
B: I don't remember if he said it was sixty dollars a square foot off the creek and eighty on the creek , or , if it was eighty and a hundred .
A: Well Yeah .
A: Probably eighty .
B: I think it was sixty , eighty .
A: Sixty , eighty .
B: I think .
A: Well because , I know our , our little house over here stuck in the middle of , you know , the subdivision is , I think fifty five ,
A: so , I think the high end is definitely , you know somewhere there
B: Well , try and think if it was a hundred dollars a square foot
B: No ,
B: it could not be ,
B: because this house has around thirty four hundred square feet ,
B: and it would never sell for three hundred forty thousand dollars .
A: Yeah .
B: Just never .
A: Well
B: Now , maybe , you know , that 's pretty close to what it would have sold for , uh , brand new ,
B: or that 's pretty much what it was built for .
B: It 's got an awful lot of nice things in it
B: but , you know , I don't think , I think it 's going to be a long time , if ever , when nice things and really quality construction and all the other additional amenities are really , uh , desirable .
B: It 's seems like people go for square footage only now
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , cause . Have you been back to the Perry Homes , back here ?
A: Um , the ones that look like brick houses
B: The one that looks like Monopoly apartments .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think those are awful .
A: I 'm sorry ,
A: I just don't see the designer 's ,
A: I just see him as trying to squish as much space , you know , as much house into the space as possible .
B: They are huge when you are inside them .
A: Yeah .
B: They are very spacious .
B: They are , you know ,
B: I was , I was in one today .
B: It was forty two hundred square feet .
A: Uh .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well see that 's ,
A: the house that we got is small enough so my husband and I ,
A: because there 's just the two of us
A: and the two cats , um , can yell at each other from one end to the other and be heard .
A: And we thought that was important instead of getting swallowed up in something that you know .
B: See , when you have kids , you like to be able to , send them some place where they can yell and you wo n't hear them .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: But , I have been watching these houses go up
B: and I , I don't , well ,
B: somebody was telling me ,
B: I know somebody who lives back there ,
B: I have always questioned the quality of construction
B: and I , I don't think they exceed more than twelve nails per house .
A: Oh .
B: When you watch them go up , you are just amazed that they do not fall over .
A: Yeah .
B: And it takes them something like , thirty days to complete a house .
A: Oh , that 's amazing .
A: Right now , in fact , even as we speak , we are having a deck put on in back ,
A: and these guys are phenomenal .
A: They just , they , they are doing such a terrific job back there ,
A: I mean , you know , you pay for it too ,
A: but it 's , it 's like , really worth it .
A: They are putting in a deck , a redwood deck ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's just , they are doing such a fine , fine job .
B: We have got three different levels of decking , because , this lot slopes way back down
A: I 'm really excited about it ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , the house is built around the trees .
A: Great .
B: And with these decking that a corporation and a large area for the trees to come up
B: so , it 's real , real shady .
B: But , that 's one of the few things that really , uh , immediately pays back on return .
B: But , what I was going to tell you , these Perry Homes back there ,
A: Yeah .
B: when the people from M C I come down
B: and they are , you know , they are used to the Virginia area , metropolitan D C .
A: Uh .
B: My God , they come down here and those houses , that , that look the colonial look what the ,
A: Looks like the George Town brownstone
B: Right ,
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , the idea of ever owning anything that has four thousand square feet in it , for less than two hundred twenty thousand dollars , which is probably about what their equity is , that they got out of selling their house .
A: Must be a dream .
A: Yeah .
B: Because those things are selling like hot cakes .
B: But , one of the people that was living back there was telling me that there is his air conditioning bill , per month , last summer was in excess of five hundred dollars a month .
A: Oh .
B: And I thought ,
A: I ca n't ,
B: and he was talking about how you keep up with the utilities here .
B: And I was thinking , well , you know , I know why your God damn bill is so high ,
A: He has no insulation , probably .
B: it 's because there 's not a there 's no insulation , insulation in those things .
A: Oh , my .
B: Yeah .
A: Gosh .
A: What a trap . Huh .
B: Any yet , you know ,
B: they , they show very well they show very well unless you have , you know , lived in a lot of houses around the area , or looked at a lot of houses around here .
A: And you ask the right questions and can research ,
A: yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And I think that makes a big difference .
B: But , I like , I like this area
B: and everything that I have been saying , says that it 's ,
A: Oh , I do too .
B: I think if we had to sell now , we could come close to breaking even
A: But , still , um , it 's worth it for the area and for the school and things like that
B: You 're in , you 're in the ,
A: Yes , um ,
A: I , I think that Plano has really done a fantastic job .
A: I mean , at least their plans have , are good .
A: Um , however , I was ,
A: maybe you saw in the paper this morning that , um , they 've had some problems with , the recycling on plastic ,
B: With the plastic .
A: uh-huh .
A: I thought that was most interesting .
B: Well , I just , I thought it was sad that they , it started out as a good program . * two utts ? But then people started dumping trash . and the wrong objects in there ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yes .
B: and I , and that concerned me , that people were using it as a way to get rid of things they just did n't want to set at the curb or take to the dump ,
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right .
B: and , and , uh , I , it 's too bad that people have to ruin , a good part thing .
A: Yeah .
A: I guess that 's going to happen .
A: Yeah ,
A: a really good effort ,
A: that 's right ,
A: yeah .
B: But , uh ,
A: Well , I was thinking about the other day , um , when I , when Dick and I were , oh , many , many years ago when we were first married and he was in graduate school in Missouri , um , I went , oh ,
A: I was probably , this was probably ,
A: see , it have been like nineteen sixty-seven or sixty-eight , um ,
A: we , I went to a meeting ,
A: and , uh , one of the , the speakers at the meeting was a woman who was recycling
A: and , um , she was from Saint Louis ,
B: Um .
A: and she had this fantastic , um , family effort in , in recycling ,
A: and she was dividing her colored glass and her plastics , and her aluminum ,
B: Oh .
A: and I thought wow , I mean , how , one person is doing that , you know ,
A: but my , my thought was it 's a shame ,
A: I mean , it 's wonderful that she 's doing it and it ,
A: but would n't it be much nicer if we all did it ,
A: because her effort would have really , um , really , uh , been a good example for all of us .
A: And yet , you know , and we were just sort of talking about it at the time .
A: And here we are , you know ,
A: now we 're doing it on a , city wide basis in , in communities .
B: Doing it
A: So it 's wonderful that we 've come that far , I think
A: but , * slash error Um .
B: What did she do with ,
B: if , if she ,
B: was she like a group that was doing it ,
B: or was she doing it on her own ,
B: and , what did she do with the ,
A: I think she was ,
A: I was trying to remember ,
A: it seems to me that she was doing it on her own , and living in Saint Louis ,
A: there were places where she could actually take her , uh , things herself , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so it was n't , you know , something that was being picked up
A: or , um , and I think she was encouraging other people to do it if they would .
A: But I remember her saying yes , I have a trash can for this and a trash can for that , and a trash can for the other thing ,
A: and I thought wow , that 's , that is wonderful , that somebody does that .
B: You , you have to really want to do it , though .
A: Yeah .
B: This is ,
B: even , even what you recycle ,
B: because we , we do the , the , plastics and the , and the aluminum , and the glass and the paper .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Yes .
B: And , um , and , of course , then , you know , you try to buy right too , Um , a lot of our neighbors say , well , what , you have to rinse out this and you have to make sure it 's that , * sd and you have to ,
A: Sure you do ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: it 's , uh , we , we had neighbors that complained when we got the new garbage cans .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Is n't that amazing ?
B: And I thought what are you complaining about , when you 're only going to get picked up once a month , you know , or once a week
A: Well , you know ,
A: Yes .
B: and ,
A: People , I don't know , they find fault in everything , rather than say this is a good effort .
B: Rather than work with it .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know .
A: It 's , it 's ,
A: I I know what you 're saying ,
A: kind of people like that Well , sure it is . * ba
B: Well , it 's for everybody 's benefit .
B: I mean , it 's , it 's not ,
B: so maybe we don't realize it in our lifetime ,
B: but we , you have to think grandchildren , and great grandchildren
A: Yep .
B: and , what kind of quality of life are you leaving them ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's on down the line .
A: Right .
B: And , and the , and I have a real concern about that .
A: Yes .
A: Yeah ,
B: Uh .
A: I agree .
A: When ,
B: We 've never had much trash ,
B: because while
B: I was raised in a big family ,
B: and , and Gene 's family was n't big ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they were n't rich
A: Yeah .
B: and they had to , to recycle .
A: Sure .
B: And , and , you know , the
B: well , they did n't ,
B: they just used things ,
B: they did n't , throw things away , before they were used up
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: and ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I know , um ,
A: I guess I got a good example from my mother ,
A: because she was always very , very conscientious about recycling things ,
A: and she is to this day ,
A: and , you know , I mean , she 'll even ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: um , if she ,
A: for instance , she , she would take the waxed paper out of a cereal box and use that for , you know , when she made cookies ,
A: it would go on that
A: or , if she needed to wrap something for , needed , uh , sandwich paper or something , she 'd use that .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: She just , she recycles everything .
A: And I have done the same thing .
A: I recycle like zip lock bags and , things like that .
B: Right .
A: My kids get the biggest kick out of that .
A: Although , they do the same thing
A: I mean , they I think they give me a hard time ,
B: Right .
A: but I think they know that that 's , it 's the right way
B: They 've picked up the
B: Well , they do ,
B: and when they actually get out away from the home , and have to do their own buying of things , and then they say , well , hey , you know , mom used to do this and dad used to do that , But , * %
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes ,
A: and they appreciate how much it costs to do that .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right .
A: Well , I don't know , you know .
A: I , I wonder how , how you instill in people the necessity for doing just a little bit extra to , to make this whole thing work . I mean , the extra like washing out bottles and jars , or the extra of actually , uh , making sure that , uh , you take stuff over to , you know ,
A: some people are now are complaining because the stuff is n't picked up at the curbside , you know ,
A: and I think golly Moses , you just do your part .
A: You know , people are not ,
A: you , you , you ca n't be waited on all your life and expect things to always work out .
B: Right .
B: Well , see , this , this is what concerns me .
B: You ,
B: over in Europe they don't have the kind of waste we do here .
A: No ,
A: that 's right .
B: You , you 've got to be in a country ,
B: even in , in Mexico , you don't see things thrown away , like we do here .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: I mean , what we throw away is , is a ransom , a king 's , ransom to most people ,
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I ,
B: and even to people in our country , who scavenge for food
A: Yeah .
B: and , and , and I , I think you have to get into a period of need ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: you ca n't tell a person that lives in a hundred , two hundred , three hundred thousand dollar house that have all that they need , and all that they could want that they 've got to be careful .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: No . Uh-huh .
B: This is , uh , I , this is why I thought Jimmy Carter was never very very
B: you know , people did n't like him .
B: Because he tried to say , turn off the lights conserve this , do that .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: right ,
A: do those little things ,
A: yeah ,
B: And , and , uh , the I , nobody wanted to hear it .
A: that make a lot of difference ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , I , you know ,
A: and , I think you 're right , though .
B: It 's ,
A: I think that it has to really hit home before , the message sometimes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Or you have to grow up with it being important in your life , um , oh , oh , um , before the message really takes hold sometimes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , I don't know ,
A: it 's , uh it 's just really interesting to me how now more aware of things I am than I , even myself , than I used to be , a few years ago .
B: Right .
A: I mean , like I , I 'd go to the , um , to the U T D , um , cafeteria for lunch sometimes
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they use styrofoam plates , when they would n't , need to use styrofoam plates .
B: Um .
B: Right .
A: You know , and I think to myself that 's , that 's crazy .
A: I wonder if , you know , maybe I need to bring that to someone 's attention , you know ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and , and , uh , I 'm seeing more and more of that ,
A: and , and I think it 's , uh , just McDonald 's effort to reduce the number of , of styrofoam , uh , boxes that they use , for hamburgers and stuff ,
B: Right .
A: I think is a good , good example , you know , that even , industry is willing to do it .
B: Huh .
B: I , I think the big question too we 're looking at is , would you be willing to pay more for a product , so it can be recycled .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I think that may , that 's kind of what it 's coming to , I 'm sure .
B: That 's , that 's right
B: and , and , uh , do we have to wait until all the landfills , are full and there is nowhere else to put our garbage .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: That 's right ,
A: yeah .
B: Or , and I don't ,
B: with the mind set of the American public , I think what they will do is start paying Mexico That is n't , that is n't harmful . * sv
A: Uh-huh .
A: Wow .
A: That does n't , would n't surprise me .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Or they will go dump it out in the middle of some ocean .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah . I know it ,
B: That 's the way we solve problems .
A: and unfortunately .
B: And it 's sad .
B: Well , Hal , what 's , uh , what 's crime like in Dallas ?
A: Well , it depends where in Dallas you are .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There are certainly parts of town I would not want to live in .
B: Yeah .
A: Because it 's the situation
A: it is very location dependent
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there are parts of town here where , when they talk about the nightly gunfire .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: in Baltimore we have similar .
B: Uh , I live on the outskirts of Baltimore
B: and , uh , we live right outside the city
B: and our neighborhood is pretty much working class people , though I 'm in graduate school , uh ,
B: I live here because it 's close to the university .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , you know , we have , uh ,
B: it , it 's really funny ,
B: the only crime we really see is , uh , just the kids being malicious .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , and I think most of that is because their parents are n't around .
B: That make sense ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: That , uh , the , what they call the latchkey children .
B: Yeah ,
B: something like that .
B: No one 's , you know ,
B: or , or fathers are just missing , you know ,
B: so there 's no , uh , no consistency there in the home or whatever .
B: There 's no one to tell them what 's right and what 's wrong , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: The sort of on my end is more of the upper middle class
A: so I think our , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: not that we don't have a certain amount of local problems
B: Uh-huh
A: but on the other hand , uh , we get the , uh , affect of the , uh , the city
A: and , uh , the main crimes within the suburb here are the , the theft crimes . A small number of assaults ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , well , if we have one murder a year that 's probably as many ,
B: Yeah .
A: but then , you know , you go into Dallas and they are , unfortunately uh , having murders at a rate greater than one a day .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's , we 're about the same in Baltimore .
B: Though , uh , Washington , I think is , uh , close by
B: and , you know , they experience a lot more .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think they definitely have more problems that , uh , in , in the area .
B: What , what do you think can prevent crime ?
A: Well , the thing is , I don't ,
A: it 's one of those things where , if you 're a grad student you can appreciate the statistics on
B: Uh-huh .
A: Unfortunately there are often these correlations that are inverse of what they should be like , uh , wherever there are more , uh , criminals , there are more policemen
B: Yeah .
A: but that 's which came first .
B: Yeah
A: But , on the other side of it is
A: it 's , it 's basically the , the problem is within the , in the society and the society 's views
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , well , uh , since now I 'm in my mid-forties , when I was in grad school or when I was an undergraduate growing up in a more rural area I thought , you know , crime was , was reasonably unknown and just the situation that 's developed with the , the drug * new slash unit ? aspect of , uh uh , the pushers , the dealers and the addicts , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah , Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I , I think , I agree with you there .
A: Because it just was not , uh , something back in the sixties that uh , I even had to worry about .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I think , you know , that there is a lot in the society where things have changed ,
A: uh , so it 's effected all of us .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think they , the drug culture definitely has , uh , is one of the main problems .
B: Yeah , Because it would eliminate the , uh , the violence and the , uh , the the , the market , I guess , the , the hidden market of the drugs and everything that goes along with it . * sv
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That make sense ?
B: He 's one of the big proponents of that .
B: He gets on national television and , and says that , you know .
B: So it 's , uh
B: and he was a a District Attorney before , and a prosecutor before becoming , becoming mayor .
B: So that 's a really
B: you know , it 's a different viewpoint .
B: I , uh ,
A: You know , in a sense I don't , I 'm I have real mixed feelings on that
B: Yeah .
A: because it comes a bit from the angle that the , uh , uh ,
A: it would certainly be an interesting test
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the other side of it , to me ,
B: What happens if we lose worse .
A: Uh ,
A: well , the other side is that unfortunately some of the down side ,
A: and I think if I look back fifty or a hundred years I 'd say , you know , back then there were the opium dens
B: Right .
A: but the thing is , if somebody ruined their life , uh , society did n't try to then save themselves from it ,
A: they let this person who had ruined it uh , become , well , die or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean they probably became weakened physically and other things to the point that their life expectancy was real short ,
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: but now we tend to believe somewhere in the health care system otherwise ,
A: we need to take care of people even if they have , you know , physically ruined themselves .
B: Yeah ,
B: they have induced it themselves .
A: Yeah
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: and so , to me that 's ,
A: I , uh , I would certainly like to see a real test of , of making drugs real cheap to see if when you make them available people then don't use them . Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well I think you know , they did that in Alaska . That , that actually , Alaska just recently legalized marijuana . * two utts
B: But I never , I never heard results or anything like that ,
B: so I never , you know ,
B: plus , that 's such a , that 's not a true , uh , you know , it really could n't be a good test because Alaska 's so different than every other part of the country .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , so that , but that was interesting , you know ,
B: I , I don't ,
B: crime is one of those things that 's , uh ,
B: I , I don't know , you know ,
B: the drug culture ,
B: the , uh , the , uh , you know ,
B: I , I see it with the kids in the neighborhood just stealing things , not thinking anything wrong with it .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , some of that ,
A: and , of course , I 'm a baby of the old school
B: Yeah .
A: but , it , it bothers me from the fifties on ,
A: not that I 'd remember that much from the fifties
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , but basically we have so much more of the something for nothing mentality .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: That 's true .
B: We worked hard for everything .
B: That 's very true .
A: And so they
B: Uh-huh .
A: in the ,
A: there were the sixty-four thousand dollar question shows in the fifties ,
A: but nowadays , there 's so much on TV where , where people seem to have the idea they can get something for nothing .
A: Of course uh , I work for lawyers a lot
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I see , unfortunately , we have this whole mentality that somehow there are these pots of money out there that you can sue somebody and , you know , there 's a million dollars you can have uh , for mental duress or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
A: But , you know , the other thing that bothers me in the crime is the , uh ,
A: in Europe , they seem to have mentality ,
A: and drunk driving is a good one ,
A: is that people are well indoctrinated in their society that drunken driving is unacceptable .
B: Right .
A: And , yeah ,
A: if you 're going to drink , and you may drink , you better have your designated driver . And we mean it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: That , I think that , uh , the drunk driving has just actually , just caught on .
B: Uh , and I , I , I really , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: my father was hit by a drunk driver when I was in high school
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , that was a very , uh , that , that was an awful three years afterwards . You know , of recovery and the difficulties and , uh , everything we did
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , you know , the guy went free because this was twelve years ago thirteen years ago ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: there was no ,
B: his father was even , the , uh , police chief of the town .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So there was no repercussion at all . You know , other than insurance ,
B: but he was uninsured .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh , our insurance paid for everything ,
B: but it was a very difficult time
B: and , and then later , this was actually funny , my brother and I were picked up by the police for questioning because this fellow had bought a , a new car
B: and somebody had taken like a baseball bat to it and broke all his windows and his lights and his , dented it everywhere ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they came and questioned us .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , and ,
A: But , that kind of shows how our attitude toward drinking and driving was , uh , misplaced for years
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh . Uh-huh .
A: that , you know , it was an acceptable social behavior .
B: Yeah ,
B: very much so .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , those are some important points .
B: Yeah ,
B: I ,
B: that 's , those are ,
A: What are , what does your city have for gun control if anything ?
B: Well , see Maryland is one of the most ,
B: we just voted in , uh , gun control , strong gun control here in the state of Maryland .
B: I , I think ,
A: Well , the weather has been , certainly has been hot
A: and it 's been humid .
A: I don't remember a year in a long time that the humidity has stayed up this high for , uh , this late into , uh ,
A: well , it 's not really late into the summer ,
A: but the , the humidity has hung around all of June .
B: Yeah .
B: Are you native to this area ?
A: No ,
A: I grew up in Michigan , But I 've been , I 've been in Texas for fifteen years . * sd
B: Oh , okay .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , but , you know , I know the summers get hot
A: but it certainly , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: this humidity has just really hung on there .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: it seemed like , well , you know , last year was so strange having all those heavy , heavy rains in April
B: and this year we really did n't have heavy rains until May .
B: Kind of like pushed the season back a little farther
B: and now it 's kind of lingering with kind of still a bit of humidity
B: and it just tried to rain ,
B: I mean , I was coming in from my car just a few minutes ago
B: and it was trying to rain which seems strange to have it raining in July .
A: Yes .
B: Normally we don't have too much , uh , humidity or , or , uh , rainy time when it 's past June .
A: Oh , that 's right ,
A: that 's right .
A: I can remember it not ,
A: it 's really August that it happens .
A: You get those great big cracks in the ground where it 's been so dry
B: Right .
A: and it just gets so dry
A: and , the earth opens up .
A: I can remember the first year I moved here
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it did n't rain ,
A: I moved here like in late August
A: and it did n't rain from August until December
A: and , I went home and told it just does n't rain in Texas .
A: I mean it was great after growing up in Michigan and not , and you know , every day was cloudy ,
A: almost every day was cloudy
A: and I , you sort of forget how much it did rain
A: and coming here and then it did n't rain ,
A: it was just wonderful .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: see I , I lived in , uh , Ohio mainly .
B: I lived in , uh , Pontiac just a little while before I came down here
A: Oh , yeah .
B: and , you know , so many times when you were trying to schedule outdoor activities , you just never knew if it was going to be a go or not because of the weather .
B: It might rain on your little parade .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
B: You know , and here it was like , pretty much you could schedule some activity outside anytime
B: and you really did n't have too much of a chance of it getting rained out .
A: Yeah .
B: You could pretty much do whatever you wanted to do .
A: That 's right .
B: What part of Michigan were you living in ?
A: Oh , I grew up in Dearborn which is a suburb of , of Detroit .
B: Okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: You probably know where that is because I know where Pontiac is , Anyway ,
A: yeah .
B: What brought you down here ?
A: Oh , a teaching job .
B: So you teach in Plano schools ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I did , I did for a while ,
A: uh-huh .
A: So , I 'm home with , home with two children , So ,
B: Oh .
B: Okay
A: New career . New career
B: Okay .
A: but , uh , anyway ,
A: so that kind of , uh ,
A: well , I had been down here to visit
A: so I school and said hey , let 's , you know , find a place that has a nice job
A: and , uh , that 's how it worked out .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I think a lot of people were , uh , leaving Michigan all about the time I came here in the early eighties
B: and it seemed like it was almost a mass exodus .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: You know , the , the little joke about , will the last person leaving Michigan just turn out the light
A: Oh , well , it 's a nice place , you know ,
A: I mean it 's , it 's a nice , that 's a nice place , though .
B: Well , you know , I , I said I lived in , uh , the Pontiac .
B: I did n't live in the city of Pontiac ,
B: I lived to the west of it .
B: Uh , I forget the , the county ,
B: but you know where all the lakes are around there .
A: Okay ,
A: sort of .
B: I lived in an apartment complex on one of the lakes .
B: It was real close to where I worked .
B: It was only like four miles to work
B: and it was wonderful being on the lake like that .
B: You know , in the summer , you feel like you 're , you know , on a vacation all the time because you 're right on a lake
B: and everybody 's , you know , out enjoying the water and such ,
B: and , uh , in the winter time the lakes froze over ,
B: you could still kind of go sledding and such out there
B: but I thought it was just really neat to be out there on all those lakes .
B: There 's lots of really small ones out there .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , like maybe a mile , two long .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's enough to , uh , do some boating
A: That 's right .
B: and it was lots of fun .
A: That 's right . Which is ,
B: Um .
A: well , I think it 's , I think it 's toward Ann Arbor ,
A: so it 's probably out in that direction ,
A: but that 's the only one I probably could name after all these years
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , But , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: But it was , yeah , just lots of little lakes
B: and , of course , it was , you know , a little more expensive to live on the lake ,
B: but I just thought that was grand .
B: And I think a lot of people did n't really know that there were all those lakes out there unless you were from that area and kind of spotted them ,
B: but there was quite a few lakes all around there .
B: It seemed like , it was almost like you were living on an island
B: there was so much water around where I was .
B: I said I was n't close to downtown Pontiac ,
B: I was way out to the west maybe four or five miles from , from the city limits
B: and it was really nice out there .
A: Yeah .
B: We had , uh , Pine Knob you know , to go skiing and stuff .
A: Oh .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: So there were things around there .
B: Really was pretty nice .
A: Sure ,
A: sure ,
A: and is n't that where they have a summer music festival there , too ?
B: Right ,
B: right
B: in the summertime they have musicals there
B: and in the winter time they make snow and have a ski slope .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
A: I know , we used to ,
A: we , we did n't do a lot of it ,
A: but we did . We did ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: so those are always fun .
A: And Alpine , was it Alpine was another ski slope that we went to , It was nice .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I always tell people that in the winter we use , we used to , uh ,
A: my dad would kind of bank up the snow in the backyard and turn the hose on , you know , make a pond in the backyard for us .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: So but , uh , you know , we probably did some ice skating on it ,
A: but then it chipped , chipped
A: and , you know , it would melt or whatever and get pretty uneven
A: so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: We used to have a
B: Christmas time , uh , some of our relatives would come up from Alabama ,
B: and I think most times we would have snow around Christmas
B: and the kids when they were young would just go nuts .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , because they were from Alabama where it never snowed
A: Oh .
B: and they just had a grand time watching the snow and getting out there and playing in it , you know , eternally .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , right ,
A: right .
A: If only it would make nice snow here in Texas , we 'd be okay at Christmas time .
B: My first winter here ,
B: I , I came down in , uh , early eighty-two
B: and there was just a freak snowfall early one morning in December couple days before Christmas .
B: It lasted only a few hours ,
B: like by noon it was gone .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And I remember getting up and somebody telling me , hey , better wait to go to work because the roads are all , you know , snow
B: And I was laughing , going yeah , right , that 's a good practical joke ,
B: ha ha .
B: They said , no really , there 's snow
B: and there was , but a very short time
B: and the weather got warm so quick
A: Yeah .
B: it just melted it all away .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I know .
B: Course , when we get an ice storm , that 's not too much fun .
A: No ,
A: that 's not fun either ,
A: so , uh , I , I just as soon have all the slushy snow on the streets than have the ice on the streets
A: so , But , uh , well we have ,
A: our house is kind of on a little hill ,
A: so , uh , we get the sled out
A: and , uh , the kids go down the the hill on the sleds when it 's icy ,
A: I mean they just go down the ice .
B: Yeah .
A: And if it 's cold , we say , okay , out you go .
A: I think we must be the only people on the block that make use of that cold weather and get out there .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: I think it 's fun ,
B: even the couple of ice storms I 've gotten out there in my ski pants or something and still just been out and enjoying it a little bit .
B: I mean , sometimes the ice is pretty bad ,
B: but if you get on the , the , uh , grassy kind of part , you get a little bit of traction , you know , not slip and fall .
B: I mean , first ,
A: I really have n't seen any movies lately ,
A: so when the computer picked this one , I was a little bit surprised ,
A: but , I think I have n't been to the movie theater here in about , oh , six months ,
A: but , uh , you know , the last movies that I 've seen were probably on video .
B: Oh , well that 's ,
B: we rent a lot of videos too .
A: Yeah
B: Uh , we saw ,
B: I have two little babies
B: and we saw one movie recently
B: and that was THE TERMINATOR movie , uh , which I did n't like after all .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: now I I have n't seen THE TERMINATOR movie ,
A: but , and that 's kind of blood and guts , is n't it .
A: I don't particularly care for that sort of stuff .
B: Well , I don't either .
B: It ,
B: on all the , the advertisements Arnold Schwarzenegger says he does n't kill anybody in the movie .
B: He does n't .
B: He maims them
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: So ,
A: Yeah ,
A: he maims them pretty good , does n't he ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: He , he , uh , I think he shoots off their knee caps for the most part . In the movie .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So .
A: I , I saw , uh , SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY .
A: Uh , Uh , I saw it , uh ,
B: Oh , I have n't seen that one yet .
A: oh , couple weeks ago I rented it and , uh , watched it
A: and I was , I was pretty disappointed in it
A: because I , I was told by several people that it 's pretty scary and intense
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I was pretty disappointed in it .
B: Oh .
A: Now it 's a good movie ,
A: but , I guess that they built me up too much . For my expectations in it there .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , With all the commercials and everything .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I have n't ,
B: that 's one we want to see .
B: I , I want to see , uh , DANCES WITH WOLVES .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , we have n't seen that one yet , either .
A: Yeah .
A: Now I have n't seen it either ,
A: but , uh , I 've heard that it 's real long . That it 's a good movie , but it 's long , like three hours .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's what I heard , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: we 've got to get it at a time when we can put our kids to bed and stay up late to watch it We saw , uh , the , the , uh , movie with , uh , Sylvester Stallone , OSCAR .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
A: OSCAR .
B: Supposed to be his , uh , his debut in comedy .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Which was an interesting movie , but not very funny .
A: Yeah .
A: I know my daughter saw that
A: and she liked it
A: so ,
B: Did she ?
A: Yeah
B: Well , it was , it was an amusing movie .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It
B: I guess maybe it would have been better if we 'd have been at the theater as opposed to , uh , just at the house watching it with , with no one else around .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: And , of course , I get to watch all these movies like LOOK WHO 'S TALKING and WHO 'S , LOOK WHO 'S TALKING , TOO
A: and , because I have a ten year old
A: so , We , we watch a lot of movies around that category , you know that she , that she can watch
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: My son just turned two
B: and so THE LITTLE MERMAID is now our favorite movie .
A: Yeah .
A: We seen THE LITTLE MERMAID , too .
B: LITTLE MERMAID and PETER PAN I think are , are his two favorites that we 've got
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And there 's some , I think there 's some good Disney movies fixing to come out on video , uh , SHIPWRECKED .
B: Oh , I have n't , I did n't hear that was coming out .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's fixing to come out on video
A: and , boy , I ca n't think of the other one that 's fixing to come out .
B: Well , they just had uh , THE RESCUERS movie
A: But ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: that was a Disney movie , was n't it .
B: I think I heard that was just one , was just out .
B: He 's , uh , he does n't sit still for the whole movie , yet ,
B: but he likes to , uh , to listen to the music and stuff if there 's a lot of that in the in the movie .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I 'm glad to know that there 's somebody else out there that does n't get to go to the movie theater
B: Well , I tell you , ever
B: my , my kids are just small babies
B: and , I tell you , we really want to go a lot
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , there 's so much out on video now , that it 's almost , you know ,
B: the movie comes out quicker than you can go see it . Sometimes .
A: Uh-huh . And then they go to the dollar movies .
B: So .
B: Uh-huh
B: That seems to happen .
B: I noticed that DANCES WITH WOLVES was playing at the , uh , Granada Theater .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , someone said that was a lot of fun to go do .
B: You can have dinner and everything while you watch the movie .
B: I thought that might be kind of fun to do .
A: Yeah ,
A: that does sound fun .
B: And , of course , you need a baby-sitter for that
B: Definitely .
B: But , uh , no ,
B: I 'd really like to get out to the movies more often .
B: Course , it 's so expensive , now , too that you ca n't hardly afford it .
A: Right .
B: I , I know we get discount tickets where my husband works ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , other than that it just seems like it 's so expensive .
B: And then the popcorn and everything else ,
B: you almost ca n't afford to do it . No matter what .
A: That 's right .
B: Although we did actually get ,
B: we went on vacation couple months ago ,
B: and we got to go see WHAT ABOUT BOB ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: That was kind of a funny movie with , uh , Richard Dreyfuss and Bill Murray .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That was fun .
A: Golly ,
A: I don't think that I 've ever heard of that movie .
B: Oh , he 's a , Richard Dreyfuss is a , uh , psychiatrist
B: and Bob is his patient
B: and Bob follows him on vacation .
B: It 's , uh ,
A: Oh , that 's the , that 's the one where they burn down the house or something
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh
A: the house explodes ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's the one .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah .
A: Another movie that I want to see if it ever comes out on video so I can see it without my daughter around is , uh , oh ,
A: I just forgot the title of it .
A: Uh Oh , it 's supposed to be a real scary one
A: Uh , darn ,
A: well , here , here 's another one that I 've seen .
A: I saw , uh ,
A: I ca n't remember the title of it , either
B: Must have left an impression .
A: How would you feel about sending an elderly family member to a nursing home ?
B: Well , I don't feel very good about it ,
B: but I think that at some times it can be the right thing to do .
B: We sent my grandfather to a nursing home at the point when he was really incapable of caring for himself anymore .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He actually died a few months after that ,
B: and so as ,
B: at least in retrospect , it was the right thing to do
B: because he was either in a nursing home or a hospital or something else that he would have been spending most of his time in those days .
A: Right .
A: And what type of recommendations did you have when you decided where to place him ?
B: Um , well , the , see , uh , well ,
B: we , he wanted to get into a Mennonite nursing home which is very popular and hard to get into and had like a ten year waiting list
A: Oh , my .
B: right ,
B: we wound up just choosing a , another Mennonite nursing home that was easier to get into .
B: Or but naturally ,
B: no ,
B: it was even Mennonite related ,
B: I 'm sorry , it was actually not a particularly great nursing home .
B: Mostly the thing was that it was available when we needed it , because he suddenly got sick and needed to be put in .
A: Yeah ,
A: so the convenience ,
A: Right .
B: Uh , what do you think ?
A: My grandmother lived with us , um , until August , um ,
A: and we made the decision to put her in a nursing home .
A: She has leukemia
B: Uh-huh .
A: and her , the rest of her family and her regular doctors and everybody she trusted and knew was in Dayton , and were several thousand miles away
B: Yeah .
A: so I made the decision to put her in a nursing home ,
A: and my sister being on the other end found one that she could have what was called an independent living facility .
A: She had her own little room and did n't have to share it with anyone and could bring in her own chair and T V set
B: Yeah
A: so .
B: yeah ,
B: that 's important I would say .
A: Yes .
A: And that , the other major factor is that she needs blood transfusions every week to ten days , and would have to be hospitalized a day or two ,
A: so in this facility they can do it right there from her own room
B: Okay .
A: so she did n't have to be transported back and forth .
A: So , she 's been there since August the thirteenth and seems to have adjusted pretty well .
A: It 's not her favorite place to be in .
A: She 'd much rather be here with me .
A: But when it got to the point I was spending more time at the hospital with her ,
B: Yeah .
A: and I 've got little children here who needed me here
A: she needed somebody to watch her twenty-four hours a day .
B: Right ,
B: and that becomes difficult then .
A: So .
A: She was falling down and hemorrhaging
A: and , you know , all kinds of physical problems ,
A: so it just became too much for me to handle ,
A: even though I would have liked to have had her stay , with her health being what it was she could n't anymore .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yep ,
B: we tried to convince my grandfather to live with us at several points during the last few years of his life ,
B: but he was essentially too proud and too independent so that even though his heart was getting incredibly weak and his knees were going bad he lived in his own house as long as he could
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: but he was living alone , had an upstairs apartment , could barely make it up the steps to the top without a great deal of pain ,
A: Oh .
B: and this ,
B: eventually things just went too far
A: Yeah .
B: and he allowed himself to be put into a nursing home .
A: Yes ,
A: well , I think sometimes when people get to be a certain age , other people have to kind of help them make decisions .
A: It sure would n't have been Granny 's decision to leave us and go back to a nursing home ,
A: but she 's accepted it real well now
B: Right
A: so .
B: well that 's , yeah , that 's right that the children have some responsibility , too , to their parents and such , to help decide what 's the right thing .
A: Well , we enjoyed having her here ,
B: And .
A: but we feel she 's much safer where she is now .
A: She still continues to fall ,
A: but when she does there , a nurse is right there to help her
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I know she 's eating the right things ,
A: and her doctor 's right there where he can come in and check on her ,
A: so . It became dangerous for us to keep transporting her back and forth in the car because she was so wobbly and needed a walker or a wheel chair
B: Yep .
A: so , I think she 'll adjust ,
A: Okay ,
A: while I was waiting for you to connect , I , I thought of a couple of menus ,
A: so I decided it had to be in it , informal or not .
A: You know because that 's a lot of fun , especially this time of year where it 's so nice out . * sv
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yes .
A: Um , if it was formal I 'd probably go with something like a chicken breast or lasagna or something .
A: I 'm not I 'm not into formal dinner parties ,
A: but I 'd probably go with lasagna , a green salad , and garlic bread .
B: I see .
B: So what do you use for cookbooks ?
A: Um , I have a PILLSBURY cookbook I got when I was married ,
A: but , it 's kind of the bible of cooking for me .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Then I have some from like church that are more family recipes that are more useful You know , budget cookbooks ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but and , of course , you get a lot from when you 're growing up .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I cook a lot the same as , as my mom did ,
A: of course I 've added several different recipes ,
B: Right .
A: but , what you serve or what would you
B: Well , I , I , I think we come from , from different backgrounds , uh ,
B: so the ,
A: Well , that 's good
B: I , I , I ,
B: so , it you know ,
B: have different perspectives that you are .
B: I find the JOY OF COOKING to be a remarkably useful book to , to fall back on ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: because it has almost everything in it .
B: But on the other hand , it 's not very inspiring , uh ,
B: it 's a good reference when you need to dig something up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What we 've found very useful is a book called THE THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK ,
B: I think that 's the title , by Marion Burroughs
A: Huh .
B: uh , which has recipes which allegedly can all be prepared in thirty minutes , you know , the whole meal
A: Yeah
B: and so she 's
A: that would be wonderful in these times
B: yeah ,
B: now , now , I , I find that the cutting up of the food , and all that really makes it take a little longer than thirty minutes .
A: Yeah , Uh-huh .
B: But they 're , but they 're , but they 're interesting they 're interesting menus , um , combinations that you would n't have , nobody thought of .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um .
A: What 's one of your favorites ?
B: Um , gee ,
B: the one I had most recently was , was one that , was ,
B: she , she describes as Jim Beard 's favorite , um , summer menu , or something ,
B: and it consisted of , of grilled kielbasa sausage uh , a potato salad with olive oil , and uh , some tomatoes that had been chopped up with onions and curry powder and probably some yogurt was in there .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Wow ,
A: sounds too good .
B: Uh , and that , and that was , you know , that 's , that , that 's certain you can do in thirty minutes .
A: Yeah .
B: But there are a whole lot of , you know ,
B: I mean , I , I would recommend you look at that book if you 're a busy person .
A: Yeah ,
A: that THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK .
B: THIRTY MINUTE COOKBOOK .
A: That sounds fun .
A: I find a lot of the cookbooks that , I don't know , that you buy over the counter ask for really strange ingredients , or things I don't keep on hand all the time
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I have young children ,
A: and our budget 's set , you know , at this time ,
A: but I want to use simple recipes that I have things on hand ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't have to run to the store to buy or look for something I have n't heard of
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
A: That 's why sometimes I shy away from , uh , more of a traditional cookbook
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , well , it was interesting talking to you .
A: It 's a fun subject .
A: Food is one of my favorite things too .
B: Yes .
A: Anything else you wanted to add ?
B: Well , you had said dinner , you know , you know ,
B: what would I put together for a formal dinner .
B: We , we had some friends over as recently as Saturday night
A: Oh , wow .
B: and , and , um , put , here , here
B: the inspiration was a combination of Julia Child for the dessert , you know , a chocolate mousse recipe and a sort of cookbook which has a recipe for a thing called chicken marabella um , which is this wonderful thing you can do , um ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's good .
A: Uh-huh .
B: basically you 're baking , baking chicken in a , in an open pan , um , having marinated it first
B: and , my wife did this part so I don't remember all the details
A: Uh-huh .
B: marinated in olive oil and some seasoning , um , and cooked with some olives and some , and some prunes , uh ,
B: there 's a little bit of brown sugar in there ,
B: and it bakes up
B: and it 's a delicious thing ,
B: and it 's easy
A: That sounds good .
B: comparatively . Um . I 'm sorry ,
A: That sounds really good .
B: I just love
A: It sounds like you guys are a little more gourmet than I am ,
A: I 'm pretty simple right now ,
A: but .
B: Well , maybe a little more leisure time to do it .
A: Yes
B: I don't know ,
A: that 's probably , that 's true ,
A: I have little ones
A: and we , and they wo n't eat , you know , too many different foods right now .
B: Yeah .
B: I found my kids were very frustrating when they were little in terms of their tastes .
A: Yes .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , there again , sometimes it was easy ,
B: they 'd , you know ,
B: canned ravioli was , one of their favorites , and so it was easy to open a can of ravioli .
A: Yeah .
A: Spaghetti 's a pretty staple every other week or so
B: Yes .
A: and it goes a long ways too . All righty .
B: Well , nice talking to you Cheryl .
B: Okay .
A: Talk to you later maybe .
B: Bye .
A: Do you have children ?
B: Uh , yes .
B: Uh , we have two sons .
B: Uh , one 's a freshman in college
B: and one 's a sophomore in high school .
A: Oh .
B: And you ?
A: I have one that 's a freshman in high school , a daughter . And a son who 's a sixth grader in a middle school .
B: Okay .
A: And I spend most of my time carpooling
B: Oh
A: The story of my life
B: Yes
B: Yes . Yeah .
A: My kids are involved in sports .
A: My daughter has played basketball for six years ,
A: and my son plays football .
A: I ,
A: my rule is that they ca n't play a sport the same time of the year because there 's just not enough of me to drive them around everywhere .
B: Uh , well , uh , yeah .
B: We 've spend a spend a did spend a lot of time , uh ,
B: it really helped when the , uh , older one was old enough to get his license and could , uh drive around by himself although that brought in a whole other set of problems .
A: Yes .
A: I know ,
A: I know .
A: The insurance .
B: But , uh , I , uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: for one thing .
B: Uh , but yeah ,
B: we , uh , we do
B: but our two had , had , uh , totally different interests of ,
B: but there was not much , uh , overlap as such .
B: The , the older one is not , was not at all into , uh , sports for the most part .
B: Uh , he participated
B: band and , and , uh , scouts were his two big things .
A: Yes .
A: My son , is in both band and scouts too .
B: And , uh and the , yeah , younger one is , uh , uh , the sports one
B: and the , whatever season it is he 's , he 's playing , although football is really his favorite
A: Oh , gee .
B: Yeah .
B: So , uh , yeah ,
B: we spend a lot of time , uh , uh , carpooling and , uh , you know , and then trying to be , uh , up as much as possible with anything that they , that they do .
A: Right .
B: But then , uh , we also did n't do , spend , uh , time with them trying to , trying to ,
B: uh , you know , just family time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , we had a ,
B: at a fairly young age we started teaching them to play games and card games and so forth .
B: And , and , uh , uh , but we did n't , uh , do it as much or as often as , uh , I would have liked to .
B: I would like to do that as a , as a family and , and some T V watching .
A: Yeah .
B: What about you ?
A: We found this Oriental tile game called Mah-jongg .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've , I 've heard of that .
A: Have you ?
B: I 've never actually , never actually played it .
B: But ,
A: Well , it 's really fun .
A: Um , one of my neighbors moved here from Memphis
A: and a lot of them played it ,
A: and she started a group going in the neighborhood
A: and my kids wanted to learn how to play it
A: and it 's more fun with four people .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And it 's a game that none of their friends know how to play ,
A: and they both enjoy it .
A: So if they want to play , they have to play with mom and dad .
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , we play that a lot of them ,
A: and , uh , we like to go miniature golfing and to movies .
B: Yeah .
A: We have family that lives outside of the state
A: so we go visit both sets of grandparents and , and take car trips .
B: Yeah ,
B: so do we .
A: So , that ,
A: and my husband and son go camping with scouts mostly .
B: Okay .
B: Yeah .
A: My daughter and , and I hate camping so we go shopping .
A: So that just kind of works out real well .
B: Yeah .
A: And , um , I 'm a writer by profession
A: and my daughter enjoys writing too ,
A: so a lot of times , she and I will travel to writers conferences together .
B: Oh , now that 's neat .
A: Yeah . Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: No ,
B: we 've never had anything like that .
A: So that gives us special time together too .
B: Yeah .
A: And she 's on the yearbook staff and things like that
A: so I can help her with that
A: and she gives me ideas for my writing too
A: so .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yep .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , well , good .
B: Well , I , you know , in terms of , in terms of any sorts of trends I , you know ,
B: obviously things are different from , for me than , and my children than when I was growing up .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I , I grew up on a farm , uh , in Iowa ,
B: and , uh , you know the whole family was around the , the whole time .
B: And then what my father did was , was , uh , you know , obvious to me
B: and I , I helped out with it .
B: But , uh , although I have brought my boys into to see where I work , it 's not that easy ,
B: and it 's , it 's certainly not at all common ,
B: and they , they just don't really have that same idea ,
A: Right .
B: so they , uh ,
B: it 's a , it 's a whole different , uh , kind of thing there then , uh ,
A: My husband has taken us to work with him ,
A: and we still don't know what he does .
B: Yeah .
A: So , we just say he travels a lot .
A: So , that kind of covers it .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that makes it hard though for in terms of , you know , family time with , with him .
A: Yes .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've been lucky in that respect that I don't , uh , don't travel too much .
A: He 's been on temporary duties where he 's been gone nine months .
B: Oh .
A: Yes .
B: Yeah .
A: So those are the real killers .
A: If he 's just gone ,
B: Yes .
A: he 's gone three weeks right now
A: and that 's , that 's mild compare to the big ones ,
B: Yeah .
A: so we just , you know . I just do the carpooling and , and handle whatever needs to be done .
A: And something major , always needs to be done .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: So you just have to , to handle it until he gets home
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
A: And hopefully he wo n't have too many surprises when he gets home .
B: Well , let 's see .
A: So what , So what gets you ?
B: As far as I 'm ,
B: Well , the thing I think that annoys me the most is , I have , I have young children , a baby in the house
B: and , and inevitably as soon as they 're asleep , someone calls on the phone trying to sell me something .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I think that , that is probably the most aggravating
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , you know , it invades my time .
B: I 'm the one that pays for the phone .
B: Uh , if I want to buy something , I 'll take the initiative and , and go find it , you know .
B: And that just really does aggravate me .
B: Uh , what do you think ?
A: Well , I mean I ,
A: that 's exactly the kind of thing I would have said .
A: Although in my case it 's my wife and I both work ,
A: we come home
A: and just as we 're preparing dinner or eating dinner the phone rings
A: and it 's one solicitation call after another
A: and , you know .
B: Your time is , is valuable ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's like you say , very annoying
B: and ,
A: and , uh , why , why do we let this happen .
B: Oh , I ,
B: that 's , that 's interesting .
B: I
B: the , the market seems to just be growing , too .
B: I , I guess enough people are not speaking out .
B: I 'm not speaking out , that 's for sure .
B: I just get aggravated about it .
B: And ,
A: Would , would you ,
A: I mean if you could legislate something , what would you legislate ?
B: I really don't know .
B: I 'm , I 'm not into uh , heavy government legislating of a lot of different areas ,
B: but I I don't know .
B: I just , I do particularly find it annoying .
B: Uh , I 'm really not sure . to be ,
A: Yeah .
A: It , it seems , it seems to me that we should have the ability to designate with the phone company that we don't want to receive calls like that . * sv
B: Well , that , yeah , that might ,
A: And the people making these calls would be obliged to compare the , their lists that they 're going to call against this list of people who don't want to be called .
B: Identify themselves , yeah .
B: Right .
B: Well , that would be a good an interesting way ,
A: Uh ,
B: yeah .
A: And , that , that way , those who want it can have it
A: and those who don't want it , don't have to have it .
B: Right .
A: Sort of like an unlisted number where you have n't gone to the trouble of enlisting yourself .
B: Right ,
B: you 're ,
A: Except even unlisted numbers are n't safe now because they have these things just sort of dial through all the numbers . Uh , automatically
B: Oh , is that right ?
B: Oh , that 's interesting .
A: and ,
B: And they just get everybody .
A: Right .
B: Oh , boy .
B: Well , I , I do wish that it would stop on my end because it , it seems to happen at the worst possible moments .
A: Yeah .
B: And I , I guess the next one is , is door-to-door solicitors .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't mind the children when they 're selling things for school .
B: I have kids
B: and , you know , that 's just kind of part of it
A: Yeah
B: but when it 's adults selling a variety of things and especially when men arrive at about ten o'clock in the morning uh , that really , it makes you not feel particularly safe
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: and , it 's annoying as well .
A: And these , and these people may in fact be just looking to find an unoccupied house to rob .
B: Right ,
B: you just , you really don't know ,
B: so I , I find myself being a a bit abrupt and a little bit ruder than than I might normally be
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , I do feel like it 's a , an invasion of my space .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh ,
B: I 've never quite understood the purpose of that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , uh ,
A: Well , I think these people were hired by , from , from different sources .
B: Just
A: Uh , with , you know ,
A: and so , therefore , there 's no one answer .
A: But , but , yeah
A: sometimes it 's a market basically it 's a market survey
B: Just a survey .
A: but they never say who , who they 're really working for or what you know , what what , what questions are , you know ,
B: Yeah .
B: There have been a couple of times when the , the , uh , whatever the subject was , I guess caught my interest and I went along with it
B: and then there have been several times when I just said , well , I just really don't have the time , you know to deal with it at that moment .
A: Yeah
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , I don't get too many of those .
A: Yeah
B: I 've had just a few .
A: Yeah
B: Uh , generally someone 's trying to sell me something
B: or ,
A: Right ,
A: well , and sometimes that 's , this is just the lead in to a sales pitch too .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: Other times it 's , you know , wasting your time to collect the data they want for their marketing purpose .
B: Right .
A: For which , if they would just pay me enough money I would be willing to consider .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's right .
A: But , but a dollar is n't it ,
A: you know , it 's ,
B: Oh .
A: Uh , and I also sort of worry that , you know , that sometimes people giveaway personal information .
A: Uh , when , when the call comes and , and they , uh , you know , sort of seductive , to , you know ,
A: somebody is asking me my opinion on all of these things ,
A: and so I start answering
A: and then you , you know , you go down a path
B: Right .
A: uh , and you don't know where it 's going to end . In fact , you don't even know what you 've eventually , you know , the totality of what you 've revealed * sv This is n't , you know , most likely not to , going to be used against you ,
B: Yeah .
B: Well , we ,
B: That 's true .
A: but it could
A: and , And that seems to be something that should , should really be outlawed . Because it 's subject to abuse
B: Yeah ,
B: you just never know , I guess .
B: That ,
B: yeah ,
B: I , I ,
A: and it ,
B: Asking for information is , is ,
B: I ca n't really see that ,
B: I think they ought to , if , if nothing else , they ought to spend money for a postage stamp
B: and , you know , when it arrives at your house , oh , I ,
A: Okay ,
A: what kind of house do you live in ?
B: Well , uh , we live in a , a brick home in far north Dallas
B: and it 's , uh , four bedrooms and three and a half baths and swimming pool in the back
B: and , It 's about thirty-five hundred square feet .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , it sounds like ours are pretty similar .
A: I live in one ,
A: I don't have a swimming pool .
A: And mine 's about twenty-seven hundred square foot .
B: Yeah .
A: But the four bedrooms
A: and all the rest of it sounds just about about alike .
A: I think it 's pretty much typical for this area .
B: It is .
B: Have you been living there very long ?
A: I 've been in the house
A: I 'm in here right now about twelve and a half years .
B: So you 've been there longer .
B: We built this one about , uh ,
B: it 's been let 's see it 's been six years six and a half years ago ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we subcontracted it out ourselves .
B: We bought the lot and , uh , had an architect draw the plans based on our specifications
A: Oh , really ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then we subbed it out ,
B: so , we 've been here a little over six years now . And uh , have really enjoyed it because we built what we wanted to have to live in .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I bet you ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: My husband got his big garage .
B: He we have a three car garage , that he has a big work area in
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he likes to rebuild cars and redo engines
B: and , so he has all the work space he needs .
A: Well , that sounds interesting .
A: I bet he 's enjoyed having it that way
B: He ,
A: because
A: kind of hard to find one prebuilt that 's kind of fits those specifications .
B: It is ,
B: and that 's why we decided to build .
B: We looked at things that were already , uh , built
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the garages were always , if the house was large , it seemed like the garages were small even if they were three car garages which is what we have .
A: Well , then , most of them don't have a three car garage .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 're kind of rare .
B: So we put a three car garage in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , even if they had three car garages , they did n't have a work space .
B: All of it was taken up with just car space .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so he has a big landing area that 's between where the cars are in the garage and where the house starts that he can work on .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well that ,
A: my , we 've just got a two car garage ,
A: but my husband 's got a big space in between the , where the cars are and the house , where he has a big work shop , you know , workbench and everything .
B: Well , sounds like our husbands have similar interests .
A: Now , mine does not work on cars ,
A: he just piddles on this and that .
B: Oh , I see .
A: But he likes to have a spot to keep all of his , his piddling things .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , that 's nice that it 's not in your house .
A: It really is .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because , you know , they have a lot of things of their own ,
A: and I , you know , I would n't mind having ,
A: and I at one time was going to fix up when one of my daughters left , a bedroom to where I had a room to just put all of my craft stuff and sewing machine and all that kind of stuff ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I , someone ,
A: I don't know ,
A: it ended up I got some furniture back that one of them had moved out or something .
B: Right .
A: So I did n't end up with my vacant room like I had thought I would .
B: Well , we still have a , a son and daughter in college that come home .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the other room we use as a guest bedroom because my husband 's family come .
B: His parents come
B: and also the kids have friends who come and stay
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so it seems like it 's always used as a bedroom .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I still ,
A: all three of my daughters are married ,
A: but , I don't know ,
A: I just still have need for the four bedrooms just having company from time to time . And some of them coming back home and things , you know .
B: Right .
B: Oh , I understand
A: And we 've got grandchildren now ,
A: so when they come , they have to have a place .
B: Well , we ,
B: That 's true
B: and you don't want them to not be able to come because there 's no room .
A: That 's right ,
A: you sure don't .
A: At times I keep thinking , though , that might be kind of nice .
B: Well , I I have n't reached that point yet .
B: I 've heard people say that .
B: But , uh , my middle son is engaged ,
B: my oldest son has been going with the same girl for a while .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He 's out of college and has a good job ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so he could afford to get married but , is not engaged yet ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my daughter 's been going with the same boy for a while ,
B: but she 's still in college
B: and we 're just as happy for her to finish her education first .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's what she plans to do .
A: Well , I don't blame you for that .
B: So , I hope so .
A: Well , I have the three girls
A: and then we ended up with four grandsons .
B: Oh , ho-ho .
A: And little boys are around the house a whole lot more than girls .
B: A whole new world .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I enjoy them coming , but for short doses
B: I can understand .
A: It feels ,
A: after they 've been here ten minutes , they have already explored the entire house ,
A: they know everything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , they 're fun .
B: So you 're all back to the safety catches and the whole nine yards or either watching them every minute .
A: Well , I just watch them .
B: Yeah .
A: I I never did put things up when my kids were little
A: and I have n't with them .
A: I try to teach them not to get into things .
B: Well , that 's the same thing that I did .
B: I hope I 'll be able to do the same with grandchildren .
A: I think that once you do that , your children kind of develop the same attitudes .
A: At least my daughters have .
A: They try to teach theirs not to get into things instead of having to put everything up .
A: So it 's worked pretty well .
A: There 's ,
A: I don't really think anything 's been broken .
A: Every now and then we have to kind of go and say , now don't bother this you know .
B: Um , uh-huh
A: But , all in all , they mind pretty well .
A: But , I guess most of the
A: what kind of roof does your house have ?
A: Here I 'm getting off the subject .
B: Well , we have ,
A: All right .
A: I 've never done it before ,
A: so I guess that 's all I have to do , right
B: I guess so .
A: I 've been called several times ,
A: and I push in , pushed in my number ,
A: they kept saying you have the invalid code
B: Oh , really .
A: and then I found out that my new phone was n't working right .
B: Oh
A: Oh , so this is the first time I 've even done it .
B: Yeah .
A: I wonder how long it 's going to be on for .
B: I think five minutes is the max .
A: Oh , no ,
A: I mean , this whole thing , like for two months or something ,
A: do you know ?
B: Oh , I don't know .
A: Yeah ,
A: okay ,
A: well back to crime ,
A: I guess we 're supposed to talk about that .
A: They say what aspect are you worried about ,
A: well , I think at this point , I for one am worried about every aspect
B: Right ,
B: especially , uh , you , since you 're in the same metroplex ,
B: you know , there 's so much going on here .
A: I think the drive by shootings are getting to be so common , that 's really a , something you got to protect yourself from .
B: Well , that , and in the schools , too starting to put metal detectors in ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: golly
A: I know .
B: and ,
A: Have they done that in Garland ?
B: No ,
B: I ,
B: not that I 'm aware of .
A: Now , um ,
B: I just heard , you know , last week at that one school , they started putting them in because there was that one shooting
A: Right .
B: so , um ,
A: Well , we had a vice principal shot at here last year on the , you know , on the school grounds after school .
B: Is that right ?
A: And the one boy killed himself a few years ago , in the , in a grade school ,
A: so you know , these kids don't have any trouble getting a hold of guns in any in any neighborhood , does n't seem like .
B: Uh-huh . Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: So . Yeah ,
A: it 's kind of scary to think , you send your child to school
A: and you wonder if he 's going to get shot .
A: I mean , we did n't have to worry about that before .
B: I know
A: What next ?
B: I know ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's getting ,
B: it 's been out of hand , I think , for a while ,
B: and it just continues to get worse .
A: Right ,
A: and , you know , we ca n't really depend on the police to solve all this ,
A: they just ca n't do it .
B: Yeah .
A: I think it goes all the way back to the break up of the family to a certain extent
B: Right .
A: and , uh , and how we going to bring that back together .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's ,
B: I
B: I agree ,
B: I think that 's where it stems from , is that and , um , you know , you 've got a lot of , a lot more women that are working nowadays that are n't home with the children
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right
A: and ,
B: and that may impact it as well .
A: I think so ,
A: and , and then there 's a drop in , uh , the training of morals , really , you know .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: These , some of these young kids you read about , just does n't bother them to kill someone at all
B: Yeah
A: I think I think years past maybe our criminals had a little more morals , you know would n't kill somebody in cold blood .
B: they don't think twice about it .
B: Yeah .
B: Either that or I don't know if it happened and it was n't as highly publicized as it is now , or what the , what the ,
A: I think it was just rare ,
A: I really do .
B: Uh-huh .
A: My mother , well , she 's like seventy-four now .
A: She , when she was a young girl , she had a beautiful , beautiful cousin that lived in California ,
A: and she was dating this millionaire 's son
A: and he wanted to marry her ,
A: and she would n't marry him
A: and so he drove out in the country one day and shot them both ,
A: and , uh ,
B: You 're kidding .
A: No ,
A: I 'm the one ,
B: Himself and her ?
A: Yeah ,
A: that must have been at least fifty years ago or more ,
A: but the point of the story is that , that was so unbelievable a thing in those days that it was in all the papers , all over the country for weeks
B: Oh , wow ,
B: I bet .
A: but now , you know , you would n't probably read about it here in Texas
B: Oh , I know ,
A: it 's just , you know , another killing .
B: Well , they were ,
B: I was watching some show the other day ,
B: and they were talking about , uh , mass murderers
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they brought up what happened in Killeen here recently ,
B: and they were saying , you know , that these guys want attention , and that when it happens they 're glorified because all the newspaper , it 's on all the newspapers and T V and everything ,
A: Um .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: lots of their picture and life story and everything .
B: Right ,
B: and then you get to their life story ,
B: Oh , they came from a broken family
A: Uh-huh .
B: oh this person had mental problems
A: Right .
B: oh duh , duh , duh you know ,
A: Right .
A: I know , how we and straighten up all these twisted people before they do something terrible ,
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , that story I just told you about my mother 's beautiful cousin , well , the same thing happened here in Arlington , when was it , I think it was , oh , it was almost a year ago in December to a girl that my daughter had graduated from high school with .
B: Is that right ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I think it was on a Hard Copy ,
A: she was a real attractive blond girl , in , in her freshman year of college
B: Uh-huh .
A: and some boy she tried to get rid of , he was like in his twenties ,
B: Uh , I remember seeing that ,
A: Remember that ?
B: I saw that on Hard Copy
A: Right ,
A: right ,
A: that 's , uh ,
B: Yes .
A: My daughter graduated with her from Arlington High School .
B: Is that right ?
A: Yeah ,
A: can you believe it ,
A: that 's just , uh ,
B: I 'm trying to remember ,
B: he , um , had her in the car in front of a Taco or something
A: Taco Bueno ,
A: right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: and he just shot them himself and her .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: I remember seeing that .
A: Yeah , uh , uh ,
A: is n't that weird ?
B: Yeah ,
B: there 's just too many crazy people out there these days .
A: I know ,
A: and , uh , the police are not going to do anything until they , they 've committed some sort of a crime .
A: You know , he was just begging her on the phone ,
A: that 's not doing anything .
B: Yeah .
A: And there are times I think , gee , I should give my kids
A: not be a very good conversationalist on fishing .
A: I don't do a lot of it .
B: Well , I do love to fish .
A: Well good ,
A: maybe I can learn something .
B: Well , I don't know how much you can learn .
B: I 'm not so sure I 'm good at it ,
B: but I do enjoy doing it .
A: Do you ?
B: Yeah .
A: Well , it is fun , what little I do .
A: Of course , I don't , you know ,
A: I think when they refer to different kinds of fishing
A: I told my husband last night when I had called and they had , told me that this was a topic , I said , well , I can tell them how to fish with a minnow or how to fish with a worm
A: He said , I don't think that 's the different kinds of fishing they 're talking about
B: Well , I hope it is ,
B: there 's not a whole lot of different kinds .
A: That 's about the only kind I know how to do .
B: I don't do a lot of deep sea fishing ,
B: I , because I get seasick ,
B: but we have a lot of lakes here in this area
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I do a lot of fishing for , uh , bass .
B: We have a lot of , uh , uh , couple of lakes in our area that are just filled with good sized bass .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then when I get tired of them outwitting me , I fish for catfish
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we use worms and shiners , which is pretty much like minnows a little bit bigger than minnows ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then I also use spinner baits and plastic worms .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It all depends on what I 'm fishing for , and the time of day .
A: Well , it sounds like you do quite a bit of it .
B: I do .
B: Uh , there 's a lake like maybe two or three miles from here ,
B: and it 's very convenient on afternoons when I want to just get away and sit and think .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Fishing 's a good way to do that ,
B: and I have a lot of friends who like to go fishing .
A: Do you have a boat ?
B: No ,
B: I don't .
B: I have a friend who has a little inflatable raft ,
B: and we use that sometimes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I wish I had a boat ,
B: but I don't .
A: I think the lakes are probably different in Michigan than they are in Texas .
A: The ones around here are so big , that you can fish off the dock
B: Uh-huh .
A: but unless you have a boat you ca n't really get into the , where they call the good fishing holes , you know .
B: Right .
B: That 's the same way here , is n't it ?
A: Is it ?
B: You have to get back in the sticks in the ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: My in-laws live on a lake , uh , a little bit east of Dallas , kind of in the Piney Woods ,
A: and the lake is beautiful ,
A: and I like to go out and stand at the end of the dock and fish ,
A: but actually catching fish to eat per se , you don't really do much of that right there .
A: I catch a lot of little old , uh , I think they call them perch
B: Right .
A: and then the , the , uh , turtles try to eat up all my bait
B: Oh .
A: So it 's , it 's so close to the dock that I think all I do is feed them a little bit
B: We don't have , We don't have a big problem with turtles ,
A: but it 's kind of fun .
B: but we do have a awful lot of snakes in our lakes .
A: Um I would be afraid of that .
B: And I , Well , I ca n't think of a time that I 've been fishing that I have n't run into one or two of them .
A: Do they ever get on your hook ?
B: No ,
B: we , uh ,
B: occasionally I 'll catch an eel on a , on a hook , but never the snakes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They just kind of ,
A: Are they poisonous snakes ?
B: Uh , we have a lot of cotton mouth ,
B: so yes
B: they are , definitely
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they live in little shallow , little coves that I like to fish in ,
B: so I seem them swimming by every once in a while .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think I 'd be a little bit afraid of those .
B: Yeah ,
B: they can , they 're , they 're certainly ugly .
A: Uh-huh .
A: We , uh , saw a large snake right off the dock there at my in-laws ' place last year .
A: It was probably four inches in diameter or something like that you know .
A: Great big snake ,
A: and it , of course , it scared the women to death , you know ,
A: but the men come out and said oh , well , that 's only a , a king snake , it wo n't really hurt you , you know .
A: But it looked so bad
B: Yeah .
A: and it was so big , that it might not would have hurt us ,
A: but we sure felt like it was hurting us , just being there , you know
B: Definitely .
A: But they 're scary looking .
B: Do you have bass ?
A: Yes , uh ,
A: I think that , uh , probably around here people fish for bass and crappie and catfish more than anything else .
B: Right .
B: Well , that 's pretty much the same way here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I ,
A: Now , they have a lot of bass tournaments .
B: Well , we have those .
B: I don't
A: Uh-huh .
B: I inevitably , if I enter one of those , I never catch a thing .
A: Oh , no .
B: I just go out there and sit and watch other people do it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well that 's kind of ,
A: we 've never entered a tournament or anything .
A: We 're not that big into fishing ,
A: but I see a lot of people ,
A: you know , early in the morning there 'll be all the boats going out ,
A: and they 'll say , Well , there 's a big bass tournament this weekend ,
A: and all those people are here for the tournament , you know .
B: Oh , yes .
A: So I think there 's a lot of people that have , you know , really , I guess that you 'd call it really sport fishing ,
A: they 're really into it to try to win .
B: Yeah ,
B: oh , definitely .
A: My .
B: Certainly here they are .
A: But it is , it 's very , a very relaxing sport to be able to just be out on the water and looking around .
A: The peace and calmness is really relaxing .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's a good thing to take a nice book and sit back and read and fish .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's what I do a lot .
A: I 've never tried taking a book with me .
A: I 'll have to try that one of these days .
B: Hi ,
B: this is Donna Donahue .
A: Hi , Donna .
B: Hi .
A: Ready to get started ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: I think so .
A: Okay .
A: Sort of an interesting topic since I just got back from lunch here
B: Okay .
B: Well , what did you have for lunch ?
A: Oh , it was , uh , it was ,
A: I 'm an officer in the Air Force , Yeah .
B: Oh .
B: Oh .
B: Well , that 's interesting .
B: Okay .
B: So our topic is , is food today ,
B: is that ,
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
A: If you 're having a dinner party , what , what would you serve ?
B: Okay , uh ,
B: do you want me to go first ?
A: Sure .
B: Okay .
B: If I was having a dinner party I would probably , um , have some , um , some , uh , um , some fruit to start with with some apples sliced up and maybe some cheddar cheese and crackers and grapes and , um , probably serve maybe some wine and beer and maybe have some , uh , uh , salsa and chips around and peanuts .
B: And then I would have , um , let 's see . I usually have like a little theme when I have a dinner party Um , I would have maybe , um , say if it was like Greek night or something * sd um , maybe , um , on the barbecue we 'd put , uh , cubes of lamb or I guess lamb used for Greek . And , um , like a shish kabob , and , um , mushrooms and tomatoes and onions
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then we 'd have , um , like a big Greek tossed salad kind of like a Caesar salad .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , um , let 's see what else .
B: Um , maybe some rolls and , um , I guess some , uh , some rice or something like that .
B: How does that sound ?
A: Jeez ,
A: well , well , when is the party here ?
B: Yeah .
B: Um , yeah ,
B: that would take some planning
B: but ,
A: I don't know
A: being a , being the bachelor here that I am , I , I don't think I 'd , I 'd be
A: I mean it , it 's not a question of capability here to do something like that .
A: It 's just there 's , there 's no motivation .
B: That 's right .
A: You know , I want to , I want to throw some charcoal on the grill and , and throw a steak on there and some baked potatoes and stuff like that
A: but , um ,
B: Well , that sounds good too .
B: I have , um , I have three kids
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , um , when we have friends over I have my oldest kind of baby-sit for the little two younger ones upstairs
B: and , um , usually we just have very plain kind of , you know , interesting , not very interesting meals . Pizza and that all
A: Uh-huh .
B: so once in a while when we do something like that it 's kind of fun ,
B: but it 's not a , not a regular thing . Now are we supposed to talk for about five minutes ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: it ?
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what they , they are shooting for here .
B: Okay .
B: Um , let 's see now
B: okay ,
B: so you would have a barbecue
A: Well , I live on a , I live on a lake here ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , so it ,
A: and then during the summertime it 's real nice to be able to entertain outdoors ,
B: Oh , sure .
A: like that 's a little more a casual thing .
A: But in mine the wintertime it 's not bad too because then I 've got a , a fireplace and a nice , nice house and all that
A: so we , really good place to do entertaining like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , that sounds wonderful .
A: I just have n't , uh , really tried a whole lot
A: but , uh I don't know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: let 's see .
A: I have had , well , one time I did have a dinner party .
A: I served a , uh , uh ,
A: I had a gang of people over and kind of made a fried chicken thing and biscuits , and kind of southern , uh , southern food even though I 'm up here in New York ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so
B: Oh , you are in New York right now ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh .
B: I 'm , I 'm in Texas .
B: I did n't know this was all , from all over the whole country .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah ,
B: Oh , I see .
A: it is .
A: It 's ,
B: And I 'm originally from Long Island .
A: Oh , no kidding ?
B: Yes ,
B: and now where are you in New York ?
A: Upstate .
B: Oh , upstate .
A: Rome .
A: In , uh , Griffins Air Force Base .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Is that where you , you are originally from around there ?
B: Oh , okay .
A: and , uh , been all over the place .
B: Oh , wow .
B: That 's interesting .
B: Okay ,
B: let 's see .
B: Um , well , I like to have , um , sometimes when I have a dinner party I 'll have , um , everybody bring something ,
A: Yeah .
B: and that 's real interesting because then you get different , um , different kinds of foods and new recipes
B: and , um , uh , sometimes somebody will be bring something that you really like ,
A: Right .
B: and get the recipe from them or whatever .
B: And we are just getting interested in , in Mexican food
B: because here in Texas they have lots of , really good Mexican restaurants
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , um , we 're , we 're just getting into the fajitas and all that stuff that you could ,
A: Sure .
B: do you know what a fajita is ?
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: I 've been down to Texas a few times , and , uh , had , uh , the pleasure of their good Mexican , cuisine down there .
B: Okay .
B: Yes .
B: They have some delicious , delicious things ,
B: and I , um ,
B: since I always make chicken burritos and just take chicken breasts
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you boil them , maybe like four chicken breasts ,
B: and you boil them until they are cooked . Maybe like thirty minutes
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then you debone them and , and kind of shred them up into the meat that has gotten cooled
B: and you take , um , little bit , maybe two tablespoons of butter and a in a big frying pan . And chop up some onion and put in oregano and salt ,
A: Uh , I guess I 've always kind of liked golf .
A: I , I worked on a golf course at , at one time
A: and that 's how I picked up golf .
A: And , uh , I don't know
A: it 's just a , kind of a challenging game .
B: It sure is .
B: I play at least three times a week .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm on it ,
A: I have n't gotten the chance lately though to play .
A: I 'm trying to get back into it .
A: Uh , so , uh , I got to start all over again .
A: It 's not like riding a bicycle .
A: You do tend to , forget .
B: No .
B: Well , I 'm one of those rare left-handed golfers .
A: Oh .
A: Yeah .
B: And I do enjoy playing .
A: What is your handicap ?
B: Right now it 's three .
A: Okay .
A: Uh , I was down at about four or five quite awhile ago .
A: It 's probably up there to twenty now if I to start again .
B: Well , if you play with some consistency though , you can get it right back down .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: I have got to try and get out there .
A: I , I know with our , our long winters I , I enjoy watching it .
A: I don't know if it 's just because I like the game or I just like to , to see the warm weather .
B: Uh , well , we can usually play here year around .
B: Sometimes in January it 's not too comfortable to play .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But there is usually two or three days in the week that you can get out there and play ,
B: and I 'm pretty much addicted to golf ,
B: so . I get out there one way or the other .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's the problem out here with the long layovers with the winter
A: you almost have to relearn every spring to , to get back out .
B: It 's a good game though .
B: It 's very challenging
B: and the reason I like it so much is because I 'm essentially playing against myself .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's the way I look at it .
B: I , I play in , in a lot of groups
B: and but I , they keep score and , between themselves
B: but I really don't care .
B: Um , I go out
B: and each shot I say , well , this is what I 'm going to try to do
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then I see how close I can come to that .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: you always work on trying to improve each day
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: and inevitably one facet of my game is n't working at one time or another .
B: Either I 'm not driving very well
B: or I 'm not hitting long irons very well
B: or I 'm not putting well
B: or , but sometimes it all comes together .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know what you mean .
A: I , when I used to golf out there I 'd putt well but I , I would n't , uh , chip well .
A: One of the two , uh ,
A: or something would go wrong
A: but I always managed to , to get near par anyway .
B: Well , we just had the tour championship here in Pine Hurst .
A: Oh .
B: And I went to that .
B: Craig Statler won in a playoff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But we , uh ,
B: this is a big golf area .
A: Yeah .
B: We have a lot of , uh ,
B: I 'd say we probably have within fifteen miles , twenty golf communities built around courses that are pretty well designed and then of course , Pine Hurst
B: and we still have the Greensboro Open here every year .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you have , uh , long waits , uh , to get on the course ?
B: Yes ,
B: we do as a matter of fact .
B: It , it , uh , it 's only been that way in the last five years .
A: Yeah .
B: But now you , uh ,
B: most of the courses have a , uh , two day advance tee time you have to call ,
A: Yeah .
A: Okay .
A: I just moved into this small community
A: so I 'm going to try and get into one of the golf courses here .
A: I 'm hoping that wo n't be ,
A: I , was from the , uh , twin cities area .
B: That 's some cold golf too , is n't it ?
A: Yeah
A: Are you sure you guys are n't having the bad weather ?
B: We have cold .
A: Yeah .
B: Usually January and the first two weeks of February .
A: Well , I wish that 's all we had .
B: But , uh , last week we were in the seventies .
B: Something is coming through now
B: so it 's like in the low forties right now .
A: Oh .
B: But , uh , it 's supposed to leave early in the week and then be back in the sixties .
B: We have very windy winters and very cold .
A: Yeah
B: But we don't get any snow anymore .
B: I don't , I don't know what changed that pattern .
B: We used to get four or five inches a year .
B: Now we get nothing .
B: It 's been probably five years since we 've had any measurable snowfall .
A: I see .
A: Well , at least it , that does n't , uh , get in the way of golfing
A: so that
B: No , Get out my orange golf ball and go out .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what they do here sometimes .
A: You hear about it where they will take the orange ball out there
A: but , if you got ,
B: Okay .
A: So what do you , uh , think is the , uh , the worst culprit for air pollution ?
B: Well , I think it 's , it 's probably a combination of things .
B: Um , factories that , that burn coal as a , an energy source with sulfur and nitrogen contaminants , you know ,
B: and you get sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , those are the ones I think primarily contribute to acid rain ,
B: and I think that 's , that 's probably hurting us a little bit .
B: It 's hurting , you know , it 's hurting Germany , for example , too , and some other parts of Europe where they , where they have high industry .
B: So we 're not the lone ranger here .
A: Yeah .
A: I , uh , I ,
A: it 's hard to put the finger on , uh , what 's worse , you know , the acid rain situation or the ozone depletion , um , with , uh , your hydrocarbons , uh causing the damage in which ,
B: Yeah .
B: Hopefully we 're backing off from that a little bit ,
B: but I know we have n't cured it yet by a long shot .
A: Well , I notice on one of these , uh , home shopping networks they were selling these , uh , halogen , uh , fire extinguishers
B: Yeah .
A: and the halogen is , uh , an ozone depleter ,
A: and it got hydrocarbons in there .
A: It 's a very clean , uh , fire extinguisher ,
A: but it 's , you know , really bad on the environment .
B: Yeah .
B: Huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess I missed that one .
B: Uh .
A: Yeah .
B: Automobiles of course are contributing , too ,
B: and , you know , how , how we are with our love affair with the auto
A: Yeah .
B: kind of hard to do anything about that , I guess .
A: I know ,
A: uh , in the Twin Cities area ,
A: I just moved out of there and was kind of happy I timed it just right ,
A: but they had a new policy where in order to get your , uh , your license , uh , your car license , uh , renewed , you had to meet the pollution standards
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh .
B: We have that here , too ,
B: but it 's part of the inspection sticker , you know ,
B: they put a probe in your exhaust pipe
B: and , and the computer reads whatever the ionization is coming out ,
B: and so that 's , you know , that 's the way they 're dealing with it here .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah , uh ,
A: yeah
A: I guess that was just mainly in the cities there ,
A: and as far as where I live , I don't have to do that ,
A: but I have an old car which I doubt would , uh , would , uh , pass the inspection , a seventy-six ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , you know , there 's no way I would put in a lot of money to , to repair it to meet standards .
B: Yeah .
B: It 'd probably be difficult anyway .
A: Yeah .
A: So , although I do what I can to , to cut down pollution ,
A: but , uh .
B: I was just reading an article in , uh , MOTHER EARTH NEWS , MOTHER EARTH NEWS magazine
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , they 've got a new , uh ,
B: you know a lot of places are burning wood
A: Yeah .
B: a lot , a lot of people are burning wood ,
B: those of us who have ,
B: I 've got a place in the country , you know
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , they 've had catalytic you know , catalytic converters on those , on ,
B: uh , I think they 're required in California and Oregon and , and Washington ,
B: but they 've had up those for quite a while ,
B: and somebody 's come up with a new one that , uh , sort of ,
B: it 's a , it 's a catalytic converter ,
B: it 's , it 's a plate that fits in , you know , into the smoke pipe
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , apparently it sort of feeds itself .
B: The more smoke is produced , you know ,
B: after you get to like five hundred degrees , the higher it gets the more complete the combustion is .
B: And it sounds real neat .
B: I have n't seen them priced anywhere yet ,
B: but that , that sounds like that might help solve that problem even on you know , old , old , uh , older stoves that don't have any kind of E P A requirements on them .
A: Yeah .
B: That might help a little bit , especially in some places .
B: We 're really lucky here .
B: We have a prevailing southerly wind that blows just about everything out .
A: Yeah .
B: Now sometimes we get a kind of a ,
B: especially in , in , uh , autumn it seem like we get kind of a brown haze sitting on us ,
B: but most of the time it 's blowing out pretty well .
A: Yeah .
B: Probably blowing up there to you guys
A: Yeah ,
A: well , well around here I , we get , uh ,
A: well it depends , you know ,
A: either in the , in the winter time it , it blows it your way ,
A: and in the summer time we probably get yours .
B: Yeah .
B: It comes back .
B: Yeah .
B: I really think , uh , you know , we 're doing some , some important things .
B: Education , raising consciousness awareness ,
B: uh , I know school kids ,
B: I work for the school district here ,
B: and , uh , you know , this is one of the big things with kids .
B: Kids are writing letters to the newspapers about , you know , telling adults to clean up their act
A: Yeah .
B: and , it 's uh , you know ,
B: I hope we 're not too late with it .
B: We 're , we 're , uh , we 're having all kinds of recycling .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it , uh , that 's a big thing , too .
A: I know it has nothing to do with air pollution ,
A: but I kind of look at the way people treat our ,
A: Surprised they get anybody this time of day
A: but , I 've been trying all different times ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I don't get anybody at five thirty , don't get anybody at nine at night
A: so thought , I 'll try ,
B: Oh , well , I 'm at , work
B: and I just happened to walk back into my office .
A: Oh
B: I 've been gone for a little while
A: Oh .
A: Well , I go to school
A: so I 'm home certain days ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I really have n't been making any phone calls , have you ?
A: Got ,
B: I don't , I have n't ever made any .
B: I just receive them
A: Oh
A: Have you , have you received many ?
B: I have n't here lately .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's , it 's , uh ,
A: well , the first time we were on this it came just about every day .
B: Yeah .
A: I never had to make one .
A: They just always came
B: Yeah .
B: Exactly .
A: People must be tired of it or something .
A: well anyway I guess we 're supposed to discuss this , uh , subject ,
A: what do you think ?
B: Well , I never gave it any thought myself
B: I was hoping you could tell me what you thought .
A: Oh .
A: Well , I don't have any objection to people doing that .
A: I think it might be good for them .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But as a mother of two daughters I might be afraid of where they were sent .
B: Exactly .
A: I 'm just concerned about their safety
B: Uh-huh .
A: because if they do good work in America they 'll probably be sent to a ghetto
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And if they were sent to a third world country I could n't help but wait worried , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: That , that would be my main objection . I don't think ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know
B: I think maybe it 's , it should stay on a voluntary basis
A: it will probably never happen
A: but ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think it would be good for , uh , everyone to do something like that
B: but I , I guess I don't feel like it should be something forced upon you .
A: Yeah ,
A: well it , it probably wo n't .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't , I don't even know how we 'd pay for it anyway .
A: We ca n't , uh seem to pay for all the little things we have going now
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's another consideration
B: Exactly
A: But , uh , I don't know
A: some kids are so spoiled nowadays
A: it might be a real eye opener , you know
B: Really
A: I mean , sometimes my kids are on the other side of town here
A: and they just see some really tiny modest wood frame homes
A: and then they think ,
A: they 're just kind of shocked at that side of town , you know
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I probably lived in one of those when I was a little girl
B: I have a girlfriend that every time her son starts taking things for granted she threatens to send him to Mexico with her relatives and let him get a taste of that for a while
A: Oh
A: Well that would be an eye opener , would n't it ?
B: Would n't it though ?
A: I mean right next to us is such a pitiful country .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: it is .
A: I know .
A: Sometimes I wish we 'd help them out instead of going all across the world , and helping some countries I never even heard of .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I know it .
A: It seems to me we are ,
A: it would be to our benefit to strengthen that country . Right on our borders .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , what do I know , right ?
A: I 'm just sitting at home and , and , uh , doing laundry today and certainly not up ,
A: nobody has called me from Washington
A: Oh , but , uh , anyway , how did you get on this program ?
B: I work at T I .
A: Oh , you do work at T I ?
A: Oh , you 're in Lewisville .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I just went by that place .
A: We were going to a football playoff game a week or so ago which we lost
A: and , uh we went by .
A: That 's the first time I 'd seen it .
A: It looked really nice .
B: Yeah .
A: A lot of trees there .
A: It looked like a pretty little , a sight .
B: Hang on a minute .
A: Sure .
B: to someone in the No ,
B: I don't think so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: Patty might .
B: I 'm back .
A: Oh , sure .
B: But how did you get on it ?
A: Well , my husband works at T I over on Central .
B: Oh .
A: Uh , why we 're living in Arlington I 'm not so sure
A: but , he works over there
A: and
A: we did it last time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , so I 'm , just my daughter and I are registered this time .
A: I don't know ,
A: they did n't even ask him back
B: Really ?
A: That was weird , was n't it ?
B: Huh .
A: But like I said I hardly ever get any calls this time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I don't get too many .
A: And I can never find anybody .
B: Huh .
A: So , um ,
B: The first time I used to get calls from far away too .
A: Right .
B: Like Maryland , and New Jersey ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and but now it just seems like it 's in the Dallas Fort Worth area that I get calls from .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've had the same experiences ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: all right around here .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't know , uh ,
A: I wonder if they really ,
A: I don't know if they could possibly teach a machine to recognize all the different accents .
A: There 's just , there 's so many with this one town you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: even in some families some people talk a little bit different .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: My husband is from New Jersey
A: and one of his sisters does things that really sound funny to me
A: and he does n't pronounce them at all that way ,
A: and that 's one family , right ?
A: Of course , I think everybody in New Jersey sounds a little bit funny
A: but
B: Oh , I agree .
A: You know , how that goes
B: Oh , shoot .
A: Oh , God .
A: Well , I 'm surprised she has n't told us to cut it off yet .
A: Sometimes she says at night . Or , or or overloads
B: Yeah .
A: so please end your conversation .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Well , do you have any more words of wisdom about the subject ?
B: No ,
B: I sure don't
A: You don't have any kids you want to send over here ?
B: No ,
B: no kids
A: Well , is
B: Oh , shoot .
A: Well , uh , I don't know if mine would want to go live in the ghetto .
A: Well , one of them is real idealistic ,
A: she might
B: My sister is ,
B: I 'd be more suited to that than her
B: she 's just bugs ,
B: Okay ,
B: you ready ?
A: Yeah ,
A: is that it ?
B: That 's it .
A: Okay ,
A: Uh , well , we , I guess we have to talk about magazines
A: and , uh , what , what ,
B: What , what kind do you subscribe to or do you ?
A: Well , I subscribe to well , I did subscribe to PEOPLE for a long time .
A: I do , you know ,
A: I enjoy PEOPLE .
A: And now I 'm , uh , I , uh , subscribe to , uh , LADIES HOME JOURNAL .
B: I , uh , take a computer magazine . And , uh , also , uh , BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: are you interested in , in computers ?
B: And my pet peeve with magazines is all the little cards inside . And the cardboard pages
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: well , that , that would be one of my peeves .
A: My pet peeves with magazines , the woman 's magazines especially ,
A: I mean , it 's , it 's really geared to ,
A: all they have ,
A: you have too many recipes first of all .
A: I just don't , you know ,
A: that 's what I don't like about LADIES HOME JOURNAL magazines .
A: Too many recipes , too many , uh , can this marriage with saved nonsense .
A: I , you know , I like to read articles about things that matter .
A: Well , of course , PEOPLE magazine is not , you know , one of your , uh , your more intellectual magazines ,
A: but it 's nice , light reading
A: You know , if I want something intellectual , I usually read a book .
B: Well , that 's true .
B: I , uh , I like it when they have short stories .
B: Like REDBOOK used to always have a good short story in it .
A: Well , that 's true ,
A: yeah ,
A: they did .
B: And I have n't bought a REDBOOK in a while
B: so I guess
A: Yeah .
B: I , I really very rarely ever pick up a magazine anymore
A: Well , is REDBOOK still in existence ?
A: I don't know if they 're , if they 're around anymore .
B: Yeah
B: I think it is .
B: it 's an institution ,
B: surely it would have to be .
A: Yeah .
B: But ,
A: Well , I 'll tell you , the only reason I bought the , uh , I subscribe to the JOURNAL is because of ,
A: which I think it was either ,
A: yeah ,
A: it was Publisher 's Clearinghouse
B: Right
A: They told me , you know , if I did n't subscribe they were going to take me off their , their winning , you know , their list
A: So ,
B: Mine , too
B: This was it , my last chance
A: Yeah ,
A: my last , right , my last chance to win ten million dollars ,
A: so I figured , hey , look For twelve dollars , you know ,
B: Well , I , I , I went ahead and sent in my subscription because of that uh , to , uh , ENTERTAINMENT .
A: That 's it .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: oh , uh-huh .
B: And I was real disappointed with it .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I don't know ,
B: it just ,
B: not enough stories with some substance that you can really get into .
A: Right .
B: It 's little short articles more than anything else .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's one thing I don't like about PEOPLE .
B: Uh , it 's just , you know , does n't seem to have enough story to it .
A: Well , I don't know ,
A: I just think , uh , you know , it 's , It 's light reading .
B: If you 've only got a short time to read
A: You know , you don't have , well , you don't have to concentrate , you know you know .
B: No ,
B: that 's true
A: It 's entertaining , you know ,
A: and , uh , that 's ,
A: I just , I enjoy it ,
A: I , you know , I , uh
A: Well , that ENTERTAINMENT is , is very ,
A: was n't that similar , or is n't it similar to , to the TV GUIDE ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: not really .
B: I mean , not the one I take now .
B: It 's a , it 's a magazine
B: and it goes into all the movies , previewing the movies that are going to be released or behind the scenes .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Oh , I see .
B: And , uh , I 'm a real movie buff ,
B: so that 's why I thought I might be interested in it ,
B: but it just has n't been what I thought it would be .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: And , uh , my mother has subscribed to , is the reason I get , uh , the HOME JOURNAL and the , uh , computer book is because mother got a subscription for it and sent it to me .
A: Oh .
B: Otherwise , if , if I really want to take the time to read a magazine and I see one on the grocery shelf , I 'll pick it up then . Rather than having them delivered and think , oh , I really need to read this
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: Well , I 'll tell you , since I 've been getting the JOURNAL , like maybe , maybe I 'll read two , maybe three ,
A: if I read three articles in , in , you know , one of the JOURNALs , I figure , you know , I did really well .
B: Yeah ,
A: Because there 's just nothing in there that interests me .
A: I don't , you know , I don't , I 'm not into , you know , recipes
A: and
B: Well , I , I do like recipes and crafts .
A: See , now , and I 'm not into crafts ,
A: so , you know , that , that eliminates , like three quarters of the magazine You know .
B: That 's true .
A: Well , I just got the new issue ,
A: they have Bette Midler on the cover ,
A: so that should be one article that I 'll read anyway
B: Do you , uh ,
A: So , how is the weather out there ?
B: Uh , it 's really cold
B: and it 's supposedly for this time of the year it 's unseasonably cold
B: and they 've gotten more snow than they 've ever had .
A: Oh , really ?
B: You have , breaking records for coldness and all that kind of stuff .
B: How about you guys ?
A: Um . Uh , it 's just , it 's a , it 's about same .
A: The usual , I think .
B: Oh .
A: So , nice for skiing and all that kind of stuff
A: It 's good .
B: Yeah ,
B: well the weather , let 's see , well , the snow here is different from Utah 's ,
B: because I have lived in Utah for like ten years .
A: Oh , really ?
A: What part ?
B: And , uh ,
B: Provo .
B: I was going to B Y U .
A: Oh , really ?
A: Okay .
B: Yeah .
B: And , uh , the snow is like , really cold .
B: I mean , it 's , like , really humid
B: so it seems wetter or something like that .
B: It 's ,
A: It 's more humid in Utah than there ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Or there ?
B: It 's more humid in Iowa than Utah .
A: Okay .
A: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: Okay .
B: And it seems like when the winds blow , it 's really , it goes right through you .
B: It 's really different from Utah 's weather .
B: I thought Utah was cold ,
B: but I think Iowa is a lot colder
A: Yeah ,
A: see , that 's how it is in Texas , too
A: because when it 's cold , it 's really cold .
A: So ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't think there is any mountains to stop the wind
A: What 's that ?
B: I don't think there is any mountains to stop the wind .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: So the humidity is I think what does it
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's true .
A: Because I , I noticed when I got here , too ,
A: because like I 'd ,
A: when it would snow in Texas uh , I would just , I mean we 'd be really cold
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we 'd have to get really warm ,
A: and here you can almost not even wear a coat outside when it 's snowing
A: and you don't you don't feel super cold .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: It was weird .
B: Yeah .
A: But , so how long ago did you graduate ?
A: Or did you ,
A: or ,
B: Uh , I graduated in nineteen eighty-seven .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: my husband got his doctorate at B Y U ,
B: so that 's ,
B: and so he just graduated this past year .
A: Oh .
A: So you just barely moved away ?
B: Uh-huh
B: Yeah , Well , we really miss Utah
A: Do you like it out there ?
B: We miss the mountains .
A: You do ?
A: Yeah .
B: Because it 's , like , really flat here
B: Well , not flat , but hilly .
B: But no big mountains or anything .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So you just moved away a year ago ?
B: Uh , in August .
A: Wow , really recent .
B: Yeah .
B: But , uh , see , see what else can I say about the weather .
B: Uh , well , today was warmer
B: It was like forty-five
A: Oh , warm
B: So , what 's the temperature up today over there ?
A: Oh , man ,
A: it 's got to be like , it 's probably fifty , fifty-five , maybe .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Maybe not that warm .
A: Probably about , uh ,
A: yeah .
A: It 's not , it 's not that cold , really .
B: And whenever I remembered the weather reports in Utah , I never really remember them talking too much about wind chill .
A: Yeah .
B: But they talk about wind chill here all the time .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's a big deal in Texas , too .
B: They said it could be , like , six degrees out and , like , negative forty-one wind chill .
A: Um .
B: So , that 's what we 're not used to
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
A: That makes a big difference . Huh .
B: So , oh , I ,
A: So , did you used to ski when you were out here ?
B: What 's that ?
A: Did you used to ski when you were in Utah ?
B: Oh , I 've only , I 've only skied in Utah once .
A: Oh , really ?
B: I only skied once my whole life
B: But , do you do a lot of skiing there ?
A: Uh , not tons ,
A: but I like to when I get a chance .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 've only been once so far , but had the opportunity a couple times since then .
A: Just saving my money for Christmas things and that .
B: Yeah .
B: So is this your first year in Utah ?
A: Uh , no ,
A: this is actually my third year .
B: And you 're going to school there ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: Yep .
B: At U of U ,
B: or ,
A: No ,
A: at B Y U .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh .
A: So , but , I 'll be here a long time at this rate .
B: What 's your major ?
A: Uh , it was nursing ,
A: but I 'm in the process of changing it right now .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: oh .
A: Because it 's really , really competitive at B Y U .
B: Yeah .
A: You have to have like a three seven to get in
A: so , It 's really ,
B: That 's true .
A: I 'm going to look into some other fields .
A: I 'd like ,
A: all the science classes and that , I 'm just not really enjoying too much
A: so I think I better get into something that I can enjoy the process of going to school
B: Uh-huh .
A: so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's a good idea .
A: Did you graduate in a certain field
A: or ,
B: Uh , education .
B: I got a double major .
A: In ,
B: Uh , elementary and special ed .
A: Really ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: That what my sister did .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: you might know her .
A: Here name is Lori , Bird .
A: Maybe not
A: I think she graduated around then , too , though , eighty-seven probably ,
A: but , she got her
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I ca n't ,
B: there are so many girls in all my classes ,
B: I ca n't remember how many people .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Because they , since , uh , stopped that program . I mean , where you can where you can get it double pretty easily .
B: Oh , have they ?
B: Oh .
A: I mean , it 's , it 's really ,
A: We 're set .
B: Okay .
A: What changes do you feel have happened ?
B: Oh , I guess the first thing has been the , uh , for the right , for women to vote .
B: I think that has been a major change and also the fact that , uh , there are so many more women in the work force nowadays than there were
B: and that 's probably going to increase . You know .
A: Right .
A: Increases each year , does n't it ?
B: I 'm sorry ?
A: It increases each year I think .
B: It sure does .
B: Yeah ,
B: there is a lot more women in the work place nowadays .
A: Well , and I think women have kind of had , uh , in the past the real subservient role .
B: Role ?
B: Right .
A: And , uh ,
B: That 's changing
A: Well , we do to some degree
B: Right .
A: but , uh , uh , I think it 's not as much as it was .
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: I , I agree .
B: It definitely has changed .
A: I , And especially , I think with women increasingly working , they 're going to have to demand more from men .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because there is just , impossible to keep up on everything else .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Have more of an active role in taking care of children , more of an active role in taking care of the home .
B: Well , you know , they 've been talking about
B: and I don't know , uh , what the status is on it ,
B: but , you know , women get maternity leave and stuff like that
B: and I know that they 've , there has been discussion about men also getting maternity leave to help out ,
A: Right .
B: but you know , I have n't really heard much about that recently .
A: Well , you know , there is a lot of companies that wo n't give women maternity leave for that very reason .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , in fact , I know the school districts down here , you , they don't have maternity leave .
A: Uh you simply have to take , accumulate your sick leave . And take your sick leave .
B: Oh , is that right ?
B: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I don't know , uh , if bigger company companies do ,
A: but when I was employed with the school district , I did n't have maternity leave either
A: and that was the reason
A: because they thought was showing prejisim to women and not to men
A: but , So , uh ,
B: Huh , that 's interesting .
B: That 's a bummer , though
A: Yeah
A: it is .
B: I mean , You got to take the time off
A: You have to save all of your , uh , vacation time .
A: You do .
A: You have to save all your vacation time
A: and that 's usually how it 's , uh , happened ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: What do you see , uh , changing in the future ?
B: I think that we 're probably going to see a lot more companies , uh , run by females .
A: Right ,
A: and , and top level .
B: And we 'll
B: I 'm sorry ?
A: Maybe top level .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: upper management ,
B: more women in upper management
B: and probably , uh , we 'll see more females in political roles .
B: More governors and , I think , you know , roles like that .
A: That would be kind of nice
B: Well , we 've got , in Texas , we have a female governor .
A: That 's right ,
A: that 's right .
B: And we had a female mayor here in Dallas ,
B: and she just , her term just ended
B: and , uh , so I think we 're probably going to see more of that in the future
A: Yeah
A: I think that 's probably good .
A: A little more integration .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , maybe not so much that we sit on the back burners
A: and ,
B: Right , you know ,
B: I mean , and that 's fine with me
A: I think ,
B: but sometimes ,
B: I mean I 'm not a women 's libber by any means ,
B: but I do ,
A: Right .
B: there are issues that , you know , as far as , like , equal pay for men and women and that kind of stuff , I totally am for .
A: Right .
B: But , I don't get into the , uh , the real women libber movement , you know .
A: No ,
A: I don't either .
A: I don't think they 're ever going to prove that men and women are equal
B: Yeah .
A: We just function differently
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: And , uh , I 'm not capable of lifting what , uh , a man can lift and you know , that type of , that type of thing ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh one of the big changes , uh , they 're doing in Salt Lake is , uh ,
B: Right .
A: and they 're probably ,
A: I 'm sure , in Dallas since you 're big places , a lot more women are , uh , working right out of their home with their P C 's or with their lap computers or whatever .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I 've heard of that .
B: Uh , I have n't really talked to anybody that 's , you know , too involved with that .
B: But , I mean , I think that is a ,
A: I think that ,
B: Like the cottage industry .
B: Is , is that what you 're talking about , women working out of their homes ?
A: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , I think it 's wonderful
A: Right .
A: You only have to check in with the office once or twice a week
A: and ,
B: Yeah .
A: Course , they 're talking about , uh , that we 're going to be able to do our grocery shopping and banking and everything like that ,
B: Oh , I
B: By the phone and all that .
A: so , uh , it would be kind of exciting in some ways to , to see a little bit more of that
A: and some ways , it might be kind of scary .
B: Right .
A: Think anybody could do it ,
A: but , Anyway ,
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: I would n't mind just calling up the grocery store and giving them my order and going an hour later and picking it up
A: Right .
A: Right ,
A: but then you know , there is the process of selection .
A: Would you have to give them the brand You know , when you shop , you usually compare the prices
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: and , would be nice , though .
A: How big is Provo ?
B: Um .
A: That a little town or , or a bigger city ?
B: Um , it 's not one of the bigger ones . It 's probably , um , I compare it to the size of Plano , maybe a little smaller .
B: Plano , Texas . No * nn
A: Oh .
A: I talked to someone that was only a couple of thousand in her town , I think .
A: Yeah ,
A: I forgot the name of the town .
A: I thought maybe it was you
A: Oh , well , anyway , we 're supposed to talk about education .
A: I certainly have some ideas since I 'm studying it now in college .
A: I 'd say , first of all , they need to go back to spending more time on the basic reading , writing , arithmetic in grade school ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: because they really teach you about forty percent less than they used to ,
A: and it shows up .
A: That 's one idea .
A: Do you have any ?
B: Um , I don't know ,
B: I 'm pretty , I think I 'm pretty satisfied with , um ,
B: I I grew up in Plano
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and my dad is actually on the school board there ,
B: so , I kind of kept up with a lot of things that went on .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's
A: Plano , uh , improved greatly in the last twenty , twenty-five years
B: Yeah .
A: that 's for sure .
A: It used to be the pits .
A: And Arlington is excellent now ,
A: but I 'm just speaking overall across the country .
B: Oh .
B: Yeah .
A: Something is definitely wrong .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , one thing , they don't spend as much time just teaching reading and writing ,
A: so a lot of kids are just being promoted from year to year
A: and they truly ca n't read
B: Right .
A: so I don't know how they expect them to , uh , pass history when they ca n't read anything , you know , even read a word problem in math .
A: So , um , that 's definitely a problem .
A: Another problem is you 're going to keep the smarter people in the system too long paying the wages they do .
B: Right .
A: But , um ,
B: So do you , what do you think is good about the schools ?
A: That is good about ,
A: well , it depends on where you are .
A: They 're all so different .
A: That 's another thing about the United States .
B: Yeah .
A: There 's no national curriculum , you know ,
A: I mean , what they 'd be teaching in an Arlington school they may not be teaching in a Plano school
B: Uh-huh .
A: and in the same school district , you may , even in an Arlington seventh grade for instance , you may have an English class
A: you may have half literature for the whole year ,
A: whereas in another one they 're going to concentrate on grammar and give you a little literature ,
B: Grammar .
A: it 's up to the teacher , in other words .
A: So that 's kind of you know , that 's kind of odd to me .
B: Yeah .
A: It depends on , uh , what school you 're in and who your teacher is , actually
B: Uh-huh .
A: or is how you end up
A: Overall , Arlington is good , one of the better ones in the state ,
A: so I guess we lucked out when we moved here .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So , yeah ,
B: that 's the thing is just to look at the school system in the area that you move into before you .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Of course we have a slight problem in that , uh , the number of the illiterate in America is mushrooming at this point ,
A: and , uh , you know , where our kids might be in a great school , we 're still paying an awful lot of taxes for people who are on welfare and unemployment because they ca n't read , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So .
B: But do you think that there should be , um , nationwide , um , curriculum ?
A: I don't know .
A: I just read about that the other day ,
A: and I had never even thought of it .
A: Actually it makes sense to a certain extent ,
A: because sometimes , like a third grade teacher will get kids from second grade that did n't even learn what , uh ,
A: they should to do the work that she is supposed to teach , you know . and according to her plan ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I guess if there was a national curriculum we 'd at least have a certain amount that all kids would learn .
B: Right .
A: But , uh . We actually rank forty-ninth in the world as far as just plain literacy goes , you know .
B: Um .
A: That 's , that 's pretty low that there 's forty-eight countries ahead of us that have more more citizens percentage wise that can read and write ,
B: Yeah .
A: so , um , unless we want to keep paying , paying for these people that ca n't make it in society , we 're going to have to do something .
A: I don't know .
A: Obviously nobody 's smart enough to have figured it out yet ,
A: so I probably ca n't
A: But I do think that we have to cut out some of this folderol stuff and go back in the first five , six grades and just keep going over and over and over until most of those that are capable can at least learn to read and write
A: because they ca n't even get the menial job without being able to read something nowadays you know .
B: Right .
A: Uh , you ca n't , you ca n't even work an answering machine if you 're at work and had to get a message or something you know , or fill out an application to work at McDonalds if you ca n't read .
B: Uh-huh . Yeah * aa
A: So , uh , I think that 's , that 's a start at least , going back to the basics in the early grades
A: and , um , they say that the average English student nowadays does at least fifty percent less reading and writing than they did twenty years ago ,
A: and that 's a big jump .
B: I believe that
A: Did you go to school in Plano ?
B: I did .
A: Through high school .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh ,
A: Up , up there , maybe , maybe you guys don't have as , uh , big a problem with air pollution as many , do you ?
B: We , we , we have a terrible air pollution problem .
A: Do you really ?
B: Our summers are extremely , uh , hazardous
A: Uh-huh .
B: and during , uh , certain wind directions because we get the , uh , Gary , Indiana Chicago pollution
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we can look out on the lake and just see the brown haze , uh coming up along the lake .
A: That 's horrible .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they do post , uh , uh , warnings for people who have , uh , heart diseases or respiratory problems during that summer season .
A: Uh-huh .
B: In the winter it 's not as severe .
A: Right .
B: But , uh , if the wind comes basically from the south it can be really bad .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , the State of Wisconsin , as a matter of fact , uh , started some litigation against Illinois because of the air pollution we were getting .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I don't think it 's going to go very far ,
B: but it , it was , uh , a way of , uh , triggering , uh , awareness .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: So what 's the conditions like in Dallas ?
A: Well , uh , in Dallas , I , I have n't seen air pollution quite on a , quite on a level that we had in Denver .
A: I grew up in Denver ,
A: and , and I 've lived there most of my life ,
A: and we used to have those , uh , you know , the posted warning days .
A: Uh , however , in Colorado now , they have the emissions control law , which has really cut down ,
A: probably only once every couple of years do we ever have pollution so bad that they have to post warnings now , you know , as far as health concerns .
B: Um .
A: Uh , due to that the , the emissions , uh , uh , control on the vehicles , seems that all of our , all of our , uh , smog was caused by vehicles rather than industry .
B: Wisconsin has a , a law in which we need to take our cars in every year when we apply for a new license tag and they are tested for , uh , their pollution control equipment ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and if they don't qualify then they have to take it to a mechanic and have it gone over and then verify that it , it is drivable .
A: Um .
B: So , they 've , they 've tried to do a lot of that
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I
B: you know , there seem to be , at least in certain little pockets ,
B: and we were talking earlier about Madison
A: Uh-huh .
B: Madison has one of the nicest , uh , bike , uh , road , uh , sharing programs of , of any city in Wisconsin
A: Oh , really .
B: and all Wisconsin has probably the most extensive number of , uh , bike trails for recreational use of any of the states .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And there is a , a real promotion of , of biking
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , um , there are still a lot of people who insist on , on driving their own automobiles uh , to go everywhere .
A: Right .
B: I find that a little irritating , because I don't think it 's always so necessary .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: it , it becomes , uh ,
A: maybe to you and I who have grown up in some in , uh , uh , some more beautiful parts of the country , uh , I think that , that , uh , we become a little more aware , uh , rather quickly of , of what 's happening with air pollution and how , uh , how horrible it really is .
A: Um , I , I notice people in , in Dallas seem to say , Well , sure , there 's air pollution , but , you know , really , how bad is , how bad could this problem really be .
B: Send , send them to Wisconsin ,
B: and we 'll let them try to drink out of some of the lakes and try to fish in some of the lakes that have been suffering from , uh , the , uh , acid rain
A: Oh really
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 'll , they 'll , they may wake up , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: how 'd you like to own a piece of property where your lake is going sour because of acid rain .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: It 's , uh , really a serious issue for those of us up in this , uh , sector up , up here .
A: Do you find that , um , or , or do you hypothesize that , that most of the , uh , smog or , or air pollution comes from vehicles
A: or does it come mostly from industry up there ?
B: I think it 's mostly vehicles although it does come from some of the industry of , of the Gary area
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: that causes the acid rain .
B: That I 'm a little uncertain of ,
B: but I do know that , uh , it is a problem .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I had talked with my parents .
A: I , I grew up , uh , I was born in , uh , Muncie , Indiana , and , and grew up a little bit in Terre Haute ,
A: and I had asked them before , uh ,
A: I went back to visit recently , about a year ago ,
A: and I asked them ,
A: I said , did you ever realize the air pollution that was ,
A: I 'm sorry , um
B: That 's okay ,
B: I did n't hear .
A: hobbies .
B: Okay .
A: Let me see ,
A: I don't know if that took or not ,
A: I 'll do it again .
B: Okay .
A: Okay .
A: What are your hobbies ?
A: I hear you have kids , right ?
B: You heard her in the background
B: That 's babies .
A: That 's your full time , uh , hobby , right ?
B: Takes a lot of time , huh .
B: I like , uh , most sports .
B: I like to do that .
B: I kind of like to do a little bit of sewing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , little bit of embroidery work , once in a while .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What do you like to do ?
A: Um , I try to do some painting , although I 'm not very good at it
B: Well , I 'm sure you probably are .
A: Well , no ,
A: not really .
B: You like it ,
B: that 's the main .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I have , you know , I inherited the genes that make me think I 'm creative , but not the ones that give me the ability to be .
B: That 's right .
A: So , I always try .
A: I , I do some sewing , mostly out of necessity .
A: Um , I 'm making drapes for my house , just because I 'm ,
B: Oh , boy , that 's hard sewing .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it is n't and it is .
A: It is , you know ,
A: actually the sewing is n't the hard part ,
A: it 's just being able to lay out the material and measure it because you need so much room .
B: Measure it and get it to ,
B: Well , if it , it depends on how elaborate you get it .
B: If you get pleats and all kinds of ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've been doing that
A: and , That ,
B: That 's a lot of work .
A: yeah ,
A: that ,
A: but usually have to do the pleats by hand .
A: So that , at least I can do , you know , watching T V or whatever
B: Oh .
A: but ,
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: Yeah ,
A: and I 've , I 've gone and , you know , put the needle through my thumb a few times trying to get it through
A: but ,
B: That feels really good .
A: Yeah ,
A: so that 's not really my favorite thing to do or anything , but I , I need to do it .
B: To do it ,
B: right .
A: I have , let 's see , I have a dog , and a lot of fish .
A: Keeping fish , I guess is my biggest hobby .
B: Keeping fish .
B: Well , they 're probably easier than keeping dogs , though , are n't they .
A: Um , yes and no .
A: It depends on how frequently they die , and how much that bothers you .
B: Oh , no .
B: How much that bothers you ,
B: and you probably have to clean out the tank too .
A: That 's ,
A: you don't have to do as much as , as I thought .
A: In fact , my problem ,
A: I had fish as a kid
A: and they always died immediately ,
B: Oh , no .
A: and , what , I 'm , what I think now is the reason is I kept the tank too clean
B: Oh , you 're kidding
A: because you have ,
B: because they need to have a little bit of the ,
A: Right ,
A: you need to let the bacteria build up ,
A: and then it keeps all the chemicals in balance .
B: I see .
A: And I would just take everything out and just like , you know , wash it with scalding hot water
B: Oh , no .
A: and it would kill all the bacteria ,
A: and that would screw up all the chemical cycles again
B: And so you 'd have to start all over to build that up probably .
A: so .
A: Right .
A: That 's right .
A: So now only , I only clean things to make things look more aesthetically pleasing
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: and I don't try and sterilize things
B: don't go through the whole nine yards
B: and they kind of need a little bit of that .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: So you 've had fish for a long time .
A: Well , I 've had them ,
A: I guess it 's been two years now I 've had a , a tank here ,
A: and then back at home I used to have a small , you know , five gallon tank .
A: But that never worked well . I have fifty-five gallons now . * sd
B: What size do you have now ?
B: Oh , that 's a good size .
A: It 's a lot easier .
B: Have you ever had it , uh , crack or break or leak .
A: No
A: No ,
A: not yet .
B: Fifty-five gallons , you 'd hope it would never do that .
A: That 's right ,
A: I really do .
A: But , you know .
B: Do you have all kinds of different fish
B: or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I just have , you know , what they call community fish guppies , and platies and , and basic things .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't get into the
B: Real exotic .
A: right ,
A: right .
A: The expensive ones .
B: Well , they 're probably hardy , harder to take care of
B: and ,
A: They are .
A: They 're very expensive
A: and , you know , when you die , it 's like , when they die it 's more like an investment .
B: Yes ,
B: I bet it is .
A: You lost an investment
A: so ,
B: Do you have problems with them , uh , the fish eating each other ?
A: No ,
A: not really .
A: Only if there 's baby fish .
B: Right .
A: You always have to isolate those .
B: Then you have to ,
B: how do you isolate them ?
A: You get a
B: A jar or something
B: or .
A: well , no ,
A: they have breeders .
B: Okay .
A: It 's a little plastic things that sort of floats
B: Okay .
A: and you put the mother fish in there
A: and then it 's got like a trough underneath her
B: Okay .
A: so as the babies come out they fall down in the trough
A: and there 's a hole in the middle so they fall into the bottom part of the chamber so the mother ca n't get to them either .
B: Oh .
A: And that 's , you know ,
A: it kind of works ,
A: but it 's also got slots in it so the water can circulate
B: Right .
A: it 'll fit out the slots .
B: It 'll go through the slot .
A: That 's right ,
A: so . But , you know , it works , I guess .
B: That works all right then .
B: They don't , uh , want the mothers to be with the little fish either .
A: Oh , they 'll eat them .
B: They will .
A: Yeah .
B: Is n't that odd .
A: Yes .
B: You would n't think that .
A: It , and it 's funny because the one I have , every single month without fail she has babies .
B: You 're kidding .
A: Oh , no .
A: All the time ,
A: and , um , I ,
A: and she 's supposed to ,
A: her variety , it says they wo n't eat the babies ,
A: and I 've seen her do it .
A: So .
B: And that just makes you sick almost , does n't it ?
A: Oh , it 's
A: well , it makes you understand that , you know , things are different
B: Things are different in the animal kingdom , huh .
A: We might , right . We might decide what 's proper and what is n't ,
A: but you know , that 's the way it is for them .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's kind of the way they do it .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's it .
B: Survival of the fittest or something .
A: Yes ,
A: because if the baby is strong enough , it can swim away fast enough and go hide .
B: Right .
B: Go hide from them ,
B: well and then , you think , well , how did they do it out in the real world anyway when these fish are in the tropicals or wherever they are kind of trying to keep up with that ,
A: So .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: but . If you 're like me , you never have enough time for the hobbies .
A: No ,
A: not really .
A: I , I try .
A: I also , I play a couple of instruments .
A: Uh , well , uh , the Cowboys are my favorite team .
A: That 's pretty easy to say nowadays
A: Lot easier than it was a couple years ago ,
A: but they had a big win today .
A: Uh , did you get to watch it ?
B: No ,
B: I did n't .
B: I , uh , have been at my computer all day
B: so ,
A: Oh .
A: Are you a Cowboy fan ?
B: Well , I used to be a real big Cowboy fan
B: and , and , uh , I 'm not a Jimmy Johnson fan .
B: Being an Okie I just really don't care much , uh ,
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: it 's , it 's kind of hard not to be a Cowboy fan , though .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They 've always been , you know , my favorite .
A: Right .
B: But , uh , and and I guess I still have a soft spot .
A: Yeah .
B: I just hate that that 's the coach that 's leading them .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: So , now have they ,
B: they 're in the playoffs , right ?
A: Yeah ,
A: they made it to the playoffs finally
A: like just , you know , two years ago they were one and fifteen .
A: They won like just one game
A: and so pretty fast turnaround .
A: But this year they made it to playoffs
A: and today was the first game
A: and they beat the Chicago Bears
A: so everybody 's really going crazy , you know , down here .
B: I 'll bet they are .
A: They 're going crazy ,
A: so , so they turned it around ,
A: but , you know , they have a lot of young exciting players now , uh ,
A: I mean , everybody was real upset , you know , when they fired Tom Landry ,
A: but , you know , now it 's like , you know , they 're doing good so everybody 's forgotten about that .
B: Uh , football fans are probably the most fickle people in the world .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Hit a bad season
B: and it 's , you know , the coach 's fault ,
B: let 's , let 's dump him .
A: Right .
B: First good season , the coach can do no wrong .
A: Right ,
A: exactly . You know .
B: But they Dallas has always been good ahead , you know , heading good players and both running , running backs and , and defense .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: yeah ,
A: uh , you know , they have a young team .
A: It 's , you know , a lot different than the teams they used to have where it 's the same old , you know , players every year and , you know , same coach , same everything ,
A: so , now it 's , you know , like a taste of something different .
A: They 're all not , you know , mister nice guys like they used to be .
A: Now it 's like , you know , tough and dirty team
A: so everybody is really excited .
A: And ,
B: Who is the competition going to be ?
A: Well , it 's supposed to be the Redskins , but you know , we beat them already .
A: We beat them this year in , in Washington
A: so , you know , so everybody has the feeling like we can go all the way to the Super Bowl ,
A: but , you know , it 's just that we have to play every game away , you know ,
A: it 's going to be tough ,
A: but , but
A: the competition is , are teams that they 've already beat this year ,
A: so , I mean , Atlanta , they 're in it , too ,
A: and we beat them
A: and , uh , see , Detroit , we play them next week ,
A: but , you know , we should beat them .
A: Everybody feels like we should be able to beat them
A: so , it 's , so everything 's , uh , looking real good .
B: Course , I think , you know , you ca n't really go by what happened earlier in the season injuries that heal
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: and , you know it can be a or injuries that , uh , have newly happened and it could be almost a totally new team out there than the one we played .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: well the Cowboys are on a roll .
A: They 've won , like , I think six or seven in a row now ,
A: so they 're supposed to be the hottest team in the , in the league going into the playoffs
A: so ,
B: But , but since you have an O U drop out as a quarterback ,
A: Right ,
A: yeah ,
A: Troy Aikman ,
A: he got hurt at O U ,
A: so he transferred to U C L A .
B: Well , Well , he , he really did n't feel like he 'd be able to do a lot of passing at O U .
A: Right .
B: O U has always been known for their running game .
A: Uh-huh .
B: More than ,
A: They 're playing tonight in fact .
B: Right .
A: I 'm watching them on T V right now .
A: But they 're doing some stomping on Virginia .
B: Oh , I tell you ,
B: they 've , they 've not had much of a team this year , bless their little hearts
A: Really ?
A: Well , they 're doing good tonight .
B: Are they ?
A: Yeah
B: I have n't been watching .
A: they 're winning . They 're winning forty-one to seven .
B: Well , good for us
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: Oh .
A: But , yeah ,
A: and , uh , that 's right ,
A: Aikman did go to O U .
A: I forgot about that .
B: Yeah ,
B: they
B: then he went out to S , to southern Cal .
B: Is that where he went ?
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , U C L A .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So ,
A: But , the Cowboys did good today .
A: I mean , I was proud .
A: I thought , I thought they would get beat today because , I mean they 're so young , you know ,
A: playoffs ,
A: You bet .
A: They tell you our topic ?
B: Uh , pets .
A: You 've got it .
B: Do you have pets ?
A: Yes ,
A: we do .
A: Uh , my wife and I have a dog that soon be eight years old ,
A: and we have a , a cat , which is , uh , I guess about five years old .
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: How about you guys ?
B: We have three dogs and two birds at this point .
A: Three dogs .
A: And two
A: what kind of birds do you have ?
B: Parakeets .
A: No , kidding .
A: enjoy them ?
B: Oh , have a ball with them .
A: You let them out and let them fly around and everything ?
B: Well , no ,
B: because my dogs chase them .
A: Okay .
B: So in order to have the birds not stuffed I have to keep them in their cages .
A: You know , this is like a cruelty joke ,
A: and I apologize if you 're a bird lover ,
A: but , uh , we had a parakeet . And , my fault , put up our first electric fan . And never thought about it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Knocked that parakeet right out of the air .
B: Well , we had that happen once , um ,
B: my son had the bird back in his room ,
B: because it 's his well , the first one that we had was his bird ,
B: and I had a ceiling fan put up ,
B: and it , the bird got away from him one afternoon ,
B: and I mean that sucker hit that fan and went flying up against the wall ,
B: I thought , oh so much for the bird .
A: It killed him ?
B: No ,
B: he 's still alive and kicking .
A: Oh , that 's ,
A: well , it killed ours ,
A: I 'll be darned .
B: No ,
B: I guess we did n't have it high enough or he did n't get hit in just the right spot ,
B: but it threw him up against the wall , you know ,
B: and he slid down the wall . Oh , I hate them . * sd
A: Well , speaking of pets , I 'll tell you , my , my kids are older now ,
A: my , both of them are either in or out of college ,
A: but , but we had for years , about five years I guess , had a , my son had a Burmese boa constrictor ,
A: and that thing grew to be seven and a half feet in , in length ,
A: and finally my wife , wife , bless her heart , got rid of it , because I did n't really like it .
A: We also had a ,
A: one year down in Florida on a vacation , for Father 's Day , my kids , years ago , maybe , uh , ten years ago , go , bought me a skunk from a exotic pet shop .
A: It 'd be like , it 'd been like deactivated as far as smell and everything ,
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: and we had that darn pet skunk for about five years ,
A: and , and my son left , went to school ,
A: we finally sold his boa constrictor ,
A: but my son needed some money ,
A: and we , we sold it for about two hundred and fifty dollars .
B: You 're kidding .
A: So , when the guy came over , he was infatuated by that skunk ,
A: so I made him a deal ,
A: I said , You take that skunk ,
A: and , he said , I 'll sell that snake to you for two fifty .
A: I said , otherwise I 'm going to give it to this other man .
A: So he took the skunk , too .
A: And the skunk was a good , a decent pet ,
A: but , you know , does his little jobbies in the litter box ,
A: and is , is .
B: Oh well , that 's pretty good .
A: And it was sort of a neat ,
A: but , they just stink too much
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: oh , yeah .
A: That was sort of fun , you know ,
A: I tell everyone this story because my wife is a real pet lover .
A: I use to visualize my wife ,
A: many times my wife would be lying there on the sofa ,
A: and this snake honestly would be stretched across the top of her body and with his , with his head right on her neck
B: Oh , you 're kidding .
B: Oh .
A: and the skunk would be sitting at her feet ,
A: but the cat would be on the back of the sofa ,
A: and a dog would be running around crazy
B: Oh , my gosh .
B: I can not
B: I just , I don't ,
B: in fact my brother has a , uh , a exotic pet shop out in California ,
B: and he keeps threatening to send a snake through the mail , you know ,
B: I 'm going don't do that , because they wo n't come in my house .
A: Oh , gosh .
A: Oh , my son bought this snake , uh ,
A: someone gave it to him when he was in junior high school ,
A: and it was just a small thing then ,
A: but it got to be pretty big ,
A: and , you know , you 'd feed it , you 'd feed it , you put , feed him small mice to big rats and things like that
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's just , uh , too much .
A: That snake used to watch our cat walk around .
A: I always told my wife ,
A: I says you know , your friend 's going to get our cat one of these days
B: Oh , my gosh .
B: Oh , my gosh .
B: That is wild .
B: Oh , I just ca n't do those , and the lizards and the all those those things ,
A: Oh , me neither .
B: they , they need to stay outside , far away from me .
A: We 're down to a simple dog and cat now ,
A: and that 's the way it should be ,
A: and .
B: Yeah .
A: Have n't had any parakeets for quite a while ,
A: birds .
A: Uh , customer of mine has a parrot ,
A: and , uh , gosh , sticks in my mind he paid eighteen hundred dollars for a parrot ,
A: and that was just mind boggling .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: they are so expensive .
B: Well , my son was just dying for a bird ,
B: and I 'm really allergic to them ,
B: so I try to stay away from them , except I 've gotten real attached to this one ,
A: Are you ?
B: and , and , uh , we went down to Canton one time oh , gosh , two or three years ago now ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he 'd saved up his allowance , you know , and picked him out a bird in a bird cage
B: and , and that stinking bird , when I brought it home tried to take it out of the little box that they give you
A: Yes .
B: clamped onto my finger and would not ,
B: I mean , I had to literally shake him off to get him in the cage ,
B: and he has tried to bite me for two years ,
B: and all of a sudden this bird and I have become wonderful friends .
A: Oh , gosh .
B: He gives me kisses ,
B: he talks now
A: That 's neat .
B: and it 's just hysterical .
B: I 'm the only one that pays attention to him .
A: Why , sure .
B: And I 'm a substitute teacher
B: and one of my fifth graders last year came up to me and said , high-pitched like a child 's my mom 's making me get rid of the bird ,
B: we have too many pets .
B: I thought , yeah , right come tell me about it , you know .
A: Come to my menagerie .
B: They knew the sucker when they saw one .
B: So now we have two parakeets .
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: so you enjoy camping ?
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I , uh like you , I have n't done any in quite some time except for what I call living now which is , which is very close to camping
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah
A: Is it ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: You know , I , uh , camped in the Boy Scouts
B: and , you know , my dad and I went out sometimes
B: but uh , even my first , uh , eight or nine years of working , I camped almost all of the time because I was in construction .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it is cheaper to pitch a tent and cook your meals out by the fire than it is to rent an apartment add to stress .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , when you have to have it , you have got to have it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , you know , in those those kinds of situations , uh , room rent which is outrageous .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: So , my buddy and I , we just camped
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we figured , what the hell ,
B: we did it when we were kids
B: and we loved it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Of course , we did n't really rough it that much .
B: When , when I was in high school ,
B: he is a couple years older than me
B: and , uh , he graduated and went off to college
B: and , uh , during the summer we would camp out at the lake .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But it was n't very much like camping because we had a refrigerator and a stove
A: Oh , well Yeah .
B: You know , I had a little boat house and floated it out on Lake Grapevine .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , well , it was fantastic .
B: We would get up in the morning , go skiing , uh ,
B: that substituted for a shower
A: Uh-huh
B: and then we would go to work and uh , come back to the , uh , you know , boat house at night
B: and , uh , in the afternoon , you know , it is still four o'clock .
B: You have got four hours of day light , good skiing left .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it was great .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , you know , now all my life is more like camping than not camping really .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you have electricity out there .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: You 've got a phone obviously
B: Well , actually as a matter of fact , they just ran the phone three years ago .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We did n't have a phone .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They did n't have phone lines .
B: You just could n't get phones .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , we are on the , we are third from the end on the electric string .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , we are at the end of the mail route
A: Yeah .
B: Like I said , we are probably as far as you can get from the Seven Eleven and still be in Texas .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess so , huh .
B: But , uh , you know , right now , uh , what we did , my wife and I , is we got a mobile home . One of these twelve by forty-eight 's that got repoed , And , uh , swapped them a Cadillac for it and put it out here on the land figuring I would build a house some day , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm in construction
B: and , uh , you know I just had this place you know to shower up while I was you know out here , you know , putting up fence and building a driveway and drilling a well and all that stuff you have to do before you can even put a house in you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I came home from work one Friday afternoon
B: and our truck was back .
B: Everything we had was in boxes
B: and my wife said , uh , we 're moving .
A: Uh .
B: And I said where .
B: And she said out to the trailer .
B: And I said , oh .
B: She said yep
B: and I said okay
A: Uh .
B: So , we have been roughing it out here for about three years ,
B: but it is not bad .
B: I , we have color T V , microwave you know
A: Yeah .
B: it is not horrible ,
B: but it 's , it 's a lot like camping .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I grew up in California , in in central California right in the valley .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it is a forty-five minute drive to the mountains
A: and , uh , so my dad loved fishing and camping .
A: So we would go up .
A: First , we went up just to , uh , with a Toyota pick up truck and laid out our sleeping bags under the stars and you know cooked our , uh , hot dogs by the fire or whatever .
B: Sure .
A: But then later my mom and dad got a camper
A: so , uh we have kind of moved up .
B: Became civilized .
A: Yeah .
A: A little bit in the world .
B: Yeah ,
B: my mom goes camping you know .
B: She takes her , uh , motor home .
B: You know , she 's got one of these huge Winnebago 's with a refrigerator and air-conditioning , color T V , microwave oven you know
A: Yeah .
B: She just ,
B: roughing it for me is going to the Holiday Inn and getting a shower . You know .
A: Yeah .
B: But , you know , she has a lot of fun .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And mostly , it is just a way to ,
B: she , she goes to dog shows .
A: Uh-huh .
B: See , she shows dogs
B: and , uh , you can sneak a dog into a motel
A: Uh-huh .
B: but you ca n't sneak ten dogs into a motel .
A: No
B: So , she , uh , you know , takes the motor home
B: And she made a deal with my dad that she would take all the dogs with her when she went dog showing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And she ,
B: if he would buy her a motor home
B: So he did
B: But as far as camping , my wife and I have plans to , uh , not really camp per se , but to drive up the , uh , you know , Highway One there in California uh , as soon as we get this house finished .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh that 's , uh , That will be pretty .
B: I am going to need a vacation
A: That 's really pretty out there .
A: There are a lot of nice places ,
A: Well , what kind of vacations do you like to take ? .
B: Well , we 've , uh , we 've been fortunate enough to take a couple of trips over to Europe
B: so So , I , I guess those are the types I like
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We 've really enjoyed them .
A: Yeah .
A: Where have you gone there ?
B: We 've gone to , um , Germany , Switzerland , Austria , Ireland and England .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We 've been to Germany twice .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , um , I guess my favorite is probably Switzerland and Ireland .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah
A: well , I 've been over there too .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Where have you been ?
A: I even .
A: Let 's see , um ,
A: mostly Germany and France .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I lived in France for a year and a half
A: so I was able ,
B: Oh , how neat .
A: but , I , once when I had a chance in France to go on vacation instead of travelling around France I went to Germany
B: Uh-huh .
A: because , uh , I 've got relatives there
A: and I just like it there .
B: Oh , that 's neat .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , but , um , Austria , I found really pretty and Switzerland ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: yeah ,
A: and I , I lived in the Alps in France
A: so I anything in the mountains over there I just love .
B: Oh , how neat .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Then I finally made it to England , too , uh , on my way home , um ,
A: I lived in Africa , actually ,
A: and on my way home from there .
B: You lived in Africa ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , my goodness
A: Yeah .
B: Wow .
A: So , um , and you always have to go out , fly through , or unless you fly from Nairobi , you have to fly through , um , uh , Europe on your way home .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I went to England ,
A: and I really liked it there too .
B: It 's so expensive over there
A: I know ,
A: it 's true .
A: That 's the one thing .
B: It really is .
B: It just , it 's , it 's ,
B: I love to go over there ,
B: but it 's so darn expensive to go over .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: actually now you can get some really good deals flying over ,
A: but it 's
B: Yeah .
A: once you 're there you still have to spend money Unless you know people , you know
B: Oh , I know ,
B: just .
B: Right .
B: Then you can stay with them ,
B: and yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That helps a lot .
B: Yeah .
A: But .
B: You know there 's a lot of places in the states that we have n't even gone .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , I 'd like to go to Hawaii some time ,
B: and and , uh , we made it ,
A: Yeah .
B: we 've , we 've at least gone to the Grand Canyon and Niagara Falls .
B: So .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Feel like we 've accomplished a little bit here .
A: I have n't .
A: I 've been , I 've ,
A: most of my vacationing in the U S has been on the West Coast
B: Uh-huh .
A: or this summer I went to Colorado
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I 'd love to go to the East Coast , during the Fall .
B: The , oh , the
B: it 's , oh ,
B: I 've always wanted to go there .
B: I 've seen pictures ,
B: and , and it looks gorgeous .
A: Yeah .
B: We , um , we made a trip up the East Coast .
B: It was , uh , in the summer
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it really is pretty .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's , uh ,
B: both coasts are really pretty
A: Yeah .
B: but , um , I love the Carolinas .
B: It 's just gorgeous over there .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I have n't been there , anywhere on the East Coast .
B: Yeah .
A: I think Tennessee has been the furthest east I 've been .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , you 'll just have to plan a vacation some time and , and go over there .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess so .
B: Yeah ,
B: but there 's , you know , there 's a lot to see here
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I just love going over to Europe because it 's so , their way of life is just so different than ours .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , we 're so fast paced here ,
B: and over there , you know , every time we 'd go and , and eat dinner or lunch or whatever we 'd always have to ask for the check you know
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: they 're so leisurely over there
A: Yeah .
B: and it 's kind of nice to , to have that .
A: Yeah .
A: So the type of vacation you 'd like , um ,
A: like , would you go over and spend a lot of time in one place , or travel to whole bunch of different places in one week ?
B: Well , usually a bunch of different places .
A: Yeah ,
A: mainly probably because you want to see everything .
B: Right ,
B: see as much as you can while you 're there .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: How did you like Africa ?
A: Well , I liked it .
A: I was working in Cameroon , Africa
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's not a , it 's not a place for tourists ,
A: I mean , they 're not used to having tourists there ,
A: so it 's ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you 're kind of roughing it .
A: But , um , I liked it ,
A: I liked it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The people there are just very , very friendly
A: and .
B: What type of work ?
A: Um , I was working with an organization that does Bible translation .
B: Oh , okay .
A: So I was doing linguistic work actually , travelling around , finding out about languages , and uh , what they call survey work .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Find out where the languages are .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I travelled a lot around the country and met a lot of people .
B: Yeah .
A: Um .
B: That 's neat .
A: Yeah ,
A: I enjoyed it .
A: So .
B: I 've , I 've always , um , I 've talked to people who have been to Africa ,
B: and they ,
B: and then of course when that movie OUT OF AFRICA came out
A: Yeah .
B: Um , but I 've always thought it would be neat to go on a safari over there .
A: Yeah ,
A: my cousin came over while I was there ,
A: and she came to Cameroon
A: and then she went over to Nairobi and took a safari around you know , close to Nairobi in Kenya .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh how neat .
A: So , she 'd always dreamed of doing that too .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's great .
A: So . Yeah .
A: So is there any place you would try to talk me into going to
B: Uh .
A: It sounds like we 've been to some of the same places .
B: Yeah ,
B: it does .
A: Well , uh , I don't know .
A: I think the budget is really out of hand right now ,
A: and especially in this election year , I think that , uh , there ought to be at least some conversation about what we are supposed to do about this .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it kind of seems to me that everyone 's offering , you know , their token little tax cut program , you know , when it 's when it 's just such a bad time for it .
A: Right .
A: Right ,
A: and , uh , well , as you said , mostly they are token cuts .
A: Uh especially what , for instance , George Bush is offering .
B: Yeah .
B: The ninety-seven cents a week
A: Yeah ,
A: ninety-seven cents a week .
A: Now what ,
A: that 's really not going to do a lot of good , it does n't seem to me , to your average middle income person , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Another ninety-seven cents ,
A: hell you can buy a coke or something for that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean , mostly it 's , it 's not actually a , a , a cut ,
B: it 's just a cut in the withhold , in the amount withheld , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , yeah
B: I don't see this changing my lifestyle a whole lot .
A: That ninety-seven cents really is n't going to do it for me either .
B: Huh-uh .
A: Uh , I , I have n't really heard much of what the other people , other candidates have said that have made a lot of sense to me either ,
A: especially the Democratic candidates don't seem to be coming up with much that really sparks my interest as far as yeah , maybe that could do something to affect our budget at this point .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean , you know , in retrospect , um , was it , was it Mondale or Dukakis that said , you know , I 'll , I 'll tell you right now I 'm going to raise taxes ?
A: I believe it was Dukakis
B: It was Dukakis ,
B: yeah .
A: but I , I ca n't .
B: I have a lot of respect for him
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean that 's better than George Bush who came out and said , No ,
A: I will not and then , you know , ten months later he said , well , sorry , you know , I , I ca n't follow through on this .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But it seems to me that , uh , that the budget is so out of hand ,
A: and especially now that they say , Okay , the cold war is over
A: and we 're supposed to be getting a peace dividend of , you know of X number of billion , trillion dollars a year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I 'd really like to know where that money is actually going to go ,
A: because , in my opinion , I don't think I 'm ever going to see any of this peace , so-called peace dividend .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's .
A: I mean , if they could actually put something together and make ,
A: I 'm not really in favor of large government social programs , either , because I feel that they waste money , also ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but with this peace dividend , it seems like you could set up some kind of like public works projects like they had in the thirties , or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I , uh , I , I think that would be a great idea , you know , like the conservation corps , you know where .
A: Right , Exactly
B: It it it would help unemployment greatly .
B: And it .
A: and in that way we could really focus on building the infra structure of the country .
B: Yeah ,
B: infra structure is in , is in ,
B: I mean , we , we , we have hurt ourselves incredibly last fifty years in the cold war .
A: Yeah ,
A: and and there 's no way that we can ever really recover from , from the state that we 're in right now , unless , at least I feel , unless we focus on the infra structure ,
A: and I surely don't hear anybody saying that right now .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um , yeah ,
B: I , I agree totally
B: Um , I mean , this , this , it just seems so , you know , so ridiculous that it was allowed to happen .
B: Um , I , I 'm in college right now ,
B: and .
A: So am I .
B: Oh really ,
B: where do you go ?
A: Uh , I U .
B: Right ,
B: I go to Georgia Tech , um .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , in ,
B: what ,
B: I had you know , the required political science class a couple of years ago .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And one of the things we discussed was , you know , where our , where the budget how the budget situation just got so out of hand .
A: Right .
B: And essentially what happened was ,
B: I think it was like in the , um , tax year of eighty-one , um ,
B: Ronald Reagan basically said , you know , I 'm going to give this much of a tax cut to the tax payers and , and , created this , this ludicrous budget that he knew , that , that , um , that the Congress would not in their right mind pass
A: Right .
B: and Congress , realizing that they were going to lose a , the Democratic Congress realized that they were going to lose a propaganda war , you know , bye-bye , you know , bye-bye removing the tax cut further cut the taxes and created , you know , that , that , that , you know , created the huge deficit that year which moved us into the trillion dollar deficit .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: And you just , .
A: You , you just have to wonder what they 're thinking in Washington .
B: I mean , it 's just like they 're playing chicken with a loaded gun .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , well , it 's , it 's more than a loaded ,
A: it 's a loaded cannon .
A: I mean they 've got trillions of dollars to spend every year ,
B: Yeah .
A: and they , in my opinion , don't do a very responsible job of spending that money . Uh-huh . * b
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: um , what really bothers me is it just seems like if , if anyone were to say , you know , well I 'm going to raise taxes and cut the budget and we 're , we 're going to have to do some unpopular things , I mean , he would n't have a chance of getting elected .
B: I mean , it 's kind of like Rome and the bread and circuses thing , you know where people just want , want to have , you know , whatever will make them feel good , right now , you know .
A: For , for the moment ,
A: and that 's what really is getting me about what George Bush 's stand on the budget is right now is that he is saying , I am going to give you this ludicrous little tax cut so that you 'll be happy come November , and you 'll elect me again
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then I 'm going to go on and just forget everything that I said
B: Uh-huh .
A: or you know , it does n't seem that it 's going to make much of a difference .
B: Uh-huh .
B: It ,
B: I mean , I don't know ,
B: I I don't , I don't think George Bush will make the American people happy with ninety-seven cents a week .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: not at all .
B: I just don't think it was a well thought out incentive .
A: No .
A: , how do you feel about crime in the city ?
A: You say you 're from Atlanta .
B: Right ,
B: I , I , I actually I live in the city
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I guess it is a concern of mine , uh , you know , for my own safety .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , do you , do you find crime in Atlanta really
A: I live in Atlanta also .
B: Well that 's right . Uh , I think it is bad in certain areas , * sv
A: Uh .
B: however I think , the area that I live in it 's not , uh , the crime level is not as high as it is in other areas of the , of the city .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think it seems that there 's certain areas where , uh , the crime is focused uh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well what do you think can be done about the crime in the city ?
B: Well , I think it 's , what 's been happening over the last several years it seems they 've been beefing up the police patrols , trying to put , put more guys , more cops , higher visibility ,
B: and , uh , they 've had some impact , but not a tremendous amount ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and probably , um , they need to try to increase community involvement , that sort of thing , I think .
A: I probably agree with that .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh .
B: You know , particularly in some of the housing projects , uh , you know , that 's , that tends to be where a lot of that crime is focused
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 've got to do more than just having , having cops there .
B: They 've got to kind of change the way people think about it .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's probably true .
A: Um , so , um , well do you think Atlanta 's as bad as most other cities ?
B: Um , well , I 've been to ,
B: I 'd say it 's , it 's probably in the top , top ten in terms of crime .
B: Um , it 's nowhere near as bad as New York City for example .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Probably not , not as bad as Detroit .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I don't think it 's as bad as L A either .
B: No .
A: We , I don't think we have as much of the gang problem as a lot of the other cities have .
B: Yeah ,
B: that seems to be true .
B: Um , yeah ,
B: if you 've ever been to like New York City
B: and you can just , you can just , as you walk through the street on a given evening , you can see crimes being committed .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's that obvious .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I came to the conclusion also that , you know , just , if you are walking in a downtown area , you know , where there 's a lot of crime , a lot of that 's going to just , just keeping your senses about you and , and trying not to look like a victim , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: You know , walk you know , walk with , you know , with just walk in a confidently ,
B: With a big stick
B: or .
A: and , you know , don't , don't be looking around like you 've never been there before and you have no idea where you are .
B: Right .
B: Sure .
B: Right ,
B: don't , don't walk down a , an alley
B: or don't get
A: Yeah .
B: just try to keep yourself out of a bad situation
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , yeah ,
B: there are times when you ca n't avoid all that
A: Uh .
B: and , and then you 're kind of on your own
A: Yeah .
A: have you , have you ever , have you ever been mugged in Atlanta ?
B: Uh , no .
B: The only thing I 've ever had , was I 've had my wallet lifted
A: Uh-huh .
B: but that was in a more of a , a setting where there was a number of people around ,
B: and I kind of got ,
B: I was much younger at the time
A: Uh-huh .
B: and kind of a couple of people , they just took it from me without me knowing really and kind of passed it off , so I did n't know who had it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've had that happen ,
B: but that 's , that 's about it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've been pretty lucky about getting mugged .
A: Um . Yeah ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I think I 've only actually seen like one , you know , one actual robbery with a gun
B: Um .
A: and that 's been about the only , you know , real violent crime where , you know , potentially violent crime that I 've seen in Atlanta .
B: Really ,
B: well , I 've had my .
A: And that was just a guy running out of a store that he just robbed .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 've had my car stolen ,
B: so maybe that counts .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , where was , where , where was that ?
A: Was that downtown
A: or ,
B: Oh no ,
B: that was in the northern um , up near Cumberland Mall area .
A: Really .
B: It 's actually Cobb County ,
B: but it is Atlanta
A: Metropolitan ,
A: yeah .
B: and , uh , there 's a lot of car thefts in that area .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've actually , I 've known , known some people that have had their cars stolen .
A: Uh , and , uh , and , you know , about half the time they seem to , the A P D seems to recover them , you know in various states of disrepair Up on blocks .
B: Right .
B: Yeah
A: My friend had a V W Rabbit ,
A: and when he , when he got it back his , um , dashboard was sitting in the front seat
B: Yeah ,
B: mine was just , it had been wrecked and some superficial type damage ,
B: but they did n't , they did n't strip it
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I got it back .
A: Well , you 're probably luckier than .
B: Yeah ,
B: than most .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Um , so like does insurance pay for the body damage ,
A: or was that all there was , body .
B: Right .
B: It was about three grand to put everything together .
B: They cracked the steering column of course , to steal the car .
B: Yeah ,
B: you got to , you crack the steering column
B: and you pull the ,
B: there 's a pin in there that you can pull on these G M cars
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you can start it up , basically pretty easily .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So how do you know this much about , um , stealing cars ?
B: Well , after I found mine I had to , I had this ,
A: So , how you like New Jersey ?
B: Uh , it 's pretty good , you know .
B: You get , uh , closer to the , uh , coast here ,
B: and you do get a good bit of , uh , smog and stuff , especially from all the , uh , fuel cracking towers and chemical plants .
A: Right ,
A: I guess , uh , I don't know what part of New Jersey you 're in , but I guess it 's , uh , fairly industrial ?
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's ,
B: when you get further east towards New York City it gets very industrial
A: Right , uh-huh .
B: but I 'm , I 'm about , uh , thirty miles west of there
B: so you have , uh , actually green trees and such that you don't notice that , that other part of New Jersey exists .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah
A: Right .
B: Actually very ,
B: you know , you go even a few miles out and you got , uh , farms and everything
B: so you , relatively clear air .
A: Right .
B: But , uh ,
A: Well , I don't know about you ,
A: but I 've always considered automobiles to be , probably the , the prime contributor .
A: I mean there 's a lot of contributors ,
A: but it seems that automobiles would probably do more than their fair share of that .
B: Oh , definitely .
B: It 's
A: Yeah .
B: uh , you know , there are a large number of them on the road .
B: They 're all , you know , going ,
B: and a lot of them are in relatively poor repair .
A: That 's , yeah , that 's , that 's a big issue is , you know ,
A: a lot of states don't have a , uh , inspection law
A: so you get , you get a lot of people out there without E T R , emission control systems on their cars and things like that .
B: Oh , even where you do have the inspections , you know , the inspection is once a year .
A: Yeah ,
A: and it 's like ,
B: You get the car that 's in the accident
B: and muffler falls off or something
A: Sure .
B: and guy keeps driving along for long period of time after that .
A: Right .
A: I guess , from what I hear , though , uh , next year Ford is coming out with their electric cars .
A: They 're actually coming out with the first prototypes in California .
B: Yeah ,
B: that ,
B: and I think also some of the , uh , car companies are coming out with , uh , gas powered fleets so you ,
A: Yeah .
B: natural gas powered rather than , uh , gasoline .
A: Right .
A: I hope , I , I 'm hoping that comes along quick
A: Uh , I was reading a , an article in TIME the other day about the ozone layer and how fast that 's going
A: and I guess it 's , it 's really disappearing a lot quicker than people realize
A: and I know that 's not due to , uh , it 's not due to , to gasoline or to , you know , carbon monoxide so much as the C F C
A: but ,
B: It , it is coming from cars , though .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: I think that 's a , that 's a contributor definitely .
B: I mean , the , uh , car air conditioners is one of the major leaking sources of , uh , the , uh , freon . Which is one of the major fluorocarbons .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I guess right now what they 're , what they 're primarily worried about is third world countries because I guess United States and , and Russia have kind of taken the lead in terms of eliminating C F C production ,
A: but it ,
B: Well , it , it ,
A: go ahead .
B: No ,
B: it 's , it 's the type of thing there that , uh , you know ,
B: the Third World countries are less industrial
B: and they want to become industrial
A: Uh-huh .
B: so they 're on the different part of the cycle of the U S .
B: The U S used , you know , all the air pollution stuff and air polluting technologies to get where it is today .
A: Right .
A: And that 's one of the arguments that the Third World countries have been using is , that basically they don't want to have to pay for our mistakes if , if that makes any sense .
A: Uh , in terms of ,
B: Or , or they want the right to make the same mistakes themselves to bootstrap them up to the way , where we got to .
A: Exactly .
A: Exactly .
A: Uh , those of kind of , yeah , those are joining arguments ,
A: but , uh , I don't know ,
A: that 's , that 's kind of an interesting situation there .
A: Uh , what they don't realize , those third world countries , what they don't realize is how quickly the ozone is depleting .
A: I guess the latest figures are up to fifty percent at the Poles
A: and it 's , it 's increasing even as far near the Equator as like Florida and Cuba and those places .
B: Yeah .
A: So it 's kind of an interesting situation .
A: It 's not not a real good one actually .
B: No .
A: But ,
B: Well , you also have the very close related thing of the , uh , rain forest destruction which is the main source of what 's clearing out the atmosphere and replacing some of the pollutants .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: you don't get that , that source of cleansing anymore .
A: Are , have you been in big cities a long time ?
B: Mostly , I 've mostly been in the east coast ,
B: so that 's going between Atlanta , D C area ,
A: Okay ,
A: so you 've got ,
A: Yeah ,
A: those are actually areas that are hit pretty hard , I would think .
B: Well , not , not as hard as some places out west because you don't get the , uh , major pollution sources as you do out in Denver with the inversion and Los Angeles and rest of California which is just terrible it sounds .
A: Yeah ,
A: Denver 's definitely
A: yeah ,
A: that 's one of the worst .
A: Sure .
A: Yeah ,
A: Denver 's that , that real good that real good , uh , example of sitting in a valley , kind of like Mexico City does , I guess .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Mexico City is historically been one of the worst in the , in the world for that .
B: Yeah .
A: But I 've been pretty lucky ,
A: I 've lived in cities that really have n't had that much of a problem , although , uh , I 'm really kind of based in Orlando , Florida
A: and there , you can tell that it 's getting worse .
A: I mean , it , it definitely it 's not at a level comparable to Los Angeles or Denver
A: but you can ,
B: Yeah ,
B: there , it 's almost all automobiles because there 's not that much in the way of heavy industry , you know , that would be causing it .
A: Exactly .
A: Yeah .
A: And there 's not that much in terms of , of public transportation down there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There is ,
A: but it 's kind of it 's ,
A: what 's your , uh ,
B: Uh .
A: are you into the Cowboys ?
B: Oh , God , no
B: Uh , no ,
B: I 'm not ,
B: I have n't been ,
B: I grew up in Dallas but I 'm still not a Cowboys ' man .
B: I like Philadelphia Eagles .
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: Yeah .
A: Well , that that 's all right .
B: That 's my favorite team ,
B: so .
B: Uh , now that Randall 's coming back next season , I hope they 'll be , do a little bit better .
B: They did n't do too bad last season .
A: Yeah .
B: But , I hope they can do better .
B: How about yourself ?
A: Well , I don't know .
A: I kind of go back and forth , uh , depending on who 's really hot and who 's not .
A: I guess I 'm kind of a fair weather fan in a lot of respects .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , I guess if I have , uh , my druthers , I 'd probably go for the Seattle Seahawks .
B: Oh ,
A: I kind of like them .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's another one of my favorites .
A: Yeah .
A: They 're kind of ,
B: They 're not , they 're not my favorite totally .
B: But I do like them .
B: I like ,
B: yeah .
B: Seahawks are good .
B: They ,
B: now that Steve Largent is gone , I kind of lose a little bit for them
B: but you know , he ,
A: Yeah .
A: To be honest with you , I , I probably watch , uh , college a little bit more than I do pro .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Huh .
A: I kind of like college actually .
A: Quite a bit .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's kind of , that 's kind of strange .
B: It 's too much running for me in , in college football .
B: I like I like the pros .
A: Is it ?
B: They do , you know ,
B: it 's more high tech ,
B: more , you know , players are apt to act a little bit different when they , when their jobs and their , when it 's a job and not just , you know
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That could be .
B: when you 're getting paid millions to do it , you I think they take it to another level .
A: Yeah .
B: But I can see it 's more , you know , grunted out , run the ball type .
B: College football is a little bit different
B: but ,
A: Yeah .
A: You probably would n't like my favorite team in college then .
B: who 's that ?
B: Notre Dame
A: No .
A: I root for Nebraska quite a bit .
B: Nebraska
B: Yeah
B: there 's a running team .
B: Yeah .
B: That , that , that 's boring for me .
B: I , I 'll take the passing teams any day .
A: Yeah .
B: But ,
A: Well , I can see , I can see definitely how you get into that .
A: I , to be honest with you , I find that too much running gets pretty boring as well
A: and .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's just , it 's four yards , three yards eight yards , tackle .
A: Right .
B: That 's , you know , it gets kind of monotonous .
B: After awhile , I , I prefer forty , a nice forty yard flea flicker every now and then just , just to juice it up a little bit
A: Sure .
B: and but ,
A: Well , I think they 're starting to realize that .
A: A lot of the , like the big eight teams that used to run so much . I think they 're starting to realize that they just ca n't compete anymore .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's high dollar .
B: You know , it 's all , it 's all money now .
B: Even college is all can we get on T V
A: Right .
B: so .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's , that 's ,
A: So , uh , what 's
A: this World League is coming in ?
A: Uh , that 's getting ready to start up , right ?
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: Have you followed that very much
A: or ,
B: Uh , not really .
B: I , I don't think anything will ever take over the N F L .
B: I think it 's basically , you know , it 's , it 's an institution .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's like if we tried to start something to take over major league baseball .
B: It 's just , I just , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , it , it , it can be , it can take over part of it .
B: But it 's never going to be the next ,
A: Right .
A: It can take over a small market share
A: but nothing really ,
B: Yeah .
B: it 's going to take a little bit .
B: Some people are going to watch it
B: but it 's not going to be wide spread super bowl and every Sunday afternoon or anything , you know .
A: Right .
B: It 's just , it 's never going to reach that , that standard
B: but ,
A: Yeah .
A: I think I agree with you .
A: It 's , it 's kind of interesting to see , uh , to see their claim of , you know , like world football .
A: But , when in reality , it 's really Americans playing somewhere else you know
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: It 's kind of , it 's kind of strange .
B: Uh , I guess we 're the only ones , who take it that far .
B: Everybody else still nuts over soccer
B: but ,
A: Yeah .
A: Actually , uh , I kind of like soccer .
A: I 've never really played it
B: Yeah ?
A: but , uh , I like the idea .
A: It 's , it 's an interesting game to watch .
A: That and rugby .
A: I 've like to watch , rugby every now and then .
B: Yeah
B: or Australian rules football .
B: That 's ,
A: Yeah ,
A: whatever you want to call it there .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's some brutal stuff there .
B: That 's , that 's worse than football as far as violence I think .
B: Golly .
B: Those guys kill each other out there .
B: Rugby is something else .
A: Yeah , .
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's an element there 's definitely an element of stupidity in there somewhere
B: Yeah .
B: That 's just wild .
B: That 's why it 's a a big college thing .
A: Yeah
B: Rugby is definitely big in college
B: because it 's something a bunch of fraternity guys can get together and get a good beer buzz going and do
A: Right ,
A: exactly
A: Yeah .
B: So , yeah ,
B: I could see the feel for that .
B: But it 's , it 's pretty , it 's fun to play .
A: Yeah .
B: I 'll give it that .
B: It is fun to play . If you don't value your * listen -- missing a word ? very much .
A: You 've played it then ?
B: But , you know , I don't think rugby will ever be professional
B: but it , it 's , it 's ,
A: No I doubt it , you know .
A: Not , at least not in this country anyway .
B: No .
B: You ca n't stay healthy and do that .
B: That 's a rough game .
A: Yeah .
A: It is .
B: But , uh , I don't know .
B: I don't know how my Eagles are going to do this year .
B: So you ,
B: the , the Seahawks are an up and down kind of team .
A: They really are .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: My , my , it 's kind of odd . My roommate that I live with here , he 's , uh , he 's lived in Pennock , Minnesota . * two utts ?
B: Do you know where that is ?
A: Uh , no
A: I don't .
A: To tell you the truth , I 'm ,
B: It , it 's a small town .
B: It 's about two hours ,
B: it 's in like central Minnesota .
B: It 's a couple of hours , uh , west of Minneapolis .
A: Okay .
B: But , uh ,
A: To tell you the truth , I 'm not even really from here .
B: You just live there now .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm , I 'm up here for a year on an internship .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well he 's ,
A: But I , I actually live in Florida .
B: Live in Florida .
A: Yeah .
B: Like the Seahawks
A: Well , you know , I I mean , who , who who the heck is going to root for Tampa Bay , right
B: Hey , I , I I 've only been to Philadelphia twice
B: and I , you know , I , I still like ,
B: Really ,
B: really .
A: I mean , I guess I could go for Miami
A: but I don't know .
B: Yeah ,
B: but .
A: I 'm from ,
A: I root for Nebraska
A: so I 'm , I don't have a real love for Miami anyway .
A: But , I don't know ,
A: I , I guess , I get , into pretty much ,
A: What do you think ?
B: Well , uh , I ca n't be terribly authoritative on what life was like thirty years ago , uh , because I 'm not that old yet .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um
A: I can be ,
A: but go ahead
B: Uh , I know that , uh ,
B: I mean obviously you look at , at the technological aspect of , of social change .
B: I mean you did n't have , uh , you did n't have video games .
B: You did n't have home computers .
B: You did n't have Xerox machines .
A: Right .
B: I mean , uh , you , you try to ,
B: you go into a , a business today
B: and , you , you try to imagine the whole thing except running off of carbon paper
B: and it 's almost inconceivable now because the Xerox machines and , and everything have become such , you know , such a , a a part of the way we live .
A: Right .
A: We fax everything .
B: And ,
B: Yeah .
A: We don't even wait for the mail anymore .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: Yeah , uh ,
B: a business associate of mine was , was talking about how it used to be where you would send things through the mail
B: and you had to do something ,
B: this was concerning the S E C ,
B: and so if they had business to do , they had to finish it , you know , three days in advance so they could get it through the mail . Because you can get it there , you know * '' Because '' as connector ; sd in , in a matter of minutes you know , through a fax machine
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh
A: Right .
B: and because of that , these quote , unquote convenience type items have made work that much more intense and that much harder .
A: Right .
B: Because you 're expected to work on stuff up until the last minute .
A: You 're expected to ,
A: exactly .
A: And I recently read an article on just this , that said stress today is so much worse
A: It should be less because we have a microwave
A: and our grandmothers had to bake brownies
A: and we can throw them in a microwave for two minutes
A: but the more conveniences we have , the more that 's expected of us
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we have no down time .
A: Like we don't stop and wait for things to happen because we don't have to .
B: Yeah .
A: So we keep moving .
A: We don't stop and wait for the things to bake and this to happen and that to happen .
A: We just hit buttons and keep going to the next thing .
A: So we have no relaxation time in between
B: Uh-huh .
A: so they say that 's really a bad thing . That you need to learn a lot of ways to , to deal with that and get your , your time in between things .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So that 's good .
A: That 's an interesting point .
A: But I just think our , our family lives have changed drastically .
A: And I think that 's
A: of course a part of it is technology .
A: I mean our kids , where would they be without Nintendo and , you know , their T V shows
A: and
A: some of that is really bad I think .
A: But , we have all single families .
A: So many single families now .
A: Uh , a lot of working ,
A: both parents are working .
A: So there 's a whole big effect on our kids
A: and not very many of my daughter 's friends really are on their original mother and father .
A: You know , I 'm wondering what this is going to do in ten and twenty years .
B: Well , there 's that
B: and there 's the fact that , you know , nowadays fewer and fewer couples are deciding to have kids which generally tends to happen .
B: I mean the U S would be actually declining in population slightly if it were n't for the fact that we , have continuation , large scale immigration into the country .
A: You 're probably right
A: And I 'm an O B nurse
A: and that 's never really occurred to me but that 's , that 's interesting .
A: I never really thought about it that way .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: I saw that , the numbers on that awhile back
B: and I was like , uh-huh
B: so
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's true .
A: When is this good or not good . * listen
B: Well , uh , In terms of the long term effect , effect on , on America , in terms of the culture and everything , I don't know .
A: We don't know that yet
B: Uh , Most of the , of the next generation is going to be in , or , or an , extremely large part of the next generation is going to be , you know , second generation , uh , from immigrant parents .
A: Yeah .
A: I don't know either .
A: That 's true .
B: And they 're going to be really struggling
B: and I don't think that America is currently the type of environment where struggling up from the bottom is necessarily considered to be good
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: I mean , it 's no longer the , the , uh , the accomplishment that it , that it once was
B: and not that many people are really trying I don't think
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's kind of scary .
A: Huh . Well that 's true .
A: But , I ,
A: it 's just very , very different
A: and I guess every ten years it 's just been very different .
B: Yeah
A: So . And I don't know what 's going to happen .
A: Uh , I know what I 'm seeing here at my job is that people are having their children much later in life so that they 're establishing careers
B: Yeah ,
A: and they 've got their homes
A: and they 've got ,
A: Okay Randall , uh , uh ,
A: do you have any special interest in , uh , space flight ?
B: Oh yeah .
B: Ever since I was a young and , uh , used to watch the old , uh , Apollo missions going off in , uh , classroom T V
A: Uh-huh
B: Uh , I suspect a lot of people , uh , uh , got , uh , turned on by watching , watching those go off .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , very exciting .
A: Yeah .
B: The , uh , uh ,
B: I 've I 've always , uh , wanted very much , uh , to , uh , be somehow involved in all that . And , uh , to , uh , meet and , and to see , see it actually happen .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Of course , I 've really wanted to actually manage to get into space someday .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , that seems rather unlikely at this point , unfortunately .
A: What do you do now ?
B: Uh , computer programmer
A: Oh .
B: Unfortunately , that can be done from the ground
A: Yeah .
A: To bad , huh . * spelling : too
B: Yeah .
B: Made the wrong , wrong career choice to get up into space
B: The , uh , uh ,
B: I used to think when I was , when I was younger that , uh , by this time we 'd have lots more in stuff in space than we do now .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Uh , frustrating at times .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know what you think about all that .
A: Well , uh , I , uh , I 'm kind of young .
A: I 'm only twenty-two
A: and so , uh , uh , I 'm not , you know ,
A: there 's a lot that 's happened in my lifetime as far as , uh , you know , with the space shuttle and all . Although plans to , uh , go to other planets have somewhat been thwarted in comparison to , uh , the sixties .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , although I have a and whatnot ,
B: Yeah . Yeah .
A: it would be great if we could find some way to , to , uh , use that to boost the economy .
B: Well , the , uh , uh ,
B: I 've always , uh , felt that , uh , uh , one of the long-term solutions that , at least a few of our problems would be to have , uh , some sort of , uh , solar power satellites up .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , because that 's a , uh , you know , in singularly renewable resource that does n't do it , that does n't require , uh , uh , any particularly nasty environment impact .
A: Exactly .
B: And you can just get as much power as you need up there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's just a matter of how big you build it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and , of course , the side effects of this is that you have to have , uh , lunar mining bases and space stations and easy transport into space and no things that I think we should be doing .
B: So the side effects of doing that which I think would be good , you know , very , very good for for everyone in the long run is , uh , is it , some of the other things I 'd like to see happen would happen also ,
B: so I 'm ,
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: It seems like , uh , there 's ,
A: so you 're talking about positive side effects then .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
A: Okay ,
A: I understand .
B: Right . Right .
A: Sure ,
A: that makes a lot of sense .
B: The only problem is , of course , that , uh , that requires significant commitment from people to actually decide they want to put things like that up there .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And they want to do the research
B: and uh , they 're all you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: the only commitments that they 're interested in making or even talking about are ones for flash value like , uh , the trip to Mars . Which is , would , would produce some useful scientific research and so forth ,
A: Right ,
A: exactly .
B: but the same money could probably be far better spent on , uh , uh , lunar bases and solar power satellite research and , you know , so forth .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It , it would it would be being done for the , uh , glitz and show factor to get politician votes instead of , instead of for , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: we should eventually send someone , people to Mars but not just because it 's glitzy to do so .
A: Right .
B: We should do it because , for , for the return we get for it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , unfortunately , that 's not what I thinks happened * listen
A: Exactly .
A: Least not ,
B: I , I would settle for the for the glitz if the side effects were useful , like the , uh ,
B: but , uh
A: Yeah .
B: the downside of that is you , after you do one of those , people say well we did it .
A: Right .
B: Now let 's now we 're done
A: Now we 're done .
B: No need to use this to play around with this space stuff anymore .
B: That 's what happened with Apollo . But , uh , I 'd give almost anything to get into space * sd
A: Yeah .
A: I think you 're right .
A: I would too .
A: I 'd , I 'd , uh ,
A: was it John Denver that that tried to buy his way on to the space shuttle ?
A: I guess , I guess by what you said you 're , you don't feel your , uh , privacy has been invaded anytime recently ?
B: No ,
B: not really .
B: Uh , uh , the only thing that annoys me is when , uh , people call and they , uh , you have solicitation calls .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's the only thing that bothers me .
B: That 's not really invading my privacy
A: Right .
B: Uh , do you feel that yours is invaded ?
A: Uh , no
A: I would n't call it invading my privacy by any means .
A: Uh , you know , I would ,
A: there , there 's a lot of times though , uh , you get those calls and , you know , when you 're sitting at home wanting to relax or , or whatnot
A: and , you know , next thing you know , uh , someone calls and wants to sell you this or that
A: and it 's real hard to , to tell them , you know , that you 're not interested .
A: Or you do tell them you 're not interested
A: and they still keep asking you , you know , and keep badgering you about it ,
A: and that aggravates me .
A: But I don't know that you could call that invading of , invading my privacy
A: because , you know , if we don't want that to happen all we have to do is just call the phone company and say , look , you know , I want my name unlisted or want my , you know ,
B: But , but that does n't work .
A: It does n't ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: because they , a lot of times they dial sequentially .
B: They get your name from , uh , if you enter any type of contest or anything .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , you know , you enter a sweepstake in the local department store for a shopping spree or something ,
B: you put your phone number on there ,
B: they pass your phone number on to another company .
A: Oh .
B: Uh , or you , uh ,
B: or , or like the newspapers , they just dial randomly or and stuff .
B: They even call , the newspapers here even call people who already subscribe
B: And , uh , while I was subscribing to the paper , I got so upset at them that they
A: Uh-huh .
B: you call me one more time , I 'm going to stop subscribing
B: And the local , local papers ask them to remove your number from their list
B: and , uh , yeah ,
B: you call up their regular , during regular hours
B: their , uh , they have a special department ,
B: they 'll take your numbers out of their lists .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , but the , uh , Orlando paper , uh , yeah , they , they refused to take it off of the lists
B: and they call every month .
A: Huh .
B: And when you have more than one phone number , you get a call on each number you have
A: Good grief .
A: Well , let me ask you about this .
A: Here 's something that , uh , has been kind of concerning me lately .
A: My fiance received a bill from a , a Lord and Taylor company ,
A: Uh , you know , they 're a , they 're a department store .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She received a bill from them , uh , that she had visited some
A: and , and I think it was there in Florida ,
A: maybe it was in Miami .
A: That , uh , she had visited a store there
A: and , uh , they had this bill , uh , that she had bought such and such amount of merchandise , uh , over two hundred dollars worth of merchandise .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and the date that , that she supposedly made this purchase , she was in Denver with me for Thanksgiving .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and apparently what had happened is someone used her social security number .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and , and I 've , I 've heard recently that , uh , uh , that this is a common occurrence where people are using you know ,
A: they use Joe Blow 's uh , social security number , uh , and can , uh , potentially ruin someone 's credit .
B: Uh-huh .
B: If you know a person 's social security number and their mailing address , and their mother 's maiden name uh , you can , basically , become that , uh , person .
A: Huh .
B: Uh , if the purchase was made mail order , they should have a record of where it was shipped to
A: Uh-huh .
B: and since it was n't shipped to her address , she could prove , you know , that it was n't her .
B: Uh , if it was some you know , coming into the store and stuff , then she would whoever made the purchase would have had find some kind of , uh , you know , document
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh ,
B: the signature , uh ,
B: they should be able to provide you a copy with that signature
B: and if they ca n't provide a signature , you know , they 'll have to eat the charge
A: Yeah .
A: Well ,
B: But if the has , you know , their social her social security number , I 'd be real concerned that they , uh , that she 's not , uh , blacklist on , uh , what is it , it 's Telecredit or something ?
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , because she wo n't be able to cash checks because most places verify through there .
B: She probably wo n't be able to open a checking account or anything without a lot of hassle .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , we got it cleared up eventually .
A: What happened , uh ,
A: Have you ever gotten one of those calls that is either generated by a computer or somebody going down a list
A: and their either offering a service
A: or they 're introducing some new product in the area
A: and normally when they call , you 're either in the shower ,
A: or you 're in the middle of cooking something
A: and you have to stop everything to run to the phone .
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
B: Is , is that one that you 're talking about .
A: That was the big one I 'm talking about .
A: I work weird hours ,
A: and invariably just about the time , I 'm going to sleep , the phone tears off the wall .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And you are trying to crawl out of a half unconscious sleep and answer the phone ,
A: you either hear , the as soon as you say hello , you hear the click of the recording coming on ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: or you hear somebody all ready starting , reading off a list of stuff that they 've read probably a thousand times that day already .
B: That 's true ,
B: or the ones that are , are generated by a computer .
B: It 's just a computer voice that comes on the line .
B: Those are the ones that I really , really hate too .
A: I 've even had some of them ,
A: the , they 're voice activated
A: and you 've got to say hello twice before they 'll do anything .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: sometimes I , I get them on my , uh , answering machine at home
B: so , and I hate that when I 've got a whole bunch of messages
B: and I go through them
B: and most of them are n't from anybody at all .
A: What I would love to see done to stop all of this ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: we 've got a thing in this country ,
A: you can have your phone number unlisted ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I think a law should be passed to where any of these people ,
A: I think it 's great , that you know , freedom of speech in this country and everything ,
A: but if they 're going to offer these services , or these recorded message , everything , they ought to be stuck working with the phone book like everybody else instead of using a computer to go through and just go down every sequence of numbers for this certain area code and call them .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yes ,
B: see I have an unlisted telephone number ,
B: but I still get all of those calls
B: and then some of them are speaking in a foreign language that I don't even understand .
B: So , yeah ,
B: I do ,
B: I really feel that 's , uh , an invasion of my privacy .
B: I agree with you on that particular subject there .
B: Let me see .
A: That 's about , that as far as any other everyday occurrences ,
A: I put a stop to some of them as far as the door to door , either religious groups , or people peddling products .
A: If I wanted their products , I would have either gone to the store to bought it ,
A: or I would have called for their salesman to come out .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: Living in an apartment complex though , you know you ca n't , um , you ca n't really stop those people from coming around even though they put up signs out front that says no solicitations , uh ,
B: but they still come up to the front door and , uh , you know , walk around .
B: So , usually what I do is I 'll call the apartment manager and tell them hey , there 's people coming around , you know ,
B: and they 're trying to sell something
B: or , or they 're from a religious organization
B: and I really hate that .
B: I really , really do .
B: I had somebody come to the door about two weeks ago
B: and , uh , gosh it was about nine o'clock at night , too .
B: It was n't even what I would consider , you know , family hours ,
B: time to , you know , start going to bed
B: and uh , and it was somebody from , um , oh what was it , the , uh , Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints ,
B: and uh , I 've read a lot about , uh , that particular sect
B: and I don't particularly care for it ,
B: so I especially don't like for them to come up to my door and , and try and talk to me .
A: Now , I agree with their right to , uh , pursue their religion of choice , in that , whatever manner they want to ,
A: but I think they should also respect the sanctity of the American home , whether it be in a house or in an apartment .
A: I 'm on my turf ,
A: if I want them there , I 'll call for them ,
A: otherwise , I don't want to know they exist .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: no ,
B: I , I agree with you there .
B: If they want to choose that particular religion that 's fine with me too , you know , as long as they don't try and pull me in and drag me in .
B: And , and I don't like the way that they do it either ,
B: and , and , it 's their mission that they do it .
B: They go door to door
B: and they go out into the public
B: and they actually have the , uh , teenagers serving two years like you would say like in an army and two years in going around and doing missionary type work
B: and , uh , I don't know ,
B: I just , um , don't particularly care for that at all .
B: And that , that 's one thing that I feel really strongly about though , is , uh , you know , people coming up to my door , and especially religious organizations and wanting to uh , you know , to try and get me to join or , you know , become interested in their religion ,
B: because I have my own .
A: Now the part about where you said the apartment complex puts up signs that says no soliciting ,
A: I 've even gone so far as to put that ,
A: I 've got a storm door on the front of the house
A: and I 've put , in ,
A: I don't know how much clearer it can be ,
A: it 's a red sign with silver letters saying no soliciting .
A: I should have , I guess I should make another one that says religious or otherwise , cause I still get ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: yeah .
B: No
B: I don't , uh , I don't have , I did n't go that far
B: but , uh , yeah
B: I probably could do the same thing , uh , you know ,
B: I don't have a storm door ,
B: but I 'm sure I could rig up something .
B: But you know I don't think that that would stop people .
B: I , it 's like they see that word
B: and it says go instead of stop .
B: Oh , goodness .
A: and then reverse it ,
A: and do ,
A: well that would be technically illegal ,
A: it would be harassment .
B: Oh gosh .
A: But , I consider an invasion of my privacy , a harassment in itself .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's true ,
B: that 's true , um .
B: Well what else ?
A: I believe we 've pretty much summed everything up .
B: I know ,
B: but I remember you , you talked about something ,
B: you started off and said ,
B: well let me think ,
B: you talked about the telephone calls and people coming and soliciting and selling things at the door .
B: You said something else .
B: I ca n't remember what it was ,
B: and I thought yeah ,
B: that , that kind of touched a nerve right there ,
B: but we got uh , we got to talking about the , uh , uh , people coming to you at the front door .
A: I 'm drawing a blank .
B: Oh goodness ,
B: okay ,
B: is our five minutes up ?
A: Uh , pretty close to it .
B: Pretty close .
A: Well I 've enjoyed talking with you .
B: Well it was nice talking to you too Jim .
A: And take it easy now .
B: Okay ,
B: thanks ,
B: bye .
A: Good night .
A: Okay ,
A: so we 've got to talk about music .
B: Okay . Well , no that 's really when I grew up ,
A: And , um , do you like classic rock , or modern rock , or which kind ?
A: No ,
A: not a seventies baby .
B: so that 's really what I like better ,
B: is that kind of music
B: I mean ,
A: Is it disco ,
A: or is it like ,
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: not that kind of music
A: but ,
B: No ,
B: more like , uh , rock , um , you know , like Led Zepplin type
A: Oh , okay .
A: So , so they can get like the Doors and Led Zepplin .
B: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's cool .
B: Right .
A: And , how about the Rolling Stones ?
B: Oh , sure ,
B: sure
B: I went to their concert last year when they were here .
A: Oh , that 's when , that 's when they took , toured .
A: How about , um , Pink Floyd ?
B: Sure ,
B: yeah ,
B: I like them .
A: Okay .
A: So , so then we got , we got some same things
A: because ,
B: Okay ,
B: well , I just did n't know that much about music
B: and I was n't sure what kind of music .
A: No ,
A: it 's very hard
A: because , see , well , I mean , in the whole spectrum I 'd rather listen , you know ,
A: I listen to heavy metal or classic rock .
B: What , what kind of heavy metal are we talking about ?
B: What ,
A: We 're talking about what they , what they call hard rock .
B: Okay ,
B: like , give me some examples .
A: Like , for example , let 's see , uh , Bad Company ,
A: what ,
B: Oh , well , Bad Company 's not bad ,
B: that 's not ,
A: well , they 're like , for example , A C D C .
B: Yeah ,
B: A C D C
A: Why ,
A: have you heard of them ?
B: Yes
A: Okay .
A: And , stuff like that .
A: That 's , that 's , that 's not really hard rock .
B: Well , okay .
B: Okay ,
B: I guess I did n't really consider that heavy metal .
A: Okay .
B: I mean , I , I think , when you say heavy metal , I 'm , I 'm thinking about like Cinderella , you know .
A: Well , Cinderella is , is hard rock , heavy metal .
B: Well , see , I don't really care for Cinderella
B: But , I like A C D C 's okay .
A: But , see , for example , they have , see what ,
A: but other bands consider it like really hard rock .
A: It 's like brash metal , which all they do is like , they have this guitar and they just bang at the guitar ,
A: and the guitar is set like , really low ,
B: Yeah .
B: No ,
B: I don't really care for that too much , I guess .
A: and , what happens is like , oh , everybody gets like totally into the music
A: and then they start dancing around ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they just bump into each other ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: like , like they hit each other with their shoulders ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , then , you knock people down ,
A: and what you do is , you also try to get up on stage and jump down on top of all these other people .
B: Is that the kind of music that you like ?
A: No ,
A: I don't like that music .
B: Oh , okay .
A: But , that 's , that 's what they do .
A: That 's , that 's what some people call like really heavy metal .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And , see , the difference , I guess , between hard rock and heavy metal is that the lyrics also .
A: Like really , like heavy metal , is considered , like the words heavy metal
A: and , like , you always thought about , like , suicide . And killing people and stuff like that .
B: Yeah .
A: And , just hard rock has ,
A: they , they don't talk about that ,
A: they just talk about , like , life in general .
B: Right .
A: Like , Queen 's Reich , if you ever heard of them .
B: Oh , sure .
B: Of course .
A: Yeah .
B: you , you 're talking Queen ,
B: is that what you said ?
A: Okay ,
A: well , no .
A: I said Queen 's Reich ,
A: but , but , oh , but you got to like Queen also .
B: Oh , oh , oh , okay ,
B: Right .
A: So because ,
B: Well sure ,
B: because Queen was real popular when I was growing up .
A: Yeah ,
A: especially , uh , oh God , what is it , A Night At The Opera ?
A: don't they have a ,
A: no
A: let 's see , the one that they have the , the whole opera singing in the background .
B: Oh ! Right ,
A: Bo , Bo , Bohemian Rhapsody .
B: right ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that , that was great .
A: I heard that the other day on the radio
A: and I pumped it up .
A: Because , I mean , I just love that song .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , that was a real good one .
A: Yeah ,
A: but they had ,
A: that , that whole record was pretty good .
A: But then , they started going downhill like everybody else .
B: Well , that 's true .
B: They came up with some pretty weird stuff after that .
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're , they 're still around ,
A: they 've got a new C D out ,
A: but I , I would n't buy it .
A: Because see , what happens is , the old , see
A: I like , I like the old Rolling Stones .
A: I don't like the new stuff .
B: Of the Stones ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I agree .
B: That 's the
B: the older stuff is the best of it .
B: The , the new stuff 's kind of more like , today 's rock and roll , which I , don't really care for today 's rock and roll too much .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , for example , I used to like old Phil Collins .
B: Right .
B: Yes ,
B: definitely .
B: I agree .
A: And , and , then what happened was that Phil Collins said , hey I can make money , a lot of money doing this ,
A: and then he came out with , uh , see , for example , his , his record like , No Jacket Required .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That was good ,
A: but it was on his way of going downhill ,
A: because he said , I can make a lot of money just singing alone ,
A: and then he came out with the Invisible Touch , with , uh , Genesis
A: and that really ,
A: like now , I hate Phil Collins ,
A: I ca n't stand him .
B: Right .
A: Because , I look at him
A: and I say , you know , you were singing at this time , and with these people ,
A: and you were great ,
A: and now you 're singing all this stuff that , does n't matter what you , what you sing or what you record ,
A: it 's still going to be a number one hit .
A: And so , that 's , that 's what gets me mad .
B: Yeah .
A: But , did , did you go see that new Doors movie ?
B: No ,
B: not yet .
B: I guess I 've been , kind of considering it .
B: Have you seen it yet ?
A: Yeah .
A: I saw it when it opened .
B: Was it really good ?
A: Yeah . you know , like those guys that criticize movies ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: And , they both loved the movie , right ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: They said the music 's great ,
A: it took me back to the sixties , and stuff like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then , one of them said , well , everything is great ,
A: but I 'm going to give it thumbs down .
A: And they go ,
A: but why ?
A: Because it 's like , the end is , like , really depressing .
A: And so ,
B: Oh .
A: But it , but it 's like the movie is so well made ,
A: and the music that goes with it just picks you up , see ,
A: I was never , I was born in nineteen hundred sixty-nine .
B: Oh , okay .
A: So , I mean , so for me ,
B: So , you did n't really grow up with that kind of music then .
A: No ,
A: but you learn to .
A: I mean it 's just that , like the , the sixties music 's got a lot to say .
B: Right .
A: I , I never found out what a lot of the seventies music had too .
A: You know , I was like ,
B: Well no ,
B: I 've never liked disco .
A: Hey ,
A: but I bet you were out there with your bell bottomed pants ,
B: Well , that 's true
B: That 's true .
B: But , I was more in the late
B: well , I
B: like mid to late seventies , like between seventy-five and , and , seventy-nine , was more my era .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Did , did you go to college ?
B: Well , no .
B: I 'm going right now
A: Oh , that 's cool .
B: But uh , no
B: I did n't go then .
B: But see , I graduated high school in seventy-eight ,
A: Okay .
B: so , you know , in seventy-eight , you know rock was starting to get really heavy , you know ,
B: and real , um , I don't know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: disco was pretty much dead by then .
A: Yeah .
B: So , so that 's what I mean ,
B: disco was n't really my time .
A: Well , they always say that the seventies was the lowest point in , in progression , ever in history .
A: So ,
B: About music ?
A: No ,
A: about everything .
B: Oh . Okay .
A: So , it 's like , nothing happened during the seventies .
A: Everything happened during the sixties ,
A: the seventies I don't know what they 're called , you know ,
A: it 's like , like
A: the , the eighties are called , like the progressive years , or the , or , you know , like the technology years , because of all the computers and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But the seventies got nothing .
A: I mean , nobody cared to name it
B: That 's kind of funny
A: So .
B: You 're right .
B: I never thought of that .
B: The disco years , that 's what they 're calling them , are gone .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
A: Can you imagine the , like a big picture of John Travolta , ta-da , what is it SATURDAY NIGHT FEVER ?
A: Him just standing there .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's a good example to look for in history .
A: Well , from now on we 're going to go from the , from nineteen sixty-nine when they took the first step on the moon , to nineteen eighties .
A: Okay ,
A: what happened in the middle ?
A: don't worry ,
A: don't worry ,
A: you 're not , you 're not missing anything , you know ,
A: so ,
B: That 's true .
B: Well , except for Vietnam .
A: Yeah ,
A: really .
A: And , that 's , that 's why I guess , everybody ,
B: You know with ,
A: yeah ,
A: it 's like they don't want to talk about that ,
A: so they just , don't name it .
A: I mean , it was , it was , I guess it was pretty bad times .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that 's very true
B: But ,
A: Oh , well , let 's see ,
A: yeah ,
A: okay ,
A: we 've been talking for seven minutes ,
A: so ,
B: Oh , good .
B: I have n't even been keeping track .
A: Okay ,
A: all right ,
A: so um , I 'm going to leave you alone .
A: Uh what , what are you doing ?
A: Do you have a family ?
B: Uh , yeah .
A: Okay .
B: We 're kind of , I was kind of in the middle of supper ,
B: but it 's not a big deal ,
A: Oh , I 'm sorry .
B: I just left it .
B: No ,
B: it 's okay ,
B: because see I did n't , see
B: somebody tried to call me last night
B: but I did n't have my number yet ,
B: I just got it today .
A: Oh , okay .
B: And so , you know , it 's okay .
B: I , I told them I 'd be available during this time ,
B: so , anyway .
A: Okay .
A: All right .
A: So then , uh , have fun doing this .
A: It is not , that bad .
B: Okay ,
B: thanks .
A: Bye , bye .
B: Great ,
B: Bye .
A: All right , um ,
A: I think the topic was crime in the city .
B: Right .
A: I do not live in a city .
A: I live in a real small little place .
B: Where is that ?
A: Uh , it 's about thirty miles from Sherman .
B: North , south , east , or west ?
A: It 's north of Sherman .
B: Well , you live almost in Oklahoma
A: Not too far .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's kind of ironic , because I don't live too far from Oklahoma either .
A: Huh-uh .
B: You know where Saint Joe is ?
A: Uh , I 've been through there .
B: I 'm about eight miles south of it .
A: Okay .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I had been through Saint Joe ,
A: but , um , just as far as watching the news and reading the papers and all that , it sounds like the crimes in the cities are really getting bad .
B: Well , you know , I 've , I 've seen those statistics and everything ,
B: and you know , what frightens me , is that , you put a half a million people out in the middle of the desert with high tech weaponry , you know ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: I mean , the Iraqis did n't have a lot of high-tech weaponry ,
B: but they had mortars and machine guns , tanks and all that .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Sure .
B: And , they did n't kill as many people in , in forty-five days ,
B: and they were intending to kill people ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: I mean , that was their job , as they killed in Washington D C .
A: Oh , I know ,
A: I know .
A: I know .
A: Um , I think nowadays people just , really just , murder is nothing to them , you know .
B: Well , I formulated a pretty radical theory over the last ten years , I guess .
B: And , I 've come to the conclusion , and this is a pretty scary thought to me , even , that if a guy is convicted , or a gal is convicted , of a crime , rather than put them in prison , because prison 's proven not to work , just let them go .
B: Say okay , you 're convicted
A: Huh-uh .
B: and just let them go
A: Yeah .
B: and if they get convicted again , well , just kill them .
A: Yeah ,
A: because , uh , most likely that will happen , wo n't it , that , you know ,
B: Well , I think that the best hope to eliminate crime , as we know it today is to eliminate the criminals from society .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Huh-uh .
B: If someone is known to have been in prison , they ca n't get a job .
A: No .
B: You know .
A: Yeah .
B: They ca n't be accepted into society .
B: You know , if they 're not going to be accepted into society , then everybody 's going to become sociopathic .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And , you know , who 's to put the limit on it ?
B: I mean , I was watching a thing last night , up in Washington State .
B: If you get convicted of , uh , sexual offenses , on a regular basis
B: You know , I mean , some of these guys are forty years old and got ten convictions .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And they 're still let out on the street after one or two years .
B: Well , in Washington State , if you 're a habitual sexual offender , they just don't let you out .
A: Um .
B: So you serve your prison term ,
B: and then you go into the mental hospital ,
B: and if you 're pronounced cured , they 'll let you go .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Well , they may find a cure for it ,
B: but there is no known cure now .
A: Um . So you 're , you 're kind of thinking ,
A: in other words , if you get , if you do something the first time , that 's not real bad , you know ,
B: Hey , people make mistakes .
A: yeah ,
A: to go ahead and let them go ,
A: but if they do it again and they really need to face the consequences then , uh .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: use that
B: or , you know , there 's other consequences rather than killing them , you know ,
B: you could , always make them the slave of the people they committed the crime against .
A: Oh .
A: Huh-uh .
B: You know .
A: Yeah .
B: At least they might have get some benefit in that ,
B: and if the people they committed a crime against , feel , at some later date , that these people have learned their lesson , are , are okay , you know , well , they can free them .
A: Huh-uh .
B: But , uh , you know , with the technology we have today , you can put a collar on a guy 's leg that will knock him down if they leave the property .
B: I mean , it will just in incapacitate them .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And , you can put a collar around a guy 's leg that will prohibit them from committing any kind of prohibitive act .
A: Huh-uh .
B: But , you know , putting them in prison , my God , that does n't work .
A: No ,
A: apparently not ,
A: because look how many years they 've been doing that
A: and look
A: I mean , yeah .
B: Well , you look at places like Turkey .
B: Turkey has the death penalty , for just about everything .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Huh-uh .
B: I mean , if you get convicted of , uh , you know , drug trafficking , they just kill you .
B: You get convicted of , uh , you know , heinous crimes , they just kill you .
B: I mean there 's no two ways about it .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And , uh , you look at their society
B: and the repeat offenders are very few .
B: You know , and you look at our society , almost everyone out on the street that has been in prison , has been in prison three or four times .
A: Three or four times ,
A: yeah .
B: I mean , You know , the way to stop that kind of behavior is , is two-fold .
A: That is true ,
A: I know .
A: Yeah .
B: One , you need to make it illegal for both parents to work while the kids are under seven .
B: I , I think that 's very important .
A: Oh , I 'm , I agree very much so on that ,
A: I ,
A: yeah .
B: And then , if a parent has proved to be unfit , for any reason take the kids away from the parents .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Yeah .
B: Because , you know , we are what we teach .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Because that 's what our society becomes .
B: We have , We have just a bunch of people ,
A: comes ,
A: yeah .
B: and I 've , and I 've , I 've lived in that , that environment for quite a few years when I was doing construction work .
B: You know , and these guys , they come to work every morning
B: and they 're stoned to the bone .
B: I mean , their so high , they could fly up to the top of that building * spelling : they 're
B: and they work all day ,
B: and they go home
B: and they smoke their dope and drink their booze and shoot their drugs
B: and when they run out of money , they go down to the corner store and pop the guy on the head and take his money ,
B: and then they go back to work on Monday .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And , the kids of these people .
A: Sure ,
A: they just think that 's the normal thing to do , don't they ...
B: They 're sociopathic .
A: Yeah .
B: And I worked in a first grade classroom for one full semester
A: Huh-uh .
B: and these kids were more foulmouthed than I 've ever been .
B: I had one kid threaten my life , Threaten my life .
A: In the first grade
B: Told me that daddy 's going to whoop me to death .
A: Oh , know
B: You know , and they flipping me the finger and all that
A: Huh-uh .
B: and I just said to this kid ,
B: I said , you got two choices kid ,
B: you can step into mainstream society
B: or you can die .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Because you will eventually be killed .
B: And , I just , I 'm just totally aghast at a what 's going on .
A: Oh , I know .
A: I know , um ,
A: I work in school . You know ,
A: that 's something I do
A: and I , it really is
A: I 'm like you
A: astonishing what the younger ages know ,
A: and they react to what they see at home . You know .
B: Huh-uh .
A: If they see violence at home , that 's what you 're going to get from the kids at school .
B: Exactly .
A: You know . It really is ,
A: and that 's kind of sad .
B: Well , you can see it in the work place , you know .
B: Used to be when you had a personality conflict you just , you worked with it
B: and you got through it .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Now , you know , people get fired ,
B: or what 's even worse , is they promote them into a position that they ca n't handle and let them get fired .
A: Yeah .
B: Or , one thing or the other .
B: You look at another kind of society like the Japanese .
B: You put that many people on that small of a space , they 've learned to live together .
B: Okay .
B: It 's in their culture .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And one of the things that 's in their culture that I really think the major corporations should pay attention to , is the fact that , while Japan was becoming a great power , financially , the people that worked for those companies , worked for the same company they worked for at sixty-five , as they did when they were eighteen .
A: Teen .
B: And the company , took it upon itself to find a position for these people .
B: If they were n't fit for the job they were hired for , they did n't just can them ,
B: they made a position for them some where .
A: Huh-uh .
B: You look at Frito Lay .
B: My wife used to work for Frito Lay as a typist .
B: You know , transcribing stuff into the computer .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Well , she could type about one-hundred and five words per minute ,
B: but she don't like it .
B: She just does n't like to do that .
B: I mean , she will .
A: Yeah .
B: But , you know , her preference is to be in an office situation where her job is have ...
A: Um , what kind of hobbies do you have ?
B: Um , I do a lot of cross-stitching and painting , when I do have spare time .
A: Really ,
A: I like cross-stitch too .
B: Oh , I love it .
A: I just have a hard time finding any spare time lately .
B: That 's my case also .
B: I 've got a new born
B: and there 's just no time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Have you been cross-stitching long ?
A: Oh , several years .
A: My husband is even interested in it now .
A: He likes to help me design , um , you know , projects that are , a little more customized .
B: Oh , really .
B: Mine , sort of , he looks at the pattern
B: and he says how do you get that from there to the material
A: Not that hard .
B: Oh , it 's not .
A: I really enjoy it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I do a lot of my own patterns also .
A: Yeah .
B: In fact , I did one , BILL THE CAT , you know , from Glenn County that , uh , was a real good one to do .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: It was tough ,
B: but , uh , yeah .
B: Do you have any others ,
B: or is this mainly cross-stitching ?
A: Um , I do mostly that , um ,
A: not very artistic really for like painting and stuff .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: Um , Yeah .
A: But , now I don't know .
B: I 'm still trying to get all the D M C colors
A: Oh , really
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've got the kits to put them all in .
A: I don't have them all yet certainly .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I got to counting the other day
B: and , uh , I think I have , what was it two hundred ,
B: and I got to thinking the money that I 've got invested in this is , uh ,
B: it , yeah , it can add up quick .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: I just , I just keep an inventory of what I currently have ,
A: and then when I start a new project , I go through and see if I , if I , you know ,
A: just buy the colors that I need of what I 'm low on .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: I see .
B: Well , now can I improvise with adding and using another color instead , you know , what comes close . Because a lot of them are similar .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: A lot of times you can do that .
A: I think , I
A: the pinks , there 's like forty-two different shades of pink .
B: Good grief
B: Yeah ,
B: there 's lots of pinks and greens .
A: Pinks and greens .
A: Yeah .
B: There 's lots of shades of greens .
B: But the colors ,
B: I just love all the different colors .
A: Yeah .
B: They had quite a few new ones come out last year , that they added to .
B: But , you don't have much spare time either ?
A: Well , not lately
A: I just started a new job and trying to get acclimated there .
B: Oh , yes .
B: And that does take some time .
B: And if we 're trying to get acclimated with the , uh , with having a baby ,
B: and .
A: Yeah .
A: How old ?
B: He 's seven months old .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: And just into everything ,
B: so there 's not a spare moment .
B: Oh , but I would n't trade it for the world .
B: I 've been trying to do some bibs for him . And , uh , work on his Christmas stocking .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: We missed it last year ,
B: so hopefully this year he 'll have one .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , last year he was a little bit young for having one .
B: Right .
A: He would n't have enjoyed it anyway
A: You would have
A: but ,
B: Right .
B: If it tasted good , yeah .
B: All he liked was the lights this year ,
B: so .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Oh , well , that 's neat that you like cross-stitching also .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's kind of strange that we got the same call .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's a call .
B: Oh , I 'm sorry .
B: Go ahead .
A: No ,
A: that 's okay .
B: Okay uh ,
B: but , yeah ,
B: I 've been doing it for probably ten years or so .
A: Oh , wow .
A: No ,
A: I just started about , well , five years ago , I think .
B: But it is peaceful ,
B: I mean it is relaxing to do , once you find the time to do it .
A: Uh-huh
A: There 's also a couple of large projects , baby afghans ,
A: and I got one done
A: and I think the other one is going . The child is going to be in high school before I get finished .
B: On that , uh
A: Bear thing .
B: is it one of those afghans that I 've seen in the packages with the , with the large squares ?
A: Well , yeah
A: I just , I bought the cloth and the pattern for it .
A: I did n't , um , I did n't buy the , uh , I did n't buy a kit .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: Well I 've seen the afghans in the stores that are designed for cross-stitching .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It 's that cloth .
B: Oh , okay .
A: It 's cloth I think .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it has the borders and everything already .
B: Yeah .
B: Those are pretty .
A: Number one turned out just great ,
A: and the lady said she could n't believe that they know that I had done it in the colors , that they had decorated the nursery
A: and I did n't even know it .
B: Oh , that 's a .
A: I gave it to her
A: and she said how did you know those are the colors we used .
A: I said did n't
B: That was a good .
A: It worked out that way .
B: That 's great .
B: Uh , that , uh ,
B: now I 've got the material to do an afghan that I just never did get around to finishing it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I like those .
B: Those are pretty .
A: Yeah .
A: Lilly , Lilly , she said , she said it 's for your daughter to use .
A: Oh , no .
A: She said , I know she does n't get to touch it .
A: She hung it on the wall .
B: Yes ,
B: my , uh , grandmother , um , made us a couple of quilts for the baby ,
B: and I was like , oh , I don't want to mess those up .
A: Yeah
B: Uh , they 're just too nice .
B: I mean you don't get many hand made quilts anymore .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: True .
B: Well , I 've enjoyed this .
A: Okay .
B: But , uh , well keep up the good , um ,
B: keep up the cross-stitching .
A: You too .
B: All right ,
B: thanks .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: bye bye .
B: Bye bye .
A: I was trying to think about some of my favorite people that I liked in music
A: and they 're , none of them are recent , right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I like Gordon Lightfoot ,
A: do you know who he is ?
B: Yeah
A: And the Moody Blues ,
A: and I like to listen to piano music a whole lot ,
A: and Willie Nelson .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So you like a , a variety .
A: Yeah .
B: Sort of easy listening because you like country
B: but then ,
A: But not all country .
A: I don't like that , when they start ,
B: Um .
A: I don't know .
A: I just like Willie Nelson I guess because he 's such a character .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I like some of his songs , though .
B: They 're , they 're not so , they 're not so sad country all the time .
B: They 're just kind of sweet sometimes .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I mean they 're not the , the typical country where they 're just , you know , my wife left me , my dog left me , you know
A: My truck is broken down .
B: Yeah ,
B: my truck 's broken down
B: and my house just burned down , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: But ,
A: There , there 's a guy ,
A: have you ever heard of George Winston ,
A: he plays piano .
B: No .
A: I think he 's dead now ,
A: but he plays wonderfully .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I like that .
B: Are , are you , do you play the piano ,
B: is ,
B: or you just like it ?
A: Very badly .
A: I 've got a piano ,
B: Yeah .
A: my mother got a piano
A: and , uh , vowed that someone in the family was going to learn ,
A: so we all had to take lessons ,
A: and I was the one that did the least poorly ,
A: so she gave it to me .
A: And it 's sitting here mostly taking up space ,
A: but sometimes it makes you feel good to sit down and play it .
A: It is real relaxing .
B: Yeah ,
B: it must be fun to be able to play it
B: and , you know , if you can play tunes that people can sing along to it 'd be , it 'd be kind of fun , I think .
A: Yeah .
B: because I mean , I play the flute
B: and not many things you can play that 'll , you know , people will sit there and sing along to
B: and you ca n't sing along either
B: so , but , uh , I like a lot , uh ,
B: I like classical music just because of the ,
B: when , I , I don't play ,
B: I like jazz music
B: but
A: Oh , so do I .
B: What 's that ?
A: Forgot about that .
B: What 's that ?
A: I said so do I ,
A: I forgot about jazz
B: Yeah ,
B: I like a lot , like ,
B: I like , uh , is it the New Age music , like with , uh , uh , the ,
B: I don't know if you 've heard Neurotic Collection .
A: Yes ,
A: we 've got about five of those .
A: I love them .
B: Yeah ,
B: I love those , too .
B: They 're just so relaxing .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 'd never heard them before until I went in a music store
A: and you know how you put the headphones on and listen to it
B: Yeah .
A: and I just , I heard a piece
A: and it was just so wonderful .
B: Yeah .
A: And then even my eleven year old boy loves to listen to it .
B: Is n't that nice .
B: I mean it 's nice when you have a piece that , that is so , so peaceful , that everybody likes , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , it , it , it , it , you know , it has pieces that are uplifting ,
B: but , it , it 's mostly relaxing
B: and you don't , because it does n't have words , you know , you don't feel like , there 's anything you have to remember , you know , as far as singing a song or something like that or interpreting what they mean
B: or , but , uh ,
A: I mean you can just sit ,
A: you know those little booklets that come along with it
B: Yeah .
A: and you can just see the things that they 're trying to show with music .
B: Yeah .
A: My , my little boy has gotten so into it that
A: he 's identified the , the people that have written certain songs ,
A: then he buys the pieces that have that person . You know , on it .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , I see what you 're saying .
A: Huh ?
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , I don't even know who did which ones ,
A: but he does .
B: I , I ca n't identify them either .
B: I just like them .
B: I could , I know which ones come next ,
B: but I don't even know their names .
B: Most of them I don't know their names of the song ,
B: but I , I can identify them .
B: But I like that
B: and I like , uh , course I , I like classical music .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh ,
A: Were you in the band ?
B: I was in the band ,
B: yeah
A: So was I .
B: and I was in , like , chamber music groups and stuff ,
B: so I 'm used to pieces
B: and , and I played classical flute ,
B: I did n't play , play jazz flute or anything like that ,
B: so . I I can relate to it , I suppose
B: But , uh , and I like , I 'm like you I like the older stuff , too ,
B: because I like Chicago
A: Yeah .
B: and I like I like , uh , uh , let me think who , uh ,
B: you don't know Hebert Laws ,
B: but Hebert Laws a flute player ,
B: he 's a jazz flute player
B: and I like , uh , uh , Chuck Mangione ,
B: do you know who Chuck Mangione is ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I like Chuck Mangione
B: Trying to think of all , uh , oh ,
B: what 's his name , plays the trumpet . Yeah .
A: I like the Moody Blues .
A: Did you like them ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I like Moody Blues .
B: I , I like mostly the older groups I think .
B: Oh ,
B: but we do have ,
B: I like Simply Red ,
B: we got Simply Red .
B: I figure all our C Ds that we have what I really like
B: And , uh , I like Breeze ,
B: I like the group .
B: I think just because they all sort of sound , they sound a lot like uh , Simply Red . Uh .
A: So what type , Simply Red ,
A: I 've never heard of that .
A: Is it just instrumental ?
B: No ,
B: it 's , it 's got people singing ,
B: but it 's it is instrumental .
B: But it 's , it 's got people singing
B: but it 's got a , like a whole bunch of people singing .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , how many people are in Simply Red , Stuart to someone else in the
B: he ca n't hear me .
B: I , I don't remember how many people ,
B: but , it 's , it 's got men and women
B: and it 's not , it 's , it 's nice ,
B: I mean it 's pleasant , you know , music .
B: It 's not where it 's , it hurts your ears to hear it .
B: But it 's not as , it 's not like , uh , Chicago where it 's got that much instrument to it .
B: You know , it does n't have , like all the brass and everything .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Well my husband is telling me we have to hit the road
A: We 're going to go to Commerce and see a friend .
A: And , then I 'm going to go to Sulphur Springs .
B: Oh , you must live in this area .
A: Yeah ,
A: where are you ?
B: We 're in Sherman .
A: Okay .
A: So we 're in Garland .
B: Oh , okay .
B: You 're going to Commerce ?
A: Yeah
B: For East Texas or something ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Just because there 's a friend up there ,
A: not because there 's much else
B: Oh , okay .
B: Well they 're having a lot of recruiting this week in all the different areas .
B: That 's why I was just
A: For colleges ?
B: Yeah ,
B: East Texas is recruiting for , you know , their fall semester
A: Well , they 're not
B: and they 're , they 've been doing a lot of that in the area .
A: They 're not going to recruit me anymore ,
A: I 'm through .
A: No more for me .
B: No more , huh .
A: What , what do you do ?
B: Well , right now I 'm just a homemaker ,
B: but I 'm going to school , uh , for legal assistant
B: and that 's what I know ,
B: so , and , uh , just nothing basically
A: Are you going to go to East Texas for that ?
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: it ,
B: no
B: I don't go to East Texas .
B: I got a degree from T W U ,
B: but I 'm really interested in legal , you know , in the legal environment ,
B: but I don't want to be a lawyer
B: so I said well , I think I 'll go back to school and see about being a legal assistant .
A: That 'd probably be pretty interesting .
A: I was summonsed down to the courthouse last week .
A: They had summonsed eight hundred people ,
A: about four hundred showed up ,
A: and it was for a murder trial .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: This guy had supposedly , uh , strangled this woman and stuffed cotton toweling down her throat and up her nose
A: Anyway , this is happened in nineteen eighty-three .
B: Yeah .
A: And they had us fill out a long questionnaire .
A: We stayed till about one thirty
A: and they 're going to call the ones that they 're interested in from the questionnaire two to three at a time
A: and the trial wo n't take place until June .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's how it works .
A: And they say it 's going to last about two to three weeks .
A: And this guy in front of me said , I ca n't believe I was summonsed .
A: I was an investigator
A: and I was tailing the woman that was killed .
A: Well , then I have a friend at school that has a boyfriend that 's a lawyer
A: and he said that this woman this socialite in Plano had hired four guys to kill her husband
A: and the one that 's accused was the one that actually did it .
A: And she has since taken off with another lawyer who had been , uh , getting cocaine from his client and then selling it ,
A: and he had skipped bail
A: and they finally extradited him
A: and he 's going to testify for the State against her so he 'll have his sentence reduced .
B: And this is the man that was in front of you ?
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , well they 'll , weed him out .
A: The , the investigator .
A: Yeah ,
A: he , he got off right away .
B: Yeah .
A: And I wrote that down on my questionnaire that he 'd told me that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I figure that that will make me biased
A: and I wo n't be chosen .
B: Well , not necessarily
A: Hopefully
B: but there 's probably something else that might make you .
B: Because you could know about , you could know about the crime , but not necessarily be taken off the jury , you know , not be accepted for the jury .
A: Yeah . No . * aa
B: I mean , pretty much a lot of people would know about it , you know , and , and know some of the different things about it
B: but , uh , they , they might weed you out some other way .
B: You know , if you , if you don't believe , like if this was a capital crime and , and you don't believe in if you don't believe in death penalty , you 're not going to be picked at all .
B: So but ,
A: I said that , I could believe in it in certain instances , but I would be , I 'd find it hard to levy that against somebody .
B: Yeah ,
B: so , see , there , there they would have a doubt about you , that , you know ,
A: You know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: because if that 's what , if that 's what the punishment is in that , in that instance , then you 're always going to say , you know , not
B: you 're , you 're not going to want to have him have that uh , that punishment .
B: So ,
A: Yeah .
A: But then when you 're , when you 're picked ,
A: see I was picked for another murder trial before
B: Uh-huh .
A: oh , gosh and it 's so hard because , you know , everybody is wanting to go on and get the sentence done ,
A: and if you 're trying to hold out , you know , there 's so much pressure on you
A: and you 've got to come up with a decision .
B: Well , especially with something where you have to you have to find it beyond a reasonable doubt .
B: You have to find whether they 're guilty beyond a reasonable doubt
B: and it 's like , do you really feel that sure about ,
B: Okay ,
B: well personally , I don't have any children .
B: I 'm twenty-two
B: and I 'm doing my Master 's at N C State
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: so , uh , uh , children would n't be very convenient for me right now .
A: Well , no ,
A: would they ,
A: no .
B: So what , what , how do you spend the time with your children ?
A: Well both of mine are boys .
A: They 're eight and eleven
B: Um .
B: Okay ,
B: and did ,
A: and they 're into sports
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , as a matter of fact , that 's what we 're doing tonight
B: What , what are you doing ?
A: Baseball has started .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Do , do they play like , uh , like does the eight year old play baseball ?
A: Oh , oh , yes ,
A: we start here at , uh , five .
B: Okay ,
B: and , and in , in his league do they have like a pitcher ,
B: or do they have a standing ball or a machine , or what ?
A: Up until ,
A: it 's coach pitch , until you get nine which my little boy will be nine in May .
B: Okay .
A: So he 's going to be with , uh , regular pitching
B: Oh , okay .
A: and my eleven year old , of course , you know , is pitching .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I used to play soccer when I was that age up in New York ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so .
A: But yes ,
A: we 're into baseball ,
A: and it seems like soon as that over with we get into basketball .
A: We even have peewee basketball here .
A: So there 's always something .
B: Yeah ,
B: and how about , how about like on the weekends .
B: Do you do sports
B: or do you go out ?
A: Both .
A: If we 're not doing sports we go somewhere .
B: Do you go , how about like for , uh , do you go for long vacations , like a week or something when they have school off ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: In the summer or like in the Easter time , like around now ?
A: No ,
A: usually in the summer time .
B: And where do you go ?
A: Different places every year .
A: We ,
B: Have , have you been out of the country ?
A: No
B: Oh , okay ,
B: well , first , they always say , get to know your country first before you leave ,
B: I mean I , I lived in places , like
A: Uh-huh .
B: when I lived in Washington , uh , Washington , D C , I never went to the Washington Memorial ,
B: and then when I went back to visit , I went to the Washington Memorial .
A: You know , I 've heard , we have a couple of friends that goes to Washington quite often ,
A: and that must be the thing .
A: They really had n't either .
A: They went to the Memorial , you know ,
A: when they go , it 's on business
B: Right .
A: it 's not really just to getting to sight see .
B: Right .
B: Well , it 's , it 's a beautiful city .
A: Oh , I bet it is , too .
B: But , the problem is , like first time I went out of here , and they took me to Las Vegas
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that was the most boring place on earth .
A: Oh , now my husband and I , we go different places .
A: But our but when we go with our children we usually kind of stay close .
B: Yeah .
B: Did , uh , did , like , did you go to Disneyland ?
A: Oh , yes ,
A: yes ,
A: yes .
B: Oh , okay .
B: So , but um , now , I don't know ,
B: but um , but let 's see ,
B: when I was eleven I went also to the Caribbean .
A: Oh .
B: and , uh , then after that , I ,
B: my sister lives in Turkey ,
B: so when I was like fourteen , fifteen , I went , I went to Turkey .
A: Oh ,
B: And this Christmas , I went to Turkey .
B: But basically , it 's a ,
B: for the past couple of years , I ,
B: since my parents are , are , well ,
B: I 'm from Argentina ,
B: and my parents live down there .
B: So , all the traveling I do is alone .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , we were never much of ,
B: uh , a very , uh , family thing , you know , made , like go skiing in Vermont or something .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That was , uh , that was a lot of fun .
A: Yes .
B: But , what happens is we used to fight a lot ,
B: so there 's never much of a family family thing .
B: You know , one of those hell family vacations .
A: Oh , yes ,
A: but we try , you know , I try ,
A: my husband also , we 're involved in everything our kids does
B: Yeah .
A: because , uh , my dad died , you know , when I was less than a year old
B: Yeah .
A: so I always just had a mother .
A: So I always thought , when I have kids , you know , I really want to be involved with them .
B: Well , my dad , all he , all he wanted to do was get money for us ,
B: so he could buy us material things .
A: Material things ,
A: yes ,
A: that is ,
A: yes ,
B: And , and to me , you know , it 's like , now I 'm twenty-two ,
B: but I still feel , you know ,
B: it 's like yeah , we never threw a football or something
A: Uh-huh .
B: and the way I was brought up ,
B: and he wants me now ,
B: he , like he , you know , like he wants to be best friends now
A: Best friends , now .
B: and it 's very hard for me
B: because , you know , it 's like you grow up to be twenty years old ,
B: and it 's always the same man
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then suddenly he sees that he 's getting old ,
B: and he wants to be best friends
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , you know , it 's like , I can only express myself so much ,
B: because , you know , um , everything that he taught me , you know , that my family taught me , which is very hard to change that all of a sudden from one year to the next and say , I 'm sorry , you know .
B: It 's like , you know , I love you
B: and let 's go out and do things together when I don't feel like it , you know
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so , that 's that whole thing that he 'll say when , like , like
B: I 've seen my uncle and his family , you know , does everything together ,
B: and you know , his kids are , you know ,
B: when his little girl was five years old and everything , they , uh , they would go to the beach ,
B: and she could go to sleep at two in the morning you know
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , I was brought up the same way ,
B: it does n't matter what age you have ,
B: just so long as you can get up to go to class the next morning , you can stay up you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but his , what he does is , when he gets home , he separates his work from his house .
A: Yeah ,
A: you have to
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , you honestly do .
A: Now I have friends that I love to death ,
A: but , and they have children ,
A: but their children does anything ,
A: we have to take them , and , you know to do it .
B: Yeah .
A: And that really gets kind of aggravating after a while
A: because you 're saying , Well , I work full time too , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: but , uh , it 's just , it 's just something that , you know ,
B: my theory is , you know , when , when you have kids and all you , you want to do , well ,
B: what I 'll do is , you know , like ,
B: I mean , you might have problems ,
B: but it 's not your kids ' problems you know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , yeah .
B: and you got to try to be with them as much as you can
B: and to , you know , like ,
B: thing is , is , that , you know , like if , if they would ever happen to have a drug problem , suppose , that they could feel comfortable coming to me and saying , I got a problem you know ,
A: Problem ,
A: uh-huh
B: and , uh and that would make any parent feel good and bad at the same time , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: first of all you 're coming to me
B: and let 's see how we can get rid of the problem , you know ,
B: and that 's uh , that 's very , that 's very hard to do ,
B: because once you 're best friends with your parents , then , I think everything go a lot better .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I agree with you very much so .
A: Now , we waited several years before we started having children because we was still in college ,
A: and we knew time wise , or , and money wise , too
B: Yeah .
A: would , it would not have been a good idea to had them then .
B: Yeah ,
B: my , my father was raising four oh well , three kids before he had me ,
B: so it was , uh , you know ,
B: you 're trying , to support , uh , four kids ,
B: and it 's pretty hard you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I , I told him , listen you could have had a lot of money if you would have only had two kids .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: He says yeah ,
B: but then I would n't have you ,
B: I go , yeah ,
B: but then you would have a lot of money
A: That 's right ,
A: but you ca n't take this money with us , though
B: Yeah .
A: that 's how I keep looking at it .
B: But , you know , like , four , I mean four children is expensive , especially when you consider like , especially for me , which I 'm paying out of state tuition .
B: I 'm paying , you know , three thousand ,
B: no ,
B: what is it , two thousand six hundred dollars for one semester .
A: Oh .
B: And , you know , people say , you know , it 's expensive to think it 's college ,
B: but , if , if everybody would be a little bit responsible , you know ,
B: it 's like ,
B: what does it , what does it cost .
B: It costs five hundred dollars a semester suppose .
B: Now they go to a state college
B: and they live at home you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and well , it costs two hundred dollars for books ,
B: but you know , seven hundred dollars a semester ,
B: a lot of people can spare that if they planned ahead , you know , like
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: if you if you can ,
A: yeah .
B: I mean , it 's like , if you plan a year ahead , you can probably save up seven hundred dollars you know , one thousand four hundred dollars to send your child to college , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: What are you learning to be ?
B: Oh , oh , excuse me ?
A: What degree , I mean , what are you wanting to do after you get out of college ?
B: Well , I , I 'm doing computer science , computer engineering .
A: Oh , that 's ,
A: my husband 's into , uh , computers .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and now I 'm looking for a job before they have to send me back home
A: Uh-huh .
B: because since I 'm an international student , they want to send me back to Argentina .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , my dad wants me to go back .
B: So .
A: And you don't want to ?
B: No .
A: No ,
A: no .
B: No ,
B: because if you go back there , then you can never get out .
A: Oh .
B: Like you don't have any money to , to , get out .
A: Oh .
B: So , uh , and , uh , I was thinking , you know , like , Oh my God , you know , I go back there ,
B: and then , and I get married there ,
B: and now I have kids there ,
B: and then I 'll never leave the place , you know .
A: Then you 'll never leave .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know ,
B: and that 's , that 's what happened to my brother .
B: He came to school up here ,
B: and then when he went down there ,
B: he was just so bad off , you know from not being able to stay up here that his life just went down the drain .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So .
A: Well maybe something will open up for you .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've been calling a lot of companies .
B: There ,
B: some of them are interested .
B: Well , at least for a year and a half I can work ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so .
A: Well ,
A: well I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: All right ,
B: same here .
A: Okay ,
A: bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: All right .
A: Well , on this subject , I really had n't had to deal with putting someone in there yet ,
A: but my mother 's always been administrator of a nursing home
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I 've always been involved , you know , in one .
B: How do you feel about them , I mean , since you 've kind of been close to that .
A: Well , I 've Well , I can kind of see both sides , you know ,
A: I really can .
A: Uh , nursing homes to me ,
A: I would personally be the last resort you know , I you know if I had to put someone in there .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , I 've had a touch of experience .
B: My , um , dad had emphysema and got to the point where mother could n't take care of him
A: Yeah ,
A: if it 's a have to thing ,
A: yeah ,
A: I ,
A: yeah .
B: and , uh , she put him in ,
B: but he was n't there very long before he died
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , um , I guess , um , the one time that I saw him there , you know , as far as the surroundings , that seemed okay .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , um , we kind of thought that maybe they just wanted to give him some medication to sort of , you know keep him real out of it all the time
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: and that 's always kind of bothered me .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's like everything else , though .
B: I have a sister-in-law who runs a nursing home ,
B: but I 've never actually been there
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I know that she 's the kind of person who would n't allow , you know , a lot of the horror things to take place that you hear about .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: but ,
B: But still I 'm sure there are , you know , aspects to it that are n't really desirable .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know ,
A: I 've always ,
A: well , my sister 's involved in one also ,
A: and I really think they really do a wonderful job .
A: But still there 's those little things that happens , you know
B: Yeah .
A: there really is , which
A: I think , it 's a wonderful place , you know , if it comes to that , you know , if you just ca n't take care of them any more .
B: Well , sometimes you don't have any other alternative
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's it .
B: family and friends are usually , well family 's tied up with their own lives and things , and usually working
A: Uh-huh .
A: Other things .
B: and it 's hard to ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah
A: but I think when the time comes , I , I hope to have the time to really look around , you know and pick one that I really think my mother would be happy at .
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: I think that 's important , too ,
B: in fact there 's a ,
A: I do too .
A: Outside 's awful deceiving sometimes you know .
B: Yes .
B: There 's one close to where my mother is ,
B: but in order to get in , you have to be able to , um , walk in on your own ,
B: in other words , you ca n't be in , you know , too bad a shape to start out with .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: But then if you deteriorate , um , they have a separate section for those who need care you know , all the time .
A: yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: But it 's always , well ,
B: and they have a long waiting list , too .
B: So there 's always this feeling of , well , golly gee , you know , you 've got to be able to walk in the door ,
B: so you ca n't wait until you 're too bad off
A: Off ,
A: yeah .
B: but then , you don't want to go do that when you don't have to because like , uh , you have to give up your automobile or whatever .
A: To ,
A: no .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and everything you worked so hard for all your life
B: Yeah
A: yeah .
B: and if you 're still capable of driving and doing those things , then you feel like , well , gee , I 'm , you know , I 'm isolating myself here for no reason at the moment .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's kind of a , that 's a hard one ,
B: but it is a very nice nursing home .
A: Now there is some really nice ones .
A: There 's also , you know , some private ones , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: but of course , I would never be able to afford to put my parents in something like that , you know ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's the problem
A: that 's way out of my reach .
B: the expense of it all is ,
B: and , uh , what I , another thing I hate to see is when someone has a small amount of money , and they go into one of these places and they just eat it all up immediately .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: But those who don't have money can go in and get the same care . You know
A: Uh-huh
A: the very same ,
A: yeah .
B: So I don't like that aspect .
A: No ,
A: but I , there 's , I think there 's ways around it , though , that , you know ,
A: like , they could put it in one of their children 's names or something you know .
B: Yeah .
A: But still , a lot of them does n't feel comfortable doing that .
A: You know , it 's their money .
B: That 's right .
A: You know , that 's how I feel about it , anyway .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I 've talked to my mother about that several times lately ,
B: and I , I said , I want you to have control of your own business .
A: Yes .
B: But , you know , what if .
A: Yeah ,
A: my mother 's seventy now ,
A: so naturally she 's retired ,
A: but she 's still on her own , I mean .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: my mother 's , uh , seventy-five and still has her own home and everything .
A: I think that 's wonderful ,
A: I really do ,
A: just as long as they can ,
A: and then on the other hand , I 've seen some people go into the nursing home and just so happy you know .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
B: They have a lot of people around to do things with .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: they 're not lonely .
B: Some of those places have wonderful activities and things , you know , lots of stuff going on .
A: Oh , yes ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And they 'll take them places
A: Yeah .
B: so . I don't know ,
B: it 's not all bad
A: No .
B: but I guess once you get ill , then , you know , you really have some problems if you ca n't get around and do things .
A: Around ,
A: yeah .
A: But I really don't know what the other solution would be you know ,
B: No .
A: I really don't .
A: But no ,
A: when the time comes I 'm really , hopefully we 'll really look around before I decide on one for my parents
B: Uh-huh .
A: really do ,
A: because I have been raised in one , you know ,
A: so there 's lot of things I know to look for .
B: Yeah .
A: And I don't think they 'd want to go where they used to work , either you know
B: Yeah .
A: I really don't .
B: That might be kind of tough , huh .
A: It really would ,
A: yes ,
A: yes ,
A: and like I said , my sister 's still in it ,
A: and I really don't think my mother 'd want to be there , either .
A: Oh .
A: Well , it 's been nice talking to you .
B: Well , you too .
A: And I guess we 'd better get back to work , huh .
B: Okay .
A: All right .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye .
B: Well , in the in a normal route of way we do things , how about the ladies go first ?
A: All righty
A: Um , well , I , uh , have a four year old who will just be entering public school next year ,
A: so I 'm really just starting to get involved in , uh , in what 's out there and how they do things .
A: Um , as far as the system as a whole , I really don't see a problem with it .
A: I do see a problem with graduating people that , that ca n't read and are not , you know , productive in society or productive to themselves
A: and , uh , I think that 's the main problem at this point .
A: How about yourself ?
B: All right .
B: I 'm , live in Plano , Texas
B: and , uh , uh , today we 're not even suppose to be in school because the , uh , the way the taxation and all that crap is , there really legally is n't any funding for the school systems in Texas today .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: So , uh , I mean , when you , when you take , uh , uh , professionals and put them in situations , they have to make decisions based on money to fund public education ,
B: and they ca n't get their finger out of their ear long enough to , to get that major subject in line ,
B: something 's wrong .
B: So , I think here in Texas mainly that the , the , they 're not serious ,
B: they 're more serious about what the salary should be for senators than they are for what , how the level of education should be for children .
B: I have a one year old
B: so I 'm not , I 'm more opinionated about the observations than , than the true facts ,
B: but , it 's just a shame to me that , that the , our firemen , our policemen , and school teachers are the three least paid utilities , um , that have the biggest impact to our well-being .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's true .
B: I have , I have a real issue with that .
B: Um , I think that if from every year when they , when they pull in the , the , the , uh , test that the last three years , you know , ten , eleven , twelve year , uh , graders take ,
B: and , and then you see that their education is below the norm throughout of all fifty states .
B: They 're not saying that something 's wrong with the educational system here in Texas ,
B: I have a real concern about that , um ,
B: as a matter of fact I 'm very content to spend my daughter out of state to college in Virginia , uh , verses having her go down here and not learn anything ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then , uh , so I 'm , my opinion I think there 's a big concern
B: hope , hopefully the new , uh , education , secretary of education will do something to fix the problem
B: but , uh , I don't know ,
B: they 've got to quit worrying about , uh , the , uh , religious , uh , overtones in our textbooks and get on with teaching the product .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think they get bogged down in a lot of small issues that people , you know , special interest groups can blow up , and , uh , and not really get down to teaching what 's important .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Teaching these kids , you know , how really the basics is what it comes down to .
B: Exactly .
B: I was astonished to find out that , that across the United States in all public schools it is not mandatory for them to take phys ed .
A: Is that right ?
B: they don't even , a lot of the school systems don't even , uh , the kids nowadays don't even know what , what the president 's fitness education program is all about ,
A: Huh .
B: they don't have to do sit-ups and push-ups and all that crap we had to do when we were going to school .
A: I remember .
B: And , yeah ,
B: and , uh , I talked to a thirteen year old last night who 's , uh , goes to , uh , one of the Plano high schools or junior highs , I guess ,
B: and she said that she had a choice ,
B: she could either have taken tennis , or weight lifting
B: so she choice to take weight lifting , over the regular gym ,
B: I mean , give me a break ,
B: I mean , the kids sit there
B: and they , and they drink cokes and eat popcorn for , for lunch
B: and , then go out there and lift weights and don't learn anything ,
A: And talk ,
A: yeah .
B: it 's just a real , I have a real problem with the whole system .
A: Huh .
B: They need to put some sternness back into the , into the teachers and let them be able to , uh , get the old whip out and get some discipline .
A: Yeah ,
A: then it comes down to what you said before though about them being some of the lowest paid public , you know , public service , employees that there are ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: I used to , I used to date a girl who taught English at ninth grade level .
A: and yet they 're so important .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , I was absolutely flabbergasted at what , they what she was paid .
B: True ,
B: she was young , you know ,
B: but still it 's the principle .
A: Right .
B: Of course , if she got her Master 's degree it would all be different .
B: But , uh ,
A: Well , you know , it 's hard though because then you start talking taxes
A: and , that 's a bad word
B: Oh , taxes Lord Lord forbid , taxes .
B: Goodness gracious , if we would , uh , plan our expressways a little better , that ten dollars for the bridges and the roads , we 'd cut that in half and get some teachers we might have us a problem
A: There 's an idea .
B: Maybe I should run for office , huh ?
A: Run on that then , no income taxes in Texas , huh ?
B: That 's true .
A: I 'm in Texas too ,
A: so ,
B: That 's funny ,
B: that 's funny .
B: Well , that 's about all I have here .
A: Well me , too ,
A: I , uh , I think we both agree there 's some problems there
A: but , we 'll , maybe do our small part to fix them up .
B: ma'am .
B: Surely .
B: I 've enjoyed it .
A: All right ,
A: you too .
B: Bye , bye .
A: Bye .
A: So , do you have any hobbies ?
B: Well , right at the present time nothing real special .
B: I kind of like gardening
B: and I 'm kind of into camping and , you know , vacationing , that sort of thing .
A: Yeah , uh ,
B: I don't have any real serious ,
A: I 'm an avid gardener , oh ,
B: Oh , okay .
B: I think you 're ,
A: Um , I consider that a hobby .
A: I don't know ,
A: they were like suggesting , like handcraft things which ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess that 's a really true , true hobby ,
A: but I , I think anything that you enjoy ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: um , it does n't really have to matter ,
A: I mean , it could be working on cars could be your hobby really .
B: Really
B: yeah ,
B: I kind of enjoy doing that a little bit , too .
B: No ,
B: I , I guess if you make money at it , it becomes a vocation
A: well , I don't know ,
A: I told my husband , I said , you go out some to work on the car ,
A: it 's not worth getting all mad and fighting and hollering at each other when it goes wrong .
A: I says , you go pay to have someone do it .
B: Yeah
A: Because it always seems it goes wrong when you try to do something .
B: I guess as far north as you are if you like gardening , you 've still got a couple months to go , have n't you ?
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Um , well , right now we , um , start our seeds inside .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: that 's right ,
B: you would ,
B: yeah .
A: We 'll start them inside
A: and , uh ,
B: In cold frames or whatever the ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , we usually start them right in the house .
B: Uh-huh .
A: My sister tries to set up a greenhouse on her back deck
A: and , and the and a wind storm come and knock it down .
B: Huh .
A: But she 's had really good luck .
A: I mean ,
A: next month ,
A: well , actually , it , if you , if you start it in a couple weeks and you can get your plants outside , pretty much the end of May ,
A: you can leave them outside .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You might put them in the ground just the first week of June
B: Yeah .
A: but we can put potatoes in the ground in the middle of May .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've , I 've lived in , in Texas and New Mexico most of my life ,
B: but I did once ,
B: I spent one winter in North Dakota ,
A: Oh .
B: and I , I remember that it was on into May before it really started warming up ,
B: and , uh
A: Yeah ,
A: well , well , we live , we live really close to Lake Champlain , which is in the Champlain Valley ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: so we 're a little , we 're about two weeks ahead of everyone else out on the outskirts
A: so ,
B: Okay ,
B: because that kind of moderates the weather a little bit ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: We are a little lucky .
A: Well , my brother lives ten miles from here
B: You 're at ,
A: and he gets frost
A: and , his crop gets killed .
B: Yeah .
B: You 're right across the , uh , lake from , what , Plattsburgh ?
A: Yeah ,
A: from Plattsburgh Air Force Base .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But , um ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I had , I had a cousin that was stationed there , Plattsburgh for a while .
B: He , he remembers lots of snow
A: Yeah ,
A: Plattsburgh 's kind of a ,
A: it 's , uh , it 's , uh , depressed economically .
B: Oh , really , oh .
A: When you go across the lake , um ,
A: I don't know why we have so much going for us ,
A: I really don't .
A: I 'm , just wrote my resume up because told we might be facing layoff over at Digital
A: and they 've never had , well , they 've had layoffs recently ,
A: but when we got hired here , no , no , never any layoffs , never , never ,
A: and now we 're looking at serious ,
A: I , I mean , I 'm a technician .
B: Yeah .
A: When they start getting rid of technicians ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I 'm , I 'm working for T I , Texas Instruments , down here .
A: Well , I interviewed with them .
B: Oh , yeah ?
A: But I did n't want to go to Texas .
B: Oh ,
A: Even though my , um , mother 's people are from Georgia .
B: Oh ,
A: Yeah .
B: yeah .
A: Well , I guess we have to get back to hobbies since ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we 're getting to where , we 're straying , I guess ,
A: Stick on the subject .
B: yeah .
A: Well , interesting thing that I do is with , gardening , uh ,
A: my sister grows flowers that you can dry ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you can make uh , dried flower arrangements
A: and you can get real handy with the hot glue gun .
A: And we made some really nice Christmas wreaths with , uh , dried red flowers and dried white flowers and , uh , eucalyptus .
B: Huh , yeah .
A: you know what eucalyptus is ?
A: It 's ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: the , they uh , it 's sold in the hobby stores and nurseries .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's got a
B: It 's got a kind of a peculiar smell to it
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: at first I 'm like , oh , how , why do people like this ,
A: but it , it is kind of a nice smell after a while .
A: People put them in ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I did n't realize what it was for a while .
B: I 'd walk into a room where some of that ,
B: and I 'd wonder what is that , you know ,
B: and then one day I , I realized that it was eucalyptus .
A: it 's , it 's , it 's , uh , like a fad thing .
A: I , I don't know .
A: It 's , I 've never heard of it ,
A: in the last five years I 've used so much of it that ,
B: Yeah .
A: I hate ,
B: Is that the stuff that koala bears eat in Australia or something ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
B: Maybe that 's why they 're so slow .
B: I guess they 're stoned on the stuff or something .
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it looks really potent stuff .
B: Yeah
B: yeah .
A: But , uh , it 's , yeah , I think it 's the greatest stuff in the world , though .
A: It 's , jeez ,
A: they , I make all kinds of things with it .
A: We make all kinds of things just with dried flowers .
A: I , I almost want to start a business doing it ,
A: but I don't , I , I 'm so , uh , timid when it comes to starting a business .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's a big step ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is , especially with the , being in on the creative aspect and the crafty end .
B: Yeah , uh ,
A: You know , after a while you make some stuff ,
A: then you start looking at it ,
A: go , boy , this , this is kind of ugly
A: But I know someone who does a lot of woodworking for a hobby .
A: Um , he does it , believe it or not , I would n't imagine why , but to get out of the house , away from his wife ,
A: because he 's a seasonal worker ,
A: he works in the construction .
A: And up here it 's almost a pattern ,
A: and you see your fathers do it ,
A: then their sons do it .
A: What they do is they work construction ,
A: then they get laid off for like twelve weeks in the winter .
A: And , uh , this guy was going nuts ,
A: and his , uh , son built him a garage and got him some , uh , oh , I don't know what the equipment 's called , but planers and things and set him up ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: shapers and planers and routers .
A: and he makes , all kinds of furniture for , um , his kids ,
A: and he makes , uh , uh , like little kids ' furniture .
A: He gets right into it
A: and , uh ,
B: There was a program on T V down here on the educational channel here a while back about a lot of little , little companies of one and two guys , you know , up there ,
B: this particular one , I think , was in Maine and New Hampshire , where out in the , just kind of out in these little towns they 'd be in ,
B: they may be the same kind of people you 're talking about .
B: You know , they 've , they 've got twelve weeks to do something ,
B: and they , they 're making furniture and just , you know , things like that during the winter
B: and then they go off and do other things during the summer .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a , it 's a really , good thing because it 's keeping him sane ,
B: So , yeah ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: and plus it 's keeping his marriage
B: Yeah .
A: so , and , and plus he 's getting on in his years now .
A: He 's , he 's not that old ,
A: but he 's getting to the point where he needed an extra boost , to , to do something like that .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , it 's really , it 's , it 's , uh , hard work .
A: I could n't imagine taking lumber , raw lumber and trying to make something out of it .
A: He He dowels everything .
B: That would be really you know ,
B: like say the ,
B: Oh , man ,
B: yeah .
A: And it 's all got to line up .
A: It 's ,
A: and , uh , I don't think he goofs too much ,
A: I don't to , see too much scrap around .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's something .
B: Now our temperatures down here , we 're starting to get pretty consistently in the seventies and eighties
A: God , I 'm envious
B: and , uh , so , and , uh , so as far as , you know , planting outdoor stuff , matter of fact , tonight I just got through , I was planting some , some trees out back tonight ,
B: and , uh , this is , uh , it 's really nice , out tonight .
A: Is it going to be , Is it going to be really dry ?
B: Almost hated to come , you know .
A: Uh , are you are you ,
A: now I always plant trees in the fall .
A: I don't know why
A: so the , the cold weather can kill them
B: Yeah ,
B: these were , uh , trees that , that wintered .
A: but I guess ,
B: I don't know where they came from .
B: They come out of nurseries mostly in Missouri and places like that .
B: And they come down here
B: and they 'll sit in the nurseries here
B: and they 'll go ahead and , and , uh , leaf out .
B: So what I 'm planting or actually transplanting is a tree that 's , or trees that are already leafed out .
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: I guess they , they say you can plant them in the spring or the fall , all .
B: Yeah .
B: Mostly , I think in a place where it 's really cold they do it in the fall ,
B: let them winter you know , through the fall ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , down here , well , it 's done both ways .
B: It , it just kind of depends on what you 're , what you 're planting ,
B: but , uh all the shrubs and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh , when you have time to do it
B: Yeah .
A: My sister does , uh , flower gardens .
A: She gets right into it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She spends lots of money on them .
A: And I guess a lot of people do , do do that .
A: They landscape their whole house with flower gardens .
B: Yeah .
A: She 's got like , just a small patch of lawn and just flowers and mulch tree bark all over her lawn
B: Yeah .
B: Flowers , during the summer down here , the , the normal kind of flowers , there 's very few of them that will really do well .
B: Everything does real well here in the spring until about , oh , first part of June
B: and then the the heat sets in .
A: It gets ,
B: And June , July , August are , you know ,
B: most of the , those kind of plants just , are just barely staying alive , let alone make flowers .
A: Do you have a lot of shade trees around your house
A: or is it ,
B: Uh , we 're in a relatively new area .
B: We 're kind of out of , uh , the natural tree area .
B: We 're kind of up on a , on a higher , on a slope .
A: So you don't have a lot of tree coverage ?
B: So we don't have ,
B: where we are right now there are very few trees .
A: Because going to make ,
B: This was , this was , this was pasture land ,
B: but down the , down the hill here a little ways there are parks that are , look like jungles , you know .
B: They 're really ,
A: Yeah .
A: See , um , uh , where my , uh , well , my grandmother passed away , but where aunts are they have these huge pecan trees ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they just shade everything .
B: Now where is this ?
A: Uh , it 's in Georgia .
B: In Georgia ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: It 's , yeah , it 's right outside of Macon ,
A: and , and it 's just a ,
A: I like the way that , I like the way that idea of the south is ,
A: but when I think of Texas , I think of nothing but , no trees and just grass
B: Well , I tell you what ,
B: now , see , East Texas ,
B: there 's two parts of Texas , East Texas and North Texas .
B: Atlanta and Dallas are almost identical in every way , weather and everything .
A: Yeah .
B: The two cities are very , very identical ,
B: so if you were familiar with Atlanta , uh ,
A: So it 's that dry heat ?
B: Uh , well , no ,
B: it 's , it 's , uh , not dry at all .
B: It , it 's humid .
A: Well , where is it ,
A: is it was n't it Houston 's humid ?
B: Houston is awful
A: Yeah .
B: Houston is really humid .
B: No ,
A: It 's humid .
A: Well , ironically enough I 'm sitting here with a cast on my leg because I resumed an aerobics class the night before last .
B: Oh , no .
A: I ripped the ligaments in my right ankle .
B: Gosh .
A: Yeah
A: so ,
B: Exercise is not supposed to do that to you .
A: That 's what the nurses kept saying as they laughed all the way , you know , down the hallway .
A: Do you do anything on a regular basis ?
B: Well , off and on ,
B: off and on .
B: Right now I 've been off
B: but , I 've been going over to the fitness center .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's a good ,
A: yeah ,
A: I , My husband 's a T I in the unit here .
B: Yeah ,
B: three times ,
B: Well I try to go over there at least three times a week ,
B: and I try to walk , um , at least five times a week .
A: Do you , when you go to the ,
A: I have to ask you ,
A: and if this is getting to ,
A: we 're not supposed to get too particular ,
A: but I 'm just curious ,
A: when you go over there does it bother you in terms of how things are arranged , either at the Dallas location or the Spring Creek , in terms of , there 's so much , it 's so much of a weight orientation , weight lifting , et cetera .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , well , I 've been going to Spring Creek .
B: I have n't been to the Dallas one now in , oh , a couple of years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: At least since they 've redone it , supposedly redone .
B: So I don't really ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it 's not that great ,
A: and I go to the Spring Creek one on and off .
A: But my husband 's working over there
A: and he just goes to the Dallas one .
A: But I just don't ,
A: I mean , it 's just so much weight lifting .
A: Even the Spring Creek one has a lot of weights in it .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: Or is that what your into
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: No ,
B: well , I 've used the Nautilus equipment . And the bikes , and stair climbers , and stuff like that mostly .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't use the free weights
B: but ,
A: I like the tread mill and the stair master myself over there .
B: Yeah ,
B: I like those too .
A: And the pool when it gets warmer .
B: And the pool ,
B: yeah .
B: That 's great .
A: Yeah
A: I know .
A: Well , what I did was I went to a jazzercise class in a new location in Richardson near where we live in North Dallas ,
A: and long story short , I had n't ,
A: this is really a stupid thing that happened ,
A: but they have like the gymnasium flooring
A: and then like they had about three feet of linoleum around the perimeter in the back where I usually stand in any class like that I go to .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Instead of having that level , you know they had a chrome strip that was n't level ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it was about four inches deep and then about , oh a seventy degree angle .
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: And as we were jumping around or doing something I just jumped up and came right down on it .
B: Um .
A: The orthopedist called it a , uh , basketball injury where the ankle just rolls under you , and it snapped .
B: Woo .
A: I know .
A: We went to , well whatever in Plano ,
A: and the emergency room was like a bad comedy show
A: And the doctor said , you did n't do anything .
A: There 's only a one in five hundred chance that the radiologist will call you .
A: That was Tuesday night ,
A: and Wednesday night the radiologist called me at work
A: and , uh , I was on crutches ,
A: and he said , I think you better call an orthopedist .
A: So we went to one
A: and he just put a big old cast on it .
B: Put a big cast on it .
A: Yeah ,
A: for about four weeks .
B: Four weeks ,
B: yeah .
A: Well , I like aerobics ,
A: but I 'm not so sure that ,
B: Well not that much , though .
A: No ,
A: I 've never ,
A: I was off for about six months too just for some other surgery I 'd had ,
A: but I 've never , I 'd , you know , I was pretty much in shape walking
A: and , and , you know , this is one of those things ,
A: like this orthopedist said , he said you 'd be surprised how many how many people come in here with things like that because they are active .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , I was real embarrassed ,
A: but I felt kind of stupid
B: Well , those things happen , though .
A: Yeah ,
A: they do .
A: I mean , I guess I 'm glad , you know , that , um , nobody really noticed ,
A: I guess you could say .
B: Yeah .
A: Because I got up and started jumping on it again .
B: Well that did a lot of good ,
B: I 'm sure .
A: Yeah
A: really .
A: I enjoy aerobics ,
A: and I do it because I like it ,
A: I mean , I like the music and that kind of stuff .
B: Yeah .
B: I like the music ,
B: but I 've been unable to do that , because I hurt my foot about five years ago .
B: I broke my heel . No ,
A: Oh
A: that makes my foot ,
A: how 'd you do that ?
A: In aerobics ?
B: no ,
B: actually I was up on a ladder , and , uh , fell off . Leaned the wrong way .
A: Oh goodness .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And when I came down I hit with my full weight on my foot , but on concrete .
A: What 'd they do for that ?
A: Did they have to cast it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: they had , well they had to go in and do surgery .
B: They put a pin in it .
A: Oh , so the aerobics , the impact , would not be good .
B: Yeah ,
B: as I permanently damaged the , the cushion under my heel the normal cushion that you have there .
A: Oh , goodness .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I ca n't do any jumping up and down because it makes it hurt .
A: Oh , that makes sense .
A: So , I mean , are you , in terms of other things , like , like , not running , but playing a little bit of tennis , or can you not do stuff like that at all ?
B: Uh , well I have n't tried that .
B: I don't know .
B: It 's been I bet it 's been thirty years since I played tennis .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's been ,
B: Mostly into just walking and stuff like that .
A: That 's probably the safer way
A: because I notice in aerobics a lot of the women that don't look like they should n't be doing certain things
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm always afraid they 're going to fall over and have a coro , coronary .
B: Yeah
A: And there was my ego when I went ahead
A: and I went , oh , I can do that
A: and half the time though I don't jump half as much as ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , like , I 'm real tall ,
A: and , you know , I 'm not heavy ,
A: but when you go easy a hundred seventy at my height , um , I 'm five eleven you need just take it easy .
B: Um .
B: Sure .
A: Um , but when I see some
A: I mean , and I just don't think it 's healthy
A: all that pounding all the time .
B: It is n't , really , it 's not really good for your knees .
A: So , yeah ,
A: that 's the other reason ,
A: and , I don't know ,
A: this was just , I guess , something freak that happened to me ,
A: because I was n't familiar with the ,
B: Well , the floor was uneven .
A: Oh , it was completely ,
A: I mean , it literally ,
A: the two dissimilar floor floor coverings were not level .
A: And at first after it happened I thought , maybe that 's a handicap access ,
A: and then I said no ,
A: that 's just the way it 's constructed .
B: Yeah .
A: And my husband being a T I engineer ,
A: I said a few things to him when I got home ,
A: I said , who has engineered that ?
B: Really
A: But I ,
A: sounds you , like
A: one thing that I like , like swimming , you like that a lot ?
B: Uh-huh ,
B: I like swimming .
B: Uh-huh .
A: do you like to exercise because you want to or because you have to ?
B: No ,
B: I like , I liked it because I want to ,
B: it makes me feel better .
A: That 's how I am .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: If I don't do it I just feel like I don't have as much energy .
B: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's real funny because if you , you know ,
B: it seems like when you exercise and expend the energy that you 'd be tired ,
B: but it 's the other way around .
A: Right .
A: It curbs the appetite and helps with the calories and all that stuff .
B: Yeah
B: really .
A: Yeah
A: but ,
B: Yeah ,
B: and I need all the help I can get .
A: That gravity factor ,
A: I know
B: Uh-huh .
B: It does get you .
A: Like that orthopedist said to me , he said , don't worry Diane ,
A: he says , he said , uh , you 're at thirty something ,
A: but you 're on the upper side .
A: He said that , don't worry ,
A: he says , even if you were n't doing anything your body would start , that would start to happen to you .
B: Yeah ,
B: thanks a lot .
A: Yeah ,
A: because I was saying to him , I said , I 'm not that heavy ,
A: I 'm not heavy , you know ,
A: maybe ten to fifteen pounds like any other human being .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I said , uh , why do I feel like I need to start pushing myself more .
A: And he goes , human nature
A: And then , you know , you see these little girls in these little bitty things ,
A: and they 're all like twenty-one years of age
B: Uh-huh .
A: But luckily at there 's a little more diverse clientele .
B: That 's true ,
B: they do .
A: Except for the guys that lift the weights .
A: They do intimidate .
B: Yeah .
B: I try to go real late or real early before they get there
A: Yeah .
A: There some things I 'd like to try ,
A: but , you know , sometime when I ask , I just feel like , boy , am I stupid or what .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well that 's one thing I like about the Spring Creek place .
B: At least the fellow that 's there , one of the fellows that 's there at night and on weekends is real helpful .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And his name is B J .
A: I don't think I 've ever , I think I 've ,
A: there was some girl there .
A: I 've been there like , maybe a dozen times .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I actually like that site better than the other one just because of the type people that go to .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's terrible .
A: I don't know if the Dallas location ,
A: it just seems that ,
A: um , sometimes I feel like I 'm in a singles bar
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: And I have n't noticed that up at Spring Creek .
A: No ,
A: I have n't either ,
A: and I just , uh ,
A: it 's not that far of a drive
A: and I 'm glad they did that .
A: Um , you 're not missing anything at the Dallas renovated site .
A: It 's not at all anything worth talking about .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I thought maybe one of these days I 'll drive over there and check it out .
A: Yeah ,
A: but if you don't live near there that 's not worth ,
B: Yeah .
B: I live in Richardson ,
B: but it 's about half way between the Spring Creek and the , the Dallas site .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's actually where this happened to me , out in , I say Plano ,
A: but it 's all the same to me .
A: Richardson , over on Campbell and Park Hill there 's a new recreation center .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And as we were doing it , too , everybody noticed that there were all these big guys of assorted nationalities .
A: walked out ,
A: I was one thing ,
A: oh great , I have purple tights on , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they 're going yes .
A: But in general I like to I , I like dance a lot ,
A: so I mean aerobics is something I 'd hate to give up .
A: But he , he kind of said something to me about probably not as bad as your foot ,
A: but he just said to me , maybe you ought to try bicycling
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: you probably will for a while , because it 's going to be real tender .
A: He told me eight to twelve weeks .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Not anything , you know .
A: I said , but you 're only going to put the cast on for a couple of weeks .
A: He said , yeah ,
A: but that 's just ,
A: they tried to put me in some kind of immobilized walker , because he does n't like to put casts on when it 's warm .
A: But I just ,
A: the more they tried to get my foot in the more I screamed ,
A: I could n't , you know adjust that .
B: I know what you mean .
A: You know more about this stuff than I do , obviously then ,
B: Not fun
A: No .
A: Well , you 're walking okay now obviously ,
A: and you can ,
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I have a slight limp from it ,
B: but it matches one if I have one on the other side .
B: Yeah
A: Well , anything else about exercise we can talk about .
B: Well , other than I need to go .
A: Yeah ,
A: me too ,
A: me too .
A: I need to go actually get something to eat here .
B: It 's great though ,
B: I really do enjoy it .
A: Okay ,
A: thank you , Sandy .
B: Sure ,
B: thanks .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Bye-bye .
A: I don't know , um ,
A: do you do a lot of camping ?
B: Well , my husband and I have n't done a whole lot of camping ,
B: we , but we bought a van last year ,
A: Yeah .
B: and we were hoping , uh , to do some camping in the van , um ,
B: we did go camping in not Arkansas , Oklahoma .
B: Uh , last year in , we camped in a tent ,
B: and , uh , there were two other couples with us
B: and there was , uh , state park .
A: Oh , so ,
B: And it was really nice .
A: Yeah ,
A: um , up here some of the state parks are really nice
A: and some of them are n't ,
A: some of them are pretty rough .
B: Really ?
A: Um , yeah ,
A: they , they just have like outhouses ,
A: they don't have like a shower room or anything ,
A: yeah ,
A: but some of them are really nice
A: they have showers and full bathrooms ,
B: Um .
A: um , but I don't know ,
A: I , I 've been camping a couple times
A: but I 'm not a real avid camper , uh ,
A: a lot of people I know are ,
A: but , um , I don't , I don't .
B: I , I don't like really camping in the rough .
B: I like the , the , the little necessities like having electricity available and running water and showers and things like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: we went , we went once to a lean-to
A: and it , um ,
A: I mean , there was n't any electricity on the camp site
A: but it was all right ,
A: we only spent two nights there .
A: I would n't want to spend more than two nights .
A: I would n't want to go for like a week ,
A: but , um , two nights is good .
B: Yeah ,
B: that would , that would be much .
A: Um , especially there was a little store close by ,
A: so , it was pretty nice .
B: Yeah ,
B: the campsite that we went to was an area that ,
B: it 's right on a big lake ,
B: and there 's a lot of boating out there ,
B: and we , we went up there to hopefully be able to get on the water a little bit
B: but it was still , uh , it was still , too , cold .
A: Oh , really ?
A: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it was pretty early in the year .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: up here you got to wait until , August , until the water warms up .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , it 's not that bad
A: but it 's still pretty chilly .
A: Um , I don't know ,
A: I was , I have a tent
A: and I fluff out in it , in the backyard and stuff ,
A: but this thing about camping that bothers me is you 've got to pack everything
A: and another thing is the thing seems to get ,
A: it 's dirty you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: so , you ca n't keep the dirt out of the tent .
A: I don't know
A: we have a seven year old ,
A: it 's pretty funny ,
A: like stay out .
B: Yeah ,
B: we , we have , we have a dog
B: and that 's just about as bad as a kid
A: Yeah ,
A: boy , he does n't go in and out of the tent a hundred times . And use it as a play , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: they like to play in them .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't know how you can really keep , uh , the inside of a tent clean .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't know .
B: Other than , you know , taking your shoes off right before you walk in or something and , and sweeping it out everyday , it 's really hard to , to keep the sand and dirt out of it .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , what we were doing , we were just going to say , we 're just going to sleep in the tent and hang out at night , so , you know , no going in and out , and , or what he wants to do ,
A: we had brought his friend along , was play in the tent .
A: It was like , no , this is not working ,
A: you ca n't do that ,
A: you get the tent all dirty .
B: Did ,
A: Plus you get it all wet ,
A: we were at a beach site , too .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um , did you have another , a big tent , like uh , um , like a , looks like a sitting area type , you know , like a two room type ?
A: No ,
A: but , you know , I was just thinking of getting one those for the yard because they are really nice
A: and , um , up here we have , uh , we have quite a few mosquitoes at nighttime .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: we don't really have a problem with that , um , in these areas , um ,
B: and even , even when in Oklahoma when we camped I really did n't notice a problem with bugs .
B: And I noticed that ,
B: I know that I said , that 's ,
B: I 've , I 've lived back east before , um , they ,
A: They 're terrible ,
A: they 're really terrible .
A: Uh , but , there 's this one campsite , that it ,
A: just some of them are known
A: but there is one that 's out in this big lake
A: and its , its , its , mosquitoes are terrible
A: and then there 's this , there 's this other one that 's more up in the mountains
A: but it surrounds a man-made reservoir
A: and there 's no bugs ,
A: that 's the whole thing that everyone told me , oh ,
A: I 'm , I was going to go to , Little River State Park ,
A: that place is great ,
A: there 's no bugs .
B: Huh .
A: But , oh ,
A: okay ,
A: because , uh , we were having a really big problem up here in certain areas ,
A: we were really affected bad by it , but really got it , um ,
A: almost destroyed the the tourism in one town , because of the mosquitoes ,
A: they 're so , bad .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: that was , it 's a really nice area ,
A: I 've been there before
A: and it 's ,
A: I , I could n't imagine living just sixty miles north of them
A: but they were plagued , they were plagued with them , with mosquitoes .
A: And you can go out , outside in the daytime , all right ,
A: but the minute the sun went down , um , that 's when it 's usually , the minute the sun sets the mosquitoes come out .
B: Huh .
A: I mean , just the very second ,
A: it 's really strange .
A: They , uh , they must , uh , work on that , you know ,
A: the , it gets cooler when the sun sets
A: and then they all come out .
B: Well , have you ever , have you ever taken any of those , um , what do they call this , lights ,
B: have you ever used those ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I never really noticed how effective they were ,
A: but , um , because that was n't really ,
A: I bought them ,
A: I really did n't get to use them like , oh , there 's mosquitoes let 's turn them .
A: We just sort of lit them .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , um , we were n't bothered that much by mosquitoes ,
A: so , we did n't really contribute it to that .
A: But , um , I think in an area that 's really thick with mosquitoes ,
A: I ca n't see all this little , uh , smoke buckets I call them ,
B: Yeah .
A: they work ,
A: but they 're suppose to work really well .
B: Huh .
A: Oh , I 'm in my paperwork here ,
A: that 's what I do when I wait for a phone call ,
A: I get in my paperwork Oh , to find my most important parts .
A: But I don't know , I don't know if I 'm going to go ,
A: I wish was an avid camper
A: and I could really talk about like gardening or something ,
A: you can talk about that a lot ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , um , I do want to go again .
A: We just moved to a new into a house ,
A: so , I don't think camping ,
A: maybe in the backyard ,
A: but I don't see going on a camping trip probably until next summer .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'd , I 'd like to go camping cross-country , um ,
B: I just got married less than two years ago ,
B: so , we don't have any , any children yet , um ,
A: So , it 's easy for you to go .
B: Yeah ,
B: so , easy to pick up and go , and ,
B: we have a van
B: and we can just throw a couple of sleeping bags in the back of it .
A: Um , oh , God
B: So , it 's not really , I guess , camping the way most people picture camping in the tent
B: but ,
A: I don't know
A: but that sounds that my , my kind of camping , it really does .
A: Yeah ,
A: okay , um , well , um ,
A: that is is to have a , a nice vehicle where you can have everything in it , plus your tent .
B: Yeah ,
B: or , or get ,
B: my brother has a real nice pop-up .
A: Yep .
B: And he just , he just tows it behind his truck .
A: Um ,
B: And he , he 's got three kids ,
B: so , his kids will sleep in the truck , in the , in the back of the bed .
B: Um , and they sleep in the pop-up .
A: Well , those , they 're kind of nice
A: but they 're also , um , flimsy when you really look at them .
A: But when you get inside they 're really nice , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: everything 's really ,
A: but then when you look underneath them , it 's just got these little wheels and this little axle ,
A: it 's like , oh , my
A: and then a big windstorm it would pick you up .
B: Yeah ,
B: he did have a problem , uh , when he went camping last year in Beavers Bend , Oklahoma , um ,
B: a , a storm came in
B: and it started raining really heavy
B: and they were all , everybody was trying to flee the campsite ,
B: everybody was getting stuck in the mud .
A: Oh , jeez ,
B: And , uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: what do you , what do you do when you get a , I mean , like a really violent storm like a tornado ,
A: just stay in your truck .
A: I mean , I would n't stay in the , um ,
B: Well , theirs was so bad ,
B: and they were so close to the water that the water was coming up ,
A: Oh .
B: and they had to get out of there .
A: So , then , were they successful ?
B: Yeah ,
B: they , yeah , they were .
A: But it took them a little while ?
B: But , yeah ,
B: they they decided that , that was enough camping for the weekend .
A: Yeah ,
A: so , did they get stuck ?
B: No ,
B: they ended up getting out .
B: They ended up helping several other people though that were , that were stuck .
A: Yeah , huh .
A: Well , so , they evacuated it
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: they , the whole , the whole campsite was evacuated .
A: Wow .
B: I mean some , I think some people that had fairly sturdy , um , vehicles or whatever if they had like a Winnebago or something and they were farther in away from the water , I think they stayed .
A: Yeah .
B: But everybody that was real close to the water ended up ,
B: it was either that or their truck was going to go floating downstream .
A: I know I always I like to get right on the water ,
A: yeah ,
A: by the campsite , it 's so ,
B: Yeah .
A: we have lean-tos up here .
A: I really like them ,
A: like I say , they 're kind of , just kind of more sturdy than anything , you know ,
A: just , just ,
B: They have them right at the campsites ?
A: Yeah ,
A: they 're , they 're lean-tos . Yeah , they 're pretty nice ,
B: Wow .
A: they 're , they 're , uh , it 's like a little house except the whole face is open ,
A: and the one time that we went , we got one ,
A: it was overlooking the water
A: but it was a big embankment ,
A: I wanted to get one right on the water .
A: we had an electrical storm too ,
A: and it was really , it was neat sitting there watching it ,
A: I mean , it was raining ,
A: when we called home , everybody said , oh , we were worried about you in that storm ...
A: All right ,
A: well I have a lot of different teams that I like to , to keep in touch with ,
A: of course , Texas Rangers being one of them ,
A: I mean , uh , you know , you ca n't live in Dallas without , you know ,
B: Well what are the others ?
A: Well , uh , I originally came from Saint Louis ,
A: so , uh , the Saint Louis Cardinals are one , uh ,
A: I moved to Kansas City ,
A: see I have , I have a tendency to , a , adopt teams when I go to a uh , go to a town .
B: Well it 's helpful .
A: Yeah ,
A: so , uh , I lived in Kansas City for a couple years
A: and I adopted the Royals ,
A: I lived in Houston for two and a half years
A: so I adopted the , uh , uh , the Houston Astros ,
A: so I mean , you know , I 've got quite a few .
B: Well do you keep up with the statistical stuff ?
A: No ,
A: I don't , I don't get into that too much ,
A: every once in a while , I will keep in , in touch , with maybe , like who 's in the top five of hitting , or something like that
A: but I don't get into , you know , how many errors somebody has or things like that .
B: Well there 's , there 's a guy on , that was on show that I listen to going to work in the morning who does , uh , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's essentially trivial statistics
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they 've got a
B: it 's a statistic that has to do with winning and losing one run games .
A: I 've heard of that one .
B: And apparently the Rangers last year , won a lot of one run games .
A: Well I did n't know that ,
A: that 's supposed to be a real good statistic , uh .
B: Well , it , it , it is
B: but it 's the , it 's , it 's a reverse indicator .
A: Well that 's true ,
A: they don't have the offense to , uh , to get out , or to have the , the more runs ,
A: so .
B: Well what the , what the argument is
B: and it , it , it , it 's one of these statistical ,
B: gee , how can you draw a conclusion from it ,
B: but they find that , there 's a connection between that and how they do in Spring training the following year .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it 's strangely enough , it 's almost like the law of averages catches you on the following year .
A: Huh .
B: Which means that if you have a good year winning one one run games that the following year , you 'll have a bad year .
B: And they , they 've got , um , they 've looked at I think twenty-three teams , uh ,
B: and , and , the , uh , statistics are something like twenty-one out of twenty-three .
B: It was ,
B: which means the Rangers are going to have a terrible year ,
B: I , uh ,
A: Which I was kind of leaning toward anyway , to tell you the truth .
B: Well , I mean , and it 's , uh , uh ,
B: I don't know ,
B: what do you , what do you think of Incaviglia 's loss .
A: I kind of think it was necessary ,
A: I mean , I , I don't , I 'm not a , a big , um , pure power hitter anyway .
A: I mean , I don't like these guys that get up there and swing for the downs every time .
A: I mean , uh , I think that , uh , that a player ought to hit a home run if he 's got the pitch to do it ,
A: but when you get two strikes on you , you have a you know , you should , you know , shorten your swing a little bit , you know ,
A: if it 's a perfect shot , go for it ,
A: but I mean , you know , the strike outs were a big problem for him ,
A: and , uh , plus supposedly what I heard , he was not much of a team player anyway ,
A: so .
B: Well it , it 's an interesting concept , though , when you look at , uh , of , of how baseball , how apparently ,
B: I was reading in the paper tonight that the Detroit Tigers are going to sign him .
B: And , uh , and the point of , of , I guess ,
B: I don't understand the , the strategy of how baseball works ,
B: but it seems that , you know , they can sign him tomorrow ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he could go in the team the next day ,
B: and , and , and they put him in the lineup
B: and he hits a home run
B: and all of a sudden he becomes a hero .
A: Yeah ,
A: well that 's true .
B: And , and all he has to do is hit the ball ,
B: I mean , you 're not ,
B: and all he has to do is one , you know , hit it once .
B: It does n't ,
B: he can , he can he can swing a couple times ,
B: if he fouls it up he can swing as much as he can .
A: Right .
B: It 's an interesting , uh , an interesting concept of , of how they do it .
B: But I agree with you
B: I think that , I think that 's part of what , uh , baseball needs more of .
B: I , uh , I , I guess what bothers me is , is that when you go , um , you wait and wait and wait
B: and finally a guy gets up there and blasts a home run
B: and that 's all the game is .
B: I 'd rather see the ball hit around and have the people ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well there 's , there 's another point to that too .
A: They said the , that um , that he was horrible at , uh , at batting with , with men on base .
A: Now having somebody get up and hit a solo home run does you , you know , gives you run , obviously .
B: Yes .
A: But I mean if you ca n't do it with men on base , there 's something definitely wrong , um , you know ,
A: you , you 've got to be able to get the two and three run home runs , you know , to , to be able to , uh , score enough runs to be able to win in these , uh , in this day and age ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: well how do you think the Royals are going to do ?
A: I think the Royals will do okay .
A: They have , they have several pitchers that had badly years last year
A: and they are , they 're these , uh , cycle pitchers ,
A: they , they pitch one year bad , one year good , one beer bad , one year good .
A: Saberhagen has won , uh , supposedly the Cy ,
A: I think he won Cy year , uh , two out of three years ,
A: and , uh , you know , so he 's very much due for a good year .
B: Well are they going to beat , are they going to beat Oakland ?
A: Well now see that 's a good question ,
A: I , that 's , I don't know how Oakland 's going to react to being , uh , swept in the World Series last year .
A: They could very easily , uh , take that as a challenge . Which is the way most teams you know , naturally do . Uh , and , and , just go out and not give anybody a chance to beat them ,
B: Yeah .
A: so ,
B: Well I go to Saint Louis from time to time
B: and I watch , I , I watch their sports up there
B: and they 're , uh , they 're certainly intense about the Cardinals they ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: baseball is their , is their life up there like football is down here I think .
B: did you actually live in Saint Louis ?
A: I lived in the suburbs of Saint Louis ,
A: yeah .
B: everybody does , right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true too ,
A: I think that 's all that they have .
B: I had a friend from college that lives in , uh ,
B: it 's well , I should say on the west side ,
B: I mean everything 's on the west side .
B: Manchester ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , out that way ,
A: Um .
B: and I went and visited him ,
B: but anyway , it is interesting .
B: Well how are the Cardinals ?
B: Do you still keep up with them , or
A: Yeah ,
A: oh yeah ,
A: I , I definitely do ,
A: in fact I 've got family that still lives up there .
A: Um , from what I hear from everybody up there , they 're not going to have a good year because they let too many people go .
A: But I 've been following Spring training
A: and they 're like one of the best teams in spring training so far .
B: Well is that a good indicator ?
A: That , well it can be .
A: It , it really kind of depends on , on , um , what they were , you know , what they were looking for .
A: In other words , if , if in Spring training they were looking at all their kids , like a lot of them do , um , then it really does n't give you any indication .
A: But if they were , uh , playing the people that they 're going to play , then that might be pretty good indication ,
A: so , you know , it 's , it 's not a great indication because there have been teams that have just , you know , come out and just won all kinds of games in Spring training and then gone on a , you know , fourteen game losing streak in the first of the season
A: so ,
B: You know what I think is remarkable is , uh ,
B: it seems that what you really need to do to win though , is to have a team that has reasonable talent and has some people that have , have , have real breakthrough years .
A: Exactly ,
A: yeah .
B: And , and the question is how do you forecast that ,
A: You ca n't .
B: if you had to , if you had to bet on who would be in the World Series , I mean it would be really tough .
A: Right ,
A: I think the best thing that you can do is go with , um , the players that are , that have the talent to do the best years . And , um , that they had n't had these , uh , gigantic , uh , career years yet and , and just kind of assume that , you know , one of them is going to break through eventually ,
B: Yeah .
A: so . And I , I think they said the Reds , um ,
A: this last year , I 'm not sure that they said that they had that many people having career years .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , and , and so they may be even better this year .
B: Well , well when are the Rangers going to come through
A: Uh , that 's a good question .
A: I ,
A: the Rangers have a , have a pitching problem
A: and whether or not they can fix that or not is going to be an interesting question .
A: They 're doing the right thing , though , uh ,
A: they are going with their farm system .
A: They 're letting their farm system , uh , build up and stuff like that
A: and ,
B: Well is there enough money ,
B: that 's part of it ,
B: I , uh ,
B: that was part of Skip Bayless ' argument .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know if you read Skip Bayless , but a , a local commentary
A: No .
B: and , his argument is that uh , the ownership is not inclined to lose big money long enough to , to bring in the big dollars .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Um , that 's probably true .
B: Would you , would you agree with that ?
A: Well considering what I 've seen in the last , uh , you know , two seasons , I 'm beginning to agree with that ,
A: yeah .
A: But I mean , you don't have to spend the big money , as far as I 'm concerned to , uh , to win .
A: You just have to spend it if it 's necessary .
B: Uh .
A: In other words if you 've got a player on your team who 's helping your team , then keep him there .
A: don't let him go away .
B: Yeah .
A: And I think that 's really what 's been hurting , uh , the , uh , Rangers .
B: Well did n't Kansas City put up quite a bit of money for their pitching staff .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: they , they spent more money , last year than any other team in the , in the league
A: and they were , you know , toward the bottom of the league .
A: Uh , so it 's like I said spending money does n't guarantee you , uh , winning a pennant .
B: Yeah .
A: It really does n't ,
A: so .
B: Well and that , I think that 's maybe part of it that , that the , um ,
B: and it , you know ,
B: if I owned the team . I think you 'd like them to do well
B: but the question of losing big , big money that what , did , did , did Steinbrenner actually make money on the ,
A: Uh , you got me .
A: I , you know , I think that there 's coming to a point real soon when ticket prices are going to be to the point where the average fan ca n't go
A: and once you do that , you lose everything ,
A: I mean .
B: Well it 's , it , it , yeah , it 's a little bit like any other sport , you know .
B: When it starts costing you fifty or a hundred dollars to go to a game
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , you know , I mean , I , I guess as we get older , you 're probably going ,
B: if , if you , if you compare to go to a , a sport , a , a
B: say you go to a rock concert , or , or even a performance , a , an opera or the symphony or something , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: if , you know ,
B: but how , how often do you do that .
A: Right .
B: An
B: I , I , I would , I would think baseball probably feeds on a number of people that can go out there , you know , several times a ,
A: That , that 's the whole point .
A: There are so many games in , in a year that they 've got to have repeat customers .
B: Yeah .
A: They ca n't afford not to ,
A: and , you know , that 's one of the things that I think Saint Louis has done , um ,
A: I mean ,
A: their , you know , their ticket prices are , you know , I guess as high as anybody else 's
A: but what , somehow or another they , attract , uh , so many people from ,
A: I mean they 're a , it 's a small market
A: and yet they attract as many if not more than most , uh , uh , most , other cities ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: but don't you think there 's a , there , there are older fans there .
B: I , I don't mean older , um , you know ,
B: the fact that , that it 's , it 's a better established and that the , the city is , is , is more , of a ...
A: Okay , um ,
A: what baseball team are you familiar with ?
B: Well , I 'm only a little bit familiar with the Red Sox because I lived up in Boston for a while ,
A: Really ?
B: and , um , and that 's ,
A: Oh , now come on ,
A: no Texas Rangers ?
B: after that , if you asked me that I would n't have been able to tell you if that was football or baseball .
A: Really ?
A: I guess they paired two women together on this call for a reason which is something we can think about later
A: but , um , I understand a little bit about the Texas Rangers .
A: I know George Bush threw out the first pitch hitter bounced off the ground
A: and that , um ,
A: yeah ,
A: I heard a joke on the radio yesterday that , in regard that he did n't design the patriot missile system ,
A: and , uh , the radio 's kind of cruel ,
A: I mean , think , the , he , this chain that must have been on President Bush to bounce the first pitch off the ground ,
A: I mean , how humiliating for a man to do that , any man .
A: I don't care if you 're President .
B: Yeah ,
B: but at the same time , I don't know , it 's pretty far to throw that far
B: I could n't do it .
A: I know
A: but he 's a man
A: come on ,
A: men know how to do that , right ?
B: Right ,
B: he 's supposed to be able to do that .
A: I know so ,
A: I felt kind of sorry for him .
A: that must have been hard on him because he 's just a person
A: but , um , I never ,
A: a major owner of our of the team here .
B: Oh , really ?
B: I did n't know that .
A: Yeah ,
A: he 's like , I thought he was the owner
A: but it turns out my Mom said that he 's part owner
A: but he must own the biggest chunk
A: because that 's all you hear about is , if , you know , about Neal Bush I think is his name .
B: Uh-huh .
A: See , I even know his name because he 's on the news a lot ,
A: and I never had to watch the news not , you know , not like some people hour and a half a day or anything .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I 've been watching , uh ,
B: my husband 's French
B: and so if I 've been watching the French news , when I watch it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's incentive ,
B: speaking of Bush , we 're going to get a little off topic but speaking of Bush , they that had a story where he went to visit some little , uh , elementary school students , and stuff .
A: Oh , I saw that .
B: Did you see that , where he , the guy asked him for proof of who he was ,
A: Yeah .
B: he said his .
A: I want to see your driver 's
A: I , I , I don't ,
B: I know
B: and see a credit card
A: you 're not President Bush .
A: I know
A: and he said
A: yeah ,
A: it does so fast ,
A: I heard it on the radio .
A: I heard the audio portion on the radio in the car
A: but I did n't see it
A: but ,
B: It was so funny to see ,
B: it was a really cute little kid too .
A: That 's about my extent of , um , about baseball ,
A: I don't know , that much about it .
B: Well , I can tell you , that the Mets opened , I think , two days ago ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: because my brother was supposed to go to the opening game ,
B: and I could n't tell you who pitched ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they won ,
B: the Mets won .
A: Did they ?
B: But , yeah ,
B: not my a lot , * sp ? by
B: and then somebody else lost ,
B: maybe it was the other New York team which is the Yankees ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I don't even know if they 're still New York Yankees , or New Jersey .
A: That 's so stupid that you all have two teams .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's really stupid .
B: Well , but it ,
B: then they can have them play against each other .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
B: I think it 's still the New York Yankees , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: I thought they were moving to New Jersey
B: This is how much I know about baseball .
A: The Texas Rangers , they , they lost , I think .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I know that last year
A: we did go to a baseball game last year .
A: We got free tickets because someone at our church , one of the deacons at church , um , parks cars at The Mansion at Turtle Creek which is like one of the , uh , the places and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And he 's their head chauffeur ,
A: is this funny , as they 're parking the cars the valet service .
B: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: he makes good money too doing that ,
A: you 'd be I was shocked ,
A: but anyway , someone gave an Iranian a tip of four Rangers tickets last year ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then the Iranian could n't ,
A: he did n't want them ,
A: so he gave them to Alan ,
A: and Alan and his Dad had plans that night
A: so they gave them to us ,
A: so he decided that some wealthy man tipped this Iranian , with baseball tickets ,
B: With baseball tickets .
A: and we ended up with them , right .
A: And so we were , walking up
B: Yeah .
A: and I looked at my husband
A: and I said , you know what Kyle this is The Mansion at Turtle Creek a tip
A: I bet these are really good seats
A: and so we ended up on first base right down there on the floor ,
B: Wow .
A: oh , yeah ,
A: we they called us at five
A: and the game started at seven
A: so we just threw everything together , ran over and got the tickets and walked
A: and so we took two kids with us
A: and nobody brings two children in these seats , you know because ,
B: Because they 're fancy seats and stuff .
A: yeah ,
A: and you just sit down
A: and all the girls were all dressed up you know ,
A: I just was there , you know ,
A: like I 'm loaded ,
A: I 'm here , you know ,
A: and , uh , it was just kind of funny
A: because , you know , but we got to sit by first base
A: if they did hit a ball I would have been afraid it would have knocked my face in , you know .
B: I know I 'm always scared of that whenever I go to a game .
B: I rarely go
B: but we went last year
B: because my brother , my brother is impossible , when , um , he does football leagues and baseball leagues and all kinds of stuff ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and if there 's a game on , he 's watching it .
B: I mean , that 's all there is to it ,
A: Really ?
B: and he 's like glued at the T V .
A: I 'm glad my husband 's not like that .
B: Oh , I 'm glad my husband 's not like that either ,
B: I 'd kill him
B: My brother 's like that
B: and , um , see he goes to a lot of games ,
B: not a real lot ,
B: but he tries to go ,
B: then my father got us some tickets ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so my brother 's wife and my husband and I went .
B: Last year we wanted to show my husband what a baseball game was because , you know , being a non-American you want to see what a baseball game is like .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And he describes it as , you sit there in a crowd ,
B: it was nice weather and stuff ,
B: it was n't a real problem ,
B: but you sit there in a crowd ,
B: and you 're waiting and waiting and waiting
B: and you eat these lousy the hot dogs um ,
B: because we made him try a hot dog , you know ,
A: That 's funny .
B: and , um , so you sit there
B: and you wait for the longest time really bored ,
B: and then all of a sudden something happens
B: but you happen to look the other way during the time ,
A: You miss the whole thing .
B: yeah ,
B: and so you 're basically you sit there and wait for something exciting to happen
B: and when it happened he missed it , and did n't understand it Um , he grew up out , well , he grew up in , which is the , sort of O strip east to west , eastern part ,
A: That 's funny .
A: Where is he from in France ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: but that ,
A: Yeah .
A: I have a , I had a friend in college from Strasbourg ,
B: Yeah ,
B: he 's not that far ,
B: he was sort of in between Strasbourg , and Paris .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Paris .
A: And my cousin lives in Paris
A: and she 's lived there for like , oh , off and on for twenty years .
B: Oh , is she still there ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because ,
A: Saint Claude is that sound familiar ?
B: Yeah ,
B: Saint Claude ,
A: Yeah .
B: yeah ,
B: we used to ,
B: that 's one of the , um , entrances to the periphery to get in and out of the city .
A: Oh , really ?
B: And it , it , it , it sits right at the limit ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I exactly where she is .
B: But , um , we met in Paris .
A: That 's neat .
A: Yeah ,
A: she married
A: and they have twelve children .
B: Twelve children ?
A: She has twelve children .
B: Oh , my God , the poor woman .
A: She looks gorgeous ,
A: no
A: she 's gorgeous
A: and she just liked having kids
A: and she 's thin
A: and , I mean , four or more children are thin ,
B: Were any of them twins ?
A: I mean , I 'm not kidding you .
B: You probably ca n't afford to eat if you have more than two of them
A: No ,
A: your ,
A: I have a friend now that has seven .
A: And , um , and they 're all eight and under , and nine and under ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: they 're all real young ,
A: they 're just raised right
A: that 's what God 's told them to do
A: but they 're not condemning you ,
A: if you ,
A: we only have one child , you know ,
A: they don't say , they don't put on bad or anything which is good because it would be easy , I 'm sure , for them to do that ,
A: you get a conviction like that
A: and you think everyone should have it .
A: And so I 'm real proud of them because they 're are n't really , they don't do that at all .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You go in their bathroom
A: and there 's ten tooth brushes in there .
A: And I always give her a hard time whose toothbrush did you really use this morning
B: But how do they afford to even have the kids , uh ,
B: we 're expecting our first baby , almost any day Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: They live lean for one thing
A: and they tithe
A: and they
A: it puts a whole in your money bag , * spelling : hole
A: we don't honor God with this portion
A: and so they ,
A: I think that helps a lot .
A: I think that 's the key , in he , like his sales last year
A: he just works a normal job .
A: He probably has an income of thirty-five thousand ,
A: but last year he made
A: that got him a bonus of twenty-five thousand which allowed him to pay cash for a full size van .
A: He loves God ,
A: I mean , it was the biggest thing that any one in this company had ever done ,
B: Wow .
A: and he got to do it
A: and so God just really blesses him in ways like that ,
A: do trust God because , I don't know , kids are a blessing
A: and , and some people you know , we think of blessings as nice furniture and things like that ,
A: but kids are just as much of a blessing inside these material things
A: but it 's a different kind
A: and a lot times people think , oh , well , I 'm not blessed
A: I have an old car .
A: But you 've got five kids , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you 're just as blessed , probably more , because if you follow this ,
A: there 's a good book called WHAT THE BIBLE HAS TO SAY ABOUT CHILD TRAINING , by Richard Fugate
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he 's , you know ,
A: a lot of wisdom in it .
A: And the kids at BIBLE talk about anything
A: but training , and training is different than anything else
A: in , in psychology does n't address it .
A: A lot of the psychology stuff , the good stuff that 's in psychology it just comes out of the BIBLE
A: and they don't quote you the proverb out of it ,
A: but the things that work in psychology other the years that they 've proven to work , they just come out of the BIBLE
A: and so this book it just really all these things and how to train the child
A: so they 're not going to be a curse to you when they 're thirteen .
B: Uh-huh .
A: What I mean how to train them so they 're going to be a blessing
A: and so , you know , they do that
A: and they , they just live lean pretty much
A: they don't , she does n't shop at Foley 's you know , and stuff like that .
A: But a lot women die or shop at Foley 's
A: so things ,
B: I , I don't know what Foley 's is
A: It 's like a Macy 's , kind of store ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's pretty nice
A: and everything 's pretty expensive
A: and , you know , you just ca n't do that
A: and you don't go to baseball games as much
A: or you get pictures like we did .
A: You know what I mean ?
B: Yeah .
A: You do these fun things , you know , in other kinds of ways
A: and I know Manhattan 's real expensive
A: but , um , it 's kind of a different situation because you 're probably living in an apartment , right ?
B: Yeah ,
B: well , that makes a really big difference .
B: But , but , still it 's just as hard as having , that ,
A: Yeah .
B: but your cousin could have a baseball team with twelve kids
A: Well , church softball leagues ,
A: so ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: they 're not all boys
A: and right now we don't have a girls ' league because I 'm the one that 's supposed to start one
A: and I just have n't gotten around to doing it .
A: I keep saying we need to have one .
A: They go , okay , then start one .
A: But everybody wants to do it
A: but , you know , God 's sitting on my heart
A: and I just had n't gotten around to doing it ,
A: but anyway , so they could really only have four members on the team .
A: I think they only have four boys .
A: I don't even think they have but two old enough to play yet .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , um , then you did n't believe me about her kids * listen : this and utt2 as one utt
A: are the they are so good .
A: I 'm not kidding you
A: but she does work with them
A: and it 's a commitment
A: and , that , that 's what they 're called to do .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I have a ,
A: most of my friends ,
B: I admire someone that can do that , you know ,
B: I really can .
A: I know ,
A: I do too ,
A: I , most of my friends have three or four kids
A: and they feel like , you know , that 's really why God
A: and some of the people in our church use birth control
A: and some of them don't ,
A: I had my tubes tied
A: so you ,
B: Well , this is a good subject , is n't it ?
A: Yeah .
B: It 's , it 's something that you can really talk about .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , I don't know what we 're going to do about it ,
B: but , but it 's certainly something that has a lot of things to talk about .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , you know , when they say the Middle East , it 's such a big area
A: Uh-huh .
B: and there 's so many different problems there .
B: Uh , what do you want to concentrate on .
A: It does n't matter to me .
B: Well , uh , I 'll tell you something ,
B: um , I , I have a sister-in-law from Israel ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and they 're really quite , uh , arrogant about it all .
B: They , they believe that they , they belong there
B: and they 've belonged there forever ,
B: and , the Palestinians and the Arabs are , uh , more or less ,
B: they , they consider them second class .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , they 're really quite arrogant about it .
B: I don't , uh , I don't know if that contributes to the problem .
A: Well how did they feel about the , uh , the United States intervening with Patriot missiles ,
A: did , did they ,
B: Oh , uh , I 'm , I 'm sure this is the one time that the Israelis are really happy to have their big brothers , the Americans ,
A: Uh-huh
B: but , I did n't really talk about that with her .
B: She , um , um , my sister-in-law now lives in , um , Switzerland .
A: Oh .
B: But , um , when they were living in Israel , it was , it was , the , the Palestinians , they , they come in an ,
B: and they 're , they 're nothing but really servants for them ,
B: and they really treat them like second class citizens .
B: They , they don't really want them around
B: but they like them around because they do all the menial labor and such .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But they , they really do ,
B: they look down on them .
B: And , I don't know , being ,
B: I , I live in , uh , Vermont
B: and being up here we pretty much treat everybody , you know , as someone that has merit , even if they 're poor , or if they 're Hispanic or if they 're black .
B: We give everybody pretty much the benefit of a doubt because we don't see all the crime and , all the hurt in the big cities , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: if I lived in Washington , D C I think I 'd have a different attitude about Black people
B: because I 've heard that it , it , the , they 're terrible , you know ,
B: it 's just like it 's a dog eat dog world .
B: And here , you know , all , all my black friends are professionals
B: and they 're , they don't , you know , they don't go out and abuse drugs
B: and they , they send their kids to school
B: and they , they , they uh , you know really encourage them to go to college and stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So it 's just a different world .
A: Well I live in San Antonio
A: and fifty percent of the population is minority .
B: Oh , um , I talked to someone about San Antonio ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , um , they said that they , they have , you have quite the problem with , uh , the ghettos ,
B: I don't know ,
B: do they call it the barrio down there .
A: That 's the barrios
A: but it 's , it 's I don't think it 's any different of a problem than any other major city .
A: It 's just Hispanics here instead of Blacks .
B: Yeah ,
B: but I heard that San Antonio , unlike like , like a city like San Diego it it just has a really bad problem .
A: I grew up outside of Houston
A: and I don't think , uh , as far as gang violence and things , I don't think it 's any worse here than in Houston .
B: Yeah ,
B: like say Houston .
B: Now I would , now me not even knowing anything about Houston , I would think that it 's a pretty calm city .
A: Houston is not at all .
B: No , huh ,
B: there 's a lot of crime ?
A: Yes
A: there 's quite a bit of crime .
B: Oh , my , um ,
B: yeah ,
B: like I , we 're so protected up here ,
B: it 's , it 's really strange .
B: I mean our red light district , I mean , uh , you could go walking around down there and pretty much not fear for your life , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we 're just so protected .
B: But , it 's , it 's , over in the Mid East , especially Israel , it 's just like Israelis have a like a totalitarian system , when it comes to the Palestinians .
B: You know , the Israelis can do anything they want
B: but when it comes to Palestinians , if they 're out in the street at night , it 's , it 's really looked on as odd .
B: Um , usually they 're , they 're bussed in to the , the , um , Jewish neighborhoods , and the Jewish cities
B: and then at night they 're bussed out to the occupied territories .
A: Huh .
B: So they don't have that .
B: But , uh , what do you think about the mess that 's , we 've created in Iraq ?
A: I think it 's unfortunate , uh , as far as the Kurds are concerned ,
A: it ,
A: I
B: It 's just what do you do for them ,
B: you want to do something for them ,
B: but you don't want to get so directly involved that you 're occupying the , the country .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: we ca n't get involved in their civil war , um , unfortunately ,
A: but we 've kind of driven these people out .
B: To do it ,
B: yeah ,
B: but you see President Bush is telling them rebel , you know , uh , uprise .
B: And that 's what they did
B: and now they 're like asking him for help
B: and he 's like , no we ca n't get involved .
B: What my husband had very strong feelings ,
B: he , uh , agreed with , um , the General Schwartzkopf ,
B: he said , um , he should have let , Bush should have let him finish his job .
A: Sure .
B: He should , he should have let them , um , corner the Republican Guards ,
A: Well I think the war ended too soon .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly ,
B: that 's what everyone says .
A: Yeah .
B: everyone I talk to , they says , you know ,
B: it 's real easy to say that .
A: We , we did n't damage enough of their arsenal .
A: We damaged most of it
A: but we , we should have gotten , made sure we got everything .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't think the higher ups were thinking about what this guy 's going to do with the rest of his war machine .
B: They 're going , oh , well it 's not going to hurt us
B: so we 're just going to let them go ,
B: but really we did n't think about the people that he was going ,
B: and I mean , he , he 's just ,
A: Unfortunately though , the , the original goal of the mission was to drive them out of Kuwait .
A: And once that was accomplished it ,
B: They , yeah , they , they did , they stuck right to their goals ,
A: Yeah .
B: and right ,
B: what they were going to say .
B: And the American people , when this first started , they were even reluctant to let them do that .
A: Yeah .
B: So they were , they were playing it very safe ,
B: but , you know , it , an ounce what do they say , an ounce of hind sight is worth , whatever .
A: Yeah .
B: they , I don't know , they , it , Schwartzkopf knew what had to be done
B: and it 's too bad that he just did n't have the ability just to do it , to you know , the , uh , the go ahead to do it .
A: Yeah .
B: Because he had the
B: he knew what was going to happen , more than any of us .
B: it was going to make such a mess .
B: I mean I feel really sorry for these people ,
B: these people are middle class people , just like us .
B: Can you imagine if someone started bombing your neighborhood ,
A: Yeah .
B: and you knew this ,
B: these people are going to come
B: and if you were in your house they were going to take you and beat you .
B: Of course , you 're going , just going pick everything up that you can carry
B: and you 're going to run .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it , it 's just too bad that we could n't see that .
A: I just have a feeling that the military involvement is n't over yet . That I , I still feel like there 's more to come .
A: I don't think this whole issue is settled as far as we 're concerned .
B: Well you know what I was hoping ?
B: I was hoping Iran was going to take a very , um , dramatic stand and invade , you know ,
B: and then like Iran 's the big bad guy , you know ,
B: but , really , if , if they were going to save people 's lives ,
A: They 've got sixty or so of Iraq 's planes .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know ,
B: it 's like they were using them as friends when we were having the conflict
B: but , I , I , you know , I almost swear , I 'm kind of disappointed with the Iranians ,
B: why they did n't go save ,
B: I mean , I don't know if the Kurdish ,
B: I know the Shiites are their people .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , I don't know ,
B: I think they have a bond with the , the Kurds .
A: There are some Kurds living in Iran .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think they should have just done more , uh ,
B: and maybe if the world could have given them some type of aid .
B: It 's , it 's just so complicated .
A: I was real surprised that Israel stayed out of it as , as much as they did .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: well , you ,
B: knowing them , they 're very , um , oh ,
B: I don't know ,
B: almost compare them to a very egotistical man .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You 're damn right ,
B: I 'm going to protect my family , you know ,
B: so , I , I was amazed too .
B: I was really , I was really , um , proud of them , though , that they stayed out of it .
B: But ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it and from , from what I can tell if they had gotten into it , it would have started a whole new war .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: I was , I
B: that part scared me .
B: That , that , um , the Egyptians would pull out
B: and I just saw atomic bomb ,
A: Uh , I have , uh , I guess a lot of thoughts about the Vietnam War , um ,
A: I , I guess I feel like I was pretty young while it was going on
A: and so there 's probably a lot of things I remember and a lot of things that I really did n't have a clue as to what was happening .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , looking back , like maybe some of the things that I know now , I , I 'm not sure I do believe it was worth the cost in dollars and lives .
A: That was one of the questions that she asked us to think about ,
A: because I , because we never went to war .
A: I don't think we were committed to winning it and getting out
A: and I , I feel like it went on and on .
B: Right .
A: And I , I guess I see such a contrast like as opposed to the Middle East War we just had , where President Bush went out and got worldwide support for , for what was happening .
B: Right .
A: You know , I just feel like maybe we went in to be policeman
A: and I 'm not sure that 's our role ,
A: but .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I agree with that ,
B: I was , I was fairly young at the time too ,
B: I , I really don't have very many memories about it at all , in fact .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , my husband is a Vietnam veteran
B: and you know , he in looking at the Persian Gulf war that just went on , he ,
B: it frustrates him because of the support that they have and the support that the Vietnam vets did not have , from the people or the administration , either one .
A: of static throughout don't you think that maybe that 's why we had it this time ?
A: I mean I do think that , it 's been too long in coming
A: but I feel like maybe the American people and , and the government are aware of the things that we did wrong that we did n't support that that those ,
B: Right .
A: so many people were opposed to the war ,
A: what it translated into was they were opposed to the folks that were there fighting it
A: and those guys were there doing their duty .
B: That 's right ,
B: I mean , they were n't there by choice
B: and , and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and I , I think that we learned from that
A: and I think it , it 's one of those things that you learn the hard way .
A: It was a tragic mistake ,
B: Right .
A: the way that they have been treated over the years and I believe that 's just now turning around . Just now , you know , trying to be rectified
A: and I 'm , and I 'm not sure you can undo the damage that was done emotionally , on so many of the people .
B: Right .
B: No ,
B: I don't think you can
B: and I , I agree with you that I , I think that the , the time difference between the two wars has allowed a lot of people to see the mistakes that were made in , in , in every aspect of it
B: and I , I agree with you also , that I feel like it was not worth the money spent or the lives lost to fight that war .
B: I mean they 're still not settled over there .
A: No ,
A: they 're not .
B: And I have a feeling that the Persian Gulf crisis is going to be the same way .
A: Yeah .
B: I think we 're going to end up back there in a few years or , if , if not sooner .
A: Well I , I appreciate the
A: I feel like President Bush is in a hard spot .
A: He went over there to get them out of Kuwait , which he did .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then he has backed out ,
A: he has pulled out .
A: And I realize they 're still saying , well here you 're encouraging us to get rid of Saddam Hussein ,
A: so why are n't you helping us ?
A: And you see , I think him going in and doing that would be putting us in another Vietnam situation .
B: I think it would too .
A: And I don't think the U S will stand for it .
A: I don't think he would do that ,
B: No ,
A: uh , I think we learned too much of the effects .
B: Yeah ,
B: I agree with that .
A: Uh , you know whether it was justified or not , I know , that they probably felt like we were going in for a good cause .
A: I , I feel like maybe they felt like we were doing the right thing to try and help maintain the democracy over there and , and beat the communism ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , but I think somewhere that got lost . You know , in the long term effects of the , of the war
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: and ,
B: you have to , you know , you have to give Bush a lot of credit for he , he said that 's what we were going there to do
B: and he did what , what he said
B: and he did pull out before it got any further than that where , where it would have turned into more of a police action . Uh , or more of a political action I guess , you getting into their governmental affairs which you really ca n't do as , as another country .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , my , my biggest problem with all of these wars is we spend all of that money on all these other countries
B: and we have so many problems here at home that we don't address .
A: That we don't get fixed .
B: That 's right .
A: I know .
B: And , and that 's what frustrates me more than anything .
A: And I , I believe that we have to have a military
A: and I believe that we have to have a defense to keep anybody else from walking in and doing it to us .
B: Right .
A: But I also believe that we need to turn so much of that inward .
B: I think there 's a lot of waste
B: and , and they don't , if they could just cut out all the fat and , and get it lean , and start addressing some of the other issues ,
B: I think we could take care of everything . And quit taking care of all these other countries all across the world , you know , who just end up using things against us later on anyway .
A: I know ,
A: I do think that in the Middle East war , um ,
A: I think that maybe a lot of the Arab countries that were so hateful towards the United States have come away with , uh , kind of a different attitude .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I think that maybe we 're not their big bad enemy any more .
B: Right .
A: An , uh , and I think that 's good , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: I think that 's a good ,
B: Yeah ,
B: a lot of good has come from this one .
A: I think so too .
B: And I think , I guess , in , in , uh , ironic way a lot of good came from the Vietnam war toward this war
B: because like we , we said earlier , that , you know , the a lot of eyes were opened after years and years of , of that war
B: and and ,
A: And perhaps the reason that good came out of the Mid East war is because we had the experience of Vietnam .
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
A: So , I , I , I do think that , we 've learned from it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , I , I , I wish there were n't war
B: Yeah ,
B: no kidding .
A: But , uh , I do think we learned .
B: And I just , I just hate the emotional price a lot of the Vietnam people paid , for , you know , nothing .
A: Yes .
B: I mean , it was , they 're , they still don't know what they were there for .
A: No ,
A: there was no feeling of accomplishment , no goal ,
A: no ,
B: No .
A: we went in
A: but what did we do .
A: We lost lives
A: and , and what were we trying to do .
A: Who knows .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: And , I , I think you 're right ,
A: uh , I think you 're right there .
A: Um , I do remember when it was over .
A: I remember when they were coming home .
A: Uh , but , I remember the feeling back then , you know ,
A: like I feel like right now , I feel like this country has been behind this war .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: there 's a lot of people that are n't for war .
A: I 'm not for war ,
B: Right .
A: but I believe that the way that it was done and the way that was handled were right .
A: I don't remember that feeling back in Vietnam .
B: Right .
A: I just remember ,
A: oh yeah ,
A: our guys are over there
A: and it 's sad
A: and we should n't be fighting a war
A: but there was no , let 's support them , you know .
B: Right ,
B: the ,
B: when this war broke out it frustrated me all the antiwar people and , you know , their , all the demonstrations that were going on .
A: Yeah . That 's right .
B: I felt like they got way too much media coverage and publicity
B: because those kind of people , I mean , you know , they 're the kind of people who are , who 've always got to have a cause , whether it 's good , bad of indifferent .
B: They 've got to have a cause
B: and , and , I , you know , nobody says because you 're supporting the troops that you 're , you 're supporting the war .
B: you have to support the people that are there .
A: That 's right .
B: And for some reason those people don't see that .
A: They don't see it as supporting the folks , the people .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: they don't
B: and , you know , they 're just real shallow people .
A: I would agree with you there
B: Yeah .
A: I , I agree .
A: Um , and I , and I recall when President Bush said that , you know ,
A: he said look ,
A: I , you know , I 'm sorry that you 're opposed to the war .
A: There 's a lot of us that are opposed to war
A: but , uh , you 're not helping the people that are over there by what you 're doing .
A: And I remember a lot of it kind of stopped after that .
B: Yeah ,
A: But ,
B: I mean they 're not helping anybody .
B: That 's the , that 's the whole point ,
A: not .
B: they 're not doing anything for anybody except themselves .
A: That 's true .
B: And I don't even know what they 're doing for themselves . You know .
A: Uh .
A: Giving a soapbox to stand on
B: Yeah
A: But , well , I just , I , I 'm glad we 've learned .
A: I 'm sorry we had the experience of Vietnam .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , and I 'm , I 'm , I 'm especially sorry for the people that are , you know , have spent all these years trying to deal with it emotionally ,
A: because , you know until the past four or five years , nobody ever really worried about that , for them .
B: That 's true .
B: Yeah .
A: And , and I think that 's where we as American people really failed , you know , failed them .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: So , I don't know .
A: Well , do you have anything else you want to say on this ?
B: No ,
B: I guess not .
A: I think this is the first time that I have n't been cut off by the computer
B: I know ,
B: we get cut off all the time , too
A: Usually I can talk all day
A: but this is something to me that 's sad
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
A: So , well have a good day
A: and I appreciate the conversation .
B: Thanks ,
B: same here .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: So the general topic is hobbies .
B: Yes .
A: Let 's hear about your hobbies .
B: Well , let 's see ,
B: what kind of hobbies do I have ?
B: I guess , uh , I , it 's more not so much a hobby but things I enjoy doing .
B: I enjoy playing basketball and , and basically all kinds of sports .
B: And , uh ,
A: Any handicrafts ?
B: Excuse me .
A: Any handicrafts ?
B: No ,
B: not , not really , um ,
B: no ,
B: I 'm really not too creative
B: well , I , uh , you know , around with my hands and things like that
B: I leave that more up to my Mom
A: So , um , I think I 'm in handicraft .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I think it will become resume writing .
B: Oh , well , let 's hope that you , you are n't employed by that craft for too long .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: I , I hate to think about it
A: and , and I 'm getting rather good at reading want ads .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it ,
B: what kind of time frame is it , uh , looking for the , uh , different shifts up there ?
A: I
A: who knows .
B: Is it , uh ,
B: basically , I had read that they 're just looking at relocating them all to McKinney is it , Texas ,
A: No ,
A: all means about fifteen to twenty percent , of , of , oh ,
B: Oh , wow .
A: I 'm sure the number 's somewhere classified
A: but some of the internal news and the news services ,
A: so , it 's approximately six fifty ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so ten percent of six fifty , is sixty-five
A: and twenty percent would be one thirty .
B: Wow ,
B: how about that .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's what it did report was a hundred and thirty relocating down to McKinney .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's possible .
B: How about that .
B: Well , that 's , uh , that 's unfortunate
B: is there many other ,
B: are you in the defense ?
A: Oh , yes , .
B: Is it , uh , many other corporations in the area ?
A: Uh , I saw Seven Eleven that was hiring .
B: Well , I 'm sure with the new , uh , contract awarding
B: I , I think it went to Lockheed , did n't it ?
A: Yes .
B: That , uh , I hear they 're hiring all over the place for that .
A: Yeah , uh ,
A: no ,
A: Apple 's coming to town
A: and , and that has some opportunities
B: Oh , really ?
A: and , uh , and ,
B: Now is that ad good just to Colorado or to Colorado Springs ?
A: Colorado Springs specifically ,
A: yes .
B: How about that .
A: And , uh , and , uh , M C I coming if , if , telemarketing is your bag .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Personally I 'd rather die a slow painful death
A: but ,
B: Well , you in the , uh , computer operations or in the actual , uh , manufacturing ?
A: Uh , I 'm a defense worker .
A: I 'm , government tool control specialist .
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's why I was in the Deseg down here in Plano also .
A: Are you still employed ?
B: Am I still employed by T I ,
B: no ,
B: I took a leave of , of T I back in November .
A: Oh .
B: Actually , December was my first month away from them .
A: Exempt or ?
B: Exempt .
A: Oh , yes .
B: It , uh , unfortunately I guess for myself it was n't , uh , it was purely by my own choice .
B: It was n't , uh , there was no incentive for myself to leave ,
B: but it was just an opportunity arose
B: and decided to take it .
A: Oh , so , you did n't even get the severance package .
B: No .
B: I should have taken the , the , the , you know , uh , option when that was there ,
B: but it was just , I missed it by a couple months .
B: But , you know , what can one do .
B: I 'm just happy still to have a job .
A: So , are you happy with what you are doing now ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I am kind of happy with it ,
B: it 's getting better all the time ,
B: I knew it would be different from the very beginning ,
B: but , you know , as you get to know more of the people that work there and more of what 's going on with the system ,
B: so I was in the computer operations
B: it 's , uh , you know , it all starts to become similar
B: there 's , you know , there 's benefits
B: and there 's things that were n't as good ,
A: Yeah .
B: but as an overall package , I 'd say I 'm pretty happy so far with the way it 's turned out .
A: Good ,
A: good .
A: Well , it has n't been a long time T I
A: or I , I 'm significantly shaken by the situation , but not devastated .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , the one thing I guess at least in your favor is the , the fact that , that is more in the support of the manufacturing
B: and there 's lots and lots of companies that have maybe not in the the defense area but manufacturing in general .
A: To tell you the truth , I 'm , I 'm , I 'm not really worried .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's great .
B: That 's good .
A: And , and I seem rather happy about it most of the time , just , just to know , what 's , possibilities are , you know , what might happen .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sure ,
B: yeah .
B: Sometimes it 's good just to have everything out on the table .
A: But still in all , it feels funny .
B: It may be a blessing in disguise .
B: I know a number of people who are , uh , surplused
B: and they 're just ,
B: actually , what the positions that they found outside of the company were much , much better than the ones that they currently had inside .
A: So , despite the fact that I should be tying flies or fly fishing or , or going for walks in the mountains , I ca n't seem to get into it right now .
B: Exactly .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: well , I 'm sure it 's just with the , the , the , the way that things are so topsy-turvy right now as soon as you decide on a pass ,
A: Uh , situational .
A: I 've , I doubt I 'll be here in six months .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , would you like to be there ?
A: I ,
A: all things being equal , yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , or , or even somewhere better ,
B: Sure .
A: but , God this is much better than west Texas .
B: Uh-huh
B: Well , just take the day ,
A: But then they , they tell me Hell is much better than west Texas .
B: Well , actually , uh , the , the Plano , Dallas , Houston , you know , Austin that whole area is , is actually quite , quite nice .
A: I , my little brother lives in Austin right now .
B: Oh , that 's a beautiful place .
A: Goes to U T .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's just fantastic down there .
B: Take it more as a ,
B: this is your opportunity to do whatever you want ,
B: pick out where you want to live ,
B: and then once you pick that spot out , pick out what you want to do .
A: I see that 's the problem .
A: For the last many years I 've more or less let them direct what I want to do , and where I want to go . And just kind of go with the punches .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sure .
A: And now I feel lost .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's a ,
B: it , it takes a bit of a shift does n't it .
A: Oh , I had job offers .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , I never found the one that was worth it for me to leave .
A: And that ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , the best thing about it is that you can , uh , try something
B: if you don't like it , shoot , move on to something else .
B: That 's the way I would have looked at the whole thing here ,
B: I 'll take a chance ,
B: if I don't like it , I 'll go someplace else , do something different .
A: Oh so , had you been with T I long when you changed ?
B: Five years .
B: Yeah .
A: I 've been with them sixteen .
B: Yeah ,
B: I can imagine , you know , the longer and longer it goes ,
A: Actually , seventeen now ,
A: and , oh , yeah ,
A: momentum is , uh , driving force in our lives .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But so , yeah ,
A: I 'm looking as , as a opportunity .
B: Well , that 's good ,
B: you 've got a good attitude about it .
A: And , and I 'm looking at it as a change .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I 'm looking at it as , as an adventure .
B: Right ,
B: there you go .
B: That 's the way to do it .
A: And maybe I 'll wet a fly line this year and do some camping if I don't get laid off between now and then .
B: There you go ,
B: that 's the thing to do .
B: That 's much funner than doing any kind of job .
A: Ha , how about we end this ?
B: That will work out just fine .
A: Nice talking to you .
B: All right ,
B: nice talking to you .
A: Bye .
B: Good-bye .
A: What 's the , uh ,
A: in Texas law has a , uh , what does it have , it has a death penalty does n't it ?
B: Oh , yes ,
B: yeah .
B: They just , uh , started it again , too just late , or , within the past few years
B: You know for quite some time , just about every one of the states had given up the death penalty .
A: But now it 's coming back into favor .
B: Uh , yes .
B: Well , they find it is more deterrent .
A: Well , my sociology class at S M U 's taught us that it was not a deterrent .
A: Uh , but now that 's just what they said .
A: Uh , I don't know maybe , maybe if I went back and took a sociology class now they 'd say it is a deterrent .
B: Well , uh , if you , You know , compare the figures , I think that 's where they 're , uh , they 're coming from .
A: Maybe they 've changed their minds .
B: The , uh ,
A: Maybe that 's it .
A: Maybe that 's it ,
A: because that was back in the seventies .
B: Oh , they 're yes . They are .
B: That was before the , uh , uh , they adopted the death law again
B: But , uh , I , I myself am in favor of it , uh , particularly for , uh , well I think Texas has a good , good law . Uh , crimes , murders related with , uh , drugs or killing a policemen .
A: I think ,
A: I agree .
A: But I think it ought to be expanded to include children .
A: I , I think they 're , they have they 're working on , uh , something in Austin now ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I 'm not sure what it is ,
A: I just remember seeing a , uh , kind of a synopsis of it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , why stop at children ?
B: Why not go to adults , too ?
A: Well , uh , I 'm , I 'm personally very in favor of it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , why should we let them set in prison and work on their college degrees after they 've mowed down a class yard full of kids or or tried to , or done their very , you know , given their best effort at doing that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yep .
A: I , I don't care to support them .
B: Well , I don't either
B: but , uh , uh , but there is something to be said about
B: or , uh , uh , just for the sake of argument , I 'm taking the , a con ,
A: Sure .
B: I 'm , I 'm against it .
B: Uh , you know yourself how many times have you heard where , uh , uh , a citizen was wrongfully arrested , and served time at a penitentiary , uh ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh
B: just recently this , uh , black man served nine years was it , for robbery .
A: And then , there was the black woman that , uh , robbed and shot the furrier .
A: And she was set free , too , just in two examples in Texas recently .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But she actually killed the furrier . Or someone ,
A: she was charged with murder
A: and then , then they decided it was a case of mistaken identity or something .
A: I did n't , I don't , I did n't retain all those facts very well .
A: But I know what you 're ,
A: what if we make a mistake .
B: That 's it .
A: And that 's not one of those things that you can turn the wheel back and reverse everything .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , right now our laws are so liberal that , uh , even with the death penalty in effect , I don't think that , uh , they 're going to use it , uh , too frequently , uh , unfortunately .
B: I , like you , say yes
B: let 's have it , put them all , give them all a shot , get rid of them .
A: Well , Well , I guess , though , where I would have a problem with it if I were on the jury that , that , put , that handed down the death sentence because it was my judgement the person 's guilty .
B: Why should they be sitting in , uh , prison getting their college degree .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Now that 's tougher .
A: It 's easier to say it on the telephone
A: and everyone agree that , yeah , the death penalty 's the way to go ,
A: it 's a deterrent to crime ,
A: they should n't catch themselves in that circumstance anyway .
A: But to be the actual one of the ones that decide , that would be tougher for me .
B: Yes ,
B: very true .
B: I , uh , I agree with you there . Uh-huh .
A: I think I 'd probably do it
A: but we could never say what we would do if we 're not in the circumstance .
A: It , that 's , that 's , that 's a real easy thing to say that , oh , sure I would ,
A: but I don't know
B: Well , I myself would n't want to be on the jury like that .
B: Uh , I , it , it 's , uh , that 's an awful lot to , uh , to expect of a person , to , uh , to kill somebody is what it amounts to .
A: Well , yes ,
A: but , you know , that 's what they did .
B: It ,
B: true .
B: Very true .
B: But they , they did it because they have a warped mind for some reason .
A: Or rather than have a warped mind it was just the only way to get whatever they wanted .
B: Yeah Uh-huh
A: And they , they wanted something worse than they , more than they respect the human life .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly .
B: Well , anyhow I guess we both agree that , that it is , it should be in effect .
A: Hang them .
A: Yeah ,
A: I agree it should be in effect .
A: Also I agree there should be a lot of care in the enforcement , uh ,
A: so I guess I would say I want it to be in effect
A: but I want maybe
A: well , I 'd , I , now I have a problem with this , too .
A: I think our courts have too many opportunities for them to go back and get one more chance .
B: Oh , that 's true .
B: Well now any , uh , just believe in just about any state in the union , uh , uh , a death , uh , or , uh , yeah , death verdict is an automatic , uh , appeal .
A: That 's correct .
A: It is ,
A: it is .
B: And , uh , uh , yes ,
B: I 'm inclined to agree with you .
B: I think so ,
B: there should be a limit as to the number of appeals .
A: Now , there 's some ,
A: and maybe , now , I don't remember if this is Texas or not , that has something about all drug dealers can be sentenced to the death sentence .
B: Um , um , well , Not just for dealing in drugs .
A: Convicted drug dealers .
B: It , uh ,
A: Is it , what is , what 's the
B: There are certain circumstances ,
B: and I don't remember what they are .
A: It 's something of the they 're on the distribution end .
B: Uh , yes .
A: They 're not selling them ,
A: they 're distributing them .
A: It 's for the large dealers is what , it 's reserved for .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they , they are in effect killing people .
B: Oh , oh , yes ,
B: yes .
B: I , I believe it 's any capital crime related to drugs .
A: Oh , okay .
B: I think that 's the way it 's worded .
A: Is that how it 's worded ?
A: I knew it was there
A: but , I , I ,
A: or or is it proposed
A: or is it passed ?
B: I do believe that 's in .
B: Uh , I would n't swear to it myself .
A: I believe it is ,
B: But I thought it , I thought it was in effect .
A: I believe you 're right , though .
A: I think it is .
A: And I have to agree with that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I think it certainly should be one of the options .
A: Uh , I 've been fortunate with my children and grandchildren , so far that I know .
A: I qualify that heavily ,
A: because you never know ,
A: but to the best of my knowledge we have n't had a major problem yet . Well , my children are about in the same age bracket .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , it does .
B: Uh , I have four sons myself
B: and the youngest is twenty-eight ,
B: so they are all pretty well grown up
B: and they all went through it , you know , going through high school and everything
B: and knock wood that , uh , they have not ,
B: well I wo n't say they did n't try it , uh ,
B: I would n't know ,
B: but , uh , they ,
B: I doubt very much that they 're , they 're using it now .
B: In fact I 'm sure they don't .
A: I think , let 's see , the oldest is thirty-two
A: and the youngest is probably twenty-seven , twenty-eight .
B: Huh .
A: So , it 's the same age bracket .
B: Yes .
A: And there 's four , two girls and two boys .
A: And I think one of each experimented very slightly with pot ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I think that was the extent of it to the best of my knowledge .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's usually the way it is .
B: It , it 's just , uh , try it out with their peers
B: And none of them even smoke .
B: They don't , uh ,
B: they never ,
B: strangely enough , uh , their mother and I both smoked when they were growing up .
B: Now , my , my , my wife , my ex-wife , she quit , uh , well , when she was pregnant with the last one
B: and she never started up again .
B: And I just quit , oh , about fourteen months and two weeks ago .
A: Boy ,
A: that 's tough .
B: Yes ,
B: it is .
B: I ,
B: and it seems to be getting tougher as time goes by .
A: My husband has n't quit , yet .
A: And he knows he has to
A: and he knows he should
A: and he knows
A: and he knows ,
B: Um .
A: but he has n't .
A: I do respect the fact , though , that he refuses to smoke in the same room with me .
A: He , he 's very conscious of , of passive smoking
A: and he 's concerned about it but , has n't quite made it yet
B: Well , Well , when I was still smoking , I , I felt that way .
B: If I was in a public restaurant , seated at table with , uh , non smokers I would try to pick a a , a my , seat where the smoke would blow away from them .
B: Or I 'd hold the cigarette under the table .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've seen all of this ,
A: yeah
B: And , uh , but , uh , now I 'm on , the shoe 's on the other foot
B: Uh , I 'm aware of other people smoking now .
A: Well , Charles will actually , Charles will not smoke in anyone else 's house except our own .
B: Um .
A: He will get up
A: and he 'll go outside , you know ,
A: and he , he 's
A: so , when we 're invited to people 's house , he will not smoke in their house . Which I think is good because there 's a lot of people that are very ,
B: Yes .
A: particularly if they have children .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , and he 's , you know , he tries his best ,
A: but the actual quitting he has n't done .
A: He changed brands to a brand he does n't like .
A: He put up all of his ash trays .
A: He will not smoke in a comfortable position , you know ,
A: but still he 's done everything the Smokers Anonymous tell you to do except quit smoking
B: Uh , uh-huh .
A: It 's a , long process .
B: Well , the , there 's a trick I use .
B: They used to leave my cigarettes in the glove compartment .
A: Oh , how neat .
B: And every time I wanted one I have to go outside and just take one . One at a time .
B: And , uh , that , that 's , gets to be , uh , a deterrent .
A: He has his in the kitchen ,
A: It seems to me that one of the biggest differences is the computer revolution .
B: Yeah .
A: And , I can very clearly remember ten years ago I was just beginning to explore computerizing my office and , and trying to find out what kinds of computers might be useful
A: and we did end up with , uh , I B M , P C which I now would not have chosen
B: Really ?
A: But that was before the Macintosh .
B: Yeah .
A: And twenty years ago I was , uh , in graduate school pecking out a dissertation on a manual typewriter
B: Oh , I know it .
A: So I would say that 's one of the largest changes in , at least in my life .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I 've seen that just in the last , uh , even five years how much they 've uh , increased in use . Or probably eight years ,
B: when I was a freshman in college uh , my degree was in computer , uh , technology originally
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it seemed like it would ,
B: they were just getting out with the , you know , the disks and all that , getting away with the cards , you know , doing away with the , the programming cards
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: and , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: thirty years ago I , I had a college job , uh , working as a programmer
A: and we had to write code in binary
A: and , uh , have it punched in on those little cardboard cards which , I don't think exists anymore .
B: I know .
B: No .
A: You never see one of those punch cards anymore .
B: Uh , I think T V has a lot to do with the changes , too . don't you ? In , like , people 's attitudes .
A: Well , very possibly .
A: Uh , I 'm not sure in the last ten years it 's been very different from before .
A: Uh , certainly in the last thirty I would say there have been significant changes . Even , even the change from black and white to color television .
B: Yeah .
A: Thirty years ago I guess there were color T V
A: but I sure did n't have access to one .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , but , twenty years ago , practically everybody had a color T V ,
A: and now I think they 're as , almost as many , well ,
A: there are more T V than households ,
A: so it 's close to getting , uh , one T V per person they say
B: Yeah
B: And now everybody , uh , has V C R and two or three V C R and that kind of thing .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Certainly ten years ago , uh , V C R were just coming on the market
A: so that 's made a significant difference in the way I watch television for instance ,
A: because , uh , now I almost never watch a T V program when it 's on .
B: Yeah .
B: I know .
A: I tape it and then watch it when it 's convenient
A: and that way I don't have to worry about being interrupted .
A: I can just put it on pause
B: Yeah ,
B: and you can , you can flip through the commercials
B: so you don't have to watch the commercials .
A: Right .
B: That 's always convenient .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes ,
A: you can watch a program in forty-five minutes instead of an hour
A: You skip the commercials .
B: Uh-huh
B: So , what was our question about , decline in
A: Was n't the decline so much .
A: I think they just said the changes in , uh , social , social changes in the United States .
B: Yeah .
A: How was life different ten , twenty , or thirty years ago .
A: So ,
B: Well , I ca n't really remember back that far ,
B: but ten years ago , uh , I don't know . I 'd say , like in the nineteen seventies you remember how kids would walk around with A M , what do you call those , little A M radios
A: Yes .
B: and now people have jam box with C D players in them , you know . And , hand held T V and car phones .
A: Yes .
A: That 's certainly , a difference .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's another one ,
A: yeah ,
A: car phones is a good point , and , uh , cellular phones of all types and beepers .
A: Uh , ten years ago I was working in a job at a medical center
B: Yeah .
A: and I had to carry a beeper around
A: and they were kind of bulky
A: and all they did was just , uh , make a beep noise
A: and then you had to go find a telephone and call in to find out what they wanted you for and who you were supposed to call .
B: Uh-huh .
A: These days they have these tiny little things that are only about the size of two or three pencils
A: and they fit in your shirt pocket
A: and they have a little display screen that shows you a message and either tells you a person or a , a phone number to respond to
A: and ,
B: Those are cool .
A: Yeah ,
A: those are pretty neat .
A: And they have the kind that just vibrates so you can shut them off , in a theatre or something
B: Yeah .
A: and you can still get your messages
B: Yeah .
A: But , let 's see , social changes , uh , uh ,
B: Where do you think it 's , where do you think it 's going to go in twenty years ?
A: I have n't the slightest idea .
A: I was just thinking , though , about a , a huge social change in the last ten years is AIDS .
B: Yeah .
A: It was just beginning to be recognized and noticed ten years ago .
A: I , I know that because I was writing a paper about it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I was writing a , a journal article .
A: Uh , and they still did n't even know what caused it or anything .
A: And , uh , there was a suspicion , that it was a virus
B: Wow .
A: but nobody had identified it
A: and they were really just going on epidemiological , uh , uh , guesswork , uh , because the way it was transmitted made it look an awful lot like , uh , hepatitis
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then , from , from the spread pattern of hepatitis , they could work backwards to the transmission by , uh , blood and semen .
B: Yeah .
A: And then I ,
B: I 'm curious what was your , uh , graduate study in ?
A: Well , I , I was in English as a matter of fact , and medieval studies ,
B: Oh , wow .
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , but I went to work as an editor and writer ,
A: so , uh , uh , the , ten years ago I was working in the medical center , uh , publishing a journal and writing about medical topics
B: Yeah .
A: And , let 's see , twenty years ago , I guess we 're were just beginning to get into what they were calling the , uh , the sex revolution where , uh after the pill
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , uh , freed people up from worries about , uh , illegitimate pregnancy
A: and , I guess in the seventies is the , the time when that was supposed to have exploded .
A: Thirty years ago there was no pill .
B: Uh-huh .
B: You think that 's caused a lot of pressure on , like younger kids today , to make choices that they probably should n't have to make ?
A: Yes .
A: I do .
A: I really do .
A: I have , uh , four kids in college right now , children and stepchildren
B: Yeah .
A: and I know that the expectation for them was , uh , to have sex and , much earlier , than the expectation when I was in college .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: In my day , we talked quietly behind our hands about people that we suspected might be , sleeping with their boyfriends
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , they certainly did n't expect everybody to
A: and it was really only , uh , acceptable if you were engaged and planning to get married in , in the relatively near future .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I certainly know from talking to my stepdaughter that girls in high school were under a whole lot more pressure nowadays .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: It 's kind of scary when I think of what will happen in twenty years , you know , when I have kids and they 're grown and uh , just kind of some of the changes that will happen even more
B: so .
A: And I guess the answer , is , is , stay flexible because nobody can predict what 's going to happen in twenty years
B: Seems like it ca n't get much worse .
B: Yeah .
A: I certainly would n't have been able to twenty years ago tell you what , uh , my kids were likely to be like .
A: Course , one of them was just a , a , a brand new baby twenty years ago ,
A: so I sure would n't have been able to predict for him .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um .
A: And some of the other ones were n't born .
B: Yeah .
B: So , sounds like America 's going to become even more communication society with faxes and cellular phones and worldwide communication
A: Yeah .
B: and ,
A: Electronic mail .
B: Yeah .
A: I just got on that this past , about a year ago
A: and that 's made a difference in the way I do my job because it 's so much easier to get hold of people and get quick answers to things . Even when they 're on another continent .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's pretty wild .
A: Yeah .
A: Even , you know ,
A: that reminds me , Federal Express was around ten years ago ,
A: but it was used as kind of an extreme emergency
B: Uh-huh .
A: and nowadays people use Fed Ex , all the time .
B: Yeah .
B: Sure do . Huh .
A: People do seem to travel more .
A: It 's much more common for people , even teenagers to be going to Europe and South America and , Asia .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , I was almost thirty before I got off this continent .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , both my kids had been abroad when they were still in high school
B: Yeah
B: I know that 's what , uh , what my family was talking when I picked up and moved to Texas from Indiana
B: and they were like , well , you know , thirty years ago we would n't have done that , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , especially come home every couple months .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , and ,
A: Okay ,
A: what do you think are some current trends in , uh , the way families spend time together , based on what you 've seen .
B: Um , I , I think that it 's getting to where they 're not spending time together .
A: Yeah
B: Um , I think , uh , like in my situation , today , on a weekend when couples are supposed to spend time together , my husband 's been off doing his thing all day today ,
B: and I 've been off doing my thing all day
B: and I have n't seen him since eight o'clock this morning .
A: Really .
B: So , uh .
A: Are you newly married ,
A: or ,
B: Um , two years .
A: Yeah .
A: Same , same situation here , I 've been married about ten months ,
A: so . Yeah ,
A: I can , I can , I know what you mean .
B: It 's , it 's really hard , hard to find time to spend together when you both work full time and , uh , you both have hobbies that are different .
A: Yeah .
B: you know , if you have hobbies that are the same , then , you know , you can enjoy your hobby together ,
B: but my husband and I have different hobbies .
A: Is he a hunter and a fisher and all that .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: he 's a record collector and a Hot Wheels collector .
A: That 's that 's wild .
B: Um , so he was off today , uh , looking at , at records .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , and I was off , you know , doing , you know , household type things . You know , laundry
A: Yeah .
B: and , um , did some shopping and stuff .
A: Um , from the people I 've talked to , I don't know if I should bring this into it ,
A: but , um , a lot of the dads said that they would probably choose careers that are more , um , where they could manage their own schedule
A: and , uh , they could spend more time with their kids
B: Uh-huh .
A: because they look back
A: and , you know , they 're all like , um , kind of regretful , I think .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think , I think that would be the ideal situation ,
B: I think that would be the ideal situation .
B: I think that a lot of people ,
B: like in my case I , I do shift work .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't , I don't have that choice .
A: Yeah ,
A: same here .
B: Um , I have to be at work at , at X hour , you know , at just , at , at a certain hour
B: and I ca n't , it 's not flexible .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , it , it would be nice to be able to have flexible hours
B: and , and maybe after we decide to have kids I , I might find a job that has flexible hours .
B: I I hope so anyway .
B: Um , but I would , I don't know .
A: At T I , is that where you work ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's really kind of sad ,
A: some of the people that I work with they , like when I worked on second shift , um , their their kids go to school during the day
A: and then they would n't see them at night , because they would be in , you know , at work and the kids are all ready in bed .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so it was kind of like , they see their kids for fifteen minutes and the same with their spouses .
A: This relative may work even a weirder shift like weekends , or something , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: So it was really sad , you know that a lot of families , um , have to , well , you know , have to have dual income .
A: A lot of people choose to , which is fine .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , you know , then the kids kind of suffer .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , ideally , it it would be nice to be able to just have , like , back in the old days , you know , back like when I grew up , you know ,
A: Uh-huh , huh strangely , high
A: Yeah .
B: the , the mom stayed home , you know , and raised the kids .
B: My mom did n't go back to work until I was in junior high school .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , so she was there pretty much all my , you know , formative years .
A: Yeah .
B: And that was nice
B: and I liked that
B: and I would hope that I would be able to give that to my kids .
A: Uh .
B: But I think with the way the future is , um , economy wise ,
B: I don't think it 's going to be realistic .
A: I know .
A: Unfortunately , that 's probably true .
A: Um , do you think the , the parents spend quality time with their kids
A: are do you think it 's more like watching T V and stuff like that , not really , uh ...
B: I , yeah , I , I think that , I think very few spend quality time .
B: I think most of the time the kids are usually off watching cartoons or playing video games or stuff , stuff like that .
A: Yeah
B: I think that , um , uh , most , most kids that I see don't really , they don't really value quality time .
A: Yeah
A: it 's always that way until it 's too late .
B: Until , until they 're older
B: and then they look back .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's true , um .
A: What 's , what are some other questions they have ,
A: , I 'm not sure .
A: I know my parents are growing up ,
A: I guess they never spent much time watching T V .
A: In fact , I 've never seen my mom turn on the T V ,
A: we did n't really have one .
B: Oh really .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , and they spent a lot of time like outside with us and stuff ,
A: but , you know , my dad had his own business
A: and it was easier for them to do that ,
A: but , I , I don't know ,
A: it was , I guess I did n't realize what a luxury it was at the time .
B: I , I think kids now a days are raised on T V .
B: I mean that 's , that 's almost like a T V a surrogate parent .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's a good way to put it .
B: And not a , and not a very good one at that .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's a pretty good way to put it
A: If I had kids , well if you had kids , what kind of things do you hope to do ? like paper
B: Um , I , I hope to , of course , be able to teach them right from wrong .
B: I hope , I hope to be able to spend , um , their growing up years , being in the home , you know , not having to work . Um , and being able to do ,
A: Yeah .
B: I , I , I know a lot of people who , um , um ,
B: I work part-time also ,
B: and I
B: a lot of people that I work for are , mothers that stay home .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , and they , they do a lot of volunteer work
B: and they 're real active in the community
B: and , um , they do a lot of things with their kids that they would n't ordinarily be able to do if they were working .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 'd , I 'd like to be able to do that .
B: I 'd like to be able to stay home and be able to spend time with my kids .
A: Do volunteer work and , be in clubs and stuff ,
B: Yeah .
A: yeah ,
A: I agree .
A: I hope that happens , in my case .
B: Yeah ,
B: but , I think that 's for the , the few and far between .
B: I think that , uh , probably ninety percent of the , of the , um parents out there are , are probably working parents .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah . Huh
B: And I , I don't , I don't really see that , that trend changing much ,
B: if anything , I think , there 's going to be fewer and fewer , uh , single income families .
A: I know .
A: Yeah ,
A: and what 's sad about that is day cares end up instilling values in your kids . That may not necessarily be consistent with yours .
B: Yeah .
B: Exactly .
B: See I , I never , I don't even know what day care is really all about because I , I never went to a day care center ,
A: Yeah
B: I never , I never had that kind of experience .
A: Huh . I , well I don't even think we had
A: I don't even remember them being around when we were little .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I see , it seems like that 's , that 's a big trend , you know , in the last ten years .
B: Day cares have , have , have popped up and become a lot more , um , a lot bigger part of , of the kids ' lives .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's like a home away from home for a lot of them .
A: Sure , is , um ,
A: well , I guess we could ring this off since we , we 've exhausted all of our ideas ,
A: we seem to agree .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think , yeah I think this is a good closing point .
A: Yeah ,
A: so ,
B: Well it was really nice talking to you .
A: Yeah ,
A: you too ,
A: I wish you the best .
B: Thanks
B: you too .
A: Okay
A: thanks .
B: Uh , bye ,
B: bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: do you vote regular ?
B: Yeah ,
A: Every one .
B: But , uh , that 's just since , in the past say about six years .
B: Before that I really did n't pay any attention at all .
A: Well see , that 's me .
A: I 've never paid any attention to voting .
B: Oh , you have n't ?
A: Huh-uh .
B: Yeah .
B: I did n't use to ,
B: but now I really ,
B: because I get so angry about what goes on
B: and then I feel like I ca n't really complain too much , unless
A: Unless you have something to do with it .
B: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: But the problem is , that I am very liberal politically
B: and so I hardly ever have anybody that wins that I vote for
A: Oh , liberal ,
A: by , what do you mean by liberal , um .
B: Liberal politically ,
B: I 'm , you know , like pretty left wing Democrat ,
B: so .
A: Well see , I don't know anything about politics .
B: Oh , you don't ?
A: Uh , what 's the main , what 's the main difference between Republicans and Democrats ?
B: Okay ,
B: well , there 's a lot of them , um ,
B: it depends on what issue you 're talking about .
B: But Democrats are , on a lot of issues are more liberal than Republicans ,
B: and well it used to be , it 's kind of hard to say now , especially after Desert Storm ,
B: but , um , I think back in the times when , uh , my political opinions were being formed like in during the Vietnam war and stuff , the Republicans were more , you know , what they called Hawks , which is more like aggressive in war and more pro war , and pro aggression
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , um , the Democrats were the Doves ,
B: they were more for peace .
B: And I 'm not sure how much that holds true anymore ,
B: I think , you know , the issues are ,
A: Okay ,
A: and you vote for the Democrats
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
A: Usually .
B: yeah
B: and Democrats usually are more supportive of public assistance programs ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and programs to , um ,
B: the big Republican thing is that they don't , they vote for less government ,
B: they want less government involvement , in society
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so they 're more , less apt to vote in , you know , more aid to people ,
B: or more , uh , they 're less apt to vote in programs that involve the government running things .
A: Huh , okay .
B: So ,
B: so have you ever voted at all ?
A: No ,
A: I never have .
B: You have n't ?
A: Huh-uh .
B: How old are you ?
A: I 'm twenty-six .
B: Oh , gosh .
A: I know , I I ,
B: Well .
A: well , I don't know that much about it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I don't keep up on it
A: and I don't feel like I have enough knowledge on it to even , you know , to pick the right person .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah , Uh-huh .
A: So that 's what they need , well , it , uh , they said something to improve voting .
B: Uh-huh .
A: If they could make it more , oh , easier to find out , you know , what 's going on .
A: Do you know what I mean ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Like , uh , like to me , I don't , I did n't know what would have been wrong with ,
A: I ca n't even remember who ran for president against Bush .
A: I think it was , uh , that woman ,
A: was n't it a woman .
B: No ,
B: it was Dukakis , from Massachusetts .
A: Dukakis .
A: Okay ,
A: did n't he have a woman ,
A: or was n't , or was that Reagan .
A: There was a woman that was running for vice president for a while .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: that was ,
A: Ferraro .
B: yeah
B: Ferraro .
B: That was a while ago ,
B: that was a couple elections ago ,
B: yeah .
A: Okay
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's okay .
A: Well , that 's what I mean ,
A: like I did n't know what the difference between Dukakis and Bush was .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , I did n't know anything about Bush or Dukakis .
B: So what do you think about , uh , what do you think about what you see on T V about them , like in the news or on the ads ,
B: do you kind of just ,
A: Okay ,
A: I don't remember anything about Dukakis ,
B: You don't ?
A: but , well they 're all saying that they 're going to do , you know , whatever is best for their campaign anyway .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: That 's what I mean ,
A: if they had some kind of public programs where you can just go out and ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't know ,
A: like you know , in school they did n't teach you about uh , the government , not really .
B: Right .
B: You did n't get any government classes ?
A: Huh-uh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's really hard too ,
B: because before they used to have , um , a lot of ,
B: it seems like the stuff that they put out now , it , I mean , I , does n't just seem like it ,
B: I know for a fact that the , any kind of stuff that if you , wrote and asked for material ,
B: well what do you believe in ,
B: what do you believe in ,
B: they don't take any stands on anything .
B: They kind of say , well what do you want me to believe .
A: Yeah .
B: Or they word it so that it 's really hard to tell where they 're standing on certain issues .
A: Well I 'm not sure they 're ,
A: yeah .
A: I know how they do it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It ,
A: like with the abortion issues and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
B: they have to kind of take a stand on some things , like abortion and things like that ,
B: so that 's kind of , how I judge .
B: There 's a few things where they have to say yes or no , like abortion or gun control ,
B: or let me see ,
B: I try to look at what , if some of the newspaper articles , or the ,
B: I don't trust T V as much ,
B: but newspaper articles can show how they voted in the past
B: and , but you get , you know ,
A: Right .
B: it all depends again on who 's writing it and who they 're for , because they can slant that too .
A: Right ,
A: and like I said most of the the politicians , I 'm ,
A: also the politicians put out what makes them look good anyway .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And everybody 's got , you know , stuff they don't want known .
B: Right ,
B: everybody 's got a secret
B: So ,
A: Well anyway , I 'm sorry
A: I did n't , I did n't have much knowledge .
B: Well that 's okay .
B: Do you think , do you think , um ,
A: I don't even remember this being on there .
B: I mean , what would it take ,
B: like , God , this is really good actually , for to talk to somebody who has n't voted ,
B: I mean , what kind of ,
A: Incentive ?
B: how would it , how , what kind of stuff would they , would you like them to do so that , that you would know more about it .
B: Like send stuff in the mail or have it at the library
B: or ,
A: I guess that would be good ,
A: now I 'm sure they 've got it at the library , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean if I get to the library .
A: I 've got two babies , so , I don't ,
A: yeah ,
B: Oh do you ?
B: Yeah ,
B: that will tie you down a little bit .
A: But I , I don't know .
B: Or do you just not , do you feel like it 's not really going to make that much difference if you don't vote
B: or ,
A: Oh , I know if enough people think like that it , you know , would make a difference , if people stopped thinking like that .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , well a lot of people , they 'll vote the way their family votes , you know , Then like your kids or whatever will follow you and just vote Democrat ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: right .
B: Uh-huh ,
A: I mean ,
B: Well , not in my family
A: No .
B: We 're kind of , we 're really independent .
A: All split .
B: But a lot of families do that .
B: I know a lot of wives feel like they have to vote the way that their husbands vote .
A: Right .
B: And that kind of keeps from getting a lot of issues resolved
B: Golly .
A: I lie . Huh .
B: But well ,
A: I don't know ,
A: if I did understand politics I probably would vote more ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: But like I said if I voted for Bush ,
A: or like when , uh , Gary Hart was running , a lot of women would have voted for him just because he was nicer looking ,
B: Hart ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: not that I think he was good looking ,
A: but , he was young .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And then , I did n't think that was right , because he may have been a good president , or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But because it ,
A: what ,
A: he had an affair ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: and it just threw him out of the whole running .
B: Yeah .
A: And a lot of people go by their , uh , personal life when they vote
A: and ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: Which I guess if you got turmoil in your personal life , you 're going to let it come into work
A: but , I 'm sure there 's a lot of people that have had ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think everybody does ,
B: it just depends on how well you can hide it .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , and I ,
B: that 's very true ,
B: I , I think that does n't really have that much to do with , um , unless they 've done something really horrible , you know , or something real abnormal .
A: Well ,
A: Well , criminal or something like that 's different ,
B: Yeah ,
B: right ,
A: but , if him and his wife were n't getting along ,
B: but otherwise .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , what is , what effect does that have on him running for president .
A: Do you know what I mean ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: It 's all so secretive ,
A: see we really don't see the , the true person anyway .
B: That 's right .
B: I think that 's , that 's having a big effect on how poorly that the country is being run , is that , um , the , the election , the people that want to get elected are turning it into a popularity contest by advertising the things that , you know , that really don't have anything to do with how well they do the job .
A: Right .
B: But see they 're trying to find an excuse not to deal with what , you know , the issues that people really want to know about , because on those issues you have to say yes or no .
B: And if they don't say yes or no , then maybe somebody will vote for them that would n't have if they had come down on the wrong side .
B: Do you know what I 'm saying ?
A: Right .
B: So they just try and make it a personal thing ,
B: I mean , if you remember any of the T V commercials from the last presidential campaign , in they all had , uh , pictures of Bush with his grandchildren , walking around with his grandchildren
B: and even from Reagan , it was all just like , looks like a McDonald 's commercial , you know .
A: Uh-huh
B: That 's about what it looked like .
A: Well what did you think of Reagan as a president ?
B: I just thought he was really inept .
B: I don't think he did anything at all .
B: He , they just kind of sat him up there like a puppet
B: and the people that were ,
A: Do you think he won from Carter because of the , um , the hostages that were held at that time ?
B: Well I think that was part of it ,
B: I think there 's a lot of the economic problems that the country was having at the time and the , the recession and stuff ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: people just had a picture of Carter as not being real capable ,
B: but he , actually ,
B: all right ,
B: this
B: I thought he was great .
A: I thought Carter was good too ,
A: and that was ,
A: yeah ,
B: Did you ?
B: I always liked him ,
B: I thought he was great at the time
B: and I , I just could n't get over the fact that Reagan beat him .
B: I , you know , that I just could n't believe that he got voted out .
A: But , I think I was n't ,
A: well let 's see ,
A: that 's been about ten years ago , right ?
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: so I was only fifteen or sixteen ,
A: but I remember Carter
A: and I liked him .
B: You did ?
B: Have you heard stuff about him lately ,
B: do you know what he 's doing ?
A: No ,
A: I sure don't .
B: Well he is just , he is really active still politically .
B: He 's been overseas .
B: You remember when he was in office he did a lot of stuff for the Middle East , for
A: Well , what are your ,
A: did you like , do you use credit cards ?
B: Uh , not very often .
B: I usually , uh ,
B: the ones we use is like Visa
B: and we always try to pay it back at the end of the month .
A: Huh-uh .
B: I have , uh , uh , .
A: So it does n't get , uh , uh , the credit , uh ,
B: Right .
A: the interest rate is so high that you 're really ,
A: if you 're going to use credit cards you need to use that policy , I think , don't you ?
B: Yeah .
A: Otherwise , you end up paying so much more for your merchandise that it 's hardly , uh , it 's not a very good idea .
B: That 's right .
B: Do you have a lot of credit cards ?
A: Well , I have a lot of them
A: but I don't use them very much , though .
B: Right .
A: I use them mostly for big things , like maybe , sometimes , uh , tuition if it 's , you know , if I 'm short , to go ahead and get it and then try to get it saved back as quick as I can .
A: The other thing , I , I think if you do get overextended a little bit , you need to be sure and pay it off , uh , more than one at a time , because I think you could run forever paying what they require .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Just goes on and on .
B: Which is what they want .
A: Yeah .
B: I think a lot of people go in debt because they think , oh , you know , I can just charge it ,
B: but really , I mean , if they don't have the money then , they are n't going to have it in a month ,
B: so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: they , uh , make the mistake of , pushing all their cards .
A: There are times , when it 's , when it 's very useful , like , uh , emergency trip , or something .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Sometimes when you , when you ,
A: the money will be available ,
A: but it 's , you know , not immediately handy .
A: I think , uh , they 're very helpful , plus the fact that it 's helpful not to have to carry a lot of money sometimes .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , I , you really do need to be very , um , oh , responsible about it
A: or you end up in deep trouble .
B: Yeah .
B: I made that mistake when I first got a job
B: and that 's kind of like ,
B: it took me quite a while to pay them off ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so after that I decided , well , I 'm not going to use them at all , and just try to pay cash for everything
B: and that worked for a while
B: and then we got married
B: so we decided to , you know , if we used them we would pay them off as we go .
A: Right .
B: So ,
A: Right .
A: That can be very handy under those kind of circumstances .
A: The other thing about them is too , if you really don't , you really need to get some and use them because if you have never used them and developed , and have n't developed a credit thing . It stops you from doing a lot of things .
A: If you , if you pay for everything by cash , uh , there is a lot of things that a lot of people who will not give you credit when you need something like a house or , a car .
B: Right .
B: That 's true ,
B: yeah .
A: So , so they , they have become a very vital part of our , of our monetary system over the last few years .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , it 's true ,
A: you have to be very careful or you end up , uh , going in the deep end
A: and , uh , and an awful lot of people are in trouble .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We have a boy living with us who works for a credit card , uh , company that ,
A: and he makes calls to people who have problems , you know , credit problems , that are trying to work out
B: Huh-uh .
A: and , uh , Poor thing he comes home very depressed every night because the world has so many problems of that sort ,
B: Oh .
A: so it 's , it 's , uh , it 's , uh , it 's a really big problem I think , and , um , takes mature people to , to treat it , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: so that it 's , so that it 's a real advantage to you , instead of a disadvantage .
B: Right .
B: I think , um , the way the tax system was , they encouraged people to use credit cards , you know , with a big write off at the end of the year .
A: Yeah .
B: But now , it 's like , it 's punch money , because
A: Right .
A: It did n't do you any good now , does it ?
B: you can not ,
B: right .
B: You can not write off your interest .
A: Even before it probably was n't , though , because you did n't get anywhere near as much as what it , you did n't get to claim anywhere near what you ended up paying .
B: Yeah .
A: So , well , I 'm not ,
A: other than that , I don't have too much on credit cards
A: but ,
A: It 's good to talk to you .
B: Yeah .
B: You , too .
B: Thanks for calling .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: bye now
B: Bye .
A: So .
B: Okay ,
B: do you exercise regularly .
A: Yeah ,
A: I sure do .
B: What do you do ?
A: Uh , I ride a bicycle quite a bit and uh , work out with free weights
B: Okay ,
B: I love to ride a bicycle .
A: I live right near White Rock Lake ,
A: so I used to , I try to ride , about ten to twenty miles a day .
A: But , I have n't been doing so well this year ,
B: Oh , that 's good .
A: but ,
B: I went an , last year I went an was exercising on a bike for a while
B: and I , when I 'd gotten back I had gotten some sun that day ,
B: the sweat had built up on me and built up under my skin and caused me to peel .
B: It was the sweating , not the burn
A: Oh that 's weird .
B: that was wild
B: But , I exercise , I don't exercise now ,
B: I just had a baby three months ago ,
B: I have n't really gotten back into exercising .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: But I exercised real good for a couple of years .
B: It was aerobics and lifting weights three nights a week
B: and it was running three nights a week .
A: So what 's your motivation ?
B: What , what 's my motivation ?
A: Yeah .
B: A friend of mine , always pushing me .
B: This was in Louisiana .
B: And she would push , you know ,
B: she was , hey ,
B: let 's go do it ,
B: and you know , she would n't take no for an answer
A: Was it for health , or , to look good ?
B: Oh , I I just wanted to look good ,
B: yeah ,
A: I was think ,
B: it was n't really health related .
A: It was just a side benefit .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: because I 'm not , I 'm not big or anything ,
B: but I 'm not in great shape ,
B: so . But when I worked out , I got in pretty good shape .
B: I did n't build up muscle , though ,
B: I just got real good and toned .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't think women look good with muscles .
A: Up to a point .
B: Up to a point ,
B: no ,
B: yeah ,
A: Yeah .
B: It 's just some of those women that come up there looking like Arnold Schwarzenegger 's sister just does n't get it .
A: Yeah ,
A: so what was , what was the other question ,
A: let 's see , do you do it as a task
A: or do you enjoy , enjoy working out .
B: I guess it 's a task 'cause I ca n't make myself do it lately .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think I , uh , I enjoy it sometimes
A: and there 's other times when I just get tired of it
A: and , and I feel like I 'm obligated to do it , because I 've been doing it
B: Yeah .
A: so I should keep up .
B: You don't want to lose yourself .
A: And there 's some days it 's just like it 's the hardest thing in the world to , to get started .
B: Well how old are you ?
A: I 'm , uh , twenty-seven .
B: Okay ,
B: so you 're still young .
A: Yeah ,
A: still young , getting older .
B: We all are ,
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: but , uh ,
B: It 's not hard to stay ,
B: well if you keep working out when you 're young though , when you get older , you know , your body 's not going to look as bad .
B: I seen an old woman today ,
B: she was about eighty
B: and she looked so good ,
A: Yeah .
B: I mean she was standing just as straight and tall
B: and she had a small waist
B: and she did n't have , you know , like ,
B: you know , how some older women will get the big bulge right in the middle .
A: Right .
B: she did n't have that at all .
B: She , her lips were a little bit wide ,
B: but a lot of ,
B: back in her time , they liked women with big hips anyway
A: Right .
B: so she may be keeping that on purpose ,
B: so
A: Yeah ,
A: I notice if you , uh , if you stay in shape you don't age as bad ,
B: Uh-huh
A: I think , too .
A: I was , I go to school , too , at night
A: and last semester I had stopped working out 'cause I hurt myself and started smoking a lot ,
A: and you just ,
A: those kind of things age you more .
B: Well smoking ages you quick ,
A: Right ,
A: an
B: it puts those little wrinkles around your lips .
A: right
A: an you ca n't ,
A: and then , you know , it just kind of feeds itself .
A: You smoke ,
A: and then you don't work out because you ,
B: You get winded .
A: Right ,
A: and so ,
B: Oh , I smoke a pack a day
B: an ,
A: I finally quit because , like I just , all I was doing was going down hill fast .
B: I ca n't quit smoking ,
B: I 've tried .
B: I was telling a friend of mine that I 'd be almost as bad as being an alcoholic ,
A: Yeah .
B: I ca n't quit smoking .
B: I 've tried ,
B: I just ca n't do it .
B: I quit when I was pregnant with my kids ,
B: but , you know , as soon as I had them , right back to it .
A: Right back to them .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: It was like , you know ,
B: that was the only reason I quit .
B: I did n't want to .
A: Oh that 's ,
B: And I don't want to quit smoking ,
B: I enjoy that .
B: I said I have very few vices ,
B: I 'll keep this one thank you
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: But , uh , did you ever go to like one of those health clubs or anything ?
A: I went to health club a few years ago ,
A: and now I work out at home , because I don't really , my schedule with school and work , I don't have time to get down to one .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There used to be one that was a twenty-four hour that I used to go to
A: but , uh , I actually prefer to work out alone .
B: I like to work out with people ,
A: Really .
B: I need ,
B: like you ,
B: I , I need competition , is what I need .
A: Yeah .
B: I 've got to have somebody to compete with ,
B: or I don't want to do anything .
A: I would n't mind having , you know , working out with a friend and , and stuff
A: but when you get into some of these , some of health clubs where you just stand around and wait .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: are you ,
A: You know , I like to start , get it done and get out of there .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: are you married or anything ?
A: No ,
A: I 'm not .
B: No ,
B: well , get your girlfriend to work out with you .
B: A lot of women like that .
B: I 'd love it if my husband would ask me to work out with him .
B: He does n't work out very often .
B: Course , he don't need to .
B: He 's small
B: and he works as a laborer on the railroad .
A: Yeah .
B: So , you know , he 's building his muscles up all day ,
B: he does n't have to do anything .
A: Right .
B: He can eat like a horse , too .
B: And he don't , you know , he don't gain it like I do .
B: But , uh ,
A: Uh , especially having a kid , I guess , tends to just gain weight because you have to , to , to , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: you have to .
B: Well you can gain too much weight .
B: I gained a little bit too much ,
B: but I looked ,
B: with my first little boy , I did gain a lot of weight ,
B: I got , I got about fifty pounds overweight with him
B: and I did n't loose it until two years ago
B: and then I got pregnant and , you know , ruined that ,
B: so
A: Just have to start all over .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , actually , like I say , it ai n't as bad this time , because I was in shape when I got pregnant .
A: Right .
B: I was n't out of I was n't overweight when I got pregnant with him ,
B: I just was n't in , in shape .
B: I don't know the difference
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: some people are a little bit fanatical about it .
A: You know , I ,
B: About weight ?
A: Well yeah ,
A: and about , working out and fitness , you know ,
B: Exercise .
A: I like to , to work out to look good and stay in shape
A: and , you know , I know it 's good for me ,
A: but people that live for it and , you know , eat a bunch of different pills , and , all that kind of stuff , it gets a little bit obsessive .
B: Well that 's what my friend did .
B: Well , she was , she was with the wheat germ and all the vitamins and everything else
B: and really , we was , you know ,
B: even with her taking all those expensive vitamins and stuff , we stayed right on the same track with each other , you know , developing and everything .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Now there ,
B: you can take those , uh ,
B: what is it ?
A: Steroids .
B: Steroids ,
B: yeah ,
B: I could n't think ,
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's really bad for you .
B: I was I was trying to say hemorrhoids ,
B: no ,
B: I was trying to say hormones .
A: hormones .
B: Yeah ,
B: hormones ,
B: but
B: yeah ,
B: uh , steroids .
B: But , I stay from that crap .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's too dangerous .
B: Oh , I would n't , I could just see hair start growing out of my upper lip or something .
A: Yeah ,
A: I had a friend whose brother did steroids
A: and as soon as he stopped working out he just ballooned out .
A: It all turned to fat
A: and he just , really looked bad .
B: Really .
B: Ugh .
A: But , uh ,
B: I did n't know it did that .
A: I don't know if it does to everybody ,
A: he was ,
A: it , just that 's how it affected him .
A: And he , I don't know , just ,
B: Yeah ,
B: but I 've been wanting to get me a bicycle , or a bike .
B: I 've been wanting to get a ten speed to ride around .
B: I 'm scared to run , for dogs .
B: Course I know dogs can get you on a bike too ,
B: but , seems like it ,
A: Yeah .
A: At least you got a chance to out run them that way .
B: Yeah
A: I don't like to run myself .
A: I 've thought about it several times
A: and I just , it , I like to move a little faster and cover more ground .
B: Well they ,
B: yeah ,
B: they 've come up that running is not as good for you as they thought it was .
A: It 's probably , I would think it would be hard on your , your legs and your joints and stuff .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's real hard on your legs
B: and it 's hard on women .
B: And it , it just makes stuff move down .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , but I , I , I like jogging ,
B: I don't mind that .
B: I can get out and do that , as long as it 's not hot .
A: Uh , I ca n't .
B: If it 's hot , you ca n't do that .
B: But in the rain , oh , I love to run in the rain ,
B: just , you know , be careful not to slide .
A: Yeah .
B: But you ca n't ride your bike at all in the rain , can you .
A: No ,
A: you ca n't ,
A: it 's dangerous .
B: You slide .
A: At least maybe some of these mountain bikes you could
A: but a regular ten speed with those skinny tires , you slide all over the place .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , I , when I did ride my friend 's bike , that one time , I had , uh , I don't know what I was trying to do .
B: I was trying to make a U turn
B: and I never could make a U turn in a bike ,
B: I can do it in my car ,
B: but I tried to do it on that ten speed and wrecked
B: and I told her a dog was chasing me
B: But I wrecked it into the curb .
B: I did n't hurt it too bad .
B: I scratched it on the , the oh ,
B: she had some kind of fender thing going over the back tire , I think .
A: Yeah .
B: But oh well .
B: Anyway , it 's been nice talking to you .
A: Yeah ,
A: well .
B: And , uh ,
A: Well good luck with the , the new kid .
B: Thank you ,
B: she 's , it , she 's good .
B: Anyway , have fun exercising .
A: All right .
B: All right ,
B: bye-bye .
A: All right .
A: Do you have a bunch of factories and stuff out there ?
B: Um , we 've got quite a few , actually .
B: What we 're more concerned with is the inner pollution in the city .
A: The , uh ,
B: Um , we 've actually had some warnings in , uh , Raleigh uh , on air pollution .
A: Oh , you mean for like smog and stuff ?
B: Uh-huh ,
B: because of there so many cars ,
B: and we have a belt line around Raleigh where we 're trying to divert traffic .
A: Huh .
B: And , um , you know , it 's still , it 's just surrounding the city ,
B: and you can actually see it .
B: There 's a couple of , uh , tall buildings in Raleigh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and you can actually , you know ,
B: they 're blurred ,
B: they 're even dark ,
B: and what it is is the pollution .
A: Huh .
A: What do you think of that , uh , the greenhouse effect that 's going on ?
B: Well I guess that 's the fluorocarbons
A: Yeah
B: and , uh ,
A: that 's causing the hole in the ozone .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's very serious .
B: I mean , we can , we 're even feeling the effects of the weather from , uh , uh , the shift in the jet stream .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It , it is scary though , is n't it ?
B: Oh yeah .
B: I mean , uh , the last two , uh , years , our winters have been absolutely nothing .
A: Right .
B: I mean , maybe , one snow .
A: Well , all right ,
A: North Carolina .
A: That 's up there by Kentucky , is n't it ?
B: Kentucky ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , North Carolina is all the way on the east coast .
A: Okay .
B: It 's further west than Georgia ,
B: it 's , uh , right below Virginia .
A: Okay .
A: Well , Kentucky 's next to Virginia , I 'm pretty sure .
A: Well , I 'm from Kentucky ,
A: I should know
A: but , I don't ,
A: I 'm sorry .
A: But Kentucky , we use to have severe , I mean , just real cold , cold winters
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we 'd have three and four feet of snow .
A: Course here in Texas they don't have snow ,
A: they don't know what snow is .
A: They freak out when there 's snow on the ground
B: Uh-huh .
B: Originally I 'm from Texas
B: so , I mean Amarillo .
B: So , uh ,
A: Oh , Amarillo ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well that 's close to here .
B: Yeah ,
B: real close .
A: How long have you been in Raleigh ?
B: Um , I 've been out of Texas about ten years .
A: Well , how old are you ?
B: Oh , twenty , uh , seven .
B: I almost forgot my age .
A: Okay .
A: Well , we 're the same age .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I forget my age all the time ,
A: so that 's okay .
A: It 's , I think it 's just something that goes with the territory .
B: Um
A: But to me , Texas , see and Kentucky , we had to have ice on the ground for them to close school .
A: Okay ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: In Texas , I 'm serious , if it gets cold and it looks like it 's going to rain , I , I swear they close everything down .
A: I just laugh .
A: I mean , I do ,
A: they get , I mean ,
A: and traffic slows down to nothing .
B: Actually , they 've been doing the same thing here .
B: It 's , you know , it 's kind of funny ,
B: they , um , I guess northerners are different ,
B: but even , uh , North Carolinians , they don't know how to handle cold weather .
A: Oh , well , no
A: I 'm from the north ,
A: that 's why I said we , in Kentucky , we ,
A: I don't know ,
A: you just get used to the weather ,
A: and of course the people down in south , they they 're not used to cold weather and stuff ,
A: and , uh , it just ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't know ,
A: I just laugh
A: every time they have a , every time they have snow , on the ground everything 's closed up .
A: And you know , you can have snow on the ground and not be slick on the road
B: That 's true .
A: But , uh ,
B: Do you all have much pollution there ?
A: No ,
A: not really ,
A: I mean , not to see it .
A: Now of course , there 's , you know , T I is here , Oscar Mayer
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there is a few factories ,
A: but I don't see much pollution going on .
B: Well , you know , what irks me is these cars that are driving down the road ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you have that black smoke coming from their tail pipe .
A: Well , see , they have that , um , what is it a test , or something like that they call it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , that 's supposed to cut down on it .
B: Well ,
B: supposedly that 's supposed to catch it .
B: But I 'll tell you what ,
B: and even these buses , oh lord , it real bad . These buses in Raleigh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: school buses and the commercial buses ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: yeah .
B: I mean , school buses are notorious .
A: Well , they 're burning that diesel fuel is what it is .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And , uh , it , it gets bad .
B: Well , you know what they 've started doing is , is instead of the tail pipes being at the bottom of those buses they 've started putting them up at the top ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that way it gets above , um , other cars on the road
A: Well , that 's a good idea .
B: and , uh , it really does make a difference , although it , it settles , you know ,
B: even if it 's at the top and it 's a lot of black smoke coming out , it still settles ,
B: and , and , you know , if you 're going to be jogging on the side of the road , that 's , that 's even more miserable .
B: I would , I 'd have to go out to the country to jog .
A: Well , uh , the , you know , pregnant women are n't supposed to walk along a highway because of that smoke fumes .
B: No ,
B: I did n't know that .
A: When I was pregnant with my first little boy , I had read it ,
A: because back then because I was walking back and forth ,
A: well not back and forth ,
A: I was walking home from , uh , the college I was going to in Kentucky .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I was having to walk along the highway .
A: It was just one day a week .
A: But it was , in ,
A: I , I have no sense of smell ,
A: so I could n't smell this ,
A: but it would make me sick ,
A: and I 'd be real tired anyway just from walking along the highway .
B: Um .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Golly , that 's , that 's bad .
A: But ,
A: yeah ,
A: it 's ,
A: yeah ,
A: all the exhaust . Uh ,
A: well , that was four years ago , too ,
A: it 's probably a lot worse now .
B: Oh , I 'm sure .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , they , um , you can really feel it , you know , in your breathing , even normal people ,
B: and if you 're older , um , I mean , you can really deplete your oxygen ,
B: and it 'll , you know , pass out ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's , you know , it 's killed several people .
A: Do you , uh , smoke ?
B: Um , actually , I 'm a very , I just smoke one in the evening if that .
B: So , I 'm a very , very light smoker .
A: yeah ,
A: it 's kind of
B: It was kind of funny .
B: They were doing some , uh , ozone testing , and , uh , the E P A
B: and they were just screening some candidates ,
B: and I don't think I 'd ever , you know , do that ,
B: but they , uh , asked me if I was a smoker ,
B: and I did n't fit into the smoker 's category ,
B: and I did n't fit into the nonsmoker 's category . Um ,
B: it was , you know , I was just one of those
A: Yeah ,
A: because you do smoke one a day .
B: yeah ,
B: in between people .
B: So that kind of threw them off .
A: Um . Uh ,
B: But they 're doing a lot of research here , uh , the E P A
A: For the air pollution .
B: For ozone , and oh , yeah , all that .
B: They 're , they 're real big into it .
B: They 've got Research Triangle Park here ,
B: and they 're , you know , they 're just doing a lot of , uh , lot of stuff .
A: Huh .
A: But , they ,
A: I don't hear much about it down here .
A: Course , Texas , we don't have a bunch of pollution .
B: Huh-uh .
A: But , too , we 've got that air coming in off the coast .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: And you know it 'd blow it up north .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , maybe that 's part of the reason it 's not so bad down here .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , no
A: it would seem like it would be the same way in , on the California coastline , would n't it ?
B: Oh , gosh , I think I would hate to live in California , the smog there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , I ca n't believe they have warnings here , which it , it 's mainly just when it gets real , real hot .
A: Uh-huh .
A: But they usually have that everywhere because of the humidity especially .
B: Really ?
B: well that 's kind of good to know ,
B: because I thought lord , I thought I lived in a halfway decent area .
A: I think they do that for most everybody .
B: Um .
A: especially , it 's usually for the young children and the older , the old people older old people .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well you ought to come to North Carolina .
B: It 's a big change
A: It is ?
B: Yeah .
B: There was no trees where I was from , in Amarillo ,
B: and here they 've got the mountains , the beach , the trees , you know ,
B: it 's they 've got streams , rivers , ponds ,
A: Oh .
B: it 's really pretty here .
A: Oh , well , this is pretty wooded area down here
A: so ,
B: Is it ?
A: in a lot of parts ,
A: yeah .
A: I know Texas is supposed to be flat ,
A: but they 've got , you know , down by the Denison Dam there 's a lot of , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sherman and Denison ,
B: do you know my grandparents live in Durant ?
A: They do ?
B: Yeah .
A: They live close then .
B: Yeah ,
B: real close .
B: I go there ,
A: In Durant , Oklahoma ?
B: Yeah .
A: You go where ? Uh ,
A: you go to visit them ?
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: we used to go fishing in Lake Texoma .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , down by Lake Texoma there 's a bunch of wooded area .
A: This ,
A: but , but Kentucky 's beautiful .
A: They 've got trees ,
A: and trees are supposed to , you know , purify .
A: You know what the best indoor purifying plant is for smoke and stuff ?
B: huh-uh .
A: It 's a philodendron .
B: Oh , really ?
A: It 's supposed to filter the air for you , in your home .
B: Well , I 'm going to have to get some .
A: I had one .
A: My husband bought it for me when my daughter was born three months , four months ago .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Do you smoke ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I do .
B: Do you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I do .
B: Did you smoke when you , when you were pregnant ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I did .
A: I could n't make myself quit .
B: Well .
A: I did cut down a lot
B: I mean I can understand that , actually .
A: I got , I , I 've got one vice
A: and smoke is , smoking is it .
B: Well ,
A: I don't , I don't drink ,
A: and I try not to cuss ,
A: and I do , I do very little ,
A: and smoking , I just , I got in the habit of it when I was about thirteen .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , one thing I miss is , uh , is the people from Texas , are , are , you know ,
B: I miss their morals , their values and everything .
B: It 's , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: we 're down here at the Bible belt , are n't we ?
A: Uh , I was n't saved until I got down here ,
A: and people down here are just ,
A: there 's so many Christians ,
A: and it 's so different from Kentucky
A: but ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: How 'd you get involved in this research ?
A: Um , I worked at T I for a while ,
A: but then my brother-in-law works there ,
A: and he got me into it .
B: Oh , I see .
B: Huh .
A: How 'd you get into it ?
B: Um , I , I was taking a voice I O class and , um , and actually doing some research ,
B: and so they told me about this project .
A: Well , it 's fun ,
A: I like talking to new people .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I , half the time , well a couple of times I 've been interrupted by my little girl ,
A: I 've had to hang up and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I enjoy it .
A: I talked to people from , well , what , Carolina now up in , uh , Boston , and New York ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: well Boston is New York , is n't it ?
A: No .
B: Uh , no ,
B: Boston 's above .
A: Boston , Massachusetts
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I 've talked to people in New York ,
A: but I 've talked to a lot of people in Texas ,
A: because I guess , it 's because T I down here .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've talked to a lot of people in Texas .
B: I had one call actually from Charlotte , North Carolina , and Virginia , and , um ,
B: I ca n't remember where all .
B: From up north , like you said ,
B: I think one was from Boston .
A: With Boston , I love their accent
A: I do ,
A: I love the Boston accent .
A: I met a girl from Boston one time .
A: My husband was in the service ,
A: so we went from Kentucky to Louisiana down here to Texas ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and his family 's down here .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We 're out of the service now .
B: Oh , I bet you 're glad .
A: Yeah ,
A: he got out of it , his unit , right after Panama .
A: We went to he went to Panama when Noriega was doing all that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , gosh .
A: And , uh , he ...
A: Well , uh , it seems to me that , uh , that
A: I do not know whether the jury system , uh ,
A: I , I should not say I do not know .
A: I do not feel very , uh , stronger that the jury system should be changed .
A: It seems to have worked , uh , time immemorial .
A: And when , uh , difficult decisions , uh , are made , uh , uh , uh , they generally prove out to be right by things that occur later on .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I know in some cases now in some states , depending on the criminal code , uh , a unanimous verdict is not required .
A: And indeed some juries are no longer twelve people ,
A: they are down to as little , as small as six people in , I think , in petty , in , in , uh , in , uh , in minor felonies , and , uh , and misdemeanor trials .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I think that the judges should be left to do most of the sentencing , simply because , uh , there is always , uh , there is , there is always a jury that might be swayed , uh , by the moment , uh , to either to be too lenient or too vengeful , I guess .
B: Yeah .
B: On the other hand , uh , attorney , uh , uh , justices are more apt to , uh , understand , you know , the the prison crowding problems and things like that , and have that sway their decisions one way or the other . You know .
A: Yeah .
A: But , I mean , is not that , uh , is that a reflection then of what is really happening in the real world ?
A: If , if , if they keep giving everybody hundred year sentences , and the people in various states , it does not seem that people want to be taxed to build more prisons . Or even in , for that matter , uh , repair the , uh , the lack of judges and , and , and other , uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: I think that is what is happening .
B: I think , uh , the judges are trying to save the people from having to , the cost of new prisons .
A: Yeah ,
B: They ,
A: yeah ,
A: you know , that might be it .
A: I mean , they , they certainly ,
B: they are saying , oh , well , you know , the , the people can not afford it .
A: I do not , I don't know how it is in Virginia ,
A: but in Florida now , uh , uh , uh , at eighteen years , someone was just sentenced to eighteen years , I heard it on TODAY , uh , without any specific recommendation for , uh , uh , uh , uh , uh , uh , waving the normal , uh , procedures .
A: And the eighteen years will , uh , translate into something like , uh , four point seven , if every , if the , if the prisoner is a model prisoner ,
B: Yeah .
A: and indeed the present overcrowding conditions , uh , prevail .
A: Plus , I guess , there was some credit for time this guy had already spent in jail waiting for trial .
B: Right .
A: So , uh , yeah ,
A: you might be right about that .
A: I , I , I do not know ,
A: it just seems to me that only about , uh , from what I read , only about ninety percent of the only about ten percent of the cases come for trial anyway .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , only about , uh , four or five percent of , uh ,
A: in the , in the very end
A: or less than , less than half the trials that go to , uh , less than half the cases that go to trial , uh , end up with , uh , with the jury actually making the verdict .
B: With a conviction ?
B: Oh , okay .
A: That most of it is plea bargained , uh , half way through
A: or , or most of the cases are plea bargained anyway .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , uh , how do you feel about the , uh , about the jury system itself ?
A: Do you , do you think that should be changed ?
A: Or do you , do you know in Virginia whether it is , if they have smaller juries
A: or ,
B: Uh , I do not know exactly what the size of the juries .
B: I know one of my friends was , uh , uh , brought up for jury duty .
A: Yeah .
B: For ,
B: and he only heard very , you know , piddly type cases .
B: Most of it was , uh , robberies or things like that , you know ,
B: it was not any serious crimes .
B: So apparently even for the smallest crimes , they give the person the , you know , any felony anyways .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I guess we ,
B: they give the person the option for a jury .
A: Yeah .
A: I guess we always focus on criminal trials with with the jury .
A: But I know you have a right to ask for a jury in , in any sort of a case that even where damages are , are , are , uh , are the result of some sort of a , uh , an action that you are bringing against someone else . You can ask for that to be heard before a jury .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Takes a heck of a long time , I guess , to get there in some states .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I , I do not know , uh ,
A: I should imagine Virginia , from what I read , uh , uh , is like every other state .
A: It , it is faced with , uh , uh , enormous costs to maintain the jury system and the prison system and the entire trial system .
A: Because I guess , everywhere I read that there is a shortage of judges .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: Not that they wo n't appoint them
A: but there is no budget for them , I guess .
A: Or , and the courthouse that goes with them and the bailiffs and the clerk , uh , court clerks .
B: Huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Whatever .
A: So it seems , uh ,
A: no ,
A: I , I , I do not think I would change it .
A: The more I verbalize it , I , I do not think I would want to change the system .
B: Right ,
A: I do not know what we would replace it with
B: uh , I do not think I would either .
B: Yeah .
B: I know ,
B: it , uh , does seem like the , the , the , the purpose of getting people in jail so that , you know , the , the ,
B: I can not think of the word I am looking for .
B: Anyway , the deterrent . For people to , to commit the uh , to not to commit the crime is sort of gone away .
A: Yes .
B: People have ,
B: I do not know ,
B: they just do not care any more .
B: The benefit , I guess , of crime outweighs what the deterrent is .
A: Uh , and yet there are , there are so many , there are so many people in prison .
B: You know , people that ,
A: I mean the prison population , uh , as far as I , I , uh , you know ,
A: my impression of it is that it has , that it has doubled in the last ten years and tripled in the last twenty .
B: Um .
A: I mean it ,
A: so has our , I guess our population has grown some too .
A: But there , there definitely is , uh , uh , you know , to me the , one of the worst things that could ever happen , uh , from what I read and see and understand .
A: I mean I do no think I could handle prison .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean it would be very difficult ,
B: Well , I would be interested in finding out what the , uh , percentage of drug related type things are ,
A: Well , there must be a , a , a , a very great degree of that .
B: and , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: But , but there again I , I do not know if the , the jury system itself , uh , comes in to play there .
A: I would think that ,
A: one of the things that sort of bothers me is the ability ,
A: of course it is a constitutional right that the press must have here , is the interviewing of jurors after the trial .
A: I mean that , it seems to me that , that , that when a jury makes a decision , they should not be asked , uh , before television cameras and newspaper reporters how they reached that decision .
A: I mean , I do not ,
B: Yeah .
A: I imagine there is a certain , certain right of the press to have the ability to ask that .
A: But I , I would think I , if I did anything , I would protect the juror from , from any sort of an inquisition after
B: Well , I know , uh ,
B: on the other hand though , when , after the Barry trial , up here , you know , the big local trial , as well as national .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Well , I do a lot of business up in Washington .
A: I was there during the , during the trial actually ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: And the opposite was true of me .
B: Uh , after the case was over , I was like , somebody get ahold of these people and find out why in the world did they vote the way they did , you know
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: It was like , well , a picture is not good enough .
B: We want to see ,
B: I do not know what they wanted honestly
B: Did they want the guy to , I do not know . * qy but its ' abandoned
B: I mean , just because you feel like he was being kicked on , which he certainly was , you know .
B: I think , I ,
B: no doubt in my mind the federal government picked him out and selected him to be prosecuted .
A: Oh , I felt that way .
A: I felt , I felt ,
B: But it does not matter .
B: The guy was obviously guilty
A: no ,
A: but ,
A: Yeah
A: I always balanced in the , in the situation .
A: I remember the jurors , uh ,
A: I thought to myself , how did , how did
A: they only , I think they only , uh , found him guilty on one count . Which was , uh , not even , which was a class something felony . Which was not even punishable , uh , uh , to the degree that they thought it .
B: One , one count .
B: Yeah .
A: But I do not know ,
A: maybe when you are there in the in the courtroom yourself and you are sitting there and you have got to make a judgment on somebody .
A: And the prosecutors do a lousy job ,
A: or maybe the evidence was not as sensational as the media presented it .
A: I mean , I , I am not making excuses for
B: Yeah .
A: That might be it .
B: Well , yeah .
B: I think we are getting ,
A: I think I am getting a call coming in .
B: Oh Okay .
A: All right , nice talking with you .
B: Well , it has been nice talking to you .
A: Thank you .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay .
A: What you mean , my voice ?
B: Yes .
A: Oh , no
A: I am from Kentucky . Originally
B: Oh , well .
A: So ,
B: Well , the topic today was gardening , and lawn care ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Ooh .
A: I know ,
A: we are about to hit it in ten , few minutes .
A: I figured I could make this call and get it over with .
A: We are going to mow and trim and edge ,
B: Yeah .
A: and that is all we have been doing all weekend .
B: You know what ?
B: It seems like we are doing it here forever .
B: We bought a , a large house that was completely unlandscaped .
B: I mean , it , it was probably was up to your shoulder in , in thistles .
B: That was all that was there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we hired a professional landscaper to do it .
B: And I have since then probably ripped out half of what he has done because it has always been incorrectly planted
B: or the plants do not make the winter time .
B: And so I am kind of at this point getting a little bit broke and deciding that what we are going to do is we are just going to struggle through the rest of this year , probably through the Fall too . And , uh , rip up , rip out all the rest of these junipers or anything that requires , uh , more care than I am willing to give the kids and replace it with hollies .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , how many kids do you have ?
B: Just two ,
A: Okay .
B: but they are just eighteen months apart so it seems like a lot more .
A: What year , I mean , how old are they ?
B: Four and five .
A: Four and five .
A: Goodness .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I have got a four year , uh , a four year old and a four month old . And an eight year old stepdaughter .
B: Oh , well , I have a twenty six year old stepson ,
B: and I do not know if that counts .
A: Well , you do not have to tend to him .
B: Well , I did for many years .
B: So ,
A: Oh , you did .
A: Okay .
A: It is over with .
B: Yeah .
A: He is gone .
B: Yeah .
B: It is over with .
B: Uh , back to gardening .
B: Are you one of these , uh , Howard Garrett , organic enthusiasts or a , Neil Sperry , nuke the lawn with chemicals ?
A: If I can just nuke it , I would do it .
A: But I do not .
A: I just ,
A: it is like , oh , I will get out there and pull my weeds .
A: I do not have a real big front yard .
A: But I do have half of it is a flower bed , just about , all by the porch .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because the porch is pretty big ,
A: I live in town .
A: But just pulling all the weeds out of that just drives me nuts .
A: I do not like it .
A: And I just went out this weekend and bought me some plants and stuff .
A: And I just plowed through the whole nine yards .
A: Got up everything .
A: There was some plants that are just Spring bloomers
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I ,
A: the when the blooms died , the leaves were just horrible looking .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I just broke all them off .
A: It was a hyacinth .
A: Have you ever seen those ?
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Oh , they are pretty in the Spring
A: But the leaves , I do not like them .
A: You know , once ,
B: All right ,
B: now are you sure they are hyacinths ?
B: Because that is a bulb .
A: Yeah .
A: It is a bulb .
B: Well you should of just ripped the whole thing out .
A: No ,
A: because I do like the , I like the plant in the Spring .
A: I love those pink flowers .
A: They are just pretty .
A: So I just cut the leaves off and transplant and put some other plants down . Because I want them to come back up next year .
B: Have you had ,
B: is this the first year they have been up ?
A: Yeah .
B: Well , let me tell you , they do not come back very well at all .
B: Maybe they will if , up further north .
B: But down ,
B: and you are not that much further north .
B: I have probably planted oh , around here , um , maybe six hundred bulbs .
A: Of hyacinths ?
B: No ,
B: I have probably have done hyacinths .
A: Oh , of everything .
B: But I have just learned from doing hyacinths that if you really like them what you do is you dig the bulbs up and then you throw them away after they are done blooming . Because they do not take the heat here .
B: And if they do come back next year , they are going to look real puny .
A: Oh , they will ?
B: Yep .
A: Huh .
B: About the only bloom , bulb that repeats well in my area is the , uh , uh , daffodil and some of the narcissus bulb .
A: Okay .
A: Now I have got some daffodils .
A: And , everybody down here calls these flags . Uh , the irises I guess , uh ,
B: They call them flags ?
A: That is what they call them down here .
A: They get , uh , just one bloom on the plant .
A: I do not , I am not sure what they are called .
B: When does it , when does it bloom ?
A: But I do not much ,
A: Well , I think they are stopped blooming now , in the Spring .
A: It has got
B: And what color ?
A: oh , they come in all different colors .
A: The blooms are , on some of them is yellow , purple , white . Just all different colors .
B: And you only get one of them ?
A: Well , I mean , per bulb .
A: You get one big flower that looks like a lily .
A: I do not know what they are called .
A: I have always called them ,
A: well , I do not know what I have called them
A: But when I come down here , everybody told me they are flags .
B: You know what I bet you they are ?
B: And I am a pretty , I am a pretty good gardener
B: because I have killed a lot of things here
B: and , and I have planted a lot of them .
B: And , and I work on a , uh , landscape committee for our neighborhood .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And our neighborhood is a planned development with , I think , it is seven hundred and fifty-five families .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But we have about sixty acres that we have to plant .
B: I am going to bet you that is a lily . Because it is ,
A: Yeah .
A: It is some type of lily .
B: And I will get , uh ,
B: is it ,
B: what color is , is yours blooming ?
A: I have got some in the backyard that bloomed blue . Which I would not , would have liked those in the front because they match my porch and stuff better . And then some on the side of the house with the dusty purple color . With little purple spots that it , it will fade into a solid purple .
B: And what does the foliage look like ?
B: Does it fit that ,
A: Green spiky leaves .
A: Now it looks almost like a hyacinth only a , a lot higher .
B: Oh ,
A: And it is a bulb .
B: oh , oh .
B: Oh , I bet you those are , I bet you what those things are , uh , is a Dutch iris .
A: Dutch irises .
B: I bet you it is a Dutch iris .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Does it , does it on its little , on its , on the flower , does it have a beard on it at all ? Any kind of fuzzies ?
A: You know , I , I really do not know .
B: I am going to bet you that ,
B: that has got to be blooming this time of year .
B: It has ,
A: No ,
A: they are , they have , they 're died down . I am sorry , they are dead now .
B: Well , I was just going to correct myself .
A: They bloom in the Spring .
B: Because they would have bloomed pretty early .
A: Yeah .
B: Well ,
A: They bloomed in the Spring .
B: Yeah .
B: Right about after the daffodils ?
A: Right about the same time or after .
B: Okay .
B: I will bet you those are Dutch iris .
A: I would took , I took and just mowed over them last year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , we have been ,
A: I , I do not much care for them .
A: After the bloom dies , they are not pretty .
A: And to me it just looks like a bunch of leaves .
B: Well ,
A: But I took them out of my front yard ,
A: and I just threw them on the side , intending to transplant them or throw them away or something . And forgot about them through the whole Winter .
B: Yep .
A: Well , I went out there this Spring ,
A: and they had took root right where they were , on top of each other .
A: And they told me that they are the hardest things to , you know , to kill .
B: Well
A: But they are real easy to grow .
B: Ooh .
A: Does that help ?
B: Well then it is not , it is not a Dutch iris then .
B: Oh , gosh .
A: I do not , I am not sure what it is .
A: They said that they are irises .
A: It is some type of iris though .
B: Huh .
A: But they call them flags up here or down here , down here .
B: Well , I am not so sure that Texans know what , what they have got .
A: Yeah .
A: I do not know what it is .
A: I am , I am not on , I am just getting into gardening this year .
B: Did you just move down here ?
A: Uh , we moved here a year ago
A: Yeah ,
A: last Spring .
A: We moved in here May , this house , May of last year .
A: So it was really too late to do much .
B: Um . Who , who , who , who .
B: Because I have got a flower , I have got , I have probably got , do , do , do , do , I do not know how many square feet it is , a big circular driveway .
B: The whole , uh , perimeter bordering the house is all in Texas wildflower beds .
B: And I am into that .
A: Oh .
B: And it , and it looks quite formal .
B: I mean it really does ,
B: it looks quite formal .
A: Well , that is ,
B: But it has been about three or four years of , uh , uh , playing around with flowers to decide which ones actually grow here .
A: Well , what kind of blue ?
A: I am wanting I want blue and purple and , you know , just different shades of that . Because my , my house is gray ,
B: You want blue ?
A: and blue looks so pretty against it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Ooh , blue is hard , you know .
B: Do you want a perennial flower that will bloom all Summer ?
A: I bought ,
A: well , I would like to have one that would bloom next year too .
A: That will come back up .
B: Okay .
B: Put in a perennial blue salvia .
B: Now it is going to grow about , um , the plant itself will grow about eighteen inches tall .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it will send out a flower spike .
B: You will see them blooming now .
B: It is a wildflower here ,
B: but you can get them in the nursery .
A: I am looking for a pen .
A: I want to write this down because ,
A: well , that is where I went this year .
A: Because I waited too late to really plant stuff .
A: But I did not know that these hyacinths ,
A: like I said , I do not know anything about plants .
A: I did not know the hyacinths were going to die .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: You are finding out who you are .
A: But is not that difficult to do when you are working full time and have to come home and prepare a meal and , get homework done ,
B: Well , I think ,
A: and , you know , where do you find the time .
B: Um . Well , in the first place it 's not your homework ,
B: it 's your children 's homework .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I was always very careful to be there only when they came to me and asked me for help ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I helped them with exactly what they asked for
B: and that 's all .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's a part of the problem that women have always had
B: and that is accepting responsibility for things that really are other people 's responsibilities .
A: That 's very true .
B: They , They ,
A: And then that way , we have not changed in , hundreds of years , have we .
B: That 's right .
A: Yeah .
B: That way husbands are crippled ,
A: Yeah .
B: they are intellectual cripples ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so are children .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They do not know how to think for themselves and be responsible , for themselves .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I do not know why God made women brilliant
B: I ,
A: Did n't he though
B: Yes ,
B: but I do not know
B: they tend to look at the mother as the one who solves all problems .
B: They , are all things to all people ,
A: That 's very true .
B: and that 's never changed .
A: That 's , that 's very true .
A: I , as a matter of fact I was talking to a friend yesterday , who said she has a new policy in her home
A: and when her , her family comes to her and says , fix this , you know ,
A: I am having a problem with , you know , another member of the family ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: she said I have taken a new stance ,
A: and I say , no ,
A: I will not .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , you work it out for yourself .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And she said , it 's amazing , she said , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: every single person in this family expects me to get ,
A: and they suck me into these arguments and , these conversations
B: That 's right .
A: and I I am supposed to be the one who is going to fix it all and , and soothe everybody .
A: And she said I am not doing it anymore .
A: I , I just ,
B: You know I think that 's one of the things that we have today that is very useful ,
B: and I think every woman ought to deal with it or , ought to at least be exposed to it ,
B: and that is mediation training .
A: Um , uh-huh .
B: Uh , we are not talking about strikes or things
B: we are talking about mediators who get involved in family crises , parents and children , husbands and wives , uh , you know , boss and employee . Those kinds of things . Interpersonal mediation ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: because , the mediator is an unbiased bystander who ,
A: We 're to discuss a little bit about the process of putting someone in a nursing home and making the decision on a family basis
A: and , probably the first question would be whether you 've ever had to go through that process .
B: Well , not so much personally
B: but my , um , husband has an aunt who has been like a second mother , I mean always lived in the same town and took care of him and such .
B: They live down in College Station where , his parents do too .
B: And they put her in a home last year .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She appeared to have a couple of light strokes and started to , uh , not be able to be in her apartment on her own .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So they found a , a place nearby that they put her in last year .
A: So it was pretty much a physical decision ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: although she is , uh , in pretty good health and she 's , does n't take any medication ,
B: it 's just she had had her own apartment and drove a car and everything up until that point .
A: Um .
B: Then she was starting to get , uh , you know , lose memory sometimes and , which is kind of frightening when she 's in the car .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh ,
A: My husband 's family are reaching that point
A: but it 's , it 's so difficult .
A: Was she in favor of it
A: or , or was she kind of opposed to it ?
B: Well , yeah ,
B: when it finally came down to it , um , she just got to the point after the ,
B: I mean , it was n't a very , um , strong stroke .
B: It was just kind of all of a sudden she was n't herself anymore .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And she got kind of fearful of being on her own .
B: She never really ate very well .
B: It was one thing .
B: She hardly ever took care of herself
A: Yeah .
B: and she did n't eat .
B: She ate very poor
B: so I think she was , you know , bad , uh , nutrition on top of it .
B: And , uh , she got to the point she did n't want to alone anymore .
B: So ,
A: So often I think though , elderly people don't realize that their diet is that bad .
A: I work with a lot of elderly people ,
A: I 'm a trust officer
B: Um .
A: and so often they think they 're adequately caring for themselves when they 're really not eating very much or very balanced meals .
B: Well , she was almost ridiculous .
B: Like she 'd eat ice cream and cookies .
B: She 'd ,
A: Yes .
A: Well you know that 's part of the aging process , That your taste buds goes back to the sweet taste .
B: Did n't one ,
A: It really is .
B: Oh really ?
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well she did n't want to cook for herself anymore .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , that 's too much trouble .
B: That 's too much trouble .
B: Did n't want to cook .
A: And the portions ,
A: people don't want to try to figure out little bitty individual meals .
A: I do that right now ,
B: Yeah .
A: and I 'm not near nursing home age .
B: Although they 've got , uh , Meals On Wheels , Which I understand is a really good , you know , way to handle that so that at least they eat .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: So as a family you all just visited nursing homes
A: or probably in College Station there was n't a whole lot of choice .
B: No ,
B: I don't think there was . Um ,
B: I know a little bit more from a , a co-worker .
B: Her mother-in-law had been in for quite some time and had different degrees of a place that she was in .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , she was ambulatory
B: and so there was a lesser care .
B: Uh , then she got , uh , uh , hip broken
B: and then , uh , she was n't as ambulatory
B: so they were almost , you know , to the point of saying she ca n't be here anymore .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , I remember from her checking around , she ended up staying at the Arkansas House I think out in Arlington , something like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , you know the type of facilities whether it 's a shared room or two separate rooms that share uh , a , uh , bathroom . All of them all seem to say that people there are going to steal their items
A: Oh yeah .
A: That 's a given .
B: They 're always saying that somebody 's going to ,
B: and some of them , I think unconsciously do it , you know , as a just , you know , half
A: Uh-huh .
A: And sometimes the , the help there does it , I think .
B: Uh So , they , they , uh , don't have too many facilities it seems for their personal items . Very limited space waste
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , um , at least they all seem to have , uh , you know , people that monitor their , uh , medication intake and dining facilities , you know , go to the dining room and , and eat some good meals .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I know when my friend 's mother-in-law first went in , I mean , very antisocial .
B: Maybe it takes a while for them to say , okay , well I 'll be with other people
B: but ,
A: Adapt .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't understand that , they , they don't want to be with anybody else .
A: Yeah .
A: I , as I think I mentioned , I was in the trust business
A: and I 've seen so many elderly people .
A: Usually there has to be some wealth involved , which is great , if , if you 're financially , if , if you don't make the decisions so late that you 're worried about money
A: but the , the places like Presbyterian Village and some of the , the retirement places where , where they have different levels of care seems to be so much better , as far as elderly people adapting .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 're able to move in while they 're still independent and still social
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and they do group things .
A: And then if health or , or mental capacity deteriorates , they 're able to take the next steps without so much change
A: and oh , I wish everybody could go that direction rather than just all of a sudden moving out of the home they 've always been in .
A: It 's really kind of difficult .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have a , um ,
B: my aunt 's mother is , uh , gotten ill recently
B: and , uh , she lives in Pennsylvania ,
B: they live in Alabama .
B: And they 're saying , hey , we need you to be closer
B: and you have , women like that ,
A: Yeah .
B: I don't to men ,
B: it seems like the women out just out live their husbands , but , very reluctantly ,
B: that whole , I mean
A: Uh-huh .
B: they don't get out of the house ,
B: they don't socialize
B: but it 's my home
B: and I don't want to leave it .
A: Well and it 's the first step in , in actually accepting that you are failing and , and aging .
B: Uh .
A: You know once you make that step you know that it 's just going to be downhill from then on
A: and , and I 've seen people really fight it that desperately needed to make the change .
B: Um .
A: They , they became ,
A: in fact , that 's probably what 's going to happen with my husband 's mother .
A: She 's going to endanger herself before she 'll willingly and probably will never willingly make the decision .
A: And that scares me the , the thought of forcing somebody to do something .
B: But it 's , it 's so lonely ,
B: you know they ca n't get out and see anyone
B: and I mean , it 's hard for , for someone like me to understand that
A: Yeah .
B: because I I think , what do you have there ?
B: It 's a house ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's walls
B: and it 's furniture
B: but there 's nobody there .
A: Not as independence .
B: don't you want to be close to me ? I mean , you know be with other people .
A: Yeah .
B: I just don't understand why they , so much want to just stay in that building .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And there 's no family there ,
B: they don't get to see their grandkids ,
B: they don't get to see their children ,
B: they just there in that house .
A: Yeah .
A: And the quality of life really is n't there .
B: Yeah .
A: Oh it 's tough ,
A: it really is .
B: That 's from the child 's standpoint .
B: The child is going , why don't you want to be close to me and your other family .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What does that house got attraction ?
A: Well , they fear being dependent on somebody .
B: I know they 're really proud of independence .
A: They , they fear being a burden to , to family members .
B: Uh .
A: My husband 's mother will have major surgery
A: and we 'll find out about it in a casual conversation .
A: She 'll let something slip
A: and we 'll say , wait a minute .
A: And , and that 's it ,
A: she , just , well
A: I did n't want to bother you .
A: She ca n't accept that we want to be the care givers .
B: Well , when she got home , who took care of her ?
A: Yeah .
A: Well , she stayed , she stayed in a temporary nursing home . Until she was okay .
B: Oh .
A: You know , it 's just ,
A: but it 's frightening to us because we live pretty far from her .
A: She 's down in Temple
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we ca n't see her often enough to really know what 's going on .
B: Um
A: So , it 's difficult ,
A: it really is
A: and we 're all heading that way
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: my , husband and I , we have been thinking about his folks are in College Station
B: and we 've pretty much planned that we 'll be here in the Dallas area
B: and there 's nothing to hold them there in College Station since they 're retired .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So we thought maybe we could get them to move a little closer here .
A: Yeah
A: Okay .
A: We 're talking about capital punishment .
B: Right .
A: How do you feel about that Lenore ?
B: I am very much for capital punishment .
A: Well , wonderful .
A: I am too , one hundred percent .
B: My Dad retired from the federal prison of bureaus .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I 've been raised around prison prisons all my life .
A: All your life .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I believe if you don't have a punishment befitting the crime , there 's not any deterrent
A: There 's no deterrent .
A: That 's right .
A: There 's just no deterrent .
B: That 's right .
A: And so many of those kind of people , they got , they have a better life in prison than they have on the street anyway
A: so , you know , unless they really make it rough on them that 's not a , going to prison for a little while is not much of a deterrent I don't think .
B: Especially not a federal prison .
A: Right .
A: Well , I don't know what Oklahoma 's laws are
A: but Texas 's I don't know are ,
A: I don't know
A: it 's , it 's no one 's
A: I mean it 's not the judge 's fault I don't think .
A: It 's just the way the law is down here .
A: Man our our , uh , prisons are so crowded that , uh , they can commit some pretty serious crimes and be set free within a year to two .
B: Well , see we were under , uh , the state 's prisons were under a mandate to , uh ,
B: it was over crowded
B: and the federal came in and said , hey , you know , you have either got to build more prisons or let people go .
A: Well , that 's what ours did , same thing .
B: And finally our governor at the time which who is not in office now came in and said , okay , where we draw the line is no sex offenders will be let loose . Under early bail , you know or early , uh get out .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , we have ,
B: the death penalty is not given often .
A: Huh-uh .
B: But there have been
A: It 's not here either really .
B: And you know , I ,
B: maybe it should be , uh , well , it should be given , you know , I , I wo n't say sparingly ,
B: but I do believe it should be befitting the crime .
A: I do too
A: and , and you know , but the way the courts are set up they 've , they 've got so many chances for appeal ,
A: but I think I think it needs to be expedited .
A: You know if they 've been convicted and given an appeal and they 're still convicted of , of a crime that 's deserving of , of a lethal injection , let 's do it and not waste so many years to do it .
B: Right .
B: Of course , you know , they 're , they 're entitled to a speedy trial .
A: That 's right .
B: But then they 're , they 're also entitled to drag it through the courts for years and years and years on appeals .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So somehow , you know , it does n't really balance out too much .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right .
A: Somehow it just does n't ,
A: it works and then again it takes too long for it to work .
B: And it seems even though , you know , that they got ,
B: the prisoner himself can come to the point that , hey , I 'm tired .
B: I just want out .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , I 'm tired of fighting it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Then the system just keeps on .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it
B: And at that point you know I , I really think there needs to be maybe a shorter appeal process .
A: I do too .
A: I think that needs to ,
A: and I don't see why it could n't be shortened considerably .
A: But , you know
B: Well , part of that is the overcrowding of the court system .
A: that 's true .
A: It is overcrowded because there 's so much drug , uh , problem with the people on drugs
A: because that
A: they , with the drugs they 're , they 're robbing and killing
A: and , uh , that 's why it 's filled the prisons up so much I think .
B: Uh , it does n't , it does n't help them any at all
A: No ,
A: it does n't .
B: and , of course , your court system when you get into the appeals ,
B: I don't believe criminal is in a court by itself .
B: And the whole judicial system is backed up with a lot of junk that should n't be in there .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
A: With all these lawsuits and people suing people over ridiculous things
A: but ,
B: We 've gotten into a very litigious , uh , type of life .
A: Boy , have n't that we though .
A: We really have .
A: But anyway I 'm glad to hear that you agree with me on the capital punishment .
B: Well , I just ,
A: I 'm , I 'm very muchly for it .
A: Always have been ,
A: always will be .
B: I just feel like their crime and punishment
B: and if , if you don't have the punishment , you double your crime .
B: And the , you know , that is just personal feeling .
B: It 's not going on facts .
B: I think the facts would probably back it up
A: It could be supportive .
A: It , it 's it 's supported with facts though .
B: but ,
B: What ?
A: It could very easily be supported with facts .
B: Well , yes .
B: I ,
A: Um , tell me some about your camping experiences , Carolyn .
B: Well , um , I have gone to girl 's camp a few times , as a , you know , a chaperon or a leader , whatever
A: Okay . where do you go camping at around here ?
B: and , uh , I enjoy camping .
B: I ,
B: we we have a tent ,
B: and we 've gone , even with our family a few times out camping and have a camp stove , um ,
B: I guess our , our , my biggest memory is when we froze to death
B: We just did n't take enough blankets and whatever .
B: Uh , we went camping at , uh , Lake Bonham , which is , is pretty close here . Um ,
B: we went fairly early in the season for this area , which is probably April is when we went ,
A: Okay .
B: and , and it got really cold at night ,
B: and of course we were close enough that we could go back and get some more blankets and things in the morning ,
A: Sure .
B: but ,
A: Uh , what , uh , what activities do you do when you 're camping ?
B: Oh , we take little nature hikes
B: and , and , uh , we take along games that we can play with the , with the kids , and just that kind of stuff .
B: Usually try to have a , uh , occasionally a camp fire at night , you know , and roast the marshmallows and what all .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , that sounds like fun .
A: I , uh , I grew up in South Dakota , up in the Black Hills
B: Oh .
A: and so we used to go camping ,
A: my dad would take us ,
A: there was , there was four of us kids ,
A: we 'd , he 'd take us ,
A: and we 'd all go camping , my dad and my mom and , and the kids ,
A: and it was always fun , uh ,
A: because what I always remember is , my dad would let us pick our camp spot
A: and , uh , he 'd always tell us , you know , okay , look for , you know , a nice flat little area where we can pitch our tents ,
A: and it always had to be somewhere near a , a river so we could go fishing ,
A: and hopefully we 'd catch our supper ,
A: but we never did
B: Um .
A: but it was , it was always fun .
A: We 'd always ,
A: Mom was always prepared
A: and she 'd bring along , you know , something , because tradition had it we would never catch anything ,
A: so we always had , something along to eat ,
A: but then we 'd roast , roast marshmallows ,
A: and it , it was always an enjoyable experience .
A: Uh , about nineteen eighty-two I moved from Rapid City in the Black Hills ,
A: I crossed the state to , to Aberdeen ,
A: and , uh , there 's no hills ,
A: it 's flat ,
A: and then I was in high school ,
A: and , uh , couple of friends , couple of my high school friends and I , we 'd go camping out by a river , of course , and , and go fishing ,
A: but by then , of course , I was able to catch , uh , catch some things ,
A: but , it , it was always fun .
A: It was a different experience camping in the hills versus camping just by a river
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , in the hills we , we would do like you you folks did , you folks did , would take the nature hikes and , you know , and look for animals ,
A: and we always , you know ,
A: in the hills , you can see quite a few different animals ,
A: but ,
B: Uh ,
A: Go ahead .
B: We used to live in Utah
A: Okay .
B: and , uh , of course , there 's lots of mountains around there to camp in , and , and streams and stuff .
B: That 's , that 's a great place to go camping ,
B: and the hiking is just really great .
B: You know , hike up those mountains is just really fantastic . Um .
A: Sure .
A: Now is there anything , uh , are there any mountains or big rocks a person could hike around this area .
B: I 'm not acquainted with any , you know ,
B: I ,
B: there 's woods and things out in East Texas Tyler area , you know ,
A: Okay .
B: there 's a Tyler State Park that 's , uh , really a nice camping area ,
B: but it , it 's just a lot of trees ,
B: it 's not ,
B: I don't know of any place in Texas that has , uh , really big , you know , what I call mountains
A: Uh-huh .
A: I ,
B: The Rocky Mountains are so much , uh , bigger than anything that they 've they 've got down here that ,
A: Right .
A: Is the one in Tyler , has it been pretty commercialized , I suppose ?
B: No ,
B: it 's not , well , it 's not too bad .
B: They have , um , screened in areas , you know ,
B: they 're not really cabins , I would n't say ,
B: I guess they could call them that , but they 're , they 're more just a screened in , uh , camping area whatever ,
A: Okay .
B: they 're , they 're not bad .
A: Helps , helps keep the , the pests out , I suppose .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
A: Well , that sounds ,
A: I don't know if I can rate camping ,
A: but , you know , it sure beats driving a thousand miles , to to find a mountain , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
B: I , I take it you have n't done a whole lot of camping in this area .
A: No ,
A: we just moved down in , in June .
B: Oh , I see .
B: Well , you 're still , uh , you 're just trying to get over the culture shock still
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm still trying to find my way around .
A: I , if I can get on Central from anywhere , I 'm happy .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , really the ideal times to camp in this area are early spring , and , in , in the fall .
A: Okay .
B: It just gets so hot in the summer you can hardly ,
B: I mean , there 's , there 's a lot ,
A: Okay .
A: What type of things do you feel would invade your privacy every day ?
B: Um , huh . Well , I don't like it when , uh , people listen to my phone conversations , like if they 're outside my door while I 'm talking in my room or when people like look through my things in my bedroom
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's right .
A: That is really an invasion of privacy .
B: Yeah .
A: I , I find it very annoying when I 've worked all day to come in and my phone to ring constantly , the solicitors , and the carpet cleaning companies and ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Does that happen in your part of the country ?
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , uh , I come home
B: Definitely .
A: and I am trying to get a few things done
A: and I ca n't do anything but answer the telephone .
B: Right
A: Some evenings are worse than others ,
A: but I wish I could put a stop to it ,
A: but I don't know what to do to stop it .
B: Right .
B: Even , uh , we used to have a sign on our door that said no soliciting ,
B: and they would still come to our door and knock and
A: Uh-huh .
A: They would think it did n't mean them , I guess .
B: I guess not ,
B: no .
A: Everybody but me
B: Yeah
A: Oh , goodness .
A: Are you do you live at home with your parents ?
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: So your privacy is invaded probably by other members of the family .
B: Yeah ,
B: mostly .
B: Yeah
A: Now what can you do to stop that ?
B: Oh , I don't know .
B: Well , I am used to it now ,
B: but sometimes it sort of gets , gets to me
B: but there is not much I can really do .
A: No .
B: No .
A: Just have to live with it , I guess .
B: Yeah .
A: Try to remember to respect their privacy ,
A: and maybe they will respect yours
A: and ,
B: Well , I don't know
B: I always ,
A: Do you have brothers ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: yes ,
B: I do ,
B: but they don't live at home .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: I was
A: I had two younger brothers ,
A: and they nearly drove me crazy listening to telephone conversations
A: and ,
B: Oh , I used to do that though because I was the youngest ,
B: I would pick up the phone and listen to theirs
B: But I ,
A: I would get in the bathroom and lock the door so maybe they could n't hear me ,
A: and then they would go get on the other extension
B: Oh .
A: and I could hear them ,
A: but I could n't get them to hang up , you know .
B: Yeah
B: But I stopped doing that a long time ago ,
B: and they still do it to me .
A: Even it , in the office I , uh , find that people walk up and , and when you 're on a conversation instead of walking off or just making themselves busy , they 'll stand there and listen to what you say until you hang up .
B: Oh , like ,
B: yeah ,
B: this lady does that to me at work when I 'm taking an order or something ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and she 'll just sit there and listen like I 'm doing something wrong ,
B: and she just started
B: and , she is nice
B: but .
B: to someone in the Okay .
B: But , you know , it gets annoying when they stand right over you watching everything you do .
A: Yeah .
B: But ,
A: Let 's see , I ca n't think of anything else I 'd really consider an invasion of privacy other than the phone solicitors .
B: No
A: About the only thing that really bothers me I don't have that many people coming to my door .
B: Right .
B: Well , occasionally we 'll have a person here or there , but not , not as many as the phone calls , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so . But ,
A: And I guess that 's really the thing that really bugs me the most .
A: I ca n't think ,
A: our kids in our neighborhood used to bother me ,
A: but they 've all gotten grown up now
B: Uh ,
A: and we live in a neighborhood where there is not any little kids to bother me , since mine are all grown up ,
B: Oh
A: but . What else would be an annoyance ?
A: Well , I guess traffic could be an annoyance .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Especially when you 're in a hurry
A: Do you have a lot of traffic in your area ?
B: Um , it can get busy ,
B: yeah .
B: Usually in the week I 'm .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Some days it 's real , real bad here ,
A: and you would like to , feel like it 's an invasion of privacy because you ca n't even ride down the road without people all the way around you , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: But ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've traveled quiet a bit ,
B: and I 've been through Dallas , Texas .
B: It 's pretty busy
A: It really is ,
A: and pretty noisy .
B: Yeah
A: It really is .
B: Yeah .
A: I live right on a main thoroughfare ,
A: so when I first moved here I probably did consider that an invasion of privacy
A: because it , at first you 'd hear a lot of noise , especially at night you know , when you go to bed .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And every time a , a fire truck or anything went down the road , I would wake up ,
A: but I guess I have gotten used to it because I don't even hear it anymore .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I suppose you do .
A: And , uh , I just close it out , I guess , because I don't , I don't remember waking up in several years at night when I 'd hear a fire truck go by , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I think they would probably have to pull into my drive before it bothered me
B: Yeah .
B: I am a real solid sleeper though
B: so that probably would n't bother me .
B: I 'd sleep right through it
A: They would have to chop down the door and get you out , I guess .
B: Yeah .
B: It takes a lot .
A: Let 's see . What else is an invasion ?
B: I had an old boyfriend who looked through my notes one time
A: Oh .
B: I was mad because those were mine ,
A: Well , did you have has name all over them ?
B: No
B: It was a , a letter from a girlfriend of mine .
B: I , I just , I was upset because those were mine ,
B: and , you know , I thought he ,
A: That was yours .
A: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: I thought he would respect me more than that , to look through my things and not trust me ,
A: Yeah .
B: so that was upsetting .
B: I was mad about that and my privacy there .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , well , I guess social change takes in a , a big category ,
A: but , uh , I guess the , the one aspect of it that I took in , uh , consideration is more economical .
B: Um .
A: I , I know that the amount of , or how far your dollar goes probably more than anything has , has greatly changed .
B: Yes ,
B: I agree .
A: I know , they , they did a ,
A: it was on a talk show ,
A: they took , uh , the parents and then the , uh , the son ,
A: and they compared income at different points in time when the , when the father was , you know , was a little bit younger and more in his heyday
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they , and they compared to the son 's , that he was making now .
A: And even though the son was probably more successful , you know , higher up in the , the management ladder uh , his , he was actually making less money when you when you go by costs of living .
B: Right .
B: Um .
B: Right ,
B: uh-huh .
B: And it 's depending on where you live , though , too .
A: Yeah .
A: I know just , uh , just with me , ten years ago , I was comparing the ,
A: I think I , I was living better ten years ago than I am now , even though I 'm making more money now ,
A: but my dollar went a lot farther .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
B: Ten years ago I was eleven
B: Oh . I remember though , like buying candy and stuff that was a lot less expensive than it is now . And gas ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I used to hear stories from my Grandpa ,
B: and , you know , he could see a movie for like a nickel and things like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I , I know gas prices have definitely jumped , uh , from , uh ,
A: I know I used to pay twenty-five cents a gallon
A: and now it 's over a buck .
B: Yeah .
A: I don't know what it 's , uh , by you .
A: Around here Minnesota , Wisconsin area it 's , uh , it 's dropping ,
A: but I think it 's about a dollar fifteen on an average .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm from Wisconsin ,
B: yeah , .
A: Okay .
A: Well that 's , uh , that 's
A: most of the people I talk to are Texas ,
A: so .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: I spoke to a person from Texas , too .
A: Yeah .
B: This is only my second phone call
B: so I 'm waiting for mine .
A: Oh .
A: I suppose this will be one of my , towards my last one pretty soon ,
A: so they 'll stop me
B: Um .
A: but , uh , I 'm , uh , I 'm pretty much out to the things to say .
B: Oh , like , like social changes .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , um , and I don't think this would have anything to do with it ,
B: but like clothing and styles , lot of those changed .
A: Okay ,
A: yeah ,
A: I , I , I don't think they , they consider ,
A: like I say , it 's a broad category ,
A: it 's just I 'm not economical
A: but uh , even attitudes on , on clothing and stuff , uh , I know .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: definitely .
B: Towards each other .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I , I know a lot of the things that , that we wear , men wear nowadays were , would have been considered , uh , feminine , uh , many years ago ,
A: but . I know , it 's been , it was hard for me at first ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: but now I kind of like , you know , a lot of the bright colors .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , like I used to be more , uh , conservative and just your basic colors ,
A: but now I , I do like some of these , uh , brighter , fluorescent colors .
B: Yeah ,
B: but they , styles come and go all the time , though .
B: It 's just ridiculous , fads in and out .
B: And even , um , clothing from the sixties came back .
A: Yeah .
B: I see a lot of , um , girls wearing sixties clothes .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I , I guess the , the best thing I like to see from the sixties and seventies is , of course , is the mini skirt , of course One of the nice things ,
A: but , uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I don't think that there 's anything as original ,
A: it 's , it 's all based on , uh , one of the past styles ,
A: they just , um , make their , uh , circle and come back again .
B: Yeah .
A: So if you hang onto your clothes long enough , uh they 'll , they 'll be back in style in a few years
B: Yeah
B: That 's true ,
B: maybe some day I probably wo n't be alive to see it ,
B: but prices might go down lot more .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know though ,
B: does n't look good .
A: Well , I think , thinking back , I think the only style I hope does n't come back is bell bottoms .
B: Yeah ,
B: I remember that ,
B: I do
A: I guess when I look at pictures of myself in the bell bottoms I say God .
B: Yeah ,
B: I did n't really care for them either
B: But now I ,
A: I was going to say , my , uh , college is Northern State University in Aberdeen , South Dakota ,
A: and our head football coach , Dennis Muir used to be an assistant coach at B Y U .
B: Oh , really .
A: So I thought that was kind of an interesting coincidence .
B: Huh
B: So you went to what college ?
A: Uh , Northern State University in Aberdeen , South Dakota .
B: And what did you graduate in ?
A: I
A: in what major or what year ?
B: Yeah ,
B: major
A: International business .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah .
A: And you ?
B: I 'm going to B Y U ,
B: and I 'm going into nursing
A: Okay .
B: so .
A: Well , that sounds interesting .
A: How long of a program is that ?
B: Forever
B: Seems like , anyways .
B: It 's about five years ,
B: but it 's probably going to take me longer , because I did n't decide to major in that until , uh , about a year and a half after I was already in school ,
B: so .
A: You know , I read a study once ,
A: and it said that , uh , like thirty-four percent of , uh , college students actually graduate in four years from a four year program .
B: Oh , really .
B: That sounds .
A: It took me , it took me five years .
B: Yeah
A: So , you just , you get started
A: and you change your mind ,
A: or you want to pick up a second major ,
A: if you 're management , you , you , thought , I , I 'll take that marketing ,
A: it 's just only was three more classes you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: and you , just does n't happen that you get out in four years .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But .
B: So what is your advice to picking a college .
A: My advice is is , uh , look for , at the student to faculty ratio , you know ,
A: if you 're going to go to a college where student faculty ratio is three and four hundred to one , I don't think you 're going to have as meaningful of a college experience as if you 're down to the thirty to forty to one .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Is that , what was yours more like ?
A: Yeah
B: Was there a ,
A: it was about twenty-six to one .
B: Really .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: Which is , you know ,
A: it , it 's interesting ,
A: but it , it 's
A: what I thought was nice is you could there was always time to talk to professor , you know ,
A: and , and they knew you .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You were n't just in their class , you know ,
A: and so you could , you could go talk to them in their office almost at any time ,
A: and , or if you ran into them in the student union or whatever , you know , you could sit down , talk to them about a problem .
A: They 're always willing to help you out .
A: So , but I , I 's , I , I put that against , uh , my high school where we had , uh , a biology class of three hundred and fifty students
A: and .
B: Wow , in high school ?
A: Yeah
B: Oh .
A: it was a biology lecture class
B: Wow .
A: and , you know , it , it just was n't the same .
A: You 're sitting there ,
A: and you 're taking notes
A: and , you know , you got a computerized test scores , multiple choice , because there 's no way they could correct a three hundred fifty point short answer test uh , you know , a three hundred fifty person short answer test .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , it just was n't the same .
A: You , you 'd run , you 'd pass the teacher in high school
A: and , even in high school you could say high to your teachers , unless you 're in that biology class ,
A: and they just , they 'd look at you like , do I know you ?
A: or should I know you ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: there 's , it 's ,
B: the classes here are pretty big ,
B: so , it 's hard to get individual help
B: It 's kind of , you 're on your own
A: Do you get , uh , a lot of tutoring ,
A: or .
B: No
B: Very little , I mean ,
B: well , like my ,
B: for example , I have , I 'm in a chemistry class right now
A: Uh-huh .
B: and there 's tons of students in it ,
B: and there 's one T A for the whole class .
B: And he only has certain office hours ,
B: and so there 's only certain times you can talk to him ,
B: and .
A: And you could get there
A: and his office hours could , I mean he could have like a nine to eleven in the morning office hours and have forty-two people waiting to talk to him ,
A: and you still did n't get to talk to him anyway .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: Well , what would be your advice to a parent of a child thinking of attending college ?
B: Oh , man . I think your advice is good .
B: Um let 's see . My advice would be to pick a major before you get into college
A: That 's excellent advice .
B: because I , I did n't ,
B: and I took tons of classes that I did n't need to ,
B: and , um , I don't know ,
B: I just feel like I 'm , it 's , it 's going to take me a lot longer than ,
B: and not that 's always bad ,
B: but it 's ,
B: I don't know ,
B: it 's frustrating , I guess .
A: Well , it , it , it does get it .
A: You know , you get to the point where it 's , I 'm never going to get done .
B: Right .
A: You know , I , I mean , I was taking summer classes
A: and let me get out of here .
B: Yep .
A: But , uh , no ,
A: that 's good advice .
A: Even if you don't have your major decided on , have an idea what you think you might want , you know ,
A: so you don't want management ,
A: but you think you want business ,
B: Yes .
A: I have n't , uh , talked to anybody outside the Metroplex ,
A: so I did n't even think of saying Arlington , Texas .
A: This is a real first
B: Yes .
A: Are you at work ?
B: Yes ,
B: I am .
A: I , I , I 've been trying to get people at five thirty and six thirty in the evening
A: and I thought , well , I 'm not having any luck ,
A: I 'll try the middle of the afternoon .
B: Well , I 'm , I 'm happy we got through .
A: I am , too .
A: Well , do you have any , uh , opinion on the subject ?
B: Well , I 'm , I 'm especially interested with what , what 's happening in the Soviet Union , uh ,
B: the , the move to , uh the , the , the , Ukraine 's vote to , uh , basically to secede and set itself up independently uh , is quite a remarkable , counts ,
A: Democracy .
A: Oh .
B: is that , is that reported in the Texas papers ?
A: Oh , sure ,
A: we , uh , we hear a little of the news Uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I have heard about that the last couple of days .
A: How , how big is the Ukraine , the area ,
A: do you know ?
B: Uh , as an area , it 's not ,
A: Or a population or anything ,
A: I 'm really uninformed .
B: I , I 'm afraid I don't have the statistics in front of me .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's a , it 's not a tiny area . Uh ,
B: if I was looking at a U S map , I would say it was sort of reminds me of , of a , uh ,
B: it 's not as big as California proportionately .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: But , but , but it 's , it 's more significant , in the sense of , it 's a great agricultural region .
A: Oh , I see ,
A: oh , I , I did n't really know that ,
A: I know a lot of their , oh , their countries that they had overtaken , or wanted to be independent or several of them , right ,
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , what about Astonia ,
A: are they ,
B: They 're completely out now .
A: Right ,
A: I thought they were .
B: Yes ,
B: the three , the three Baltic , uh , republics got out as quickly as they could .
A: But , but , the , the Ukraine is especially significant because it , of the agriculture ?
B: Right ,
B: it 's , it 's very important for the economics of the whole , of the Soviet Union .
A: Uh , so there were probably really fight to keep it in if they could .
B: Right , uh ,
B: except they ca n't fight
A: No ,
A: they don't ,
B: It 's done democratically , uh ,
A: And Bush has already given his opinion on it , right ?
B: Yes .
A: Did n't I read that ?
B: Yes .
A: So , now , uh , not that they may , that may matter ,
A: I don't know , anymore .
A: I , uh , fear for the Russians from what I read , you know ,
A: I wonder how they 're going to get through the winter . Food wise or any wise ,
B: Uh ,
A: sounds to me like they 'll start rioting soon , or not that that would do any good ,
A: but I guess people do that when they 're desperate .
B: That , that 's true , uh , has n't happened here for a while ,
B: but it , uh ,
A: Well , that 's true ,
A: since the Depression ,
A: I guess when the veterans went to Washington
B: Uh-huh .
A: and well , you know , the war riots , of course .
A: Let 's just hope we don't get to that point
A: Things are not so good in Texas job wise .
B: No ,
B: I 've , I 've heard they 're , I hear you have some problems .
A: Well , we do .
A: We have lots and lots of , uh , layoffs here . Lot of companies folding , lot of layoffs
A: and it 's pretty scary .
B: Do , do you , do you blame the , the government in Washington for this ?
A: Well , I don't understand economics that well .
A: I don't know ,
A: I , I know that we have a terrible situation with foreign trade and that other countries put a lot of restrictions that we don't
B: Yeah .
A: and so I assume that that has some effect . Or a great effect .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I do , uh , I mean , they said during the way , Reagan-Bush years , the rich got richer ,
A: the poor got poorer ,
A: the statistics prove that
A: so , uh , I , I guess ,
B: So then , you think it 's , it 's , you think it 's Reagan and Bush have done this
B: or is it just coincidence it was during this period ?
A: Well , I really don't know .
A: I think maybe they , uh , maybe they contributed to it .
A: Maybe they should pay more attention to these trade , or , you know , to the more equalization of the trade .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Of course , if somebody in , in China can make something for ten cents and we have to make it for ten dollars because we have unions , well , I don't know what 's going to happen then .
B: Oh , the Chinese use slave labor , too .
A: Right .
B: That 's , that 's one of the ways they get away with it .
A: And child labor .
B: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Well , I don't know .
A: What do you think has caused our horrible situation ?
B: Uh , I don't think there 's any one simple answer to the whole thing .
A: One thing .
B: I mean it 's , that 's very complicated .
A: Right ,
A: well , they say , too , that having a democratic congress and republican President is not good .
A: I mean , I 've read that is a theory .
B: So which one are we going to throw out ?
A: Well , I hate to say it ,
A: but , I , I 'm tending to go straight back into my original democratic party .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh ,
B: Texas , Texas used to be a democratic state , did n't it ?
A: Oh , I know ,
A: it used to ,
A: right .
A: Well , you don't want too many democrats anymore
A: and for a while I kind of deserted the party ,
A: but now it 's looking better to me .
B: I like your governor .
A: Oh , do you ?
A: Oh , I 'm glad to hear that .
B: She 's an impressive woman .
A: Well , I think so , too .
A: I , I just , admire her a lot .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I I really hope she does well .
A: But she 's , uh , you know , probably more popular out of the state than she is here , although she did manage to win .
B: Right
A: But look who she was running against , you know
B: Well , yeah ,
B: anybody could beat Claytie in Texas .
A: He shot himself in the foot so many times
A: How did you get on this T I thing ?
B: Oh , I , I know some of the people .
A: Okay ,
A: go ahead .
B: Well , I , I , uh , we 're going to compare notes . Uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: I , uh , I often desire to exercise , often believe I should and rarely do .
A: don't do it
A: Well , I tell you , I , I firmly believe in exercising .
A: I think it 's a ,
A: I do it every day on a regular basis .
A: I ,
B: What , what , what sort of , of regiment do you have ?
A: Well , I just got back from biking twelve and a half miles ,
A: but this time of year , you ca n't get much biking in . Uh ,
A: but every morning I use this President 's , uh , council of physical fitness
A: and it really is , uh , uh , it 's worth doing ,
A: and you can do it anywhere .
A: I , I travel quite a bit in my in my business ,
B: Yes .
A: and you can do it , you know , wherever you 're at
A: and if you do it ,
A: I , I do it every morning after , uh , usually after breakfast before I take a shower and get , you know , dressed going you know , to go to work .
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , now what I do ,
A: I mean , I 've done this for , you know , like fifteen years ,
A: so you don't start at this kind of regiment , you know .
B: Yes .
A: I ,
A: so , what I 'm telling you is n't something you go out and do
A: and , and you 'll hurt yourself Uh ,
A: every , every , uh ,
A: it takes me about fifteen minutes to do this now because I do it all the time ,
A: but I , uh , I do twenty-five , uh , uh , where you have your arms above your head and and your body twisters touch right , you know , left and right toe
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I do , uh , ten , uh , right and left , uh , trunk twisters .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I do , uh , about sixty , uh , bicycle , type , uh , leg thrust type things .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I do , uh , twenty , uh , leg lifters on each side . You know when you 're laying on the floor .
B: Yes .
B: Yes .
B: Right .
A: And then I do fifty push-ups and do a hundred sit ups
A: and , uh , then I do about , uh ,
B: My goodness ,
B: you do all of this in fifteen minutes ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: oh , yeah .
A: And then , uh , thirty , uh ,
A: now if you did football , like the old grass drills where you 're on your stomach and you
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , prone type things , where you 're kind of rocking on your stomach type thing ,
A: and that takes about , really about , maybe about thirteen minutes , uh in the morning .
B: Yeah .
B: Now what , what keeps you doing that .
B: I mean , I , I sometimes start little , much less , much more modest efforts ,
B: but I give up ,
B: I just find them boring .
B: Hard to find the time for it on a given day
A: Well , uh ,
B: and ,
A: Years ago I used to , uh , referee football
B: Yes .
A: and , uh , to stay in condition , I did that , uh , just as a normal basis ,
B: Yes .
A: and , uh , uh , I tell you just by doing it , uh ,
A: well , example , this summer I , I was about fifteen pounds heavier than I wanted to be
A: so I , I increased ,
A: I do three hundred sit ups a day now , but not at that , in the morning ,
A: I do a hundred then
A: and then I do about a hundred before supper and about a hundred before I go to bed .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I lost fifteen pounds just by doing that because you tighten your stomach muscles
B: Yes .
A: and , you know , you can eat anything you want , drink anything you want ,
A: but you don't , you know ,
A: within reason , you know , you can lose weight or maintain your weight and your physical being
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yep .
A: and , uh , I just , you know ,
A: you 're ready to go at a ,
A: I , I , I think it 's really important .
B: Well , I , I , whenever I do it , I feel good . I mean good that I have done , good because it 's , it seems right and good because it has good effects .
A: Good .
B: But , but it 's this maintaining a , a regular habit that I just ca n't seem to do .
A: Well , that 's why Chuck , I think , uh , if you did it on a daily basis and you did n't need elaborate things , you know , where you can make excuses like ,
B: Yeah .
A: well , I , I like biking
A: and during the summer , I 'll do , you know , at least seventy-five miles a week and when I really was doing it maybe a hundred and fifty ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but you ca n't , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: there 's excuses , weather
B: Yep .
A: or you don't have time or something like that .
A: But if you do some basic exercises and you say every morning , just like brushing your teeth you 're going to spend fifteen minutes or a half hour . And you get up a half hour earlier
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and once you start getting into that , one , you just feel good
B: Yes .
A: and you look a whole lot better .
B: Yes .
B: Do you , do you does your wife participate in any of this
B: or ,
A: Unfortunately not ,
A: and there 's no way I can get her to .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's a , like it 's something you either just really want to do it
A: or you ca n't talk anyone into it .
A: If you don't like to exercise , you know , it is n't going to happen .
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
A: I , I sure wish she would .
A: She 's , you know , unfortunately overweight ,
A: and , but she 's a wonderful woman
A: and you know , no sense getting in arguments with anybody , about it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Well I , I , uh , I keep saying if somebody else would do it with me , I , that would be , little bit of peer pressure would help considerably .
A: Well ,
B: But you seemed to have solved that problem without any , any external help .
A: No problem at all .
A: And , uh , if you get one of these mats . You know , go to a store , they normally have these exercise , things , these A B C of physical fitness on them .
B: Yeah .
A: One of my kids got me one of those for Christmas one year
A: and , uh ,
B: What , what , what , what 's on , what 's this mat , I mean ,
A: It , it , it 's just an exercise mat that rolls up
A: so you can put it up , you know , just in the corner .
B: Is it like the sort of thing you take on a camping trip and sleep on it .
A: Well , yeah ,
A: you can do that .
B: I mean , it 's that , it 's that kind of like half inch of foam or something .
A: But , but it does n't ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a foam thing ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: and it 's , it 's just about six feet long , rolls up
B: Yeah .
A: and I don't take it on trips with me .
A: I , you could ,
A: but , uh , I don't mind , uh , you know ,
A: if I do like sit ups , I 'll throw a , a towel down or something . You know ,
B: Yeah .
A: so you don't have the abrasive ,
A: Okay ,
A: what do you think about , uh , the self insurance business ?
B: Well , I watched something on T V a couple of months ago by , uh , General , ex , uh , Surgeon General Koop .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And he talked about Canada 's system
B: and it appears to work fine for the normal colds and things like that ,
B: but the expensive stuff , heart , uh , operations and things , they have a managed scarcity .
B: And they said that in Canada , there were as many heart , uh , trauma centers as there is in San Francisco .
B: So in one city of , in America , there 's as many , uh , hospitals that are equipped to do uh , heart operations as in the entire area of Canada ,
B: and that 's kind of spooky .
A: Well , I , uh , I understand what you 're saying ,
A: and there 's probably some truth to that .
A: I think that , uh , generally I don't welcome added government responsibilities .
A: However , when a , anybody ca n't police their own profession , it eventually leads to that ,
A: and I think the costs and the , uh , the way the medical profession has , every year
A: I , being in my own business , uh ,
A: in the last six years , every year there 's been at least minimum twenty-five percent increase in health insurance costs ,
A: and I think eventually the number of people that can afford health insurance , as , as it is now getting squeezed and squeezed tighter .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I think they 're asking for it .
A: I , I think the medical profession is just , just pushing until there 's no option but the government take it over
A: and , uh ,
B: Do you think that it 's just , uh , medical guys ?
B: What about , you know , you know how expensive new equipment and technology is .
B: That 's where I think most of the cost is coming .
A: Well , I , I think a lot of it is , uh ,
A: I , I don't disagree totally with that ,
A: but , uh , my wife this last summer , uh , when we were on vacation tore up her knee ,
A: and , uh , uh , it was ligaments , uh , in her knee , as it turned out , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: she came back that , uh ,
A: we were out at Cape Hatteras when this happened
A: and , uh , she got home ,
A: and the leading orthopedic man , who has handled football people for years and is as good as they come ,
A: I mean , he knows knee problems okay ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean if anyone does , this guy knows it .
A: Well , she goes in ,
A: he says , well , I think this is what it is ,
A: but , uh , you better go to the hospital and have one of these M R I things .
A: A thousand dollars for this , uh , oh , magnetic , uh , resonance imaging type thing .
A: And my wife said , well , do I need that ?
A: And he says , well , uh , you know , it , it 'll help me diagnose this .
A: I mean , uh , you know , I , I suggest you go have this thing .
A: Insurance wo n't pick this up unless you 're in the hospital .
A: Now , a , thousand , uh , uh , dollars for thirty-five minutes .
B: Oh , great .
A: I mean , doctors routinely send people in for anything .
A: Now , for years they did n't have this
A: and they solved these problems ,
A: and , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: I said to her , well , look , you know , if you feel you got to go , go ,
A: but I , I think a thousand dollars ,
A: these guys ,
A: I don't know what it is ,
A: but there 's , no doubt they get kickbacks to fill these machines up night and day .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And even if they cost a hundred , two hundred , five hundred thousand dollars , at , uh , roughly a thousand dollars every half hour , uh , that 's ridiculous .
A: I , I don't care what anyone says .
A: You know , the costs are not ,
A: it 's a picture .
A: It should n't cost more than thirty-five bucks for something like that , you know , reasonableness .
A: But they are n't reasonable .
A: Fifty , a hundred dollars .
A: They don't have to pay them back in three months time .
B: No .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'll have to agree , with you there ,
A: You know .
B: but there 's another problem ,
B: and that 's the , how litigious our society is .
B: If the doctor makes a mistake , he can be sure that he 's going to be hauled into court .
A: Well , I think that should be , that , that 's a , another problem ,
A: but that 's part of our legalese problem .
A: And that , the government eventually will address too just , you know , because it 's out of control .
A: I , I agree with you .
A: You know , uh , I was on a jury
A: or I , I did n't make the jury ,
A: but there was a , deal where a doctor was going to be sued for malpractice on the death on an infant .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Like it was three days after it was born ,
A: and he was the one that delivered it .
A: And they got four attorneys ,
A: one guy out of Houston , he introduced himself as snake so-and-so ,
A: and he says , well , anyone have trouble awarding five million dollars ,
A: and I says , yeah ,
A: I got problems with
A: I mean , you know , five million bucks is n't going to bring this kid back , you know ,
A: I mean , as sorrowful as it is . Uh , you know , if the doctor is wrong , you know , he should be pulled from his license ,
A: but five million dollars and away he goes because insurance pays for it , you know ,
A: it , it does n't make logical sense to me ,
A: but , uh ,
B: No ,
B: it does n't .
A: Uh , that 's ,
B: You think about AIDS research ?
A: Well , AIDS is a nasty , terrible disease ,
A: and you die from it .
A: So I think that , uh , they need to look into it
A: and it 's kind of like cancer .
A: I don't , you know ,
A: how many years have we tried to find a cure for cancer .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think it 'll probably be as difficult .
A: Uh , how about yourself .
B: Um , well , I 'm certainly in favor of AIDS research ,
B: and I think probably the government could spend a bit more money on it than it does .
B: I think that
B: because , besides the fact that it 's a deadly disease , that it 's a contagious disease , so that it 's , um ,
B: although it is not killing that many people now , it still has the opportunity to get out of control and become a huge problem .
A: Yeah ,
A: they say a million people are infected with the H I V virus ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , yeah ,
A: I think ,
B: That 's in the world , or in America ?
B: You ,
A: Uh , in the country , America .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Yeah
B: Um , that 's ,
A: and they have millions .
B: Whose figure is that ?
A: I don't know .
A: I 've just heard it on the radio .
B: Okay .
A: Sometimes you hear things that , on the radio that , you know , could be true or could n't be .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , do you feel like this is ,
A: I , I guess they 're spending a billion or so a year on this AIDS research .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Do you think they should spend more ?
B: Uh , I , I think they should , actually , although perhaps not a , an incredible amount more than what they 're doing ,
B: and I don't necessarily think that they should , uh , fund AIDS research and , in the process , neglect cancer research or whatever .
B: I think that it would be a good thing for the government to increase funding for medical research in general .
A: What do you think , Doug , of Mister Johnson ?
B: Um well , I , well , I am sorry that he has the virus .
A: Magic ?
B: I , um , I don't know ,
B: I don't , I think it 's very strange that the media has n't , um , questioned him more strongly to , about gay sex or intravenous drugs or anything like that , as they probably would for a lot of other people .
A: Do you think he 's the hero that he 's being called by a bunch of other , a bunch of the media ?
B: Um , well , not , not really , though I mean , I think he 's probably doing the right thing for a man in his position ,
B: but I don't think it 's anything exceptional that he 's doing .
B: It 's what many people have done already , who were just less famous .
A: You know , I took advantage of the opportunity when , you know , he came out .
A: I talked to my kids about it , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's something that I had n't , had n't done before .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: I 'm glad that Mister Johnson 's changed his tune on , uh , safe sex to abstinence ,
A: or I was glad he did that , for young kids , because a lot of kids would have ended up dying because of what he was promoting .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , let 's see .
A: What are some of the other questions .
A: Uh , you don't , uh ,
A: let 's see .
A: I don't have any friends that have the disease .
A: I guess you might , might not .
B: Um , yeah ,
B: I do .
B: My cousin , does , for instance .
A: Is it pretty nasty ?
B: And , um ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: it is .
B: He 's actually , um ,
B: he had AIDS related complex for a while ,
B: and he is now in full-blown AIDS , really not doing very well , and has a brain tumor or that sort of thing .
A: Yeah ,
A: it sounds awful .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's a very nasty thing .
A: Is it just that the immune system ceases to function properly
A: and ,
B: Um , yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's basically it , that , um , the immune system can at first slow down ,
B: and the white blood cell count goes down ,
B: which is , that 's AIDS Related Complex ,
B: but then when things get completely out of control and it basically hits bottom , that 's AIDS
A: And ,
B: and in that case , you know , people are prone to getting any kind of , you know , weird cancer that only animals got before
A: Oh , really .
B: and ,
B: yeah ,
B: that sort of thing ,
A: Okay
A: well ,
B: There we are .
A: All right . Um , um , well , uh ,
A: tell me about the car that you 've got .
B: Well , I have a Honda , um , hatchback , nineteen eighty-four .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I had a hatchback , a nineteen seventy-eight version before this one .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I 'll be honest with you .
B: I have never found any automobile that has been more conscientiously constructed and , and , uh , put together
B: and it , it does its job .
B: All I have to do on my Honda is change the oil and the filter every thirty-five hundred miles ,
B: and I , I did have to put two , two new front tires on at fifty thousand miles ,
B: but that car just purrs like the day it was built .
B: I get forty-two miles per gallon on the highway and uh , twenty-eight to thirty driving around in town .
B: It 's a five speed straight stick machine .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , I can carry more in that , uh , that trunk area in my little Honda than I can in the big cars ,
B: and I have a large , um , Pontiac ,
B: and I have a sixty-nine Cougar , which really is , I 'm saving because it 's , it 's old ,
B: but it 's in beautiful shape .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I can carry as much in my Honda or more than I can in , in those other bigger cars .
A: Well , that 's very interesting .
A: I 've had , I 've had exactly the same experience with the one that I 've got .
A: It 's a ,
A: and surprisingly it 's also an eighty-four
B: Oh , oh .
A: and , uh ,
B: L X ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm still here .
A: Um , I 'm sorry what ?
B: It was an L X ?
A: Yes ,
A: it 's an L X ,
A: it 's not a hatchback ,
A: but it 's , um , it 's , uh ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yours is a four door .
A: Four door ,
A: yeah
B: Uh-huh .
A: and very , very comfortable car .
A: Big roomy trunk
B: Yeah .
A: uh , and , uh , and very happy with it ,
A: and I must admit it 's , you know ,
A: if , if , if , uh ,
A: my only consideration were , were , you know , buying another car just to tool around town in and make , you know , brief trips and things like that ,
A: I would very , very seriously consider buying one . Uh ,
A: I think they 're extraordinarily reliable cars .
B: Yes ,
B: they are .
A: Um , my , my real concern with , uh , uh , why I 'm not sure I want to buy a Honda , is because I have to make a kind of a , a steady , um , trip down the road about once a month , because I 'm divorced
A: and I have a daughter that lives down in North Carolina
B: Um , uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I drive , down Interstate Ninety-five ,
A: and it 's just an absolutely wild highway .
B: Ninety-five is wild in any car .
B: There 's no doubt about that
A: Yeah
A: and ,
B: because I , I , I run over to Crystal City , or used to ,
B: I 'm retiring the end of this month
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I 'm very much aware of the crazy driving that goes on over there .
A: And , you , well , you 've got it ,
A: and , uh , so having precious cargo in the car with me as you can well imagine , it 's very hard for me to imagine that , that , uh , a Honda 's going to be as safe a car as , as the one that I 've got my eye on , which is a Volvo .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: In , in fact , quite frankly I 've owned a Volvo in the past ,
A: and uh , I 've , I 've ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: they 're expensive cars to keep up when they need service ,
A: but , uh , I 've found that I 've had a lot of luck with them .
A: Uh , course I 'm a mechanically inclined kind of person ,
A: and I always wind up getting under the hood and finding out all the things that , you know , need to be taken care of , and so forth .
A: And I guess that 's one thing that , that recommends the Honda to a lot of people , is is there 's just very little that you have to do under the hood ,
A: and , uh ,
B: Yes ,
B: it just , just sits there and purrs ,
B: and you , all you got to do is the main major thing of changing that oil and that filter .
B: I get six hundred miles on a tank of gas .
A: Oh , I know .
A: It 's really amazing .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's , uh ,
B: Beautiful , beautiful machine .
A: Absolutely ,
A: incredible
A: So , um , yeah ,
A: anyway , I 've been looking at the prices of these cars and , and so forth ,
A: and I think that it 's , it 's very surprising some of these very expensive Volvos can be gotten for a lot less money than you would think if you 're willing to buy ones that are about , the vintage of the cars that you and I currently own
B: Is that right ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um ,
B: Well , a brand new Volvo costs , what , thirty thousand dollars ?
A: Well , certainly some of the top end ones .
A: You can still get , get , uh , even the , the low end wagons , um , for less than twenty thousand dollars
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , we get , you know ,
A: in the Washington area , of course , being as affluent as it is , there are lots and lots of Volvo dealerships down here
B: Um , uh-huh .
A: so there 're lots and lots of them available in the paper at any , any week ,
A: and I sort of , you know , scan the paper and look at them , and so forth
A: and so , um , anyway , and that 's , that 's the other thing is that I 've , I 've never really been too terribly much of a new car person .
B: Yeah .
A: I think I 've bought one or two new cars in my life ,
A: and I 've tended to , um , to , uh , buy cars that are , you know , two or three , and sometimes even four and five or six years old .
A: This Honda that I have I bought used ,
A: and , in fact , it had an extraordinarily low amount of mileage on it .
A: I 've just rolled seventy thousand miles ,
A: and it 's a seventy-four , I mean , an eighty-four .
A: So
B: Well , my , my eighty-four just has seventy-seven on it
A: Yeah .
B: and I 've made many trips to Washington and down to Virginia Beach , Virginia , where my mother lives , and things like that ,
B: and I drive it ,
B: about the weather
A: Oh , yes ,
A: very appropriate , I guess .
A: Uh , you ready for this ?
B: Yeah .
A: Okay , John ,
A: just a moment .
A: Well , guess what ,
A: we get to talk about the weather
B: The weather is , uh , this time of year has actually been kind of unusual .
B: I have n't expected it to be colder until , you know
B: like we 've gotten the last couple of days .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know .
B: I fly for a living ,
B: and I 've , uh ,
B: the weather 's been terribly unusual every where I 've been .
A: Oh , you do
B: Yeah .
A: so you , you , you probably go everywhere and have all sorts of weather .
B: Yeah .
A: I imagine it 's kind of an experience also trying to land and take off in the weather .
B: Well , it was around here last night ,
B: I 'll tell you that
A: Well , actually I 'm , I 'm , I 've heard on the news that we , uh , will be setting a record here in the State of Texas for the , uh , large amounts of rain and moisture we 've had this year , that it 's going to break all kind of records that were set , set , set back since nineteen thirty-two .
B: No kidding .
A: So , yeah
B: Um .
A: If it keeps on raining like this ,
A: and I understand it 's supposed to rain until Saturday night .
B: Saturday or Sunday they were saying ,
B: yeah .
A: Oh , yes .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know the systems have been real strong out .
B: I went through , uh , Phoenix on , twice on , uh , Wednesday morning
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , approaches to low minimum both , both times
A: Wow .
B: and Phoenix never gets that kind of weather
B: so ,
A: And so are you an airline pilot ?
B: Yes ,
B: I am
A: Oh , great .
B: for Southwest ,
B: yeah .
A: For Southwest ,
A: fantastic .
A: I have a brother , I have a brother that 's a pilot , also , with American .
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: Yeah .
A: So I imagine you , uh , oh , with all this kind of weather it , uh , makes it kind of dangerous for you .
B: Well , now , I would n't call it danger .
B: This is , uh , this really is n't bad stuff to fly around in .
B: This is much better than dealing with the thunderstorms in the Springtime .
A: Oh , I guess so ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: the , the air systems are reasonably calm .
B: We don't have , uh , the turbulence have a , uh , little bit of chop ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it 's not like it is in the spring time .
A: Oh , yes .
A: Well , we moved actually down here from another location ,
A: and it 's spectacular the , the thunderstorms and rain storms you get in the spring time , the torrents of rain .
B: Spectacular is the right word for them .
A: Pardon me ?
B: Spectacular is a good word for them
A: I 've never seen a thunder show like I 've seen down here before in Texas .
B: It 's amazing .
A: Lights up the whole sky and even on a , on a ,
A: actually I 've , I 've seen it where there 's not a cloud in the sky ,
A: it 's a cloudless night ,
A: and the rain is n't falling ,
A: but you can see the thunder , and , excuse me , see the lightening going horizontally across the sky and back and forth , and what a light show .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Yeah
A: It 's , it 's fabulous .
B: cloud to cloud it can be real , really sensational here .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: Where are you from originally ?
A: I 'm from , uh , northern Utah ,
A: and that 's a very arid climate , from , uh , Salt Lake City area
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there 's always a lot of snow .
A: In fact , where I grew up we were about an hour 's drive from seven to , uh , twelve different major ski resorts ,
A: and so there was an awful lot of snow ,
B: Oh .
A: and because it was an arid climate , the snow was always a crisp , powder , light snow which made it fantastic for skiing and , and sleigh riding and everything else .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: So , we had a great time .
B: Were you near , near the Park Cities area .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: in , uh in Snowbird and Solitude and and Brighton and yes , all those areas .
B: Beautiful area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I imagine , have you skied before ?
B: Well , we 've skied ,
B: I have not skied that area .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've driven through it several times .
B: Uh , I skied , we skied California a bunch when we lived out there ,
B: and and , uh , um , and , of course , grew , we grew up in Minnesota ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we do some skiing there lot of cross country skiing there .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: Yeah ,
A: great .
A: Well , do you think this , the , the weather is typical for this time of the year ?
B: Well , not really ,
B: I , you know ,
B: Minnesota 's gotten just hammered with snow , um ,
B: the , um , uh ,
B: we 've gotten a fair amount of rain for this time of year already I think
A: Yes .
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , I 've been surprised that we have n't seen more of the temperatures that we 've got today , you know , that moved in last night .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's been , it 's been cold .
A: There was a time , though , in the , uh , middle part of November that got really cool , really , really unseasonably cool
B: Yes .
B: Yes ,
B: it did .
A: and then it warmed right back up ,
A: and I thought , great
B: Yeah .
A: and that 's , that 's a fun
A: yeah ,
A: my wife was just listening here
A: and she said , yeah ,
A: it froze in fact .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was , it was real cold .
B: Yeah ,
B: but that was very unseasonable for us down here .
A: And , uh , but , uh , I 've really enjoyed the weather down here , too ,
A: because , uh , two years ago we were the day after Christmas able to go out in shorts and play tennis in the nice sunny weather ,
A: and it 's not as severe , I should say as the weather that I 've experienced up in northern Utah .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's real true .
B: Same with us from Minnesota .
B: It 's , it 's , uh ,
B: in fact , I 've , I 've played golf on , on , uh , New Year 's Day one year .
A: Down here ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Not in Minnesota
B: No
B: no ,
B: no
B: no .
A: I have a brother-in-law that lives in Minnesota
A: and they say , boy , six months out of the year it 's bitter cold , and and the wind and the blowing snow and everything .
B: Oh , it is ,
B: it is .
B: Well , and they 've had , uh , you know ,
B: usually in Minnesota they get their snow in January and February ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 're up over sixty-five or
A: Okay ,
A: I guess tonight 's subject is , uh , woodworking .
B: What kind of woodworking do you do ?
A: Do you , uh ,
A: Well , kind of , mainly the woodworking I 've done lately is , uh , made like , uh , for example a little nativity scene . Uh , not the , uh , the whole figurines and so forth , but mainly the stable , put some shelves in and , and some odd stuff around the house
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so I , I enjoy doing a little bit of woodworking
A: and I do it out of hobby more than , uh , you know , something I have to do .
A: How about yourself ?
B: Uh , well , I like to think of it as a hobby , but I , I guess also , partly out of necessity . Just repairing things around the house .
B: Uh , a few years ago , uh , we needed , uh , they needed some book shelves
B: and I kind of drew up some simple plans to make some book shelves
B: and , uh , it actually worked pretty well
B: and over the years I 've , I 've refined those plans .
B: I got myself a router
B: and I 'm , I 'm very good at making book shelves .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's , it 's also a way of relieving stress .
B: My wife kind of laughs , at me that anytime I get stressed out I just go out in the garage and we 've got more book shelves .
A: Well , I 'll have to come and see them
A: That sounds like a good idea .
A: I , you know ,
A: and that 's , that is right ,
A: it is out of necessity
A: because lot of the things that , uh , well , we ca n't be able to afford ,
A: but also I , I sometimes think that , uh , I enjoy doing that
A: and I like to get out and , and , uh , to work with my hands
A: and , uh , sounds like you got some real nice tools , too .
A: Do you think you would be able to do some more if you had more tools and different tools ?
B: Uh , well , yeah ,
B: I mean , little by little , I , I started out with just basic hand tools and kind of added on to things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , gotten a , a good belt sander
B: and , and , the router , uh , helps a lot because you can make better joints with a router .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The latest project that I 've been working on and this has been kind of sitting here for a few months is a , a cabinet to , to put a T V in .
A: Oh , a entertainment type center ?
B: Right .
A: Oh .
B: And it , that 's works well because you can design it to , to suit whatever equipment you have
B: so I designed a space just the right size for the T V and then the , the V C R and shelves on the side for my stereo equipment .
A: Right .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: And , uh , that 's worked pretty well .
B: Uh , with , uh , with the router you can make nice , uh ,
B: I guess dado joints is what it 's called .
A: Right ,
A: or yes ,
A: I ,
A: yeah ,
A: I 'm aware of that .
B: Uh , And it 's , uh ,
A: And also with a router , you can , uh , make ornamental facings , too better than a just straight wood edge . And , Uh , And , uh , casings and so forth that are , that are real nice ,
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
B: So ,
A: so that 's , that 's good .
A: That 's good .
B: But what I need next is a good table saw .
A: Yeah
B: And I , I debate whether it 's better to get a , uh , just a straight table saw or to get one of these , uh , rotary arm saws .
A: Oh .
B: Radial arm saw is , I guess , what they 're called .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , it seems to me the radial arm saw is , is better ,
B: well , it , it takes up less room .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , you , you set the wood down
B: and you move the saw .
A: Yeah .
B: Whereas if you 're ripping wood , you 're probably better off with a , a table saw .
A: Well and with a radial arm saw , if you do have a , a big piece of wood that you need to rip , like you say , or cut , you would n't be able to do that .
A: Uh , but , uh , yeah ,
A: a table saw does take a lot of time , excuse me a lot of space and is a pretty big investment .
B: Yeah .
A: And ,
B: Uh , that , that 's partly my problem now .
B: I don't have room for this .
B: I , uh , I ,
B: where , uh , where we lived before up north , uh basements were , were common
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , I used to put all the stuff in my basement ,
B: but not so here in Texas .
A: Uh-huh .
A: No ,
A: they don't have basements .
A: Well , I 'm from up north also
A: and , and , uh , no
A: there 's no basements down here
A: and it 's kind of , uh , hard to get , uh , shop space unless you have a dedicated shop or a dedicated room for that .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: lot of the equipment , too , that I 've , I 've used in the past , uh , I you know , I 've used in school
A: and , uh , I would ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I 'd , I 'd kind of like to , to look at equipment like a lathe or like you say , a table saw and some of those things that would make , uh , some pretty nice , uh , pieces of , uh , well , wood , for , for different things for tables , for , for , uh , chairs , for , you know , decks and so forth
A: so , I don't know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I just enjoy woodworking
A: and I think the , the main thing is , like you say , it 's a , it 's a good out .
A: It 's an opportunity to get out and relieve some of the pressure that you feel day to day
A: and it 's a great stress , stress reliever .
B: Have you ever used a lathe ?
A: Yes ,
A: I have , in school I have
A: and I 've made , uh , uh , different things , uh , uh , tables for chairs
A: and I 've made , uh , bowls ,
A: and , uh , and , uh ,
A: Did you hear our topic ?
A: It 's in regards to discussing homes .
B: Homes ,
B: yes , sir ,
B: uh-huh .
B: What are , are you settled in a place ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm settled in a place .
A: I 've been in it for twelve years , since nineteen , uh , actually thirteen years , since nineteen seventy-eight
A: and it 's in Richardson , Texas , which is north Texas or north Dallas .
B: Right
B: Uh-huh .
A: And we 've lived in two houses in Richardson .
A: We moved here in seventy-four and , uh , changed locations in seventy-eight .
B: Okay .
A: How about yourself ?
B: Well , we , uh , left here in seventy-six .
B: Uh , we were here for a few years ,
B: then we , uh , have come back just this summer .
B: Right now we 're looking for housing , uh , somewhere down in the Duncanville and Cedar Hill area .
B: Are you familiar with that ?
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a nice area .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
B: The kids are in school here in Duncanville .
B: We 're in a temporary place right now
B: and , uh , so they 've enjoyed the school ,
B: so we 're kind of trying to stay here
B: but ,
A: Are you finding it tough trying to find what you want
A: or ,
B: Well , what , the problem we got is that we 've got five children
A: Oh , boy .
B: and so , uh , we really want four or five bedroom house
B: and , uh , you know , everybody says , you know , how many houses are on the market and all that kind of thing
A: right .
B: so we , uh , we look at the paper ,
B: we look at our , talk to our realtor
B: and you can cut , you know , the listings , uh , in about a third when you go from three to four bedrooms you know , or five .
A: Sure .
B: Are you looking
B: or you settled ,
B: I mean ,
A: No ,
A: we 're settled
A: and , uh we 're , uh ,
B: having ,
A: I 'm probably older than you ,
A: I 'm fifty-two ,
A: but anyway , I , my youngest is getting married this year graduating college ,
B: Oh , great .
A: so I can board up their rooms , and look forward to retirement maybe .
B: That empty nest syndrome is going to set in , I guess .
A: Oh , gosh ,
A: so , we 're looking forward to retiring in about three years and maybe relocating to Florida or somewhere . Closer , closer to our families .
B: Great .
B: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: you , are you from Florida originally ?
A: No ,
A: from West Virginia
A: but everyone 's , uh , my wife 's parents are from the New York , New Jersey area
B: Yeah
A: so , but everyone seems , uh , has seem to relocated down that area .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Seems like a nice place to go
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: We 've got five
B: and the oldest is , uh , ninth grade
B: and the youngest is second grade
B: and I think they 're going to be , uh , with us forever .
B: I don't know if that 's true ,
B: but it 's sure , you know , we 're not anywhere near looking to , uh , uh , cut down in size .
B: We 're , we 're trying to find ,
A: Oh , I understand .
A: You need very minimum four and probably five .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: In fact , six would be real good .
A: Right .
B: My wife and I can share a bedroom
A: It 's tough to find a five and six room , bedroom house , is n't it ?
B: Either ,
B: Oh , I don't think it 's possible unless you , you know , multimillionaire , something like that .
A: Oh , I know .
B: Uh ,
A: Seems like you get in that category , you 're in the three hundred thousand dollar homes or whatever
A: and it 's that 's an awful lot , you know
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh , we 're having ,
B: actually , if we find something for , uh , I 'd say less than a hundred and twenty thousand , we 'll be doing all right , you know .
A: Right .
B: That 's , uh ,
B: but I think the thing 's out there ,
B: it 's just a matter of , uh you know , looking you know finding the right place , uh ,
A: Just , Matter of looking ,
A: right .
A: Lot of people will buy , in your situation will buy a four bedroom house and convert maybe the garage or something or the , or do something .
A: I had a young lady used to work for me at my office from the high school
A: and she had , uh , there were seven kids in her family .
B: Wow .
A: And they converted the dining room and , did this and that ,
A: but they always seemed to get along fine , you know .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: I think once we get into a place , it will be just fine ,
B: but you know , it 's until then , it 's , uh , oh , a little stressful , you know , just looking all the time and that sort of thing .
A: Oh , sure .
A: Oh , I know
A: and it 's , there 's nothing harder than that .
A: I always just sort of a , assign my wife that chore ,
A: then I would let her narrow it down to three or four ,
A: then I 'd go look because women seem to like to look a lot more than men do .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Maybe that 's the case .
B: At least she 's got more opinions , you know ,
B: there 's , uh , seems like there 's more constraints more things that she thinks about . You know , openness , uh , the size of the kitchen and all this kind of stuff that I would probably gloss over and , maybe even ignore , you know .
A: Yes .
A: Why , certainly .
A: I understand that .
B: So . What kind of business are you in ?
A: I 'm in the , uh , sporting goods business .
A: I 'm a manufacturer 's rep .
A: I represent fourteen different hunting and shooting type companies .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: great .
A: What , who are you with ?
B: Uh , we 're with an organization called , uh , Wycliff Bible Translators .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's a , a missions organization and , uh , doing , uh , translation , linguistics , that sort of thing .
A: Well , great .
B: Uh , it 's got an office down here in , uh , in , near Duncanville
B: and we just moved down to be on staff down here
B: so .
A: How , how was the , uh ,
A: you say you lived in the Denver area before ?
B: Right .
A: How did that compare with this area as far as housing prices ?
B: Uh , we were , uh , really surprised to find that they 're higher here . Uh ,
A: No kidding .
B: When we moved from Louisiana to Denver , it was astounding , you know , to find that prices were , oh , I guess almost two or three times as high as we 'd expected .
B: And then , uh , to come down here , we thought things would be lower ,
B: and they 're not .
B: I guess , uh , really , prices for housing are just ,
A: Okay ,
A: should begin . * listen ; could probably code if we could tell if it said `` we '' or `` you ''
B: Okay .
B: All right .
A: Uh , I can begin this , um ,
A: basically I work for Honeywell in Minneapolis
B: Uh-huh .
A: and the , the benefit program we have here is really quite good .
A: I 'm , I 'm pretty pleased with it .
A: They cover , uh , just about everything , vision , dental , medical
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , you name it ,
A: and for me this is the first job I 've had where they 've covered that much ,
A: so I 'm pretty satisfied myself .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , what 's your situation ?
B: I work for the University of New Hampshire ,
B: and uh , our benefits package is n't , uh , is n't quite as good in some ways . Uh , you know ,
A: Oh .
B: overall I 'm satisfied with it .
B: We don't have the vision care ,
B: we do have the health care and the , uh , and the or the dental .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh .
A: Are you a professor there ?
B: No ,
B: I work in , I 'm a , on the professional administrative and technical staff ,
B: and I , effectively I run the telephone switch at , uh , at the University of New Hampshire .
A: Oh , I see ,
A: okay .
B: Uh , so the , uh , the benefits ,
B: uh , probably the main thing I like about the benefits is the , uh , the , uh , very generous vacation time and sick time .
A: Oh , no doubt
B: We get fifteen days a year sick time ,
B: and , uh , we get twenty-four days a year , right from the day one when you start work , you get twenty-four days a year , uh , time off .
A: Right .
A: Well , that 's good .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's one of the things I guess I would change about Honeywell , is , uh ,
A: I used to work with the Army Research Institute ,
A: and being a , uh , a government organization you got quite a few holidays off .
B: Right .
A: But here you don't get that .
A: You maybe get two or three a year .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it 's really ,
A: unless you , unless you have some vacation time or some , some sick leave or whatever , um , you kind of have to finagle your way around to get that time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , that 's , that 's kind of a drawback I think .
A: But , uh . I don't know .
A: What do you consider most important , you think , in terms of , of the different benefits ?
B: Well , I think , uh , the , the health care , of course , is an important , and has to be the single most important benefit
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , the rates that we keep paying seem to keep increasing , uh you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm , I 'm a little disturbed about that ,
B: but I think that 's a national trend ,
B: and I don't know that , uh , I don't know what the solution is to it .
B: It 's bigger than just the benefits part .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't know if you saw on TWENTY TWENTY the other night ,
A: they , uh , they basically reviewed Oregon 's plan or The Oregon Plan toward , uh , nationalizing health care and that kind of thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: It 's kind of an interesting plan .
A: It 's kind of cold though .
A: They 've essentially made up a list of , uh , oh , all the different , uh , medical maladies that you can have and then basically made a cutoff ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: about six hundred and eighty-seven and below will not be covered by , by , uh , subsidized health care ,
A: and the ones above would .
B: Um .
A: So it 's kind of like drawing this line
A: and , and if you have it great ,
A: if you don't , you 're kind of out of luck
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , um , it was kind of an interesting show .
B: Um .
A: I think you 're right ,
A: I think health care is probably the , the most pressing uh , the pressing one ,
B: Right .
A: but I 'll tell you , I , I don't mind having dental , you know ,
A: sometimes dental costs can be , um , just about as expensive , if not more ,
A: and I know historically a lot of companies I think carried dental as a rider along with the medical
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I 'm not sure that 's , that 's widely followed any more .
A: I 'm not sure ,
A: how , how does , uh , University of New Hampshire handle it ?
B: Well , we have two different plans that we can subscribe to under dental , uh , depending ,
B: and , and the cost between them is very , is very little .
B: I think it costs me something like five dollars a , a month for the dental plan .
A: Um .
B: But it pays , uh , a substantial amount .
B: I mean , the examinations and , and , uh , checkups every year , or every six months are free
A: Great .
B: and , uh , it , it covers the bulk of the dental expenses .
A: Is that , uh , let me interrupt , is that the same for both , uh , professors and , and also staff and administration ,
A: is that generally across the board , do you think
A: or ,
B: Uh , yes ,
B: it is .
B: The benefits plan is different for operating , for what we call operating staff , which are considered to be , uh , clerical personnel , accountants , things like that as opposed to what they call the P A T staff , which I belong to
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: but the main ,
B: I think the , the health and all that and the dental is the same for everybody , and the retirement plan .
B: But the main difference is in the , uh , the way sick time is accrued and vacation time is accrued .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , okay .
B: Uh , for the operating staff it 's on a seniority , it 's , you know , based on how long they 've worked there .
A: Right .
B: That determines how much , uh , vacation time they get .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm kind of interested because I 'm actually , that 's the route I 'd like to take when I finally get my degree is to , uh , is to teach in a university .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm a doctoral student in Florida right now
B: Oh .
A: but , uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's interesting .
A: That 's one of the things I 'd like to think about is in what kind of benefits they would , uh , they would cover and things like that .
B: College programs belong to this T I A A , uh , C R E F retirement fund .
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: Right ,
B: and in the case of the University of New Hampshire , uh ,
A: Okay .
B: All right .
A: What 's your view .
B: Huh ?
A: What 's your view ?
B: Well , I have a hard time thinking that they can control guns . Personally .
A: Yeah
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: I mean ,
A: You know , even if they give it a shot , it 's still going to be black market all over the place , you know ,
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
A: I don't know .
A: Coming from Texas you 're probably ,
A: I don't know
A: I should n't make stereo types ,
A: but gun control is probably frowned on quite a bit down there I would think .
B: Yeah .
B: It is ,
B: but I 'm not really from I 'm not really from Texas ,
B: I just live down here now .
B: I 've I 've lived down here a couple years .
A: Oh , you 're just live down there ?
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm originally from Colorado ,
B: but yeah
A: Oh well .
B: there , uh , there , uh there 's a lot of hunters here .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I know how you feel .
A: I 'm , uh , I grew up in Nebraska
A: and , and we always use to go out and hunt all the time , you know
A: and man , there 's no way . There 's no way I would ever go for a total ban on all weapons .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's just ,
A: I don't know .
B: I just think , I think it 's ridiculous .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean ,
A: It does n't sit with me very well .
A: I don't know , I , anymore
A: I keep a thirty-eight in my truck , you know .
B: Really .
A: Yeah ,
A: I just about all ,
A: well I live in Minneapolis
A: and I ,
A: well actually I live in Florida ,
A: but I am staying in Minneapolis for a year
A: and you know , both areas are pretty crime ridden right now
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: and it 's just , you never know who is out there .
B: Right .
A: You know it 's just for self protection purposes
A: and then of course there 's the hunting issue ,
A: so
B: Sure .
A: yeah
A: that 's good .
A: What do you do , Jeff ?
B: Uh , I , I 'm in , uh , program control for a company up here .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: All right .
B: We do schedules , for programs , schedule programs .
A: Yeah .
B: What do you do ?
A: I 'm , uh , researcher of Honeywell up here .
B: Oh , okay .
A: So , uh ,
A: yeah .
A: You guys uh , do you get much of a chance to hunt or anything
A: or ,
B: Uh , I have n't had a chance to do any hunting since I 've been down here .
B: I don't own a shotgun ,
B: but I 'd like to go bird hunting .
A: Yeah .
A: You know that 's something I miss quite a bit .
B: So .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , when I was in Colorado we went deer and elk hunting you , you know , quite a bit
A: Yeah .
B: but ,
A: Yeah .
A: All right .
A: Yeah ,
A: my brother was , uh , a guide for bear and elk hunts out in Idaho for a while and , uh , really enjoyed it quite a bit ,
A: but I don't know .
A: I guess that what the scale now is , it 's zero for , uh , for a complete ,
B: One for a total ban and , uh ,
A: That 's right .
A: I guess I am about eight or nine
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I agree with you there
A: Yeah ,
A: no doubt about it
A: but , uh ,
B: I mean , if they can anyway get it , keep criminals from having guns which they ca n't
A: Yeah .
B: I , you know , I 'm not for it .
A: Yeah ,
A: if there 's if there 's a way , you know , to limited it to people that , I don't know that
A: they , I guess they passed a couple of , uh , uh , laws a here while back in some states in terms of a waiting period where you know you go to buy a hand gun
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then they actually , uh ,
A: I know it 's this way in Florida .
A: They have a waiting period where you buy one
A: and that 's a week
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then they check you out and make sure you don't have a record you know and things like that .
A: I think that 's a pretty good idea .
A: Uh , and that 's ,
A: I don't know ,
A: that 's not a bad idea ,
A: but then again you can always get around that .
A: You could go through the black market like you say .
A: You know , you always be able to get around
A: but , uh ,
B: Sure .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's one of things
A: but , uh , I don't know .
A: I guess , I guess some forms of guns should probably be controlled just like I 'm not real sure why anybody would need a full automatic weapon .
B: Yeah ,
B: I don't either
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm just not ,
A: I think those have been pretty much , you know , banned altogether anyway .
B: Yeah ,
B: I
A: There ,
B: fully auto ,
B: but , even well , I mean , a semiautomatic , I guess that 's ,
A: It kind of takes the sport out of hunting
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: You know , it 's like what can you do with that , that you ca n't do in a self protection situation with like a seven or a twenty shot twelve .
B: Sure .
A: You know , you might do the same thing .
B: Right .
A: And so it 's like , I don't know . It does .
A: It takes the sport out of it .
A: For me I would much rather have a bow anytime
B: Oh , really .
A: I , I like bows .
A: You know , I have done some bow hunting
A: and I , uh , I get into it
A: and I think it 's more of a challenge , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , I don't know .
A: I guess it keeps the shell makers in business .
B: Sure .
A: But , uh , I don't know .
A: Anyway , that 's about where I stand
B: Me too .
A: You , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I am about the same way .
A: And you , uh , have you eaten yet or whatever .
B: Yeah .
A: Is it seven o'clock there ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: it 's about seven fifteen .
A: You guys central ?
B: How is the weather up there ?
A: Oh , it 's not too good .
A: It 's kind of rainy actually .
B: Is it ?
A: Around this time of year you expect it up here to get down to about , uh , I don't know , ten or twenty degrees
B: Right .
A: and it 's been up around forty .
A: So people are , people are whining about the rain and stuff , but not too bad about the temperature .
A: Ice is starting to melt and stuff like that
A: so .
B: Yeah .
A: I am just up here for the year
A: and it 's kind of shocking .
A: Wendy , I guess we get to talk about budgets tonight or lack of budgets if , uh , if that may be the case and any kind of long term financial planning or anything like that , uh ,
B: Right .
A: let me ask you the question ,
A: do you have a , uh , budget , or a monthly budget , or a long term budget that you stick to ?
B: Right now I 'm in college
B: and I 'm on work study
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so my budget comes from my dad 's help .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He helps me out a lot
B: and I get paid monthly ,
B: so that 's kind of hard to have a budget .
B: My mother , uh , does n't get paid much money ,
B: so her budget is , uh , just , uh , planning for I R A 's .
A: I see ,
A: I see .
A: Well , good ,
A: I 'm kind of in a different situation ,
A: but I , I , I went through that , too , when I was in school ,
A: but , uh , I was , I was working to get through college and , and , uh , trying to make it through that ,
A: but , uh , I 'm married and have , uh , a , a couple of children
A: and we have to , uh , pretty much stick to a budget .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm on a salary
A: so I don't get any overtime or anything like that
A: but , We have a fixed income
B: Oh .
A: and we have to make sure that , uh , every dollar we have will , is spent accordingly
A: and , uh , what we try and do to , to stick to our monthly budget is we pretty much have , you know , the house payment ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: we have the insurance premiums , uh , utilities and so forth
A: and we do sit down at the beginning of every month or the end of every month and write down how much we know we 're going to spend and set that money aside ,
A: and we also try and set aside money for savings , set aside money for the the kids ' education college education , the future and , uh , set aside money for bonds
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and we also set aside an emergency fund
A: because we 've , uh , we 've been married for about ten years
B: That sounds good .
A: and we find out that , you know , no matter what kind of budget you stick on , there 's always going to be an unexpected car repair or something happen with the house , that you have to have money for and , uh , not enough to go and to take a loan out , but , uh , you have to have money for .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , then we have , you know ,
A: whatever 's left over is disposable disposable , yeah , discretionary income , that we use for the rest of the month ,
A: so , and it 's worked out very well .
A: It 's , uh , it 's helped us , so that we have n't been , you know , too long on the month and too short on the money and uh , try and stick with that
B: Well , that 's good .
A: and , nice thing about it , I , my wife is , is excellent in that we both work together ,
A: we both have a budget ,
A: and we stick to it
B: Well , good .
A: and there 's no surprises in that
B: With two kids , that could be hard .
A: Well , actually I have four kids .
B: Four !
A: So ,
A: yeah ,
A: I said a couple of kids ,
A: I , I guess I should have specified ,
A: I have four four little boys ,
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: yeah .
B: Four boys .
A: You bet .
B: Oh , my
A: You bet .
B: It 's just me and my sister .
A: All right
B: And my parents divorced three years ago
A: Uh-huh .
B: and my sister had gotten through college ,
B: but I was still in high school ,
B: and my mother paid for a lot of my sister 's college while my parents were together
A: Yes .
B: and then , uh , before the divorce she had saved for my college .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , when we had the divorce , she just did n't get much money out of it and had to spend it all on getting another house .
A: Oh .
B: So now my dad 's paying for all of my college of
A: Well , good ,
A: good .
B: And financial aid and scholarships .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm a music major ,
B: so I have auditions coming up .
A: Yes ,
A: well , what year are you in in college ?
B: I 'm a sophomore .
A: You 're a sophomore ,
A: so you have a few more years .
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: I 'll , I 'll probably have about , two , two and a half years left .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: well , good for you .
A: Good for you .
A: Yeah ,
A: I imagine it , uh , is a little difficult to stick with a budget during that , during school and so it forth .
B: Oh , it sure is .
B: I , I know how much my dad is going to give me every two weeks
A: Yes
B: and I , and I don't spend over that
A: Well , great ,
A: great .
A: And sometimes that 's a little hard with books and music and , and sheet music and stuff you 've got to work on , too .
B: Oh , sure ,
B: there 's , there 's always music books to buy .
A: Lab fees and all ,
A: Oh , yes ,
A: oh , yes .
A: Well , you 're not a starving artist , yet , are you ?
B: Oh , no ,
B: no ,
B: no .
A: Good .
B: I don't plan on being a starving artist
A: Well , good .
B: That 's why I 'm in college
A: there 's enough of those in the world , huh ?
B: Right
A: Good ,
A: good ,
A: I 'm glad to hear that , Wendy .
B: That 's usually because they 're not real educated .
B: They ca n't afford to have a really good job .
A: Who 's , who 's not very well educated ?
B: The starving ones .
A: Oh , yes ,
A: yes .
B: There 's enough out there that if you have , if you 're educated enough , then you can make money .
A: That 's true ,
A: that 's true .
A: I found that out .
A: So that 's why I 'm planning and , and preparing for the , uh , education of my children , also try and set that money aside .
B: Right .
B: What did you major in ?
A: I majored in business administration .
B: Well , good ,
B: you know plenty about planning a a budget .
A: Yeah ,
A: but , uh , once again ,
B: Not very good
B: it 's not been a good day
A: I went , I turned mine in about twelve hours early at noon .
B: I don't know .
B: I finished mine up about eleven and left it here with Carolyn
B: so I hope she 's turned it in .
A: Are you eating ?
B: Uh , I
B: go ahead ,
B: I 'll stop eating .
B: I just barely got home from the university .
A: No it 's ,
A: Say what ?
B: I just barely got home from the university .
A: Tell you what we can do is , uh , I can punch the , uh , one ,
A: and then after five minutes when the , uh , uh , voice comes on , we can talk all night if we want
B: Okay ,
B: go ahead ,
B: fire away .
A: Uh , I love the irony of , uh , talking about this subject on April the , fifteenth
A: But , uh , I 'm afraid I 'm , I 'm probably in the minority .
A: I , I actually don't think that we , uh , pay too much in this country . Uh uh , particularly , uh , in this part of the country
B: I agree with you
A: uh , I guess I do have a , a bone to pick with , uh , uh , the way taxes are distributed
A: Uh , I just finished fuming at the fact that we pay an eight and a half percent sales tax and no income tax when the income tax could have been deducted from the federal form
B: Huh .
A: and the sales tax ca n't .
A: I think that 's regressive
A: and , uh , uh , it 's kind of dumb .
B: I hate the eight and a half percent sales tax .
B: But , on the other hand , I don't mind that it 's only on , you know , things that are n't like groceries and that ,
B: it 's not on that .
A: Well , I mean , nobody taxes groceries .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: they do .
A: Where ?
B: In Arizona .
A: Is that right ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: But we have a pretty low income I mean pretty low tax rate here .
B: Oh , I think the , the sales tax , they just got to do something about it .
A: Right .
B: But that 's the politicalness of trying to not create any new taxes .
A: Right
A: But I guess when I hear , when I see the comparison between the United States and , uh , any other western country , uh , their , their rates are like , uh , forty-one , forty-two and ours are like thirty-six , thirty-seven , you know ,
A: if you compute as a percentage of total income , all taxes lumped together , we actually do pretty well .
A: there 's no other country that 's , that is taxed as low as we are .
B: Well and I still think that , having lived in Europe for awhile , you know , difference in living conditions are certainly well worth , uh , what we pay for it .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm , I 'm not sure I understand what you mean .
B: Well , I mean , I think ,
B: I was in Germany , you know , for several years
A: Right .
B: and I 'd a lot rather pay taxes here and have what we have , then have to live there .
A: Oh , you mean , lowest end of living in spite of lower , higher taxes .
A: Yeah .
B: Higher taxes .
B: Yeah .
A: I suppose that 's true ,
A: yeah .
A: Uh , probably less so now than it was ten years ago or whatever
A: but ,
B: Still 's that way to some extent .
A: Yeah .
B: I think the other problem is , you know , it , it 's easy to complain about taxes because there 's something you , theoretically , can do something about .
A: Right .
B: But I look , for example ,
B: and you 're not quite in the same situation
B: but like school taxes for me biggest bargain in the world .
A: Right .
B: I wish I did n't have to pay any more to my physicians in a year than I had to pay for all of my school taxes .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: since , uh , I send my kids to parochial school , that .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , that 's probably a little tougher on you
A: It 's not , it 's not quite the bargain that .
A: But , I mean , I pay them gladly .
A: That 's a decision ,
A: I think it 's a dumb decision on our part because countries like Canada and England and Germany do perfectly well with a , uh , two tract system in which religious schools coexist with secular schools with the same tax money .
A: But , uh , I mean , that 's , that 's the way Americans want to interpret it ,
A: I guess that 's all right
A: But ,
A: yeah .
A: I ,
A: and if I were , uh ,
A: when I was single and again when I 'm retired , I will not mind paying , uh , what it takes to keep the schools good .
A: That 's always been a high priority
B: No ,
B: I think that 's just you though .
A: I do ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's true .
A: I think in places , I think in places like California , people are beginning to find that in , in areas that are fairly well off , if you add the , uh , uh , people of various sexual persuasions and those who never intend to marry and those who are retired and those are , uh , just looking for fun , people with families turn out to be such a small minority that they ca n't get a tax bill passed no matter what happens .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , there are big sections of the country where people with children of school age are such a small minority that they ca n't get anything done .
A: That seems a , a , like a cultural lapse .
A: I mean , people always used to be willing to ante up for the schools .
A: They ,
B: Of course , I think with the graying of America , we 're going to see that problem in lots of places .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: People would rather , uh , increase the fire department and cut down the schools because it means more to them .
A: But I think it 's sad selfish and shortsighted .
B: Or build roads .
A: Yeah .
A: Well ,
A: Okay .
B: Wonderful touch tone telephone there .
A: Uh , what kind of books do you enjoy reading ?
B: Uh , have n't , have , I have a wide variety of , of hobbies ,
B: therefore , my , my reading pleasures are quite wide .
B: Um , I get a charge out of , uh , TEXAS HIGHWAY , which is , uh , very colorful , and , uh , not being a native of Texas , but being here eleven years have a tendency to , uh , find out the , uh , about the different areas of the of the , of the state by reading it .
A: Oh .
A: Right ,
A: I 've read that one too .
A: I only had a subscription once ,
A: but my mother always gave me hers
A: and I , I really enjoyed , you know , all the little things that you find out about Texas .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: it 's , it 's , uh , absolutely , it 's great the way that it 's broken out and you can , uh , set up little trips and day trips and things .
B: It 's pretty , pretty neat .
B: Um , oh , I like photography , um , magazines .
B: I don't take a subscription or anything like that .
B: Um , things , oh ,
B: being an engineer in facilities I do read a lot of , a lot of , uh , building magazines and , and , and plant engineering magazines and , read up on different ways to do things and energy management type of magazines
B: and , and , uh , kind of strange because I , it 's not unusual to , uh , see , uh , an engineering manual or something laying around the house
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then I 'll sit up and read just to refresh , uh , you know , to keep active on it ,
B: but , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: How about yourself ?
A: Well , um , I have an interest in art ,
A: so I , frequently purchase and read , uh , books , mainly on water color because that 's my big interest at the moment .
B: Oh , that 's great .
A: And , uh , oh , I guess I like a variety of things , uh , lots of fiction , uh , type books .
A: Uh , right now I 'm occasionally reading on a book about , uh , the Mardi Gras in New Orleans and its history .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's fairly interesting .
B: I bet that would be , rather interesting .
B: Uh , that 's , uh , self improvement ,
B: that 's , that 's well , that 's kind of a hobby
B: but it is self improvement from the standpoint of probably relaxing , uh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't know that I read anything strictly labeled self improvement .
A: How about you ?
B: Um , well I hate to ,
B: yes ,
B: I do
B: We , uh , we have these classes we attend , uh , management classes
B: and , and they give you books
B: and , and the last book , uh , matter of fact I read was , AT AMERICA 'S SERVICE by Carl Albrecht .
B: It talks about , uh , who the customer is and being customer oriented , uh , which falls in line with the T I culture here at Texas Instruments .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , one of its great slogans is if you 're not serving the customer , you better be serving someone who is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , so that 's all in self improvement to stay focused on who the customer is
B: and as you probably well know , all of us are our own customer .
B: You 're my customer , I 'm your customer , sort of thing .
A: Right .
B: Um , every now and then I 'm loaned a tape I can stick in the , uh , in the car cassette set on the way home to make the drive more enjoyable , talking about , uh , better outlooks on things and the philosophy of , of Pat Hagerty and these kind of , uh , mind stimulating philosophy type . Which all , you know , betters yourself .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: well , uh , maybe I am into some things occasionally that I don't think of in terms of self improvement .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean they are
A: but I don't label it as such .
B: Like what for example .
A: Well , I don't know , um ,
A: I , uh , have attended some seminars that had some tapes that went with them , but , uh , I guess not so much books although they sometimes have manuals and things ,
A: but , uh , they would be things on like how to be successful and sort of talking to yourself . You know getting your , yourself in gear to , uh , sort of pull yourself up by your boot straps and do what you really want to do . Convincing you that you need to get on with it .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
B: How about items like , um , THE ONE MINUTE MANAGER , which used to be a big ,
B: okay .
A: Yes .
B: So those are self improvements .
A: Sure .
B: Um , our supervisor , uh , subtly bought all of us a book called WHAT EVERY SUPERVISOR SHOULD KNOW . By a man , man named Doctor Bittel , B I T T E L it
A: Um .
B: and it 's a very layman 's , uh , uh , approach towards managing different types of people .
B: And the very last chapter , and I have n't figured out why that one was last , is how to manage engineers
B: So it 's , it 's it 's interesting ,
B: here again it 's , it 's casual reading
B: and it 's not eaten up with a lot of , uh , mechanical stuff
B: and it 's really excellent fast reading
B: and , uh , but as you say it 's , it 's sometimes it 's difficult to , to know if it 's , you know ,
B: I think if somebody would say hey , read these ten books because these are self-improvements , I would probably be turned off to them .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: If he casually just walked into it and , uh , put down a Stephen King book and I picked up one of them I might be a little more interested .
A: I don't know ,
A: I 'm not sure I could take too much of Stephen King .
A: That 's a little , little heavy for me .
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're , uh , quite , uh , they 're hard to set down because it 's so interesting
B: and , of course , they 're all just a little spookier than the movies ,
B: but , uh , it 's always , they 're always challenging to get through one of them .
A: Yeah .
B: I have a hard time finishing books .
A: Well I guess I also have been reading , uh , a lot of things on , uh , quality improvement and that type of thing because that 's what I 'm involved in a lot at work .
B: Uh-huh .
B: In quality , especially now days , uh , that 's almost everything that comes across the , the , the airways .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: you could almost label everything quality in some sense or other
A: but , uh , I think sometimes the word is a little over used
B: Exactly , exactly right .
A: but ,
B: Yeah , we , we have , I think we , we name drop it a little too much and , and don't fully understand what , what it is we 're saying .
B: I think it 's just focusing in on the issue and walking your talk
B: and , and all that kind of rolls in together there ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , that 's just kind of part of it .
A: Okay ,
A: well , any other comments .
B: Uh , not that I can think of .
B: Um , I think I 'm under my quota a little bit .
B: I need to probably make a phone call or two
A: Well we just started ,
A: right .
B: Uh , this is true .
B: I 've enjoyed it .
A: Well you too ,
A: and uh , good-bye .
B: Have a good day .
A: Good-bye .
B: Bye-bye
A: Okay , um ,
A: I don't know about you
A: but where I am we have a like an extremely lax dress policy at work
A: and it varies like every day . I mean from jeans one day to business suits the next
A: It 's pretty bad ,
A: but it 's true , you know , in
A: they tend to try to be , you know , real lax
A: and supposedly the policy is like , you know , we , you know , we , hire these wonderful creative people
A: and we don't want to smush their creativity , you know .
A: We want to go ahead and let them do what ever they want .
A: And , you know , you really will see people in in jeans one day and business suits the next .
B: Well , I 'm kind of that way too .
B: I work in the legal department
B: and where we are now , what we 're doing is some very big lawsuits that happen to have a heck of a lot of boxes of documents .
A: Yeah .
B: And I get to toting around boxes of documents several times a day ,
B: it always seems like I 'm doing that
B: and I ca n't see getting dressed up and wearing heels and stuff when you have to carry , you know , boxes of documents around ,
B: so , if I 'm just going to be there working in the litigation center and doing , you know , odds and ends and stuff with the boxes of documents , I dress down .
B: But if we 're going to have a meeting , where we 're having the attorneys come in , or people from , uh , other party 's attorneys and stuff , then I normally dress up .
B: Yeah ,
B: and I 'll wear a dress and hose and stuff .
A: Yeah ,
A: you know , we 're kind of that way too .
A: I try to ,
A: I 'm the same way you are ,
A: I kind of try to judge from day to day .
A: I know , you know , where I am we work a lot with the customers
A: and we have a lot of government folks come in all the time
A: and , and , you know , if I know that they 're going to be there , you know , you , I try to really watch it and like you say , you know , really dress up
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if I know they 're not , you know ,
A: I , I 've been doing a lot of reorganization , you know , the last couple of months the same way you are , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's just , it 's just impossible to crawl down on the floor and dig through boxes in a dress .
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's right .
A: It is
A: and so ,
B: As a matter of fact , I thought I had one funny story
B: when , uh , I was at T I the first year or so , we were sent out to our record retention facility to look through two thousand boxes .
B: We had them in the warehouse ,
A: Uh .
B: and at that point , it , the warehouse was over across the road
B: and it was n't air conditioned ,
B: and , it , we were there like in the middle of the summer ,
B: it 's unair-conditioned ,
B: it was dusty and dirty , uh ,
B: there was like a fan at the very end of the row
B: and that was it .
B: And so , we did n't really know we were n't supposed to ,
B: we thought T I dress code was just dress appropriate to your job ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: we wore shorts .
B: We did n't know that was a big no , no .
A: Oh no .
B: And the supervisor from another area came up to us
B: and , you know , this area where record retention is , there 's only a few people that work there ,
B: and he , he knew who worked there ,
B: he should have realized that we were n't regulars in the warehouse there .
B: And he came up to us
B: and he just said , who 's your supervisor .
B: Well he called our supervisor and our supervisor , and our supervisor 's supervisor ,
B: and it went up all the way to the head of facilities , complaining that we were wearing shorts .
A: Oh no in
B: He did n't at , at least say to us , did you know you 're not supposed to do that .
B: That could have alleviated a big problem .
B: We ended up getting called out on it .
A: Oh , how awful .
A: It sounds like Mister Power Hungry .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , just yesterday , though , I saw a girl in the spine out here at Lewisville that had on a pair of shorts .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I don't care ,
A: you can call them split skirts
A: and you can call them culottes all you want
A: but these were shorts .
A: That 's all they were .
A: I don't care what else you call them , you know ,
A: if they 're below the knee , okay ,
A: maybe you can call them split skirts .
A: If they 're above the knee they turn into shorts , you know .
A: And these were n't even really full ones .
A: I mean they had a problem out here with it last summer , wearing these shorts that were , you know , the real wide full ones , you know ,
A: and these were n't even those .
A: These were like pretty short , black ,
A: and they were very dressy ,
A: the were black velvet shorts
A: and she had on black hose and black heels
A: and she looked very , very nice .
B: Um .
A: But , you don't wear shorts to work .
A: You know , I mean , as far as I 'm considered , she was in violation
A: and nobody says anything to them .
A: It 's always been a big problem in Lewisville in the summertime .
B: Um .
A: You know , if they just , you know ,
A: the management does n't ever seem to want to take an , cut off , you know , that no ,
A: this is wear we 're going to draw the line .
A: This is shorts , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: And , and nobody will ever kind of take control and do that , you know ,
B: Um .
A: so , it always gets annoying because the rest of us are going , well God , we have a pair of those at home too .
A: It sure would be cool and comfortable to wear , you know ,
A: but .
B: Well I 've seen some people try to just come in like over the weekend because they want to use the TexTeller machine .
A: Yeah .
B: And they have said no
A: Yeah
A: and then during the week you see these women , in the you know ,
A: just because you put on a pair of hose with them does n't make them not shorts anymore , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean I 've never seen them do it without hose ,
A: I mean they always have hose on ,
A: but still , it 's , they 're shorts ,
A: I don't care what you say ,
A: they 're shorts .
A: Well I think T I 's dress code is pretty lax considering everything , anyway , you know , uh .
B: I know , I did n't know that E D S has a very strict dress code ,
B: I had a friend ,
A: Oh do they really ?
B: Oh definitely .
B: I had a friend who worked there for a year or so
B: and they spell it out .
B: For men it 's particular suits , uh , the pin stripe , and the particular colors of shirts and wing tipped shoes .
A: Oh , my God .
B: Oh , it is definitely lined out .
B: Women are not allowed to wear slacks ,
B: you wear coordinated suits .
A: I I could n't afford to work there .
B: And , and a particular kind of shoe , you know , so high heel ,
B: oh it is spelled out .
A: Oh , no .
B: When I was looking at her materials when she first started , you know , she had her benefits package and all that kind of stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it told about the dress code
B: and it said , these are the color pastel shirts you may wear , or white shirts with this kind of stripe in it for the men and this kind of shoe and , hair just this way .
A: T I says no shorts and no halters
A: I know , that 's it .
B: Yeah ,
B: and E D S is very particular about this , hair cuts ,
A: Wow .
B: I mean it was like you ca n't have , you know , such and such facial hair , no beards , you know , and just really detailed .
A: I don't know that that would be a good environment to work in .
A: I mean , I see ,
A: I , I am more ,
A: I don't know about anybody else ,
A: and a lot of bosses may say I 'm nuts ,
A: but I am more productive when I 'm in pants .
A: I , I am .
A: I work faster ,
A: I get things done faster , than when I 'm in a dress and heels , you know ,
A: I ,
A: and it 's weird
A: but I , it 's I do , I can , I can get so much more done if I 'm dressed comfortable , you know .
B: Well the , the time we were there at the warehouse we felt really bad because we had , uh , another person coming from Washington , our outside counsel .
B: And she was told that we were going to be in a warehouse
B: but she really did n't get the idea that we were in the warehouse part of the warehouse not the office to the warehouse , but the warehouse .
A: Right .
B: And she came with skirts , just like she 'd be going into the office .
A: Yeah .
B: And we 'd try , we 'd try to say , did n't you bring any pants or anything .
B: We 're , we 're out here in the warehouse , you know ,
B: you , you got your skid of , you know , that wooden pallet of boxes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you 're going to have unload you skid look at the documents in the , in the boxes and then repack your skid .
B: And she And she was so , she was so hot and miserable , you know , in the skirt .
A: You ca n't do that in a skirt poor soul .
A: Oh yuck .
B: She finally tried to go buy , you know , a pair of pants
B: but , you know , I mean it was just completely miserable for her .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's terrible ,
A: that 's terrible
A: gosh .
A: Well I don't know ,
A: I just figure , you know , yeah ,
A: sometimes I worry about , you know , if I go in in pants ,
A: and I never , I never ever , ever , ever go in in a pair of jeans , you know .
A: But I 'll go in in pants .
A: I mean today I had on a pair of , you know , navy blue dress slacks and , and , uh , like a peach colored top and , you know , not cruddy , but not a dress either .
A: And sometimes I wonder if stuff like that would , will hold you back , you know , if you don't dress in , you know , your dress for success business suits everyday if , you know , if upper management does n't notice that and remember that later on ,
A: but , you know , I don't know if they do or not .
A: You know , I see a lot of the managers
A: and they 're in jeans ,
A: so , you know .
B: Some of our people in the legal department ,
B: we have , um , assistants to the general counsel
B: and it 's funny
B: because , there 's one that always wears a suit .
B: A matter of fact , he 's never seen without his jacket to the suit on , buttoned .
A: Really , wow .
B: And then there 's another one who 's , who 's a little younger and a little more yuppish
B: and he 's always kind of like in the khaki pants and , you know , a shirt ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and sometimes he wears the jacket to it .
A: Yeah .
B: And some of the patent attorneys have been real casual in their clothes
B: and then other ones tend to always wear a suit with a very starched cotton shirt .
B: So that 's just ,
A: Is n't that funny .
B: With the , you know , the little suspenders or something on
B: so . We 've , we 've kind of had a variety there
A: That 's great .
B: but , I think a lot of times it 's , it 's mainly who they 're going to meet with ,
B: or they 're meeting with people that they know is going to be dressed that way then that 's how they are .
A: Yeah .
B: If they 're just going to be meeting with T I like to talk about a patent kind of thing and the , they 're engineers that they 're talking too , they dress kind of like how the engineers are dressed
B: and they 're usually casual .
A: That 's the way to do it . I mean that 's the smart way to do it .
B: Yeah .
A: It really is , because your making , you know ,
A: if when they 're meeting with the engineers who they know are going to be dressed down , if they come in , in , you know , a six hundred dollar three piece suit , it 's going to make the people they 're meeting with feel very uncomfortable , you know ,
A: or it would me , you know .
B: It 's one of those slippery attorneys coming in here .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: look at this slick guy ,
A: I wonder what kind of money does he make ,
A: uh-huh
A: I can see it now .
A: Well it was good to talk to you .
A: It was really enjoyable .
B: Yeah ,
B: this is , this is kind of a fun project .
A: It really is .
B: I 've done some of the other speech programs ,
B: but we 've never got to talk to another person ,
B: it was always just talking to the computer .
A: Oh , yuck ,
A: yeah .
B: So this is a little different .
A: Well it 's kind of enjoyable ,
A: I 'm really looking forward to it .
B: Yeah .
A: Well thanks a lot .
B: Okay ,
B: bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay .
A: The question was , um , what , what is your opinion of youth , uh , spending a year or two in , in public service .
B: I think it would be a great idea .
B: I 'm not sure about requiring it , you know , of people , because people are going , you know , feeling resentful .
B: I don't know ,
B: but I think it would be a great idea .
A: Yeah .
B: Seems like there 's so many kids that don't have any since of , you know , what they want to be or do
B: or , you know , they could learn something and maybe help other people at the same time
B: and we , sure , our country , all countries sure need help
B: so ,
A: Huh-uh .
A: Would , uh , would you be more in favor of , uh , you know , like a local , uh ,
A: my only experience with it , I was in Central America for a while , and , uh , in San Salvador , in El Salvador ,
B: Huh-uh .
B: Huh-uh .
A: For instance , everybody had what they called there social year , that they had to put in
B: Oh , really .
A: and basically it was a , uh , repayment for , for , uh , high school education ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: and most of them joined the Red Cross
A: and it was done internally .
A: I just ,
A: there was very little external .
A: I think possibly what , uh , they 're thinking about here , more external Peace Corps , Type things where we 're sending people off shore .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I think that would be real interesting for people to do ,
B: but , I guess , my concern about that would be the cost involved trying to train people in a new language and ship them , you know , to other countries ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: and , but , I don't know .
B: If you did it internally and it was just people in your own country then maybe countries that are so poor that they would n't be able to really , you know , send children to do that .
A: Yeah .
B: I did n't know .
A: I don't , I don't know how the Peace Corps works ,
A: I , guess I was of age when the Peace Corps came in , and all that .
B: Yeah ,
B: I was too .
B: I thought seriously about joining at that time ,
B: I thought it was a fantastic idea .
A: Did you ever get any information on it like ,
B: I sent off for stuff on it ,
B: but I don't remember that much . about it .
B: I know that they trained you in the language
B: and , um ,
A: That 's what I was wondering about was whether they actually ,
B: You actually got paid too , while in the Peace Corps ,
B: it was n't much ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I guess , they , you could put some money aside while you were there , your expenses and ,
A: Was n't Jimmy Carter 's mama that was in the Peace Corps ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I think so ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah
B: But it might be interesting to see what would happen if you took kids at a , and then took then to another country instead of having being exposed to all the drugs and violence and sex and everything here , and take them to some other country that had different moral values like Saudi Arabia where they could n't drink
A: Where they could n't do that .
A: Yeah ,
A: you might end up with a revolution .
A: I don't know which end though .
B: Really
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's , that 's been interesting , though , the kids that have been over , you know , coming back right now , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: You wonder if being exposed to that for a while , what percentage of them would actually say , Hey , that 's not a bad way to do it ,
A: because from what I understand , from some of the guys I know , you know , crime , uh , is punishable , just almost , uh , instantly and public ,
B: Public hanging .
A: yeah .
A: Public hanging and this sort of thing , you know ,
A: so you don't have just a whole lot of , what we consider street crimes .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've heard that like in China and stuff , there is virtually no such thing as rape , because if you rape somebody you 'd be murdered , you know , on the , you know , street
B: so ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I guess that 's , uh , the price of freedom , I guess , is a little , anyway ,
A: the , uh , uh , the , the public service thing again
A: I , I , I guess , in my own , having had the whole three or four minutes to , you know , give it a great deal of thought , you know , Um , I , I think I agree with you one hundred percent about it being some sort of voluntary ,
A: but when you do that then it becomes almost , uh , a ,
A: or it can be ,
B: Yeah .
A: You know , there have ,
A: people will kind of set up their own little club ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: And , uh , but if , you know ,
B: People that might benefit most from it might not go in that situation , you know , like people that really are trapped in a ghetto or something like that .
A: Yeah .
B: Might not go if it was voluntary ,
B: but I don't know how they 'd enforce it ,
B: if it was ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , if they went AWOL , what are you going to do .
B: Yeah .
A: Shoot them .
A: Put them in jail
B: I don't know .
B: Send them over to Iraq
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: Have a vacation in Iraq for a year
A: I know my dad always talked about , uh ,
A: he was in C C C during , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: And he was , uh , a rock rib Iowa type republican
A: and the only good thing he could ever say about , uh , the whole Roosevelt administration was , uh , civilian conservation corps ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: because he was in it .
A: He thought that was great .
B: Yeah .
A: The rest of it was all hog wash ,
A: but that was great .
B: Well , it seems like it would develop pride , you know , in people , if , if , it 's in their own country .
B: It would certainly help them to appreciate some of the things that we have here and develop some pride in them , if it was handled that way .
B: I , I ,
B: it would take quite a few people .
B: I think it might build jobs for people , you know , that were administrating and running and training and coordinating and all that ,
B: so maybe that part of it would be helpful too .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know .
A: Yeah
A: the only ,
B: Like to have a volunteer come here and rake leaves and mow the grass and
A: Well , you know that brings up the interesting subject too , you know ,
A: what would you have , who , who , who would determine what these people do .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: You know , if , uh , you know , if it 's run by the individual state .
A: You know like C C C was run by the army
A: and in effect ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: and the only opposition to it really was that it was , you know , starting some sort of a military elitist type , you know , special corps of cadre of people and that sort of thing .
B: Huh-uh .
A: And , uh , when the politics get real confusing ,
B: Yeah ,
B: really there could be , um , some scandals involved , if , you know , it was n't people that were really fair and you know , in a legal way or something ,
A: Yeah .
B: they could send all the people over to , uh , you know , one particular part of town or one particular project , that somebody had paid somebody to , you know , get supported ,
B: or ,
A: Yeah .
A: Well ,
A: We 've gotten to the point where , you know , if , if , well , if the racial make up of the group was such and such , you know , they 'd have to do that percentage of work and what is perceived to be that part of town and , you know , That kind of thing .
B: Yeah .
B: That could be a complicated too , could n't it .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Suppose , uh , well , you know , they had a group who were construction oriented
A: and they went and they , they built , uh , ca n't think of a good example , a swimming pool , or anything , you know ,
A: and one , you can , you can only build it in one place , you know ,
A: and know matter where you build it , somebody else is going to scream , well , you did n't build one over here .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
B: Unfair or something ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: I think , uh ,
A: oh , boy
A: It 's one of those things on the surface , you know , it seems like a great idea .
A: It 's like a joke I heard once about , uh , elephant foot soup , you know ,
A: it 's easy to do once you find a elephant foot .
A: It 's , uh , the logistics of the thing that , uh , gets you going .
B: Yeah .
B: Really .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , it seems like there 's , there 's a lot ,
B: you don't hear much on the news about young people really , you know , wanting to do anything good or anything like that ,
B: but you know , I 'm sure that there are a lot of young people out there that really do have good hearts and are willing to help and serve and that kind of thing .
B: I just , I saw on the news the other night that the , uh , the little girl that used to be the littlest girl on the Cosby show , Kisha Knight Pullman , was starting a ,
B: I guess now she 's practically a teenager ,
A: Yeah .
B: She started some type of , um , national organization for youth to volunteer to teach , tutor other kids to read and , you know , do different service projects like that and trying to get youth more directed towards , you know , helpful things ,
B: and I know everyone like in the high schools in Dallas ,
B: there 's a couple high schools that have wanted to start like a , um , minority , you know ,
B: I think it was in a Hispanic area ,
B: they wanted to start like a club for the teenagers , instead of , they said , all these gangs kids could join to belong .
A: Huh-uh .
B: But they did n't have anything positive the kids could be doing , helping , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: so they were trying to start that out ,
B: so if there 's people out there that are willing to , you know , kids that are willing to sacrifice their time and energy . Gosh , we ought to use them . You know . If their willing to do it .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's , it 's just the , you know ,
A: here you are to the logistics of the thing again , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: Who 's going to run it , you know ,
A: what ,
A: how ,
A: oh , it 's just so many
B: Yeah .
A: Like , like I said at the beginning I 've got so many connections with people in Central America .
A: My daughter-in-law is Panamanian , you know ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: and they have situations like , like that down there . Where they , they have , these , the social , in some sort of way ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: if you want to go to school outside the country , and many Salvadorians did , they 'd go to school in Cornell , Iowa , of all places ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: and when they came back , they 'd have to serve this , this year ,
A: and it turned out to be kind of a joke ,
A: the ones I knew , you know , always chose the Red Cross , because they did n't do anything
B: Oh , I see .
A: And they had all kinds of , uh , things they could go into , agricultural , and you know , Really good stuff ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , uh , unless there was a flood or a fire or something like that , Red Cross , it was so many of them in it , that at any particular chance , your chance of having to do something was , it was very slim .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And so ,
B: Well , we , um , belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints , which is like the Mormon church .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Huh-uh .
B: And , um , there , there is men and also women ,
B: women are n't nearly as frequent ,
B: and also that have elderly couples once their kids have left , that can volunteer to go on a mission
B: and , um , they 're all over the world .
B: And , its incredible logistics ,
B: I mean , they have a training center where they teach them ,
B: it 's called the Missionary Training Center in Utah ,
B: and they have , to be taught the language and customs and all those kinds of things ,
A: Yeah .
B: and then they , um , you know , go and actually live in that country for the , the , uh ,
B: young men do it for two years and the young women for eighteen months .
A: Okay .
A: Then that 's , uh , kind of a private organization ,
B: Right .
A: you know , I 'm , I 'm familiar with ,
A: my instructor pilot was a Mormon ,
A: he was , he was a good construction , uh , you know , instructor pilot because he considered himself indestructible ,
B: Oh , yeah
B: He had a direct connection somewhere , uh
A: Yeah ,
A: right
A: He felt that he really had an in
A: so , You know , things he would do with an airplane ,
B: Yeah .
A: but any rate that 's off the subject ,
B: Yeah .
A: But , I ,
B: They , they don't get paid for it ,
B: and , um , but there is funding that comes ,
B: they 're supposedly saving up on their own
B: and the church helps them out some ,
A: Huh-uh .
B: but , you know , that it is incredible , you know .
A: I see how they were organized in , Central and South America
B: Yeah .
A: and , uh , it 's , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: Okay .
A: I 'll let you start first , okay ?
B: Okay .
B: We , um , I 'm presently living in a house , uh ,
B: first time , uh ,
B: we had the house built
B: and so this is our , our fifth year in it I guess ,
B: and , uh , um , it was a real excitement to , uh , to go out and select the house and have one made and built
B: and like you wanted it , we were the fourth to build out of three hundred and forty houses .
B: And , um , as we did with probably ninety-five percent of the people here in Dallas-Fort Worth we bought a Fox and Jacobs home ,
B: and they 're good for about five years or four years
B: and after that they start falling apart .
B: So , I would , uh , not recommend F and J house for my dog to live in , uh , because they 're overpriced , uh ,
B: but they 're a cheap house .
B: If you ca n't afford something good , you know ,
B: they 're good for that ,
B: and , um , you can call it a home because it 's a place to go home and keep the rain off your head ,
B: but as far as the costs for what your getting , uh , the longevity of the house is not , uh , is not worth it .
B: How about in your case ?
A: Well , in my case my husband is not a carpenter ,
A: but , in fact , he 's in electronics ,
A: but he knew the only way we 'd ever have a new home is if he would build it .
A: So it took him about two and a half years ,
A: but , uh , he built us a house ,
A: it 's , uh ,
A: we have thirty-two hundred square feet ,
A: and it 's a brick house ,
A: and price-wise , it was great because he did it all himself , you know ,
A: so that way he could , we could kind of control , in , control it ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , we live in kind of a small town ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I mean it 's nothing fancy , you know ,
A: it 's , it 's a house ,
A: it 's nice ,
A: and it 's real pretty
A: and we 're all comfortable in it .
B: Well , that 's great ,
B: that 's great ,
B: that 's , uh ,
B: I 've heard ,
B: I have another gentleman , friend of mine , who , uh , who had a house built
B: as a matter of fact another guy is building one now ,
B: he 's been doing it for three years
B: and the city 's a little upset with him ,
B: but I understand you save a lot of money off , uh , by doing that ,
B: and , uh ,
A: Oh , you can because that way your not having to pay the middle men and everybody else .
B: Nothing wrong with that ,
A: You know .
B: uh , I 'll vouch for that .
B: Um ,
A: But , uh , of course , my husband did everything except
A: my brother 's a trim carpenter ,
A: and he came in , you know , and did the inside for us ,
A: and that helped .
B: That was a big savings .
A: And , uh ,
A: yes ,
A: and , uh , we had to hire , of course , the plumbing and the brick and everything else , nothing , you know ,
B: Well , that 's great .
B: uh , have you been in it long ?
B: Oh , really ,
B: well , have you any plans to , uh , maybe , uh , expand or move onward ?
A: no ,
A: we 're ,
A: well , uh , our kids are kind of still small now ,
A: and we had thought before maybe a lot older we don't need such a large house that we 'll sell it ,
A: but he will not build a second one himself . Because he says age-wise he 'll never be able to handle that again
B: I see ,
B: well ,
B: First one is always a bear .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
B: We 're having a , an architect friend of mine design a house for us
B: and that can basically be , be put on any lot , in any state , any you know ,
B: so that 's kind of , we just got with him and told him what all we wanted ,
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he 's charging us about a buck a square foot to design it
B: and he 's certified , and registered
B: so at least we know we 're , it 's not going to fall in or something if it 's built .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh .
B: But , uh , I have heard that your approach is , is right ,
B: you can actually go out and sub it , if , even if you don't want to get hands on ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you can even just sub it out to concrete and those kind of things
B: and , and that 's kind of the plan I have
B: so , I 'm , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: everyone I talk to , uh , I file in my little book and do other things with it .
B: That 's great ,
B: that 's great .
A: But , uh , like I said otherwise , you know , the expense ,
A: but , you know , we could not have one as large as we have if , you know , we had n't did it ourselves .
B: Sure ,
B: I can imagine .
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean it 's not an Eldorado house or anything like that ,
A: but , you know , it 's ours .
B: If your happy with it , that 's all that counts .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
B: That 's all ,
B: you only have to , uh , satisfy yourself and no one else .
A: apparently the appraisers likes it because our taxes sure is high
B: Oh , that 's , uh , that 's , uh , an encouraging sign if you ever want to resell , I guess .
A: Is n't it ?
A: It really is
A: because I , I 'm always shocked at about , you know , what they have it appraised at ,
A: I think , oh my goodness .
B: Well that 's great .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I guess that about does it .
A: Okay ,
A: and it was nice talking to you .
B: Nice talking with you , too .
A: Okay ,
A: bye-bye .
B: Bye .
A: Okay ,
A: I think we 're supposed to discuss our view of the Soviet Union as a continuing threat to the United States .
B: Okay .
A: How do you feel about that .
B: I don't really ,
B: I more ,
B: I don't know about the government as much as , uh ,
B: the people , uh , I would n't consider to be a threat at all
B: and I really don't feel much like the Soviet Union itself is a threat anymore .
B: I 'm , I 'm worried about them .
B: They 're in a very , uh , tumultuous state right now with the kinds of , uh , adaptations that they 're attempting to go through , uh .
A: I 'm concerned about them not as a military threat , but as a burden .
A: They 're very large
B: Yeah .
A: and they can become very quickly a large financial burden , as , as one more stepchild we have to carry around .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's , that 's a real important aspect
B: and that , uh , as the , the the most , the
B: let 's see , the more that we do , that we do or that we can do to help them become self-sufficient is going to eliminate more of the risk of that becoming , uh , you know , a reality .
B: I know that , uh , this last winter was very hard on , uh , several areas in the , in the , the Ukraine , particularly the coal mining regions of Siberia , uh ,
B: the people there have money ,
B: that 's not their problem ,
B: but there 's no food for them to buy ,
B: and its ,
B: you ca n't eat money .
A: And they have , a , a problem , their , their whole attitude , uh ,
A: I , I 'm not sure which crop it was ,
A: but they had a crop that rotted in the fields because they could n't get anyone to harvest it .
B: Yeah .
A: And the people in the city were saying , well why should I go do that . Make the government do that , that 's not my job .
B: Right ,
B: they 've got a lot of adjustments to make with coming out of what they 've been through now ,
B: and , uh , they 've been , they 've been under , under the oppression that they 've been under for so long that now they have some freedoms
B: but they don't know how to act yet .
B: They don't understand that to make that work ,
B: they 've got to take some responsibility for themselves .
B: It 's not just the government 's responsibility anymore .
B: You ca n't just blame it on the government when they give you the freedom to take care of yourself then that puts some responsibility on you as well .
A: Absolutely ,
A: and , and I think that they 're having a hard time with the concept of you can not go back .
A: People only go forward
A: and I think that that is giving them ,
A: I 'm expecting a call
A: and unfortunately , I think it 's come through .
A: I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: Okay .
A: Thank you ,
A: bye ,
B: All right ,
B: bye-bye .
B: Real problem the last few days , one of their , uh , young hopeless stars has apparently ruined his knee for this season ,
B: it was a catcher .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they really don't have an excess of catchers
B: and it 's really kind of , kind of late to , you know , to start , be trying to trade for somebody , especially with the salary cap that the Rangers have .
A: Yeah .
B: They 're not the highest paying ball team around .
A: Oh no ,
A: no ,
A: they 're not , are they .
B: But I , you know , I would , I would gladly take the salary of most of the guys , I 'll tell you .
A: Oh , goodness ,
A: I would too ,
A: even the bench warmer , I would .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
B: I really have n't been an active Ranger fan in several years .
B: I used to go , take my son , you know ,
B: when he was in high school , he enjoyed going to baseball games .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'll have to admit I kind , I kind of went more to see , to see the other team a lot of times than I did the , did the Rangers ,
A: Uh , yeah .
B: But , I think they 're doing better .
A: Well , I do to , uh ,
A: I have boys , you know , like eight and eleven
A: and we go quite often , to watch the Rangers .
B: Yeah ,
B: I can imagine .
B: I used to love to play baseball when I was a kid .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh yes ,
A: we 're heavy into that too .
B: I think it 's more fun to play than it is to watch .
A: Oh , I do too .
B: Yeah .
A: And I think , uh , what caught so many of our attentions last year was that Nolan Ryan , you know ,
A: yes .
B: Oh of course ,
B: of course .
B: As a matter of fact I read in the sports page this morning ,
B: he just pitched his first , uh , exhibition game a day or so ago ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he pitched five , uh , yeah , five full innings .
B: That was almost unheard of for a pitcher to , you know , to start out that strong .
A: Yeah ,
A: yes ,
A: uh-huh .
B: no big deal , you know ,
B: it 's just part of a day 's work .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know it ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: He 's something else ,
B: he really is .
A: He really is an , you know ,
A: as far as predictions and stuff , I really think the Rangers may come out real strong this year .
B: They could do very well ,
B: they sure could .
A: They because
A: I don't know
A: but last year I just figured they was under a lot of pressure because of all the publicity and everything ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: right .
A: I really do .
B: Yeah ,
B: they 've got , uh , I guess all ,
B: well all their players are signed now .
B: Some of them are not too happy about it
B: but there , there 's no hold outs .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
A: at least , that should help ,
B: So that should help .
A: it sure should .
B: Yeah ,
B: it should , uh-huh .
A: But in a way , I really do ,
A: and of course , there 's a few more , you know , I think are good ball teams also .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: sure .
A: Like Oakland A 's and the Giants
A: I really do .
B: Sure ,
B: sure ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: Cincinnati .
B: Yeah ,
B: there sure are .
A: I like to go watch the Giants when they come to Houston some times .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: that 's right .
A: But , uh ,
B: I 've never seen the Astros play .
A: Oh you have n't ?
B: Huh-uh .
A: Oh , I have a few times .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , they 're a good ball team .
B: That 's right .
A: They really are .
B: They sure are .
B: Would n't it be something to have a World Series between the Rangers and the Astros .
A: Oh , would n't it , would n't it though
B: Boy ,
B: I tell you that would draw a crowd , would n't it .
A: Would n't it .
B: It sure would .
A: Oh my goodness ,
A: we might actually get to go to a World Series , huh .
B: That 's right ,
B: would n't that be something .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: It sure would .
A: That 's something you dream about .
B: Absolutely .
B: But there are a lot of Ranger fans around .
A: Oh , there sure is
A: and , uh , that , I mean they really are .
A: Uh , now Incavalia I don't know how familiar you are with him
A: but , last year I was kind of thinking he sure did get in a slump .
B: Yeah .
A: But they 're saying this year , their predictions is that he 's really going to come out of it and , be on top .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: boy ,
B: he 's a bull , is n't he ?
A: Is n't he though ,
B: He really is gosh .
A: he sure is .
A: He either hits home run or strike out .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: that 's right .
A: There is not ever a in between for him .
B: That 's right ,
B: it 's kind of like Babe Ruth .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: they were saying something about this may be his last year with the Rangers though .
B: Apparently I think his contract is up after the end of this year
B: and they 're not sure they 're going to be able to sign him again .
A: To sign him again ,
A: yeah .
A: Huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , you know , may or may not happen .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh you never know .
B: That 's right ,
B: it 's a long way away .
A: That 's sure
A: if you offer them money , I 'm sure they 'll , they 'll do a little bit of everything .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right ,
B: unfortunately the Rangers don't spread it around quite as big as some of the other teams do .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: no , like that Joe Hosago you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
A: I mean , oh .
B: Is there going to be a ticket increase this year , price , do you know .
A: I had n't heard .
B: I have n't either ,
A: I , I really have n't , uh ,
B: The , uh , those Cowboys have increased their prices again this year .
A: Oh yeah .
B: But I did n't know ,
B: I , I don't think I 've heard anything on the Rangers ,
B: or I don't remember it if I have .
A: Well I had n't either ,
B: Yeah .
A: We had n't , you know ,
A: like I said , we ,
A: I don't even guess they 've even thought about sending the schedules out yet .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess it 's too early .
A: Yeah ,
A: because we usually get one .
A: We usually order our tickets way in advance .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: it 's a good idea ,
B: yeah .
A: We , we try to go so often .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah
B: if you have young , young children , you know , they , they get a kick out of it .
A: Oh , they do .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: Well you too Lori
A: And , we 'll hopefully we 'll get to talk again .
B: Right ,
B: you take care .
A: Okay ,
A: bye-bye .
B: Okay ,
B: bye-bye .
A: okay .
B: What , what is ,
B: do you have a favorite recipe ?
A: Um , yeah ,
A: that 's what it said to discuss some maybe a recipe ,
A: well , it says , why would you , what you would have for a dinner party .
A: Um , this is strange because I pressed one and I thought it said begin .
B: Oh .
A: Okay ,
A: maybe , maybe we 're all set .
A: Okay ,
A: we 'll talk for five minutes ,
A: they interrupt at the end .
A: Um , yeah ,
A: it says what you would have for a dinner party ,
A: I just happen to plan one out for Saturday
A: I 'll tell you , what I 'm going to have . Um , if I can find it .
B: Oh , that 's wonderful .
B: Okay .
A: Well , I have this new fondue pot
A: and I was going to do basic cheese fondue ,
A: and I have two different kinds of breads and some ham
A: and I was going to try something weird which , you know ,
A: when you have fish au gratin ,
A: I was going to make some , uh , like fish chunks and dip it in the fondue .
A: I don't know if it will come out .
B: That 's ,
B: what kind of fondue , the cheese dip or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: the cheese fondue I make ,
A: some people like swiss , um ,
A: I prefer cheddar .
A: And I 'll mix ,
A: I wo n't make , I wo n't have a sharp cheddar because it , for fondue I think it should be a little calmer than real sharp , cheddar .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: And then I was going to make other things like potato skins .
B: Oh , that sounds good .
A: see you don't necessarily have to dip this stuff .
A: And , um , I was going to have broccoli and cauliflower for a , a vegetable .
B: That 's always a good thing .
B: Vegetable trays always go over so well , because I think people get tired of eating junk .
B: I mean , I think they like to have healthy stuff too ,
B: you know it 's ,
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: it 's amazing how vegetables trays will go at a party .
B: Oh , definitely .
B: I think better even than , than other kinds of food
A: Yeah ,
A: instead of something greasy or ,
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
B: Yeah .
A: my , uh , girlfriends do catering
A: and they always , about every party they do is they have a vegetable tray .
A: I think they try and suggest it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: What I 've been doing when I get invited someplace and bring something , I make , uh , food kabobs .
A: You take little toothpicks and cut up , uh , pineapple and strawberry , and even banana if you can do it just before you leave .
B: Oh .
B: Yes .
B: Right .
A: It stays nice and fresh .
B: Right ,
B: that 's true .
B: Or even have you ever seen where they , they 'll take a watermelon and just cut the top out of it and then hollow that out , and then put the fruit in the watermelon that is really neat .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I like those
B: Yep .
A: Um , they , they made a couple of those , uh ,
A: they made one for my , uh , bridal shower
A: and I was pretty pleased .
A: I never made one for myself though .
A: But they look easy enough to make
A: it 's not ,
B: Oh , I think it would , it would be a lot of work
B: but , um , you know , because it 's , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: you have to cut each thing or , you know , use the melon baller and stuff
B: but , but I think they 're really neat
B: and , you know , I think they 're worth the time , you know , because they ,
A: Yeah ,
A: you probably get this , probably pretty sticky after you get done .
B: Oh , yeah
A: Then you 've got to drain the water out of the watermelon because , you know , when you scrape it , it makes the water .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: um , something I do is a fruit ,
A: is , I 'll get , um , make chocolate sauce and dip strawberries and bananas in them .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have two nieces
A: and they , they they go melt some chocolate chips ,
A: Go buy me some strawberries .
B: Is that , is that good ?
B: You know , I 've seen that so many times , strawberries dipped in chocolate
B: but I 've never tried it ,
B: are they really good ?
A: Yeah ,
A: you know , if you get a sweet strawberry they 're much better ,
A: but if you get a sour strawberry ,
B: Oh , I bet it does n't mix well , does it ?
A: Huh . Yeah ,
A: no ,
A: they , um , the strawberries are coming in season now from ,
A: they 're , they 're coming up from Florida , of course .
A: I live in Vermont ,
A: so . But they 're really reasonably priced ,
A: they 're coming up from Florida ,
A: so .
B: Oh , well , that 's good
B: because I know they 've been really expensive lately . Because they were n't in season ,
A: Yeah .
B: of course , they had to be , be , uh , grown in greenhouses and stuff and in ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I think the , uh , actually I think they get , um , some of them from South America .
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: Yep ,
A: they ,
A: a lot of , um , of a , um , winter produce comes from South America .
B: Oh , I .
A: Of course , their seasons are switched .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: So , um , do you want to discuss the recipe ?
B: Well ,
A: I have a recipe if you want
B: Okay ,
B: sure ,
A: Um , it filled ,
A: a lot of people try to stay away from this
A: but I make my own homemade pudding just because I don't like box pudding .
B: Is that right ?
B: I 've never heard of that .
A: Yeah ,
A: it , and it if you , um , well ,
A: first of all I take about a quarter and a half of milk
A: and I put it in a two quart saucepan
A: and you put it on a really low heat .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you want to use one of your good sauce pans that dissipate the heat because it , it ends up burning ,
A: I mean , no matter how careful you are you still might get a film on the bottom of the pot .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't let that worry me .
A: And I get the milk lukewarm
A: and then I pour about a half a cup of cornstarch in it
A: and I have this thing
A: it 's called the slender blender ,
A: it , it makes the , uh , it makes , uh , a whip topping out of milk if you get the milk cold enough .
A: It 's , uh , I don't know ,
A: they 're called moo goo leaves or something
A: they 're
B: I think I know what you 're
B: is it like a hand held ?
A: Yeah .
A: They 're real neat .
B: The ,
B: yeah ,
B: okay .
A: I think they 're real reasonably priced ,
A: some of them , they used to be a hundred dollars
A: and they used to whip skim milk into a dessert
A: but I did n't get that one ,
A: I got the Black and Decker kind .
A: But , uh , it 's real handy because it does n't have a cord
A: and you beat this cornstarch right into the the milk , you know ,
A: and it does an excellent job ,
A: or just hand beat it .
A: I guess you could use a hand mixer
A: but I don't think it I don't think it gets it good enough .
B: Uh-huh . Huh .
A: And then before the milk gets too hot , um , I add two beaten eggs and I really mix them in good . And then about a half a cup of sugar
A: and I let it pretty much ,
A: I beat it like every minute for about ten seconds
A: and it 's , it starts thickening ,
A: when it thickens the cornstarch might get a little , I don't know ,
A: it gets like little globs of this rubbery cornstarch ,
A: and you just keep beating it in .
A: And it 's the ,
A: the trick is , is to have this blender ,
A: so , if you were ,
A: you 'd have to probably almost go out
A: and someone who 's just going to make it first time , it 's ,
A: you 'll have much better luck if you had one of these little blenders .
A: And then you can add cocoa powder to it to make chocolate
A: or after it 's thickened I cook it for a good ,
A: once it starts boiling , I just , I cook it for a good seven minutes , seven to ten minutes
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then you can make chocolate
A: or you can take it off and let it cool
A: you put , um , really good vanilla favoring in it and some butter
A: and that makes french vanilla , um , custard .
A: Yeah ,
B: Oh , wow .
B: That is really interesting .
B: Are you saying to use like , um , for chocolate like , unsweetened ,
A: A chocolate powder .
B: unsweetened ?
A: Yeah ,
A: that cocoa , yeah , the unsweetened .
A: It comes in like a real dark can ,
B: Yeah .
A: our mothers used to use it .
A: And then ,
B: I have some
A: Yeah ,
A: we all used to ,
B: I just want to ,
A: yeah
A: , it 's the unsweetened kind
A: it 's not like Nestles Quik .
B: Right .
B: Okay .
A: I suppose you could use that .
B: Cooking chocolate .
A: Yeah ,
A: but , um ,
B: That 's really interesting ,
B: I 've never heard of anybody making their own pudding before that 's really neat .
A: Well , I used to make the regular pudding , the chocolate and put it in the pie shell
A: and if it would sit in the refrigerator for a day , where you cut the pie , it would soak into the pie shell
A: and it was like red ,
A: and I 'm like , oh ,
A: this is kind of groedy .
B: Well , how did you get a recipe for pudding on your own ?
A: Um , actually I found it in one of my mother 's , um , homemade cookbooks ,
A: I mean , something she had collected out of WOMAN 'S DAY or something .
B: Is that right ?
B: Oh , neat ,
A: So ,
B: that is just really neat .
B: Because I ,
A: I think you could n't make it with a hand whisk or , or a regular beater
A: but , um ,
B: It would probably be a lot more work and probably not turn out as good .
A: Yeah ,
A: but I still think a beater would do it good enough , um ,
A: the trick is to get the cornstarch ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: um , yeah
A: , right in the , in the lukewarm milk .
A: Sometimes I put the cornstarch in a separate bowl
A: and I would put it in the sink
A: and I 'll take my lukewarm milk and put it in the cornstarch and beat it good .
A: It seems to be better than putting the , the cornstarch into the liquid
A: it , once it hits the top of the liquid it seems to make little balls and stuff on the top .
B: So you put the milk in the cornstarch ?
A: Yeah .
A: And I 'll do this , uh ,
A: sometimes I 'll put my after I pour that into my , back into my saucepan .
A: I 'll put the eggs in the same dish and beat them up and then pour the cornstarch and the milk mixture in the egg .
A: So ,
B: And then put that back in the saucepan ?
A: Yep .
A: And then , you know , if you can put your cocoa in with your cornstarch if you wanted to . The cocoa even seems to thicken it even more .
B: Huh that 's ,
A: Because by the vanilla does n't seem to thicken as well as the ,
A: sometimes the cocoa is
A: like , my husband really likes it thick
A: he says , I can stick the spoon right in this .
B: Oh .
A: Because I 'm always worrying it wo n't firm up because it , when you take it out of the saucepan it 's like , boy , I hope this thickens a little more because it 's not like real package thick , you know ,
A: when you cook a package , it 's , it 's a little less ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I put it in a nice glass bowl
A: and , um , some people don't like that , that , film on the pudding
A: so you can put , uh , Saran Wrap over the top .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then once the pudding starts cooling it makes little balls of water on the Saran Wrap ,
A: so , when you pull the Saran Wrap back , you sort of should be a little careful , pull it back and shake the water off the Saran Wrap
A: and I might put it back on .
A: But , um ,
B: Do do you put it in the refrigerator then
B: or
A: Yeah ,
A: after , well when it starts steaming a lot , uh , I definitely , yeah , put it in the refrigerator ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , um , I ,
A: my father always told me if you put hot food in your refrigerator you 're going to make it work too hard .
B: Right ,
B: that 's true .
B: I knew that .
A: That 's ,
A: yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: so , that 's why I do that .
B: Yeah .
A: So , well , I don't know
A: that 's my , my great hard recipe .
A: Okay ,
A: have you ever served as a juror ?
B: Never .
B: I 've never been served on the jury , never been called up in a jury , although some of my friends have been jurors .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I never have either .
B: You have n't , huh .
B: If you were , uh , what do you think about the whole concept of a trial by your peers ?
A: Well , I think it 's a good idea .
A: I think our justice system needs a major overhaul ,
A: and I 'm not sure what needs to be done to fix it .
A: But I think they 've got a lot of problems .
B: I think the major thing they need to correct is how long it takes something to get to jury , and to get to trial .
A: True .
B: And I don't know if that 's just a pure volumes number or , or what ,
B: but , uh . Sometimes I think the jury is ignorant in the facts of law and how things should be determined ,
B: and they 're too easily swayed by their emotion .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that 's true .
B: Hence is possible error as you can see in all the IRONSIDES , T V shows .
A: Yeah .
A: Do , would you prefer all trials by a judge ?
B: No ,
B: I think there are certain things that , uh , the jury can determine as far as , uh , guilty or not guilty ,
B: but as far as the affixing of punishment and fines and things of that nature , I don't know if that is best left up to the jury to to award , you know .
B: Two point two million dollar kind of settlement versus a judge knowing , you know , it 's true that , you know , this may be sad and all that thing ,
B: but , uh , the jury I think is best , in most cases , suited for determination of guilt and innocence , but not the award of , of penalties and fines and punishment .
A: Yeah ,
A: I would agree with that .
A: I think you 're
A: I think they sometimes get carried away by the circumstances and make huge settlements thinking well it 's only going to cost the insurance company ,
A: and ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: that 's true .
B: But , uh , I do like the idea of the jury being the , the people who decide in the matter of , uh , if it 's a jail term versus life and death you know , the death penalty and such .
A: Uh-huh .
A: If they give them all the information .
A: I don't know ,
A: when it comes to sentencing phase , I guess they tell them if a guy , if the person has a previous record and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Sometimes it seems like during the trial part , the jury 's not , you know , misses some of the best evidence because they make them leave ,
A: and the judge decides whether or not they should hear it .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , it , it , it 's kind of difficult ,
B: and I guess the whole system is set up to rather let , uh , some guilty people go free than to put an innocent person in , in jail although you still hear about those occasionally .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
A: Do you think the verdict should be completely unanimous by the jury ?
B: Um , I don't know .
B: I , you know , I heard a very interesting ,
B: and maybe it 's just the T V show or movie I was watching ,
B: they were going through a trial ,
B: and I think it was like on one of the , the documentary T V shows where they ask for the , the verdict by the jury
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they went by each one , saying guilty or innocent , guilty or innocent .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they took it more as just like a majority .
A: Oh .
B: So I , I ,
A: Some of them disagree ,
A: I mean , some of them said one way and some the other .
B: Exactly ,
B: but they took , you know , whatever the majority was .
B: So I did n't know if that was just something for drama or that 's truly the way it is .
B: I always thought it had to be unanimous .
A: I think it does have to be unanimous .
B: But , uh . Rather interesting .
A: I know they can poll a jury , make sure everybody agrees with what they said the verdict was ,
A: but I thought that they all had to agree
A: or else they , it was a hung jury .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And ,
B: I did , I did also .
A: Yeah ,
A: I I don't know how I feel about that .
A: I think maybe , uh , majority might be sufficient .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's hard to say though .
B: What about in international trials .
B: Do you think they should have a jury there ?
A: Oh .
B: I think that would be kind of interesting .
A: Yeah ,
A: I had n't thought about international trials at all .
B: I guess the , the problem with that is there 's no true authority in any kind of international verdicts like , you know , the old day with the rack .
A: Right .
B: We , they 're going to say , Okay , you 're guilty and you have to pay Kuwait four million dollars .
B: Well , whose going to really make them .
A: Yeah .
B: Nobody .
A: Yeah ,
B: So . But I think it would be kind of interesting to incorporate that concept of , you know , people from different countries , uh , in as international law also .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think maybe they 'd need to be more knowledgeable though than just your average Joe off the street for something like that because of the cultural differences . Things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: I don't know how , what it would take to be , come up with a true perfect system , or if one exists .
B: But ,
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , is that the crime
B: and it 's already , some chart and determine the punishment ,
B: or .
A: Yeah ,
A: like if you 're convicted of a certain crime you automatically get so many years .
A: It 's not a discretionary thing .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I think there should be a core minimum that they get
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , I guess there should be some flexibility because every situation may be unique , that the judge can either increase that or keep it just at its minimum , things of that nature .
B: But ,
A: Yeah .
A: I wish that when they sentence someone , if they 're going to sentence him to five years , then make him serve five years .
B: Yeah ,
B: that serves a kind of if they 're , I guess , uh ,
B: if you sentence someone to life , life is only forty-nine years , something like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: I ,
B: And I guess you 're eligible after twenty-seven for parole , even though you 're in for life .
A: Yeah ,
A: and sometimes those people are , are young enough , they can still get out and cause a lot of trouble .
B: Yeah ,
B: although I guess it 's , you , you want them to rehabilitate and become better rather than sitting in there and being a drain all the time .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't believe that very often happens .
B: No .
B: Because uh , inside the jail there , I don't think there 's no real rehabilitation .
A: I don't think so either .
A: In fact , I think they end up worse , because the conditions are so bad .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's another war zone .
A: Yeah .
B: But , who knows .
A: I think , I think maybe they ought to just be punished with some , some kind of real punishment , like hard labor for a shorter length of time , you know .
B: I agree ,
B: get them out there ,
A: Actually make them do something that 's not pleasant and do it and get it over with and get back in the , you know , world and not spend so much time sitting around , letting the bad influences of the other ones rub off on them ,
A: and ,
B: Sure ,
B: they should have them go out and doing stuff . Cleaning up , or picking up dirt , or weeds , or who knows what . Something for the , for the state ,
A: Yeah .
B: since the state is paying for them , they should get some kind of , kind of work out of them .
A: Yeah .
A: Something besides license plates and tiddlywinks .
B: Exactly .
A: Yeah .
B: Trading their lives for cigarettes those kinds of things .
A: Yeah .
B: Well good .
A: Well , I think that covers it .
B: I think so .
A: Nice talking to you .
B: Nice talking to you also .
A: Bye .
B: Have a wonderful Easter .
A: You , too .
B: Bye .
A: Bye .
A: Well , how many credit cards do you have ?
B: Um , I 've only , I 've got about four maybe .
B: I try to limit them because I , well one , I don't use them too much .
B: And I use my Visa just for for about everything ,
B: and I pay it all off .
B: So I try not to ,
B: I just use it for free money for thirty days basically .
A: Sounds like we have no conflict .
A: We had ,
A: for a while I was carrying one card
A: and my wife was carrying a different one .
A: And since the slips all look alike , uh , you commingle them
A: and then you get the statement
A: and you try to sort them out , uh ,
A: and it , uh , it caused more confusion about it .
A: I finally said , Gee , this is kind of a waste of time .
A: And then when A T and T came along and offered a free one , uh , I accepted that ,
A: and we 've been using that one .
A: Uh , the interesting thing is , is that , uh , the amount of money you can can run up on them .
A: I don't know ,
A: do you know any people that run up big , big bills ?
B: I 'm , I 'm you know , I 'm in the age group you get out of college ,
B: and I think a lot of these people have them maxed out .
A: Well , did , um , were you able to get one while you 're in college ?
B: Um , I don't think I ever tried .
A: Just curious , because I have a son that 's a senior this year ,
A: and he 's heading off , with any kind of luck ,
A: but there has been ,
A: I 've had a couple of ads for , for , for to provide a card for a college student .
A: Uh , what do you think about the idea of providing one for somebody like that ?
B: Um , well ,
B: yeah ,
B: I , I , you know ,
B: it 's , you know , feasible ,
B: I mean , I know a lot of college kids who have them , you know , who had them , but just depends .
A: Well , that , that , that , I guess from the , from the card issuer , uh , that
A: since , since it 's , it 's in , the parent gets it for them , that really the parent becomes the one that 's responsible ,
A: but it 's ,
B: Yeah ,
B: so basically if you want to take the risk
A: Yes ,
A: it 's whether the parent wants to take the risk .
B: It 's your risk ,
B: do you trust , your , your son ,
A: Yeah ,
A: to , to go run up a big bill
A: and , the thing is , there some advantages , if he got off some place and stranded .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I 'm , I 'm leaning towards doing it for , for a convenience ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 'd say , you know , have one with , you know at least a thousand dollar credit limit or something .
A: Yeah ,
A: and the idea that , you know , if he got in trouble , there 's some , some ways of getting out , and that he does n't have to carry cash .
A: The , uh ,
A: I , I like the idea of credit cards that , uh , I don't , I don't , I don't carry cash around , and , and , uh , I don't even carry checks around .
A: I let my wife take the checkbook ,
A: and she writes the checks ,
A: and I record them .
A: So it 's , uh , it 's , uh , it 's , but it 's interesting that , uh , the people that can , that can , uh , the amounts of money you can run up on , on credit cards ,
A: and , uh , I , I had recently had some dealings with a fellow that
A: they had run up , he was making , oh , considered a modest salary for an engineer ,
A: and he had run up , uh , more than a years salary in , in various debts to ,
A: and he wound up declaring bankruptcy
A: but there ,
A: it , it 's hard to believe that you 'd run up twenty , thirty thousand dollars of , uh ,
A: well , it was a combination of things he had ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: there were , there were several credit cards ,
A: and then there were several other businesses ,
B: The , the extended loan payment for your car .
A: Yes ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I saw that .
A: The interesting thing about that is , is that , uh , that , that they 're encouraging you to incur more , incur more debt ,
A: and ,
B: Well , it 's , it 's , it 's business ,
B: and they 're making money off that .
A: And they make more money if you extend your loan .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , and it 's , so it 's business ,
B: so , and you notice that they 're , they 're only going to do it to like cars that are one or two years old .
A: Yes .
B: And so they 've already shifted the risk .
B: If they assume that car , then they just have to sell it themselves ,
B: and they 'll recover the loan ,
A: And they know that people own a car that new unless absolutely die of service * listen ; ca n't be right transcription
A: they 're not going to keep on if the car were older .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The interesting thing about it is is that from a , uh , uh , an economy standpoint or in economics ,
A: I , I thinks it 's , I think it 's poor , poor , uh , economics to , to carry all that consumer debt at least from a tax standpoint ,
B: Yeah .
A: so . It 's interesting that , that the American public is encouraged to incur all that debt and then next year none of it will be deductible ,
A: and this year it 's ten percent or so .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh .
A: It 's , uh , it 's interesting that , that , uh , they encourage us to do things ,
B: What , now what 's ten percent , we can deduct ,
A: I think ten percent ,
A: yes .
B: I did n't know that .
A: Of your , of your consumer credit .
A: Oh , if you had a thousand dollars , that means there 's another hundred dollar deduction I 've given you .
B: I did n't think you could ,
B: any thing on a loan or , I mean a mortgage I know you can ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's on , uh , yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: on the , the ,
A: there 's , there 's , there 's a place for consumer debt
A: and then you take ten percent of it ,
A: on the ,
B: Oh , I 've never itemized yet .
A: Oh , okay ,
B: So maybe that 's . Schedule A or ,
A: It 's on schedule , um , Schedule A under , uh ,
A: well , it 's the same place , it 's the same place you put , uh , interest .
A: But , but see that 's what , that 's what makes Texas squirrelly laws that you ca n't , you ca n't take out a , a second mortgage , like some states where you can take out the mortgage and declare that ,
A: and so , uh , it 's fully deductible .
A: The laws are a little squirrelly ,
A: but it basically comes down to
A: it 's not in your best interest to borrow money from a tax standpoint .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , anyway ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I try , I , I really do , I just try to stay out of debt ,
B: and I , and I use my Visa for , for as much as I can ,
B: and I pay it all off ,
B: and ,
A: Sounds like you 're , you 're very very financially responsible .
A: It 's , uh , That 's , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: there 're a lot of people who really run ,
A: my boss drives quite a ways to work ,
A: and he 's got just enormous debts ,
A: and he 's ,
A: but , I mean , what do you say , it 's like , Shucks , Boss , I 'm sure sorry you 've got all that debt .
A: Well , he 's had , had two kids in college and , and this kind of thing ,
A: and that
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think that the whole credit card issue , I think they certainly encourage people to run up the debts
A: and , but I agree with you
B: Yeah .
A: I don't , I my debts .
A: Well , I did buy a new house last summer .
B: Hell , I took a five year note out on my car when I , right when I got out of college ,
B: and , uh , I 'll never do that again .
B: I still got a couple of years on it to go ,
B: and I 'm ,
A: It 's , it 's remarkable how many people as soon as they get out of college buy a new car ,
A: and that , uh , apparently that 's been going on for a really long time .
A: I did n't do it .
A: I , I bought a second hand car when I was , the middle of my senior year .
B: Well , you , you think you 're starting out well , until you start paying all those bills . Uh , apartment rent ,
A: Yep .
B: and ,
A: Miscellaneous things like food and other things ,
B: Yeah .
A: these habits you get into , eating
A: and , and , uh , it 's , it 's , it 's amazing how it , what you learn .
B: Yeah ,
B: so .
A: Well , anything else good to say about credit cards ?
B: Um
A: I might just ,
B: you know , they 're convenient , you know ,
B: that 's probably one big thing about them ,
B: and , uh ,
A: You don't have to carry the cash ,
A: and , and , uh , and it 's , it 's , it 's certainly accepted more places than , the places , you know ,
A: it 's hard to cash a check if you 're out of state ,
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I was used to using my credit card , like at Skaggs Alpha Beta in Dallas , and stuff
A: Yeah .
B: and now I 'm out here in Phoenix .
A: They don't allow , they don't do
B: They , they ,
B: none of these grocery stores take any credit cards ,
B: so now I have to carry cash when I go to the grocery store , which is new to me , you know ,
B: I got to have sixty bucks on me or something .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh that was interesting , cause I always , you know ,
A: Carry all that cash with you .
B: you did n't have to worry about carrying that much unless I knew I ,
A: Well , you know they , they they 've started towards a little bit of the debit card ,
A: have you seen the debit cards where they actually debit your account when you ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've heard about them .
A: Yeah ,
A: and I think that 's where ,
B: That 's mostly locally ,
B: the banks will line up with , uh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've seen a couple ,
A: although the ,
A: so many of the grocery stores don't do that because of the , the time frame which they get paid , in general ,
A: that , uh ,
A: they ,
A: I 've seen checks deposited the very next day , I mean , cleared my account the next day .
A: My wife will write a check for groceries
A: and , you know , almost ,
A: well I guess it 's the day after , uh ,
A: technically it 's two days ,
A: but they took that check and scurried it to the bank
A: and the bank scurried it back to my account ,
A: and you thought there 'd be just a little bit of float ,
A: but apparently that 's why the , uh , the , uh , the , uh , grocery stores are reluctant to do that , because their volume , that is quite high ,
A: and they have , uh ,
A: the costability of the cash flow is a big issue for them .
B: Yeah .
A: Anyway .
A: Well , it 's good talking to you .
B: All righty .
A: Maybe we 'll get across , we 'll cross paths again .
A: Good night .
B: All righty .
B: Take it easy .
A: So what kind of weather have you had in Dallas ?
B: Well , it 's been very windy ,
A: Really ?
A: Yeah
A: see , I did n't , I don't ,
A: I thought , uh , I thought ,
A: I lived in Euless
A: and I thought it was pretty normal ,
A: but anyway , but I guess you 're right though it has been real hot ,
A: because it , um ,
A: I 've had to use the air conditioner in March ,
B: we 've already had to use that ,
A: my husband usually ,
B: and we 've had like ,
B: I mean , this is probably typical though , uh , we ,
B: like tornado weather and tornado warnings ,
B: and , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , you know , I , I forget from year to year .
B: I 'm getting too old .
B: But , the , uh , it , the wind 's blowing very hard ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I guess , you know , we 're just out of March , and , uh will bring the rain in , uh , April .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know ,
A: The trees are real pretty right now and everything .
A: And , uh , I don't know .
A: I know the pollen is real high ,
B: Yes ,
B: it is .
B: Seems very high .
B: It has n't bothered me ,
B: but I know that people that have allergies it seems to be pretty high .
A: I know .
A: It 's been bothering me a lot ,
A: but
A: yeah ,
A: I think , I think the weather overall has been , um , probably like you said , probably a little bit warm
A: and , Uh ,
B: A little bit warm and a little bit blowy , I think .
A: Anyway ,
A: so we basically live in the same area
A: so it 's real hard to ,
B: Really hard to make too big of different comparisons , right ?
A: I know .
B: Yeah .
A: I just think it 's been warm ,
A: and it 's been hot ,
A: and I liked it ,
A: and it 's beautiful ,
A: and all the trees are pretty ,
A: and I wish it would stay like this all the time
B: Yes ,
B: I could stand this all summer .
A: So yeah ,
A: I could too .
A: And , uh , gah , I don't think we can say anything else really .
B: I don't think we can either ,
B: let 's cut off .
A: Yeah ,
A: that sounds like a good deal .
A: Well , you have a nice day .
B: You too .
A: And we 'll talk to you later .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye .
A: Okay , um .
B: Let 's talk about the Middle East situation .
A: The U S involvement in there , then I guess even though .
B: Now that 's it 's all over with , you know .
A: Well , it is over
A: but I don't think we 're out of there by any means ,
A: and uh , I wonder are we going to set up you know peace keeping type forces for long term .
A: You know , is that something we should do or should n't do ?
A: I don't know .
B: I don't know
B: I understand that the U S is talking about leaving more of its planes and things over there .
B: Uh , I guess , they , uh , they 're anti U S in that region
B: and now they 're , you know ,
B: like Syria and Egypt , you know had some pressure against the U S ,
B: but now they , now they would n't allow us to have a base in that region
B: but now I think they are rethinking that .
A: I think that 's true because of all the support that came through .
B: That 's right .
A: The other thing that I think is good for like American businesses are to be involved is the , the reports that I hear back
A: and of course on the news I try to listen and also read between the lines you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , they said that because the Americans you know took such a proactive stance involvement in the war that
A: like so much of the business and the rebuilding in Kuwait and things like that will go to American businesses where as before they may be dealt with Japanese firms or other people .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They said even though the Japanese were involved monetarily , uh , they still
A: like the first , first priority ought to go to American businesses , which I guess will be good you know which will be good for our economy .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: But , I , you know .
B: They get so much of our money from oil anyway
A: Boy ,
A: don't you know ,
A: I mean we don't seem to slow down even when there is a crisis
B: No ,
B: no .
A: But .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's a nice gesture , on the Kuwaiti government part to do that ,
B: and a few people I guess will make a few people pretty wealthy in construction and so forth .
A: I imagine .
A: Your oil companies , they may see , probably the first big rise in business they have seen in years .
B: Right .
B: Go over there and rebuild all those .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I think it 's such a shame that the Iraqis had to just go destroy everything .
B: I just .
A: I do too .
B: I mean , what 's , what good is that ?
B: If I ca n't have it , you ca n't have it , you know
B: that sounds like something a little kid would do . You know .
A: Yeah ,
A: but look at their war ,
A: that was his whole war
A: is , is
A: I 'm not satisfied with what Iraq has ,
A: I want what everybody has .
B: That 's right .
A: And , and you 're right ,
A: it 's like you see two little pre-school kids fighting over a toy , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I am a little concerned about you know ,
A: I know they are putting President Bush right now in an awkward position concerning the , The treaty over there right now .
B: The , The deal with the uh , supporting the Kurds .
A: You know what am I trying to say ?
A: Well supporting the Kurds
A: but , uh , you know the cease-fire ,
B: Right ,
B: right ,
B: the cease-fire .
A: I 'm trying to say another , because he yeah . You know because he , he wants them to uphold their end of the deal as far as the cease-fire
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: You know if it 's an internal thing , I don't think we can walk in and say , Gee , I think you 're right , and you 're wrong , you know
A: we 're not the judge and jury .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , but I know that that 's causing him a little bit of unpopularity with the people over there because they feel like , Gee , you told us , to stand up against him , but you 're not helping .
B: Yeah ,
B: to help out .
B: Yeah .
A: So I think he 's in a pretty awkward position now
A: and I , I think we ought to help , you know .
B: Maybe supply some arms or something .
A: Yeah ,
A: supply arms and support them if they need help
A: but I don't think we ought to be over there fighting it for them ,
A: and and , so I think he 's done good on that stance .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think Bush handled , has handled this whole situation quite well .
B: He stood up to , to the bully and , did n't back down
A: Yeah .
B: and uh , and uh , Saddam Hussein miscalculated all along , thinking that he would n't commit U S lives and , and forces and , and monies to , just to liberate a little country .
A: Boy ,
A: I would say .
A: That 's right .
B: And , uh , then he underestimated his ability to , to wage a war with us .
B: I mean , one thing when we all came over there and said , Okay , here we are , get out , and he said , No , I can , I can win a war with you guys .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: And that was a horrible miscalculation .
A: I agree ,
A: you know they 'd advertised and said in the news and said he had the fifth largest army .
A: Well , he may have
A: but you ,
B: Not any more
A: Well not any more
A: but , you have to have loyalty ,
A: you have to have people who believe in your cause .
B: Right .
A: You know , I know they tried to turn it into a holy war , because to them that is what 's honorable . You know , if you die in a holy cause ,
B: Right .
A: but I think they are smart enough , to see there 's nothing holy about it .
B: Yeah .
A: We just want to go in and took it .
B: Right .
A: You know .
B: Saddam Hussein is not a religious person ,
B: but he uses it . When he sees it to his advantage .
A: Sure .
A: Sure .
B: And , uh , and I think the people were smart enough to realize that ,
B: and I think they 're afraid of him . Is what they are .
A: Uh .
B: The population is afraid to speak out against him
B: and I don't think he 's going to be there too much longer .
A: Well , I hope that 's true .
B: Someone is going to assassinate him , you know .
A: I would think so ,
A: I would think that , you know ,
A: I guess in the back of my mind I think like maybe the Israeli Massad probably has ideas of going in and , huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: You know , I thought they , uh , showed a tremendous restraint in their reactions towards everything ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I don't believe for a minute that that means that they don't have ideas and plans of their own
B: That 's right .
A: But I do agree with you ,
B: Yeah .
A: I think President Bush handled it all politically very smart , you know , giving the support of , of the other Arabs and other nations in the world
A: and I think , that 's how you have to go into something like that .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: I 've heard reports that President Bush was staking his future on this , uh , this war and that setting a precedent saying that this League of Nations will always combine against bullies and to stop this kind of stuff in the world .
B: Any would be bully would think twice if he knew that , you know ,
B: there 's this United Nations or world government or whatever they keep talking about that the whole world will deal with you .
A: And don't you feel ? * listen
B: And you ca n't , you just ca n't do it and get away with it , you know , hoping that you know ,
A: That 's right .
B: because it 's a world thing
B: and the nations will combine against you
B: and you ca n't , you know , you ca n't just do this .
A: And don't you think that long term that 's been a big boost for the United Nations .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I mean the United Nations been there for years , but all of a sudden .
B: Had no , had no teeth .
A: Yeah
A: there are some teeth behind it
A: and the fact that when they have sanctions and we support things like this , it means something .
B: Right .
A: And I think that 's good for the strength of the United Nations .
B: People ,
B: I guess , I feel sorry for just the average , you know , Iraqi , who has had to go through all of this and the suffering . I 'm sure with no water , No electricity , no sanitation ,
A: Yeah .
A: And rebuild from nothing .
A: Yes .
B: must be terrible , living conditions must be terrible .
A: Yeah .
B: and it 's not getting any better ,
B: the sanctions are still on .
A: That 's true .
B: You know , except for a few medical supplies they are allowing through now and then powdered milk , I guess , for babies and things
B: and until they ,
B: I guess , yesterday they came out with this , these rules I guess or whatever . For a permanent , permanent cease-fire
A: Right .
A: They supported it .
B: and the Kuwaitis said , We don't want to have to repay Israel for all the bombing that we did that was in there , you know .
A: That is right ,
B: But that 's only fair .
A: Yeah ,
A: they did ask that they build up Israel and Kuwait .
B: Yeah .
A: And I think they should have to .
B: Yeah .
A: They lost
B: It 's going to be really tough for them to swallow ,
B: but we don't want a Kuwait there that 's also , you know , just has no power at all ,
B: and that , that you know ,
B: because Iran still is n't too friendly with them .
A: Well , that 's true .
B: And we don't want , you know , to be stabilized to the point where Iran will say , Now is our chance , you know , to go in and wipe them out
B: and ,
A: Well I don't think Iran is under the same type of madman type leadership ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: but there 's always the possibility , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: since Khomeini died over there , things have gotten a little more normalized .
A: I think so .
B: Not quite as radical a stance , more moderates are in power now .
A: I think the person who really may be at this time has a hard road to tow is Jordan 's King Hussein because he really kind of , really tried to kind of straddle the fence .
B: Yeah .
B: Put in the middle .
A: You know , he was n't necessarily for Iraq
A: but at the same time , he did n't feel like everybody ought to be going against Iraq .
B: And yet so many of the citizens are the uh , the Lebanese . Who were hoping this would evolve into a war against Israel . And uh , trying to connect with Israel all that time
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: and there really was no connection at all .
A: No .
B: And , uh , but boy those Lebanese in Jordan , they were saying you know , this whole war is Israel 's fault because Israel told the United States to attack Iran
B: it was like , it was like you know Israel controls our government .
A: I know ,
A: is n't that amazing the way that they will find their cause
A: no matter what situation they see they 're going to find their cause whether it truly exists or not .
B: Right ,
B: but one thing I did learn was how deep the the hatred runs toward Israel by a lot of countries .
A: I know .
B: They just hate ,
B: I mean , anyway they can , you know , they can see to connect into something and hate it more ,
B: I mean , they just ,
B: I understand most of the land is now Israelis ,
B: they bought , and actually purchased it and then , and then moved in and started a country .
A: That 's true .
A: But , see you are also getting back to the ages old problem of Arab-Israeli conflict , as far as personalties and who is the selected one of God
B: Right .
A: and theirs tie so much to their religion .
B: Yeah ,
B: right ,
B: right
B: and they both have holy sanctions .
A: So , very different things than what we face .
A: Okay
B: Well , what , what do you is think is the , uh , the main change in ?
B: What generation are you ,
B: I 'm , I 'm thirty years old ?
A: I 'm twenty-nine .
B: You 're twenty-nine ,
B: okay ,
B: so we 're , we 're both children of the very early sixties .
A: Right .
A: And , I have , I mean I 've seen some change ,
A: like I know , um , when I was young most mothers pretty much were housewives , and stayed at home with the kids ,
B: Um , um .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and to , to me it seems like its almost the opposite now where the , the woman is working and , and they , you know , take the children to child care ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: or maybe they work part-time or something .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: So , that seems to be a pretty big change .
B: Yeah ,
B: the family structure in general is being really restructured from one income to two incomes which means from one parent to two part-time parents , if you 're lucky
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: Um , I , uh ,
B: it , it 's funny ,
B: it 's both of us then were really just adolescents when , when ,
B: I think , most of the major changes for adult women were going on , in America .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't think , changes are still progressing ,
B: but it seems to me that the , uh , really the seventies , the early seventies was a period of the most change ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , if I had to somewhat abstract about it , it seems to be the major change has been that woman have acquired more choice .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , that 's true .
A: That 's true .
B: Uh , I mean , that 's sort of the overall , the meta , the meta change as it were . Uh , where that woman really have more of a choice now about what they do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , course , they find that the choice creates its own hardships in a way because life is not quite as simple even if it is for your , you know ,
B: you can share something you really want , which is a wonderful thing ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , it does seem
B: like an awful lot of my , uh , my adult women friends are anguishing over , over some of , some of these choices .
B: Um ,
A: Right .
A: Well , I know , the choice to either work or to be a mother is probably pretty difficult because I think women just naturally tend to have those instincts that you , you know , you protected the children , and you want to be with the children ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: yet there 's so many material things to be had out there that a lot of people think , oh , but , if we both work , we can get a really big house , and we can have two really nice cars , we can take a vacation , we can do this ,
B: Yes .
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
A: and it 's kind of almost expected of you anyway .
A: People kind of look down on a , on a , you know , the role of a woman as a housewife ,
A: it 's kind of like , oh , well , you know , she did n't go to college , and she 's just a housewife .
B: Right .
B: She just settled for that .
B: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Even though there 's probably women with M B A 's , maybe even Ph D 's , that are staying at home with the children .
A: Um ,
B: Well , I only know ,
B: I have ,
B: of my friends who have , have children , uh ,
B: I only know of one woman who 's decided to go that quote , unquote , traditional route .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , I have a lot of respect for her , because she made it as a real choice .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She really knew that she did n't have to do that ,
B: but she decided that was what she wanted to do in her life .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , she wanted that role .
B: She 's a marvelous parent
B: and I , you know , I say all power to her because she 's an example to me of someone who really does have the choice .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I feel that a lot of , uh , women don't ,
B: all right I said they have the choice
B: but they don't necessarily feel that they do because they no longer feel like if they were just to be a parent rather than , uh , you know , a sort of super woman success in the business world as well , they would somehow be perceived as a failure , in their own eyes or in others ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: and , and then you , and then it 's not a choice anymore .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and frankly , it 's the way that men are .
B: Uh , men don't have this choice ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they don't feel this choice . Maybe sort of feel like he is n't that success that he could have been .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: So , it 's , um ,
A: There 's some T V show on now
A: and I , I think I 've seen it once .
A: I don't get to watch much T V ,
A: but , uh , there 's a T V show where the man is the one raising the kids , and the wife is ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I ,
A: maybe they based it on that MISTER MOM movie ,
A: but , uh , but , uh , there is a T V show out there .
B: I did n't happen to see that .
A: I guess they 're trying to gain more public acceptance of things like that .
A: Because I know there are cases of where that happens
A: and ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: I knew , I knew people who did that years ago ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they were very apologetic about it
B: because you could tell they were used to people saying , What are you doing that for , you know .
A: Right .
A: It 's probably getting more and more accepted today ,
A: in fact it seems like it 's kind of like anything goes now ,
A: you 're not too surprised on much of anything .
A: When , you know , the husband 's the one at home raising the children , the mother works ,
B: Yeah .
A: that 's not real surprising .
A: And ,
B: Yeah .
B: I 've seen more and more companies that have , uh , parental leave , not just maternity leave .
A: Right .
B: They can have paternity leave , as well as maternity leave .
A: Yeah .
A: In fact I 'm pretty sure TI has something like that
A: because , uh , one of the area supervisors , uh , in my area , as a matter of fact , took off , um , for a couple of weeks , when his wife had their baby .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Now it might have been just to take care of her and the baby , instead of having a , you know , a , a nurse , or someone come in , or , or something like that , or whatever , mid-wife or whatever they call it that they have for the first couple of weeks .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I don't know if he took that out of his vacation or if they really do have a paternity ,
A: he put paternity leave up there ,
A: but it might have just been him describing the fact that he was taking vacation days to go be a father for a little while ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I don't know .
A: But , I 'm not real sure how that goes .
B: Yeah ,
B: the other big change I see in , in woman 's lives is , um , to remain biological
B: they , uh , women because they have choice are having children much later in life .
A: Right .
B: Uh , I mean , my friends who are having children are having them at age thirty .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , if I 'd been a couple of generations ago , they would have had kids running around by then .
A: Right .
A: Well , people they , in general , are just getting married a lot later .
A: I 'm still single
A: so I 'm sure I 'll be one of those parents that 's , you know , one of those women in her thirties when , when I get around to , to ever getting married and having kids .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's , uh , I think , I think that 's getting a little more common too .
B: Yeah .
B: I actually think that I 'm , I 'm somewhat encouraged by that trend , because after all people live longer lives now , so , it 's not like , you know , it 's not like you 're going to , uh , you know , pass away before your child is an adult , I mean , barring , you know , unforeseen circumstances .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
B: And , I think , most people make better parents when they are a little bit more mature .
A: Yeah .
B: I really do .
A: I think it also gives a woman a chance , if she does have a job and a career ,
A: it gives the man and the wife both the chance to both be working and maybe save up some money
A: and then it gives her a little more option if she wants to stay home with the children while they 're young , and , be a mother for awhile ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then once they 've gotten to school age maybe she could go back to work .
A: So , she 's kind of got that option , if , if they wait till later , they 've saved up some money ,
B: Yeah .
A: that it 's not as difficult for her to stay at home with the kids and live off one income , or something .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: That 's true .
B: So , I guess , I , I 'm pretty encouraged
A: Yeah .
B: I really am .
B: But , then I 'm a product of my generation ,
B: I don't know , if I had been born a hundred years ago and were looking at this time , I might not like it ,
B: but it sure seems nice to me .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I mean , I have other things to complain about ,
B: but in terms of , uh , woman 's roles , um , things really seem a lot more flexible .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I seem to see more women in , uh , in leadership type roles and management positions , in politics ,
B: Yeah .
B: I mean , it 's still , it 's still a small minority ,
B: but it 's , but it 's an improvement .
A: Yeah .
B: It really is .
A: Like the Mayor of Dallas is a woman .
B: Oh , really !
A: And , I 'm sure that twenty years ago that never would have happened ,
A: but ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: yeah ,
A: she 's , I think , she 's in her second term now .
A: So , she 's , she 's ,
A: yeah ,
A: this is her second term ,
A: I think , she 's going to , going to , uh , not going to run again after this .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , but , uh , we do , and we have several council women that are women ,
A: but , you just start hearing more and more .
B: Yeah .
A: In fact , oh , the , the Governor of Texas is a woman , too
B: Oh
A: We ca n't forget that one .
A: So ,
B: What 's , what 's her name ?
A: Ann Richards .
B: No ,
B: it ,
B: we don't get much Texas politics out in California , to be honest .
A: Yeah .
A: She was inaugurated in January ,
A: so , so , you 're starting to see more of that
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I know when I was younger it was all the Presidents , and still all the Presidents are men ,
A: but I 'm sure that one of these days , well look at Ferraro ran for Vice-President , and I guess one of these days , we 'll , we 'll eventually have ,
B: That 's right
B: although during , during the Presidential debates , there was some really nasty patronizing , stuff toward ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know if you saw those ,
B: but , I thought she was treated badly for being a woman , frankly , I really did by , by , uh , the the then vice-presidential candidates , uh , who really , I thought , had a demeaning attitude towards her .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , it was sort of , it was acceptable to say certain types of things to her that she could n't say back , that kind of thing , which , I , I , I found myself getting quite enraged about .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , really , that 's a previous generation .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't ,
B: it 's harder to imagine people of our age doing that , and not feeling really stupid .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Right
A: I agree .
A: Well , I think we 've , we 've gotten our five minutes
A: or ,
B: Well , they 've gotten their five minutes worth of us .
B: I 've enjoyed talking with you .
A: It was nice talking to you , too .
B: Okay ,
B: take care .
A: You , too .
A: Bye , bye .
B: Bye , bye .
A: Okay .
A: Well , how do you feel about , uh , drug testing ?
B: Um , personally , I don't have a problem with it , uh ,
B: I think , uh , as far as , uh , protecting fellow employees , protecting their reputation of the company and the quality of work that the people do , um , it 's justified .
B: On the other hand , um , I do agree that it 's , it 's a , it 's an invasion of privacy as far as a person 's involvement outside of work .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , I would never , I would never have a problem with anyone testing me ,
B: but I can understand why people would object .
B: So , I guess , uh , I guess , uh , I 'm kind of mixed on it , still at this point .
A: Yeah .
A: I am too a little bit ,
A: I mean , I , I don't want to be around people who are really on drugs and that sort of thing ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and , you know , obviously they 're probably not going to be doing a good job and so forth ,
A: but I don't really like having to do it .
A: It ,
B: That 's right .
A: And I don't like the idea of it , it 's , it 's , makes too much of a big brother type of thing .
B: That 's absolutely right .
B: It , it , uh , I guess it all comes down to , uh , you know , a , a definition of , uh , how much out , outside activities affect your work
B: and , uh , uh , granted , you know , that ,
B: any , any kind of drug use on , on company property and whatnot , is , is definitely not acceptable .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , uh , I don't think anybody would ever argue that . Or , uh , any , any after affects carrying over into the workday
A: Huh-uh .
B: but , um , you know , I don't , I 'm not particularly concerned with what people do , um , after they leave for the day especially if I don't , if I don't , uh , see any results of it the next day .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I think so too .
A: But , you know , it 's one of those things .
B: Well , it , it is , it , you know ,
B: on the other hand you , you 've got , uh , you 've got the , uh , the possibility of people , oh ,
B: you 've got some people could be arrested for , uh , drug use , drug dealings and things like that ,
B: and , uh , if their , if their employers name hits the papers and that it 's , it 's , it 's a mark against them ,
A: Yeah .
B: the company and , uh , you know , what kind of people work there , what , uh ,
A: Plus , I guess , if they are in problem enough to be jailed or something of that nature for any length of time , then the company has lost what they 've put into that employee , and their expertise or whatever .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
B: Right .
B: even if it is , you know , a company policy of , uh , immediate termination or whatever , they still have to replace them .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , there 's , there 's a lot involved there .
A: Well , do you think that , um , it should be like we have this sort of random spot testing type of thing
A: or do you think it would be more palatable if we had some sort of regular schedule
A: or would that just allow everybody a chance to get out of it ?
B: I think , I think the regular schedule stuff , um , that when you say everybody get out of it , that 's a good point ,
B: I never really thought of it that way .
A: Well , you know , if , if they have time enough they can , stay off of it .
B: Yeah ,
B: if they really can ,
B: um , I think the the biggest problem I 've got is , is forcing it on someone after they 've already agreed to the terms of employment .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , as far as the new hires , I , I hired on just early enough that I , I missed it . Um , where the new hires were concerned
B: but , uh , not , nobody , no ,
B: I don't think anybody questions that , um , testing someone as a , as a precondition to being hired
B: but , um , for the conditions that , for our employment to change while you 're on the job that 's , I , I don't know , that , that 's where I think that most people get upset .
B: It 's , uh , you know , it , it 's changing the rules in the middle of the game basically
B: and , uh , It 's just , it , it 's a really tough question
A: Yeah .
B: and it , you know , it ,
B: people have , have really quieted down after everything started
B: but I still think there 's a lot of , there 's a lot of resentment .
A: I think so too , uh ,
A: I know the , the group I was in at the time this all came up they , uh , were quite vocal about it , through electronic mail ,
A: boy , they just really , you know let them have it from one end to the other , vehemently
B: Uh-huh .
B: You bet .
A: but , uh , it has quieted down ,
A: but I don't think they probably feel any differently ,
B: No ,
B: that 's right .
A: and some , some of them did quit the company .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I know of some people who did , uh ,
B: it was , it was indirectly related , you know ,
B: they could always come up with other reasons
B: but it , it had a lot to do with it . Just the , the whole attitude ,
B: because it 's really , uh , it 's just really ,
B: it , it seems so
B: T I , you know , with the , the whole relaxed atmosphere that we have , um , to all of a sudden , uh , search for attitudes and whatnot .
A: True .
B: You know , there 's not a lot of pressure to , to vote the right way or anything else around T I .
B: Like there , like there is in some companies or at least , you know ,
B: from what I 've heard ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh ,
B: yeah
A: Yeah ,
A: I would n't like anything of that nature , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: No ,
B: I ,
A: don't tell me what to do , you know .
B: Absolutely not , you know ,
B: it 's , it 's , it 's , you know ,
B: if you hired me I 'll be , you know ,
B: supposedly your grade was a little majority of my views and my qualifications to begin with
B: so , uh , you know , let 's , let 's stick with that original trust , I guess .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , it 's , it 's still , it , it still remains a tough question
B: and , it 's , there 's a lot of , you know , the whole , the whole department of defense , uh , reasoning behind the original plan and whatnot .
B: There 's a lot of different things that , uh , come into play
B: but that was ,
B: I think everybody , everybody pretty much knows that that was kind of a smoke screen to implement it throughout the whole company .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I guess too if I thought that this would help really and truly do away with the drug problem , then that would be one thing . But I think it 's too minor and too , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: in , in the whole scope of things this is n't going to , to have any real affect on , what 's going on in the street .
B: I really don't think so .
B: Yeah .
B: I really don't because , some people are going to , are , are going to risk it , um ,
B: it may prevent ,
B: I , I guess , I guess what I 'm trying to get at is , if it , if it , if it does help a few individuals maybe , maybe it 's worth it .
A: Yeah .
B: Um , you know , it may prevent somebody who was , was teetering on the edge of experimenting or whatnot
B: but , uh , I don't know if , you know , the ,
B: it 's , it 's a needs of the few and the needs of the many type situation
B: I don't know if everybody should have to sacrifice quite as much .
B: There , there 's still a big question in my mind
B: that , the , the absolute refusal to accept the possibility of , of mistakes on the testing , is something that still bothers me .
A: Well , yes .
B: It , it 's ,
A: That ,
A: yes .
A: I , I think that could be a big problem , you know ,
A: I would just be irate if they said it was positive and I knew it was n't ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , that just really rubbed me the wrong way .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Absolutely .
B: And that ,
B: I , I don't know if , uh , I don't know if everybody understands all the implications on that too . even if you , you know , if you take , uh , a , a drug that was prescribed for you
B: but the , the prescription has run out you still had some left
B: and you happen to take an extra penicillin ,
B: well , penicillin 's not on the list
B: but , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: yeah ,
B: I , I think you understand what I 'm getting at ,
A: Yeah .
B: it , it can still show up
B: and it can still flag as a positive
B: and , and those kinds of things obviously that 's not the intent ,
A: Right .
A: No .
B: and , uh , those are the kinds of things that still can show up .
A: I guess the one that really got me too was that , uh ,
A: let 's say your spouse is on a particular drug
A: and you know what that is ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then you end up with the same problem
A: and you take their leftover medicine ,
A: that 's not allowed .
B: That 's right .
A: You know , that 's , that 's totally out .
B: That 's right .
B: I even had friends when I was going to college who were in , uh , pharmacy school
B: and they could legally , um , provide medicine to their family family members and friends
B: certain medicines were , were legal now
B: I , I , I believe , you know , any of the , any of the ones we would , we would be tested for would n't be on those lists ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , um , there were certain things that they could provide without a doctors prescription based on their qualifications
B: and , that can happen .
A: Oh , that 's interesting .
B: But , uh ,
A: Well , I guess we 've exhausted that one .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I think so
A: enjoyed talking to you .
B: You too .
A: Good-bye .
B: Good-bye .
A: Well , what 's your views on it ?
B: I think it 's , uh , a good idea .
B: Um , I grew up , uh ,
B: my teenage years were spent during the sixties ,
B: graduating , uh , high school in sixty-eight . Um , I remember when the Peace Corps movement first came about ,
B: and I thought it was a very good idea at the time .
B: I was one of those , uh , Kennedy children , if you know what I mean .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , right now I see a lot of kids who get out of school , have no idea what they want to do .
A: Yeah .
B: And there 's a lot of things out there that we could do , uh , for our own country ,
A: Sure .
B: let alone other countries ,
A: Sure .
B: and I think that we 've got the , the people power to do it ,
B: it 's just , uh ,
B: we need to channel it and focus it on some things that , that need some fixing up .
B: Um , some examples are this , uh , some of the things , like Jimmy Carter 's been involved in , uh , a little program to , you know , fix up housing for people .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And there 's a lot of housing ,
A: Yeah .
B: I know in the area that I live in , that 's run down and beat up ,
B: but it could be fixed up and used ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's just , you know , sitting there wasting away .
A: Yeah ,
A: we 're not too far behind
A: I graduated in seventy-one ,
A: so I 'm , I 'm same generation .
A: I , I 'm ,
A: it 's going to be a short conversation because I agree with you .
A: I , I think , uh , I don't , I don't even think it ought to be , uh , voluntary ,
A: I think it ought to be mandatory . Uh , for kids to either , either do military service , or public service , one of the two .
A: Uh , a lot of reasons for that , not , not just because I 'm a , I 'm a hard ass or anything .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's just that , like you say , kids are getting out of high school not knowing what in the heck they 're going to do ,
A: and either the military or public service organization can give them a lot of focus .
A: And , I think that it might stop us some problems later on .
A: I mean , you know these kids will get their , their heads on straight , and , and figure out what they want to do , instead of hanging around street corners selling drugs or something .
A: Uh , it 's , I think it would be good for them , uh ,
A: it helps mature them a little bit , and helps them understand the world , the way it really is .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think a lot of people grow up with , uh , with , uh , preconceived notions what the world 's about .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: A lot of it has to do from too much T V ,
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: and , uh , you know , it 's , there 's , there 's a heck of a lot of difference between , you know , the intake that you get from T V and , and movies , and what you hear in school , and then what reality is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I remember , uh , I 've , I 've worked since I was ,
B: well , I started delivering papers when I was ten ,
B: and I had a real job when I was thirteen ,
B: so I 've , you know , worked most of my life .
B: But I remember when I got out of high school , all through high school was ,
B: boy , I ca n't wait to get out of high school ,
B: I ca n't wait to get out of high school .
B: And I wanted to go to college ,
B: and I had the grades to go to college ,
B: and I got accepted to college ,
B: but when I got out of high school , I kind of said , you know , what am I going to do now ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , it 's
B: like , you know , when I actually started working full time , and I , I got married shortly after getting out of high school .
B: I , uh , thought I was smart , ran away and got married ,
B: and , uh , I remember there was a time , and within the first year of marriage , I said , boy would n't I give to get , be back in school , and just have to do homework , and , and go work my part time job .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Because , life , and the reality of working for a living , and trying to make ends meet , is just so overwhelming to someone , if they are n't prepared for it .
A: Yeah .
A: And , and most of them are n't .
B: That 's true .
A: I mean , you look , you look at the number of marriages that are occurring right I mean , even in high school ,
A: and , you know , you wonder , where are the parents in all of this .
A: You know , why is n't somebody stepping in and , and putting a stop to this .
A: Kids in high school are just too young to be married .
B: Yeah .
A: They they have no idea what the world is like .
A: They don't how tough it is out there to make a living .
B: Yeah ,
B: a ,
A: Uh , I mean , I was in the same boat when I left high school .
A: I , my parents wanted me to go straight to college
A: and I did n't .
A: You know , I was ready ,
A: I was ready ,
A: I had wanderlust ,
A: I wanted to get out and see some things .
A: So , I joined the Air Force and ended up staying there for thirteen years .
B: Um .
A: Um , but , I had lived in my own little bubble up until that time ,
A: and , and after traveling around the world a few times , I realized that , things ai n't the way they seem .
B: Yeah .
A: And I , I did a lot of growing up there , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I think once , once kids get out and see how other people really live , and know how bad off some people really are , and how good they 've got it , and what it takes to have that good life , if you 're willing to work for it , then they 're probably be more inclined to work for it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's right
A: That 's right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , you know , it 's just like you say , there 's so much stuff that needs to be done here in this country ,
A: and , uh , you know , if , if you could have a thought of something like , uh , like a , uh , uh , a Peace Corps sort of organization . I mean , this would be so useful , just in , uh , for instance , just helping old folks .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: exactly .
A: You know , they , you know they need help ,
A: they don't have anybody to depend on ,
A: and it would be nice to have somebody come over and cut their yard or paint their house , or do minor repairs , or something like that .
B: You know , I 've , I 've I ,
B: my , my parents are in their late sixties now ,
B: and , um , so many of the people that live around them are unable to do those things for themselves anymore .
A: Yeah .
B: And , it 's , it 's really hard on them ,
B: and the , you know , the thought that I , I see the , uh , the mall rats , you know , walking around the mall , nothing better to do than just walk around the mall all day long , when they could be doing something to help someone .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , you know , there 's a , uh , a nice warm feeling ,
B: I remember getting out of doing things like that when I was younger ,
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , I was a Boy Scout
B: and the whole bit and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: my mom 's in the same position , late sixties ,
A: and , and it got to the , got to the point where , I mean , me and my brother both were , were gone , and she could n't maintain the house , without large expenditures of money .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , it finally got to a point where she just had to sell it and move into an apartment .
A: And , uh , I , I 'm not , I 'm not saying that that would n't have happened anyway ,
A: but it would have been nice if there had been somebody to come around and take care of the little things . You know , like the , like the yard work and little repairs , and painting and stuff like that .
B: Yeah .
B: I think there 'd , there 'd be a , you know , a , uh , economic benefit for , you know , everyone concerned , those doing the work , and those receiving the , the , uh , the services .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: sure .
A: Sure ,
A: I mean , I mean , the kids who would be giving the service are going to get a lot more out of it than just money .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , that ,
A: I , I remember when I was a kid , I used to do little , little things for the old folks around the neighborhood ,
A: and , uh , I know how it made me feel .
A: You know , you uh ,
A: people just don't help people anymore .
A: They 're , they 're out for themselves
A: and ,
B: Yeah .
B: I think , uh , President Bush covered that in his , uh , State of the Union Address this year when he said that , you know , it 's time for , you know , the individuals to start thinking about what they can do to help each other out instead of counting on government to do everything .
A: Yeah ,
A: well that 's , that 's the , that 's the point we 've gotten to , you know .
A: Every time somebody wants something they always turn to the government .
A: And , the government 's going to be limited .
A: I , where are they going to get the money ?
A: They 're going to get it from us .
A: And we can do it a lot more efficiently than the government .
B: Yeah .
A: We don't need to add fourteen layers of bureaucracy to a program .
B: Exactly .
A: Um , the thing that Carter works on , uh , Habitats For Humanity , I was involved in that uh , in Montgomery , before I came up to North Carolina ,
B: Uh-huh
A: and , uh , it was , it was a pretty neat little program .
A: We 'd just go out ,
A: and they would buy a plot of land , and contractors and builders ,
A: and everybody else would donate their , their time ,
A: and , uh , the materials were at cost .
A: And we 'd put up houses .
A: And , that was kind , that was kind of neat .
A: I , uh , in a way , I think it 's a little bit inefficient ,
A: but , but it 's better than nothing .
B: Yeah .
A: And , and at least I had the opportunity of seeing two families move into decent housing .
A: Um , course , on the other hand , I can start complaining very loudly about people on public assistance who are quite capable of doing something for themselves , but just wo n't . Because it 's far more advantageous for them to sit there and just draw , uh , welfare money than it is to work .
B: Yes .
A: Uh , we did a , uh , a cost comparison in one of my courses ,
A: and we took all the benefits that a family , that a , a married couple with two kids would get under welfare , and what they would be making at minimum wage .
A: And they came out four thousand dollars better a year , by taking welfare .
B: Yes .
A: So there 's no incentive for them to do anything .
A: Far better for them to sit on their butts and draw the money .
B: Yeah .
B: One of the things they tried to push through in Maryland , and , uh , were n't very successful was that if you were an able-bodied person on welfare , you had to do some work .
A: You had to do something .
B: And ,
A: Yeah .
A: and that 's been tried , that was tried in Alabama too ,
A: and it got shot down .
B: Yeah .
A: I and I don't understand the reasoning for it .
A: I really don't .
A: It , it seems perfectly logical that if somebody 's going to take public money , then they should return something to the public .
A: I mean , if nothing else , go out along an interstate and pick up garbage .
B: That 's exactly what they were trying to get them to do .
A: Yeah .
A: What do they , what do they do in Maryland ,
A: do they use highway people
A: or do they use prisoners ?
B: Um , both .
A: Yeah .
A: that 's the way they did it in Alabama , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: they use both .
A: usually you 'd see these big chain gangs out there , picking up trash .
B: Uh , they have a , they have another program in Maryland that 's called Adopt A Highway .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have that here in North Carolina .
A: Well , good afternoon to you , Mary .
A: First , let me ask you , what 's , what 's the weather like up there to begin with ?
B: And good ,
B: Well , well , today , uh , when I got up it was twenty-nine degrees .
B: Yes ,
B: and it managed to get up to about fifty this afternoon
B: but it 's been cloudy , overcast and threatening rain all day .
A: That sounds more like our winter weather down here .
B: And we 've also had extremely strong winds , fifteen to twenty miles an hour , for the day .
A: Um .
A: Well , you know , I bet that 's what we , that storm we had last night .
B: Is that right ?
A: Oh , we had a frog strangler go sweeping through here , uh , yesterday and last night .
A: And we 're expecting another one tonight .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Oh , I mean it was raining so hard you could swim down the street .
B: We had one of those two days ago . But not , uh , but , uh , no rain at all yesterday and , uh , no rain today .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , it 's probably on its way up there .
A: It was heading north .
B: Thanks a lot
B: could n't you send us some nice weather ?
A: Well , it was nice today .
B: Oh , was it ?
A: Uh , in between the thunder showers ,
A: yes .
B: Well , the , one thing 's for sure we can always discuss the weather ,
B: how some ever we ca n't do very much to change it .
A: Well , you know , what they say about the weather here in Texas ?
B: What 's that ?
A: If you , if you don't like it , wait five minutes , it 'll change .
B: Oh , yes ,
B: well that 's about the way our weather is here also .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I grew up in Saint Louis ,
B: and Saint Louis was much the same .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , tell me , uh , is , is it normally that cold up there in , in the Spring ?
B: No ,
B: it 's not .
B: This is , uh , about , uh , ten degrees cooler than usual .
B: But about a week ago we were up to eighty and eighty-five degrees .
A: You 're kidding ?
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: it , uh , it fluctuates from one extreme to the other it seems .
A: You , are you sure you did n't leave your refrigerator door open ?
B: I 'm sure I did n't .
B: I was ready to turn on the air conditioning .
B: It , no , it really was extremely warm .
B: It only got down to about sixty-five in the evening .
A: Um-hum .
B: We had about three or four days of that ,
B: and then all of a sudden a cold front came down and , uh , temperatures dropped thirty degrees in a very short length of time .
B: And , uh , it has gone down gradually each day .
B: This morning it was twenty-nine ,
B: yesterday it was about thirty-two .
B: Uh , cars were scraping , ice off their cars this morning if they 've been sitting out all night .
A: Oh .
B: So it , it really was n't too , was n't too pleasant
A: Oh , Mother Macree .
A: No ,
A: I should say not .
A: Well , I , I , sincerely hope that you don't have that terrible storm we had .
B: Oh , I hope , not .
A: I hope , it does n't reach you up there .
B: Well , they are predicting rain and thunderstorms ,
B: and I would n't be a bit surprised by what we would not be getting the same weather you had .
A: Well , I ,
A: let 's hope it ,
A: well , if it 's the same as what we had , at least it 'll be warmer .
B: Uh , yeah .
B: Yes ,
B: warm rain ,
B: well , of course , by the time it gets up here it may run into a cold front coming down from Canada .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , boy ,
A: the , that , whew , that would be tear disastrous . If you , had that rain storm and freezing weather .
B: Yes .
B: Yes .
A: Oh .
B: We had , uh , a week ago they had golf ball size hail coming down in one part of the , uh , of the city of Dayton itself .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , then we just had about an inch and a half or two inches of rain in less than an hour .
B: It was just coming down by the bucketfulls and a great deal of lightning .
A: Oh , yes .
B: So , it , it was n't , uh , it was n't conditions to being out in it
B: and I had just gotten home .
B: We had a lot of tornado warnings also .
B: And I had gotten home shortly before that , uh , the rain started .
B: So , uh , I felt a little more secure that I was at home rather than having to be out driving in it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , uh , I heard on the news this morning that , um , one of our local schools , uh , lost the roof of their gymnasium .
B: Is that right ?
A: And they suspected may have been a tornado .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , uh , thank God for small favors , the , uh , uh ,
A: what do they call them ? The , the , the marching band or something ?
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , uh , had just quit rehearsal about a half hour before .
B: Oh , they ,
B: that was , very , very fortunate for them because that could have really been disastrous .
A: Oh , and how .
B: Well , of course this is tornado season , uh ,
B: in to , uh ,
B: we have many tornadoes spawned in this area . And northern Indiana ,
B: now we 're in the southwestern part of , uh , Ohio , just forty miles north , due north of Cincinnati ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , but , uh , northern Indiana , has many tornadoes come roaring across .
B: And we get the backlash off of it , if not the part of the tornado itself .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , we , you know , we get a lot of bad weather in this area .
B: But of course you 're supposed to be the sun belt ,
B: and I do know that you get some freezing weather down there on occasion .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Well , during the winter ,
A: yes ,
A: we do .
A: Uh , we 've had , uh , well , past four or five years , I guess , at least one day during the year when just everything would just close down because we 'd have freezing rain .
B: Um-hum .
A: And , uh , of course people down here , they just don't know how to handle themselves
A: and ,
B: Right .
B: Yes ,
B: I was going to say that it does make a difference when you 're not accustomed , to , uh , having to , drive in it .
A: Well , uh , not only that ,
A: but , we 're , we 're don't have the equipment to handle it either .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: Uh , they go out there ,
B: And ,
A: and the ,
A: well all you can do with , with , uh , freezing rain of course , is spread sand on the ice .
B: Right .
A: And , but , uh , you know , we don't even have vehicles that will do that .
B: Um-hum .
B: Right .
B: Well , uh , well here what they do and I , I contend that it 's certainly not the right thing to do , they spread salt .
B: And of course the salt does melt the ice ,
B: but then what melts immediately freezes and becomes , uh , a perpetual problem .
B: Oh , it sure does do that .
A: Yeah ,
A: they , well we , they do that down here too .
A: They mix the salt in with the sand .
B: Well , sand , and , uh ,
B: but I have learned to do , is , uh , now that I am alone , is , uh , to carry bags of salt in the trunk of my car .
B: Um , not only in case I need it for that for traction but for additional weight , in the , back of the car .
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then of course kitty litter is also excellent for that . I don't know whether you 've ever thought in terms of , that
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 've ,
B: but ,
A: no ,
A: I 'm a dog lover myself .
B: yeah .
B: Well Well , the dogs don't use litter .
B: But kitty litter is excellent for , uh , getting under the wheels of cars
B: and what have you and giving you traction .
A: I guess it would be .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , uh , works out , uh , really quite well .
B: Course I have , I have a dog also .
B: My son brought me a little Lhasa Apso , uh , for my birthday last Thanksgiving .
A: Oh .
B: He brought him from Dallas .
B: He ,
A: Oh , was n't that nice of him ?
B: Yes ,
B: that , uh ,
B: he just thought I had been without a dog , uh , for three years .
B: That was long enough .
A: Uh ,
B: He , he had ,
A: I have , uh , a , a Chowperd myself .
B: Oh , a what ?
A: A Chowperd .
B: Now that one I 'm not familiar with .
A: Well , she 's part Chow and part Shepherd .
B: Uh , okay .
B: Okay ,
B: that makes sense then
A: Uh-huh .
A: But she 's the best , the best of both breeds .
B: I believe ,
B: Yes ,
B: right ,
B: well , I 've always had big dogs before . Never had a little dog before .
A: Well , June , is medium sized .
B: And ,
B: Yes
B: well , Oh , well , I had a German shorthair that was frightened of storms .
A: But she is scared to death of thunder storms .
B: The minute it would begin to storm , he would just panic .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I had to push him down when he was fourteen ,
B: and two months later I had to put my yellow Lab down , because he had leukemia .
A: Oh .
B: And , uh , then , uh , then there was no point in having all my acreage .
B: I had four and a half acres with game preserve on three sides .
A: Oh , that must be nice .
B: Oh , well , it was great .
B: I loved it .
B: But then I did n't need all that anymore , so I finally sold that ,
B: and I 'm in a fair size condo .
B: And I have a nice size patio .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , so this little dog has plenty of room to run .
A: Well , good .
B: Yeah ,
B: and he is a , a cutie
B: and , uh , but I 've never had a dog I had to keep taking to the groomer 's to have groomed either
A: No ,
A: well , now , you know , it sounds like you ought to be in a condo down in Miami Beach somewhere . Or better yet , down around Saint Petersburg , Florida .
B: And it 's ,
B: Is that right ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's what I call home .
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: I lived there for ten years .
B: Oh , well I was there once way , way back in nineteen-sixty , I think for just a week 's vacation .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I , that 's about the only time I 've been to Florida , except passing through on the way to someplace else .
A: Yep .
B: But , uh ,
A: Well , I lived there in the seventies .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I , I love it .
A: I have two sons still living down there .
B: Um-hum .
B: Well , uh , uh , most of my friends do spend a lot of time down in Florida .
B: But , uh , I have just , that 's just not been my thing .
B: We used to always head west or head north .
B: Now that I 'm alone why , uh , I , uh , prefer to travel overseas if I 'm going anywhere .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: And , uh , course there too you never know what the weather 's going to be .
B: When you , start getting over , to ,
A: Well , that 's , that 's why I was suggesting , uh , that Saint Petersburg is got , got to be the finest weather in the world .
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: Oh , I , I loved it down there .
B: Um .
A: Course you could tell , always tell which were the , the and which ones were the snowbirds .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , is that right ?
A: Yeah ,
A: the snowbirds were the ,
B: Okay ,
B: so I think , I think what we should talk about is , uh , the war .
A: Okay .
B: The war that just went on .
B: See , I , I don't agree with it .
B: First of all I don't believe in war .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then , the United States has this attitude by saying , you know , thank you for keeping us our freedom and stuff like that .
B: And I think it 's all independent because , it 's , it has nothing to do with the United States .
B: You did n't gain anything from it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it was n't our freedom that you were saving .
B: It was just ,
B: the thing , the thing that , that , that I saw was okay ,
B: Iraq wants to raise oil prices .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Kuwait wants to take Iraq out of the whole system , by leaving them independent .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so , when Iraq , you know , saw this , they said let 's take over the country , which is a good idea ,
B: right ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Then the United States says , okay , our , our oil prices are going to go up .
B: And like for example , see , okay , like Lithuania right , they declared themselves an independent country with a president ,
B: right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Russia goes in there , well the main government in Moscow goes in there
B: and they kick everybody 's ass .
B: And the United States does n't go in there
B: and say , listen , they were , you know , named an independent , you know , state with a president and everything
B: but we 're not going to go into your country .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But these countries here , which , you know , are , you know , like in NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR ,
B: have you ever read that book ?
A: No ,
A: huh-uh .
B: Okay ,
B: NINETEEN EIGHTY-FOUR there are like three big continents
B: and , uh , there 's just this area , like around Egypt and stuff , that everybody 's fighting over .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Now the problem is , is that nobody 's going to invade anybody else 's boundaries .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: like their immediate boundaries . Like you 're not going to go , you know , it 's like the Army 's not going to go straight into Russia because there you 're , you 're invading their border ,
B: right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But all the other countries , you can fight about .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so the thing is , is that you 're wasting so much money to send , you know ,
B: it 's like how much money did the U S spend when they could have paid so much money for each barrel of oil that was being ,
A: We 'll probably never know how much it actually cost .
B: And you know , it 's , it was basically all based on oil because nobody
B: actually , like for example , if , uh , let 's say if , you know Brazil took over you know , Surinam . I don't think anybody would care .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , and , uh , that 's something that , that has been , you know , very ,
B: because , see the thing is , is like every time that I see a war , I see myself on the front line , and on the other side I see myself again , and I 've got to shoot myself , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I got to shoot somebody that 's got the same family that I do . You know , the same relationships that I do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And just because I was born here I 've got to shoot them down .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: oh , it 's never a pleasant thing ,
A: that 's true .
B: And , uh , but at least it was , it was over quick
B: and there were n't that many deaths .
A: Yes
A: that 's ,
B: Now the only problem is , is the aftermath , that you 're having so many deaths in the border with , uh , Turkey .
A: Yes .
A: Yes ,
A: that 's really unfortunate ,
A: it really is .
A: I don't know if we stopped too soon ,
A: I don't , I don't , I really don't know what we need to do about that .
B: Well , there 's something that , that the U S did right which is say , say , you know , okay ,
B: let 's kick him out of Kuwait , which was our basic goal .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , now , indirectly let 's try to overthrow him , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they 're not going to do that directly .
B: But the thing is , is that , they , they did n't go into , into Iraq and say , you know , because they have the force to go in there and say get out of the country .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , you can seek , seek asylum here ,
A: Yeah .
B: and you can go there ,
B: but no way are you going to rule ever again .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I 've been hearing some talk too of trying to bring Hussein up on , you know , criminal charges .
A: I don't know if that will ever happen or not .
B: Well the thing is , is that first of all they got to , they they have to get him .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: which is very difficult to do .
B: And , and there 's no way that you can get them , unless it 's by force .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know . And then you can put him on trial .
A: Obviously , he 's not going to turn himself in .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: I think , I think he 'd rather commit suicide than turn himself in , because there 's , I mean there 's like , it 's like there 's no hope , you know , like what Hitler did , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , like if you were going to put on trial you get to live the rest of your life , but where .
A: True ,
A: yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
B: You know , and so , um , the thing is , is that once you 've done something wrong , which is you know , internationally recognized , then you 're going to try to get out of it
B: and the , there 's no way , you know . And especially since he 's got inside Iraq for using , you know , chemical weapons and stuff .
A: Yeah ,
A: true .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And you know like he sent planes over to , to shoot the people down that were on the border with , uh , that were on their way to Turkey .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He had a couple of them bombarded .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: obviously human life means nothing to him .
B: Huh-uh .
B: But , uh , you know , he 's got , uh , millions of dollars ,
B: like , I think it was like , I don't know if it was fifty billion or fifty million , which is really , does n't make any difference
A: Oh yeah .
A: That 's true .
A: Past a point it does n't make any difference .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's really , really unfortunate .
A: It really is .
B: But it 's just , it 's just that , uh , you know , you know , like the ,
B: we just put our goals in different , you know , levels is
B: like saying , you know , it 's like
B: yeah ,
B: sure ,
B: we need oil , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we need it desperately .
A: Yeah .
B: But the other countries , that , you know , that have oil but not as big , you know , like they say , you know , like when the prices went up and then they went down .
A: Uh-huh .
B: When they took that big dip it was because they discovered another big oil well somewhere in Saudi Arabia , or something .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Seems like the prices never go down to where they were originally , though , before , before the increase started .
B: Well , it , its an advantage .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , it 's like you 're saying , okay , I can bring my prices up to a dollar fifty a gallon and I 'm not going to bring them back down to , you know , ninety-nine cents .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Why ,
B: because people are willing to pay a dollar fifty a gallon ,
B: so if I leave it at a dollar ten , people are still going to pay .
A: True .
B: You know , I went down forty cents ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I went up ten cents .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: About the lowest I 've seen gasoline in the Dallas area is , uh , I guess , about ninety-two point nine now .
B: Ninety-eight ?
A: Ninety-two .
B: Oh , God .
B: Here it 's like , it 's like a dollar five .
A: Oh really .
B: Yeah .
A: Well there 's still a lot of dollar five places here
A: but you can find some that 's under a dollar , but not , not a whole lot .
A: That 's the lowest I 've seen .
B: But still the ,
B: I mean , have you ever checked , like , uh , the most money-makers in , uh , in nineteen , uh , ninety .
B: Uh , you can see that , uh , Exxon and Amaco and uh , other companies , oh God , I forgot their names , but , uh , Exxon was the number one money-maker ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that was just because of , of the last quarter .
A: Right ,
A: I think Mobil was doing very well , too .
B: Yeah .
A: Well I , I assume all the major , major brands are .
B: And , uh , that was ,
B: I mean and what other companies are , went up four hundred and some percent .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that 's practically impossible to do now a days , for a company to , to shoot up in that way .
A: That 's true .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: And , uh , it 's just that , you know , people , people take advantage of that .
B: You know , like the , the companies are saying we 're trying not to raise our prices but when , you know , when we get a barrel coming in at more than what we 're selling it for , we 've got to raise our prices .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , but still if you realize that , uh , one barrel has like , how much was it , like , um forty gallons ,
A: Yeah ,
A: something like ,
A: yeah .
B: it 's got forty gallons
B: and they 're selling , you know , you know ,
B: you got to pay forty dollars at least and , you know , for , uh , for one gallon
A: Yeah .
B: and it 's , it was selling like at twenty-five or something .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So you 're making , uh , you know , fifteen dollars profit , easily .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: sure .
B: And , uh , everything ,
B: I mean , and , and , the expenses , you know , of the war , you know , it 's like , uh , it 's like who 's gaining on this .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Okay ,
B: because , uh , does , does the U S government own any gas companies , like , like , you know gas stations and stuff ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: I , because , see like for example , I don't know if the British government owns Shell .
B: I 'm not sure about that .
A: I 'm not sure either .
B: But the thing is like the U S government got nothing out of it . Because , well , you know , it 's like the other independent companies , the gas stations , you know , they did .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , then the taxes go up
B: and then everybody else loses .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , um , you know , they 're just , they 're just some things that might not be worth it .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: You know , and , and first of all how many , how many people had to , had to die before the war , you know ,
B: it 's like transporting stuff and things like that , before , you know , it 's like
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: yeah
B: sure , you know , like to , to a couple people that died there , their families don't feel it was necessary to do that .
A: Sure ,
A: dead 's dead .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: you , you could , you could never bring them back .
A: That 's true ,
A: so .
B: Oh well .
A: Well , I don't guess we resolved anything
A: but it 's interesting .
B: Yeah ,
B: so , okay ,
B: nice talking to you .
A: To you too ,
A: take care .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: All right ,
A: I , I think our experience of camping is ,
A: I , I am the , the passive member ,
A: I get things ready and then I enjoy .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , because , my , my husband is a good camper
A: and so they ,
A: he manages the troops
A: and they do the work
A: and I have fun
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , uh , uh , your , you said your family was uh , all grown up now ,
B: how about when they were younger ,
B: did you go take them camping ?
A: That 's when we camped the most .
B: Uh-huh .
A: When ,
A: I thinks it 's a marvelous activity for younger families because , uh , I , it seems like I would go through a period of time where I just , uh , was really overworked , you know ,
A: and , and getting out into nature and relaxing , and having the family do a good share of the work , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and the part that I did was more fun than , uh , than labor because they did the , the running and toting chores and I just helped cook and kind of organize , you know .
B: Yeah
B: even cooking over an open fire is a little more fun , is n't it .
A: It is ,
A: is n't it .
A: It is n't .
A: what kinds of things have you tried ?
A: Have you done , uh , uh , uh , the big pot cooking ?
B: Oh , oh , uh , well , it was really my ex who did the , the , uh , uh , the cooking back when we first started
B: and we found that the , you know , what was one , one great handy things was this , uh , uh , uh , hamburger helper . Because all you needed was a big frying pan ,
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Big frying
B: you dumped everything in together
B: and it was enough for all five of us , six of us .
A: Oh , that 's interesting .
A: You know , interesting enough , uh , the food part was kind of , uh , important thing in our camping .
A: Uh , when my oldest son , uh ,
A: always at the beginning I did all the shopping and everything .
A: But the , the neat breakthrough was when my oldest son Mark took his , uh , uh , cooking merit badge in ,
A: and , and Mark was the kind of camper who ate beef stroganoff
A: and , uh , I mean , you know , he did it up really good
B: Oh .
A: And so , uh , after he took that merit badge , he did all the shopping and preparing , getting ready for it .
B: Well that 's great .
A: It was , it was a marvelous experience because after that , then all I had to do was , uh , follow the instructions , you know and do .
A: And we did a lot of interesting kinds of things
A: like I would take corn bread and , uh , cook a pan inside of a pan over a , over a camp , uh , stove .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it works real good .
A: It 's like an oven .
B: Well , cooking was our secondary interest ,
A: Just put , uh , put a thing on it .
B: I mean .
A: What did you like to do most ?
B: Well really just commune with nature .
A: That 's neat is n't it ?
B: We started out , uh ,
B: well we were living in Florida at the time
B: and we , early in life , we discovered that six people all going on vacation gets to be very , very expensive .
A: Right .
A: I agree .
B: So my ex decided , we 're going to try camping
B: and she went out one day on the spur of the moment and bought a tent .
B: And that 's how we got started .
A: Huh .
B: We did it for years and years , uh .
A: Well now in Florida , is is there are there times of the year when it 's very comfortable to camp or is it always kind of hot .
B: Well , uh ,
B: yes and no .
B: I mean , um , in the winter time yes ,
B: it 's , it gets kind of chilly or it can get chilly .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , there 's really no time of the year that you ca n't go .
A: Oh , is that true ?
B: Uh ,
A: Now , now we 're , we 're in Texas now
A: and you 're in Texas ,
A: right .
B: Yes ,
B: I 'm in Dallas .
A: Okay , uh ,
A: we have not camped a great deal here because , uh , a good share of the time in the Summer time , it 's too hot really to be very comfortable camping .
B: Well , it just depends on where you go ,
B: for instance , if you went down to the sea shore , it would be wonderful , a nice breeze blowing in from the water .
A: I
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: we have done that
A: But , but we camped mostly ,
A: when the kids were little we were in , we were in New Jersey , and Uh , in , uh , Allendale and , uh , and , uh , Waldwick ,
A: it 's just about twelve miles south of , the New York border .
A: And we 'd go up to the Adirondacks and camp
A: and it was so , you know , pick your own , uh , blueberries and make blueberry pancakes for breakfast
B: Oh yes ,
B: yes ,
A: Uh , also ,
B: I I come from up in that area ,
A: go ahead .
B: I 'm a New Yorker myself .
A: Oh , are you ?
A: Where did you live ?
B: A little town called Tuckaho , over by White Plains .
A: Oh , oh yeah ,
A: I know that .
A: I had a cousin who lived in White Plains ,
A: that 's a , that 's a neat area .
A: But it 's a , that is a particularly neat area for camping because ,
B: Well that I would n't know
B: I left there when I was quite young .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is neat though because there are lots of lakes , fairly near by ,
A: you don't have to go very far .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , and there 's , uh , a lot of trees , lot of mountains , and lot of , uh , hiking sort of things
A: and , and we had , uh , collapsible boat which we , clipper , little clipper sail boat .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so we would sail and , and , uh , did a lot of camping that way .
B: Well , uh , me , I outgrew , uh , sleeping bags and , uh , tents ,
B: and I now have a motor home .
A: Oh , do you .
A: We 've gotten out a time or two on a rented basis
A: and it 's fun , too , I think .
B: Well I live in mine .
A: Do you ?
B: Yes .
A: That 's neat ,
A: so you kind of , uh , uh , an everyday camper
B: Uh , well , yes
B: I consider myself what they call a full-timer .
A: A full time camper .
B: Yeah
A: Well now , are you living alone now ,
A: or ,
B: well just me and my dog .
A: You and your dog , huh ,
B: Yeah .
A: Hey ,
A: that sounds great .
A: Well , we don't , we don't camp quite as much as we used to ,
A: but , uh , I still think it 's a great way to spend a time with your family , and enjoy nature and , uh , kind of wipe out the stress of everyday life .
B: Oh yes ,
B: definitely .
A: I 'd always ,
B: Nothing like the fresh outdoors .
A: right ,
A: I 'd always come home just relaxed and , uh , comfortable and ready to go at it again ,
A: so it was a neat activity .
A: Good to talk to you .
A: Tell me your name again .
B: Jack .
A: Jack ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: all right .
B: Are you , uh , from Dallas too , Beth .
A: yes ,
A: we 've been here ,
A: we 're , we 're in Plano ,
B: Oh !
A: but we 've been here about , uh , eighteen years .
B: Well that 's where we , that 's where I am ,
B: Plano .
A: Are you , are you ,
A: how about that .
A: Well we 're all , lots of people from T I up this way .
B: Uh-huh .
A: All right ,
A: good to talk to you .
B: Nice talking to you too , Beth .
A: All right ,
A: all right ,
A: bye-bye .
B: Bye .
A: Okay ,
A: how do you feel about them ?
B: Well , I keep trying to get away from them ,
B: I used to use a lot of credit cards
B: I guess for a while I would use , you know , a variety of the Visa and the MasterCard and the stores ,
B: but I think I , I impulse buy too much with them
B: or I buy things , you know , I see it on sale
B: and I think , oh , it 's on sale I have to get it ,
B: and I really don't need it
B: or I really have n't budgeted for it
B: so , um , the last couple of years I really have tried not to use them at all .
A: Yeah .
B: What about you ?
A: Well , we have this philosophy , we use it when we go off somewhere
A: but we pay for it as soon as we come back , you know ,
A: as soon as we get our bills , we pay it off .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And we only have one .
A: We tore all the rest of them up .
B: okay .
A: Because I don't like credit cards for one thing , you know ,
A: I mean , they 're okay , I guess ,
A: if you 're on a trip or something , you don't have to take a whole bunch of , you know , cash with you ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: but I don't like using them because I 've seen too many people that used them and ended up bankrupt or on , chapter thirteen and stuff like that .
B: Huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because they have this weird opinion that if you use that card , you don't have to pay for it .
B: That 's true
B: if , if it 's on the credit card it does n't seem like it 's money out of your pocket .
B: Sometimes you may think , well , I don't have the money so you use the credit card it 's like fake money or something .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: and it gives you a , um , a false sense of security or something it seems like
A: because you say , oh , well , I don't have to pay for it now
A: but you 're going to have to pay for it ,
A: and it seems like ...
B: Yeah ,
B: you think , well , I don't have it now but payday will come and then I 'll have the money .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But that 's probably paying for things that were still owed from last time ,
A: Right .
A: Are you married ?
B: Yes .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Well , I know that a lot of young people , you know , I ,
A: it took me a long time to get it through my child 's head ,
A: I mean , that was her goal , you know , uh , got to have a credit card ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but now that she has one ,
A: she 's only used it one time
A: but she wanted to establish some credit ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I think it finally sunk in , you know , because she saw some of the other people and just like she heard them say , you know , well , I used a credit card .
A: And my husband 's sister is the world 's worst at , oh ,
A: well , I 'll just use the credit cards
A: and she has all of her credit cards up to the limit .
B: Huh .
A: You know , and I 'm , I 'm thinking woman , wake up and smell the roses before they come and get you .
A: But ...
B: Right .
B: Besides the fact that how much interest you pay and then this ...
A: Right ,
A: and people don't see that either .
B: Yeah ,
B: this thing that you thought you got on sale , by the time you get done paying with that with all the finance charges because you pay it off over a long period of time ,
B: you 've spent a heck of a lot of money on that thing .
A: Right .
A: The only one that we , we have that we kept was the Discover card ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it pays you to use it . I mean , if you pay your bill off right away , if you don't ever have to pay any interest on it because they give you a certain amount every time that you use it ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and you make that money as long as you don't ever have to pay them any , uh , interest .
A: Now it 's ,
A: and people say , well , you know , I 'm making money by using this credit card ,
A: but they don't realize that if they ,
A: I mean , it only takes one time for you to use it and not pay the interest ,
A: I mean , you have to pay the interest , not pay it right off ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's going to take up what you would have made .
B: Huh .
A: So that 's the only reason that we kept that ,
A: we debated for a long time
A: plus they don't have that , um , charge on it , you know ,
A: like ...
B: Service charge you mean ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yearly fee ,
B: yeah .
A: Right .
A: They don't have one of those .
A: So , it ,
A: we decided that was it , you know ,
A: and , I mean , everybody calls us and wants to give us a credit card .
A: We have , we could have credit cards running down our ears .
B: Oh , you get that stuff in the mail all the time .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
A: And then , I 'll have , just like , uh , department stores .
A: They 'll call me up , you know ,
A: and I 'll say ,
A: look , I don't want the credit card ,
A: well , we 're just going to send it to you , you know ,
A: you don't have to ever use it if you don't want to .
A: They 'll send me any credit card ,
A: I tear it up .
A: I just ca n't see it .
B: What I really hate in the mail is like for the credit cards that I do have still , that they send you these things that look like checks ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: and they say , hey , you know , two thousand dollars , you know , free to you kind of thing , you know ,
B: all you got to do is go cash those things
B: and you 've got a short term loan .
B: I hate it ,
A: I know it ,
A: and you know what ...
B: I ca n't believe they have the nerve to do that .
A: What 's really bad about those though is just like
A: young people if they don't , you know ,
A: we take the time to , you know , help my daughter ,
A: she 's in college ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but it , this is her first credit card thing ,
A: well , when she got her first one she was so excited
A: it was unreal .
A: Look at this they sent me this money , you know .
A: So then when I explained to her , look you have to pay this back and they are going to charge you interest , and stuff ,
A: of course , she tore it up .
A: But a lot of parents would not take the time , you know ,
A: and they would n't even think of it
A: or their kids may not be as close as my daughter
A: and I
A: are ,
A: and , uh , you know , they may not even discuss it ,
A: they go out and cash their check thinking that , you know ,
A: they 've got something ,
A: maybe they 've won something .
A: You know , somebody sent them something free .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And go out and spend it .
A: And , um , it 's just unreal .
A: I mean , I don't like credit cards ,
A: I wish that they would come up with some other way to , you know ,
A: the only way you could use them is if you were , like on vacation .
A: They would let you use it maybe once a year .
A: You know , I mean , of course , I guess some people go out and spend their whole entire limit on it like that at that time
A: but , um , I have seen so many people
A: and I have a friend right now she just got off of thirteen .
A: She got , uh ,
A: I ca n't remember what she called it ,
A: it 's some kind of ,
A: maybe it 's sure or something like that ,
A: it 's something , it 's some weird name of a credit card ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and she is charging out of her mind already .
A: And I 'm going ,
A: you just got off .
A: That 's how you got on to it to start with , you know , what is the matter with this person ,
B: Yeah .
A: But , um , it seems like people just , you know , they just think , well , I can just have anything I want .
A: And I just don't see it like that .
A: Of course , I always see pay the bills first
A: and whatever 's leftover , that 's what you have ,
A: but , um , maybe a lot of people don't see it like that ,
A: but I ca n't stand owing .
A: I mean , I can not fully tolerate to owe something like , you know ,
A: I guess it 's just because I 've been brought up like that .
A: But , um , I could not charge to the limit and knowing that I was going to have to pay this thing out for ever and maybe suffer from having to payout .
A: But , that 's just the way I feel about it .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think it 's , it 's somewhat a , uh , symptom of our , me generation
B: and that ,
B: we think we need all these things
B: and I think my parents always , you know , did without or saved up to , you know , buy things
B: and we consider that so many of these things we just have to have , you know ,
B: like when I first got my apartment and I was setting it up I did try to economize some
B: but , you know , I was just like , well , I have to have it all furnished and I have to have all of my kitchen setup
B: and you don't , you know , do without too much
B: and , you know , that 's how I got started kind of with setting up a household all up , you know , it kind of like , in the short amount of time .
B: You know , you just have to have these things just , you know , have them at home , have to have them at my own place
B: and that 's , you know , a big expenditure to start , um , buying all these things that you think or , or have to have
B: and actually they 're kind of luxuries
B: or you should save up slowly and keep buying them and not just rush out and furnish the whole place , you know , going in one big swoop , save up and then buy it .
A: Right .
A: yeah .
B: But we 're not into that .
B: We 're into like , have to have it all now .
A: oh , yeah .
A: I guess it is like that though because it seems like more and more people are like that .
A: But , um , I guess it 's because I 'm older ,
A: I mean , I 'm not real old
A: but I am older
A: and , um , you know , I did n't feel like that I did n't feel like I had to have everything .
A: I guess it was because ,
A: well , I had everything when I was at home
A: but I , I don't know why I did n't .
B: Well , we 're geared to that .
B: We 're like ,
B: okay ,
B: like I want a living room set . And instead of sitting back and , and going , okay , well , it 's going to cost maybe a thousand dollars , two thousand dollars
B: and I 'll save for two years ,
A: uh-huh .
B: people go , oh , well , I 'll just go buy it , put it on credit and they 'll pay it off .
A: yeah .
B: People are n't tuned in to like saving for it and then buying it ,
B: they just put it on a charge card , put it on account , and then pay off the bill because they want it now .
A: Huh .
B: It 's always have to have it now .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it did n't hurt you , did it , to ,
A: I mean , you did n't go out and charge a whole bunch and lose everything , did you ?
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: but I have had some times when I 've had some pretty good balances on there
B: and , uh , you know , I finally , you know , paid them all off and thought this is , you know , kind of nonsense .
B: So , we don't , uh , have big balances on them at ,
B: all now we 're , we 're , you know , we ,
B: I use it occasionally
B: but I pay it right off .
B: We 're ...
A: Yeah ,
A: well , you learned then ,
A: right ?
B: Yeah ,
B: you learn the , you know , the hard way , you hate paying all that interest
B: and I 've never been one to itemize on my income , tax and never had enough to itemize
B: and so it 's just a big chunk of money
B: and you realize that you 're not buying anything on sale your paying , so much more for that item , because you 've got finance charge and the cost of having that card every year which is what , forty dollars sometimes just to have the card .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's , a lot of money that you went to buy this item .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then you never feel like you 've got anything to to put into savings or anything ,
B: you 're always just paying bills , paying bills , you know ,
B: you don't feel that you have any extra to save .
B: And I hate , I hate living paycheck to paycheck .
B: I like to have a little there , you know ,
B: that I can , save
B: so I can feel that , you know , if something comes up I 've got the money to pay for it , .
A: We 're supposed to talk about the Middle East Crisis , and should we be involved and , uh , what 's it going to cost us in the long run .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Okay .
A: Are you ready ?
B: I guess so .
A: The Middle East Crisis should we be there ?
B: Oh , dear that 's a hard one .
B: That 's really hard for me because , uh , you know , I really , I have a son that 's sixteen
B: and I think , you know , eventually , you know , he 'll be of , of drafting age .
B: And I think gosh , do I want him to go
B: and yet I 'm proud to be an American
B: and I know that we have a country that , you know , people would give anything to live in , a lot of people anyway because we have so many wonderful things that they don't have .
B: And yet , I don't know whether I 'd be willing to give his life for , for this country
B: and yet , and yet , I know that I , that ,
B: and I , I , when I was in school it was always the tired , the tired excuse that we went to war to save us against communism
B: but I 'm not sure that that 's the reason anymore . I mean , not sure that communism is , is as strong as it once was .
B: And I 'm not sure that , that that 's the reason why we 're , like we were in Vietnam supposedly so .
A: Well , you realize why we were in the Middle East . Why we invaded Iraq , why we were in Saudi , why we attacked Kuwait and we we 're , why we are still fighting Iraq .
B: Well , with the ,
B: Well , it 's because of oil is n't it ?
A: No .
A: I really believe it 's because ,
A: I think it has something to do with oil , don't get me wrong .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But Saddam is , Saddam is a madman .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: I agree with that .
A: Anyone that would use chemical weapons to fight his own people ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: he 's , uh , a bad person , very definitely ,
A: And , obviously , that has something to do with it .
B: yeah .
B: Oh , sure .
A: And , and if , you know ,
A: I can see that he was in Kuwait
B: Uh-huh .
A: Kuwait was the nonaggressor
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and the Saudis are our allies .
A: We have several treaties and several alliances with the Saudis that range back for probably forty years .
B: Yeah ,
B: many years .
A: You know they 've been our friends through thick and thin .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They , were at the Saudi border . And ready to storm into Saudi .
B: Well ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Should n't we try and help our friends ?
B: Certainly ,
B: but what at , at what cost , you know ,
B: that 's the , uh , the thing , it came out , it came out wonderfully supposedly
B: I mean everything is
A: What did we lose , forty-one Americans , lives .
B: and we won .
B: Yeah ,
B: and that , that 's wonderful
B: but what if , if that was n't the case .
B: What if we would have lost thousands of young men .
B: Would that , would it have been too much of a price to pay for that ?
B: I don't know .
B: See , and I think there are a lot of things that we don't know
B: but , that ,
A: Oh ,
A: of course , our government is full of liars , thieves , and crooks .
B: the American people ,
B: Oh , sure .
B: Well , and there 's a lot , that we ,
A: And that 's , our own fault because we elected them .
B: Yeah .
B: I think that 's true
B: but I think there 's a lot that we , the public does n't need to know .
B: I think there 's some things we should n't know just for national security sake .
B: And I , you know , I think if we did know I think there would be a lot more chaos than there is because I don't , I don't think people could handle it .
B: So I think there are things that we should not know , the masses should n't know
B: but I also agree that there are a lot of crooks and liars too .
A: You know , it 's , uh ,
A: I went on jury duty here not long back .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And uh , one of the guys that was on the jury they were asking him if , if you could believe a lawyer or if a , lawyer 's reputation was so tainted that he could n't be believed
B: Uh-huh .
A: and one guy being selected snickered and could n't keep his head up , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and the guy said , Well , can you share it with us what you , what you find so funny ?
A: He says , Well , I already told you my sons a lawyer .
A: He said that when he graduated , the day after his bar examine there in Houston .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He told him , Dad , you know how to tell when a lawyers lying to you ?
A: His lips are moving .
B: Oh , my gosh
B: Oh .
A: And ninety percent of all politicians , and lawyers ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Have a lawyer background ,
B: yeah .
B: Have a law background ,
B: you 're right .
A: So by definition all lawyers and politicians are liars .
A: The fact that they take our money and don't do what we think is right makes them thieves .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: So what 's it going to cost us in the long run there in Saudi ?
A: Are we going to lose more lives there ?
B: See , and I don't know , I don't know I ca n't tell the future that 's what scares me so much about it .
B: I mean I thought the war was going to go on and on .
B: I really was surprised when it ended so quickly
B: and ,
A: Well , we hit them with more in one month than we used in three years , the last three years of Vietnam .
B: I know .
B: Yeah .
A: And whenever you strike on open terrain with that sheer volume there 's nothing they can do about it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: You know it 's not like we threw eight aircraft over there all by ourselves and said this is wrong .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We were there ,
A: the Brits were there .
B: Right .
A: The French were there .
A: This is with U N backing
B: Uh-huh .
A: and to some level even Russia was behind .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: they were .
A: So honestly if there is , was a well perceived war , world wide this was it .
B: Oh , sure .
B: Sure .
A: But what I ca n't understand is then many of the Kuwaiti youth did n't fight , would n't fight .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's okay for us to go extend our youth 's lives like so much water in the desert .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And it 's not their job to fight for their own land .
B: Yeah ,
B: that is very it 's very strange .
B: Uh , and yet , you know , see that 's another thing that , that 's difficult for Americans ,
B: their culture is so much different than ours , you know ,
B: I 've heard from many people that we could not even begin to understand how they feel about things because their values and their perceptions are so much different than ours
B: and , um , they just don't think the same way we do .
B: Their culture is completely different and almost opposite .
A: And really from all I can from all indications the Iraqi beliefs , if you will , are more similar to our own .
B: Uh-huh .
B: that 's true .
A: And the Kuwaitis are n't even helping rebuild their own country .
A: The Kuwaiti young wo n't rebuild anything .
A: They wo n't work .
B: Uh , I did n't realize that .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was on the news last night .
B: Oh , my word .
A: The , uh , U S Army is doing it all .
B: Uh , yeah .
B: See and that 's another question you have to ask , is this our job ?
B: Is , are we , should we still be there even , you know ?
B: I don't know the answers to those questions .
B: I think they 're tough
B: and I think , you know , it 's ,
B: I don't know that anybody knows the answers .
B: I think they know what they believe
B: but I 'm not sure they really are one hundred percent sure .
A: Well , they talked to one Kuwaiti woman yesterday .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And her biggest concern in life was that she could n't get a housekeeper .
B: You 're kidding .
B: That 's unreal .
A: And , do you have a housekeeper ?
B: No
B: No ,
B: and don't plan on having one either , ever .
A: Well , I would n't mind having one .
B: Oh , I 'd love to have one
B: but , you know .
A: But , you know , I 'd like to make sure that I have a job tomorrow first .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
B: That 's right .
B: That 's right .
A: It , it astound ,
A: you realize that the Kuwaiti government gives every Kuwaiti man , woman , and child money .
B: Uh , no .
B: I was n't , I did n't , was n't aware of that ,
B: no .
A: For nothing .
B: For doing nothing ,
B: yeah .
A: For for , for doing nothing .
A: For sitting on there kiesters .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , that ought to give their programming trouble should n't it ?
A: Uh , they do nothing .
A: They hand them money each year
A: and they 're part of ,
A: I 'll let you go first .
B: Well I think , I don't know how your schools work back there
B: but we support our schools here with property taxes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the land owners or home owners are the ones that pay the school tax .
B: So if you 're renting a house or doing anything else , you 're not actually contributing to the education of your children .
B: And I think that 's wrong ,
B: I think everybody should contribute to the education of their children even if they had to raise the sales tax by one percent then everybody going through the state would be supporting our education system .
B: So , as it turns out , we don't really have a tremendous education system because they don't have the money they need to run it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , uh , I spent a couple , uh , years down in , uh , Plano , Texas .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I was one of the home owners down there that got taxed to death , for the , uh , Plano , uh , school system .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , I , you know , I know that Texas does n't have a state tax ,
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: and so all the things come out of the , the property taxes ,
B: Yeah .
A: and I was , uh , really shocked at the amount of taxes I ended up paying .
A: I was , I was better off paying a state tax back in Maryland , where ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: you would be .
A: than I was , uh , paying the , uh , property tax down there .
A: Uh , what they did in Maryland to get around that is they , uh , they developed a renters tax solely for the purpose of paying for the services , that the renters were getting including the , uh , educational services .
B: Oh .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , the tax was administered by , uh , the , uh , rental company that actually was managing the apartments
A: so when , uh , long , long time ago , when I used to live in apartments , I would pay a rent payment every month and a tax payment every month .
B: Oh .
B: Gee .
A: And the tax payment went to pay for the services that I was getting as a , a resident of that particular county .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , that 's the way it worked .
A: Here in Maryland we have , uh , a certain portion of your , your property taxes , uh , goes to education ,
B: Yeah .
A: but also a portion of the state tax that you pay goes back into the county that you live in , to pay for the educational system .
B: Oh , well that 's pretty good .
A: And so it , it works out nice ,
A: it , it , it makes it so that the , uh , whole county now ,
A: I , I know the concept of counties in Texas is quite a bit different than it is here in Maryland , uh ,
A: like Collin County , uh , would only equal about maybe an eighth the size of Baltimore County , here in Maryland .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I mean the , the counties are much larger .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , in the , the whole state of Maryland I believe there 's only like , uh , fifteen counties .
B: Gee whiz .
A: And , so , uh , you know each county has their own school system an , and it works out real nice .
A: Um , the , the flip side to this is , are we getting what we 're paying for ,
B: Yeah .
A: and I don't believe so , um .
A: A lot of things have come to head recently
A: and I heard a report because , of , uh , uh , the emphasis that the President was putting on education , you know , uh , him running as our education president and then finally a couple of years later getting around to doing something .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , they said since they imposed the federal regulations on education ,
A: in other words , they came up with this federalized system where everyone in the third grade would be taught basically the same thing .
B: Yeah .
A: And , then , at the end of , uh , school year they would be tested
A: and then they go into the fourth grade
A: and everybody in the fourth grade 's basically taught the same thing .
B: Yeah .
A: So when they came up with these , this nationwide system of public schools , uh , they gave some figures out
A: and since it 's inception , uh , they 've , the price has gone up per the prices paid by the federal government per student has been thirty-three percent .
B: Yow .
A: And so they 're actually spending thirty-three percent ,
A: and that 's real dollars , you know , adjusting it back to , to the days , you know , when it started , uh , probably , you know , seventy years ago .
B: Yeah .
A: And what they 've said is that we have n't had a thirty-three percent improvement in education .
B: No ,
B: huh-uh .
A: We 've actually gone backwards .
B: Well they say that Texas schools are some of the lowest in the nation .
B: That our high school graduates ca n't even match the national average .
A: Yeah .
B: So , you know , our school system down here is no where near perfect
B: but they keep complaining they don't have the money to do it .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , they , they 've been having some problems , uh , even here in , uh , like Baltimore City which is , a , a , pretty good good sized city .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , they 've been putting a lot of , uh , stress on it
A: and of course , speaking of stress the teachers are all getting stressed out from trying to , you know , do everything they 're supposed to do
A: and of course they 've , uh , been cutting the teachers salaries , because they say we don't have the money to do it
B: Oh , yeah .
A: and , all the services are costing more money and , and everything , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: but uh , a lot of now is being put on , you know , when children used to be taught , you know , like , uh , uh , each child is individual ,
B: Yeah .
A: you know , they 're not all the same
A: and some students do horrible until like eighth grade ,
B: Yeah ,
B: they need to take things at their own speed .
A: some do horrible , you know , until they get to like tenth grade ,
B: Yeah .
A: and then all of a sudden everything clicks in , you know .
A: And then there are some students that , you know , read well at five years old , and , you know , seem to excel .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so that , the , you know , one of the things I heard proposed on , uh , one of the public radio stations up here was that we should go back to teaching children at their own speed . Some
B: Yeah ,
A: Yeah .
B: they ca n't keep force feeding things to each other and , or , you know , at the kids .
A: And , and , uh , and on top of that they , they make the child feel inferior , because he 's not as good as another kid his same age .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: because he ca n't do it .
A: I mean , it 's like , you know , that 's ridiculous .
B: And it 's not that he ca n't do it ,
B: he just ca n't do it quite as fast ,
B: or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh , you know , I have , uh , I , I have five children total ,
B: Yeah .
A: and I 've got two out of the house already
A: and I I have two that are in , uh , eighth grade this year .
B: All right .
A: And prior to their , um ,
A: when I , when they were in elementary school they were identified as being slow .
B: Yeah .
A: And so they put them into special programs
A: and then we actually held them back in fourth grade .
B: Um .
A: And it was n't until the last two years , um ,
A: last year my , uh ,
A: they 're they 're a set of twins , um , a boy and a girl .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Last year the , the , uh , boy twin started doing real well .
B: All right .
A: And it , it , everything started to click in for him
A: and he knew what he needed to do .
A: Um , and this year it , it happened for , uh , for the daughter .
B: Um , all right .
A: She just has been , really doing great this year
B: Jumped on out there .
A: and she has the right attitude towards school and everything .
B: That 's good .
A: And I think it 's just a matter of everybody has to find their own path .
A: I remember when I was in school , I did horrible up until about , yeah , about the seventh , eighth grade
B: Yeah ,
B: I did too , up until ninth or tenth grade .
A: I , I , I started to , to come around and realize
A: an , and basically I got interested in math , and , uh , never really did well in english
B: Yeah .
A: but , you know once you got interested in something and things started to click in place then after that you take off .
B: Yeah ,
B: and see when I was a kid growing up and going to high school if I wanted to take a little electronics course , I had a electronics course I could take ,
B: but we lived out in the country ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we did n't have all that fancy stuff to worry about , you know ,
B: we had our auto shop out there and our ag shop
B: and , and , you know , we had just about every thing that we needed
A: Yeah .
B: but they don't have it anymore .
B: There 's a lot of things that they don't do in school anymore .
B: our oldest boy goes to Lubbock High down here
B: and they go to school four and half days a week ,
B: so . That 's pretty weird .
A: Gee .
A: Yeah
A: it is , um ,
A: my children had a , uh , real culture shock , uh , when we lived in Plano ,
A: I guess , I don't know if you 've heard about the Plano school district ,
A: but . they 're uh , they really stress academics there .
B: No .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , God , if your child is not an honor student , well then , you 're , something wrong with you as a parent .
B: Gee .
A: And that 's kind of the way they are there .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , when we moved back to Maryland , um , I moved to a , uh , a , Baltimore County which is a northern county in Maryland ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's basically a rural county , once you get above about the half way point .
B: Yeah .
A: And we lived , you know , in the northern part of the county .
A: Uh , we went from a , uh , middle school in Texas that served fifty-five square blocks to a , uh , middle school in Maryland that served fifty-five square miles .
B: Yeah .
A: And it was just a complete culture shock , because I mean , they , they 're riding on the bus in the morning with , uh , other kids that , you know , are a sleep because they got up at three o'clock and were doing chores
B: I can imagine .
A: and , they you know ,
B: Yeah
B: that would be quite a shock .
A: it 's ,
A: and they had , uh , ag ,
A: they had an ag course , uh ,
A: I forget what it was called , uh ,
A: but it goes along the , the lines of industrial arts ,
A: but it 's , agricultural .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And where they had to raise a small animal .
B: Oh , like , Four H then .
A: Had to learn how to drive a tractor .
B: All right .
A: They actually had to take a driving test on the tractor ,
A: I mean , they just could n't believe this
A: and it was great .
A: They loved it .
B: All right .
A: I mean they really enjoyed the courses , um ,
A: and it , you know , it made school fun for them again because prior to that school was just a big pain , a drain .
B: Yeah ,
B: just something you do everyday .
A: Yeah ,
A: and it was , you know .
A: It was like , kind of like the way we feel about going to work
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: just something I have to do everyday .
A: But , uh , up here they seem to have made it , uh , a lot of fun for them
A: and they , they seem to really enjoy it .
B: That 's good ,
B: our oldest boy went into school politics and made vice ...
A: All right , uh ,
A: you have pets , I understand , a couple of them .
B: I , I , Well I have , uh , these ,
A: What are they ?
B: well I don't know if they consider themselves animals anymore .
B: They actually , you know , sort of take over the place
B: an , and we 're kind of their pets .
A: Pets get like that don't they ,
A: they think they own you
B: don't they really ?
B: They own the place
B: and naturally these are cats ,
B: so .
A: Okay ,
A: these are cats .
A: I remember one time , uh , I used to get a chuckle out of , out of Pogo .
A: That dates me quite a bit ,
A: you probably don't know
B: Oh , Pogo ,
B: sure .
A: Yeah ,
A: he ,
A: when Beauregard was talking he was the dog , remember .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he used to say , pets can be most as much trouble as as kids , if they work at it a little bit , and even more when they work at it a little bit
B: I agree ,
A: And I think that 's true ,
B: I , don't know ,
B: I , I , I think that , um ,
B: my husband and I are in such a situation that , uh , um , I 'm kind of , um , not able to do a lot ,
B: I 'm , I 'm kind of in a wheelchair ,
B: I mean I kind of am ,
A: Oh , uh-huh . just good company , huh , that 's neat .
B: but , uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I 've got these two cats that hang around with me all day ,
B: and I don't what I 'd do without them .
B: It is
B: and ,
A: You know it 's funny how pets get to be so , uh ,
A: they really , you really do mourn them after , when things happen .
A: Now we don't actually have a pet right now .
B: okay .
A: But , uh , but we have had some
A: and , and I I
A: it 's always hard for me to believe how close I 've gotten to them .
A: We had a little , uh , uh , oh , dog ,
A: it was a little , uh ,
A: I got it so it would n't , would n't shed , one of these , French Poodle , a little French Poodle .
B: Oh my .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh , he used to , I used to come down stairs in the morning to feed him , you know ,
A: and I 'd let him up out of the basement where he was sleeping
A: and he would just dance around the floor
A: and I just got ,
A: and we only had him about three or four weeks before he was hit by a car ,
B: Oh !
A: but I can not believe the whole family just , he just got in to us so quickly ,
B: Oh !
A: I could not believe it .
B: That ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's ,
A: I , I have to tell you about our most interesting pet , though .
B: Okay .
A: Uh , we had an iguana living with us for about , uh , about two years , two and a half years I guess .
B: Oh , uh , by choice ?
A: It was about , uh , oh , three feet long , about three feet long .
A: It was a beautiful animal ,
A: name was Clyde .
B: Clyde the iguana .
A: Clyde the iguana .
A: And , uh , my son Dan went to , uh , to , uh , Hawaii for the summer
A: and when he came home , uh , he did n't bring the iguana with him
A: but for some reason or other he had a thing for them .
A: I don't know whether he 'd ,
A: I think there was one in the school , uh , zoology department , you know , or biology department , one or the other , anyway , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and anyway , he just , he went and found this guy in , in Dallas somewhere who had picked up one in , I guess in in Mexico ,
A: I don't know where .
A: But anyway he brought this home
A: and I looked at him
A: and I said you 've got to be kidding , I 'm not going to live with a lizard
B: Yuck !
A: But you know I visualize that animal racing about ,
A: and you know , like you think of lizards doing but they don't do that .
A: They 're very much like , uh ,
A: well , the thing about them is that they hold so still you don't notice that they 're there
A: and then they move and about scares you to death sometimes .
B: Did you have him in a cage ?
A: No ,
B: Oh no ,
A: he had full run of the house .
B: Oh no ,
B: oh no .
A: He just loved to sit on the back of my dryer where the air , the heat came up out of the dryer , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It was , he was really a neat pet
A: and though I , you know ,
A: he 'd
A: when we 'd have family home evening and everybody would sit in the living room and the fire would be burning he 'd walk across my feet sometimes
B: Oh !
A: And it , it was a long time before I could really pet him
A: and , but I fed him
A: and he , he knew how to get me to feed him .
A: He 'd come out to the kitchen , just kind of look at me until I went and got him something out of the refrigerator .
B: Uh .
B: Oh no ,
B: I mean you don't argue with an iguana , do you .
A: But he was really a neat animal .
A: He , he 'd lay in Dan 's lap , you know ,
A: and just , uh , when he 'd pet him , he 'd just stretch
A: and , you know , you could see him just enjoying it like a cat does .
B: Oh no .
A: It was kind of interesting .
A: But he did a lot of interesting things
A: and , uh , Dan carried him around
A: and he liked to ride on the back of his , up on his head , you know , with his tail wrapped around his arm so he would n't fall off , an , and scare everybody to death
A: and kids loved him ,
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: kids just loved him .
A: Kids just came from all over to come and see Clyde and visit with him
A: and , and he tolerated them , you know .
A: He 'd even tolerate him petting though ,
A: he did n't like them too well at first ,
A: but he , he got tame , you know ,
A: so that , uh , people could go in there .
A: And Dan was a drummer ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he did n't , he , the only thing he did n't like very well was the drumming .
B: Was the drumming .
A: When Dan would drum he 'd sit there and scrunch up , you know
A: like he was trying to protect himself ,
B: And cover his ears .
A: and then he 'd leave the room
B: Is n't that funny the way we put , you know , um , human characteristics on an animal like that
B: an , an , it 's ,
A: Oh yeah ,
A: they really are , they 're interesting ,
A: well they take on human characteristics like , uh , our other animal ,
B: I guess they do .
A: the next year our , our son Ken went to Hawaii
A: and well , while Dan was in Hawaii , Ken decided he wanted a dog
A: and he , and he looked around a long while
A: and he found a Norwegian elkhound
A: and he just brought this Norwegian elkhound an , home
B: Oh .
A: and he was so funny .
A: Uh , for a while they built a , a run for him out to the side of the house , you know .
A: He 'd been on the patio
A: but they put the run out there ,
A: and he did n't like this run because there were no people that came by
A: and sometimes he would just make a racket until you came and got him .
A: And one night we 'd forgotten to put water out for him
A: and , and Hal and I were in bed
A: and all of a sudden there was all this noise out to the side the house
A: and , and he 'd pick up his dish and throw it in the air And then bark and march around , you know ,
B: He used a classic illusion .
A: and then he 'd pick up his dish again and throw it in the air until we came out and gave him some water .
B: I forgot to ask you , did the iguana catch flies for you ?
A: Did what ?
B: Did the iguana catch flies for you ?
A: No ,
A: he did n't eat flies .
B: He did n't eat flies .
A: No ,
A: they eat , uh , they eat greens .
B: Oh .
A: Uh , we fed him the outside leaves of lettuce , you know ,
A: I 'd get lettuce at the store
A: and he 'd eat the outside leaves .
B: Oh .
A: And then in the summertime you could put him out
A: and he 'd eat outside except you had to keep him away from the garden because he liked to eat the little peas as fast as they came up , you know .
B: I bet
A: It was really it was s really a of things that were fresh sprigs , you know ,
A: he liked that .
B: Well can we ask you whatever happened to Clyde ?
A: Well , yeah ,
A: when , uh , when Dan went up to college up at Ricksun , Idaho he took him with him ,
B: Oh .
A: and , uh , everybody was used to him
A: and they just loved him and what not
A: and this his roommate put him out one day
A: and Dan did n't know it
A: and it got dark
A: and he did n't get him in again .
A: And they searched and searched and searched for him
A: but , uh , uh , it got too cold up there
A: and he , he died in a tree .
A: they found him the next day in a tree ,
A: but .
B: Oh , oh my .
A: So you you have to be pretty tender with them ,
A: we had a , he had his own heat lamp and , uh , and , uh , hot pad he laid on , you know .
A: That was another funny thing ,
A: he had a hot pad
A: and it , it burned up one time
A: and boy , it was , that was funny too , watching him kind of burned up
A: but anyway .
B: Uh .
A: An we got him a new one ,
A: he had a blue one before
A: and when we got him a new one it was brown
A: and he would n't lay on it until we changed the covers .
B: Oh , really ,
A: No ,
A: he would n't lay on it .
B: because that was like what he was used to .
A: so they really are , they really pick up things .
A: He was , he was a clean animal , uh ,
A: we , he went to the bathroom in the bathroom .
B: How did he do that ?
A: well we put some papers on the floor , underneath the john
B: Okay .
A: and he went there to go to the bathroom .
A: You had to be sure you left the doors open , you know ,
A: he did n't like to go anywhere else ,
A: he 'd , he 'd scratch and do all kinds of things to get you to open the door , if you happened to close it on him or something , you know ,
A: but , but even when he went , when he had an accident or something , uh ,
B: Oh , no .
A: if you just let it dry , it dries kind of like , uh ,
A: especially when he was inside and just eating lettuce , it dried up a little bit like ashes
A: and you could just vacuum it up .
B: Oh my goodness .
A: In the winter time there was no smell at all , no odor at all to it .
A: And in the summertime when he was outside and eating outside the smell was a little bit like a cat , you know .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: But , uh .
B: But that , that 's incredible .
B: It 's a different little things ,
A: Yeah ,
A: he is , he was a really interesting animal .
B: Oh , that 's ,
A: I , I just , uh we just really
A: and you know , to this day I still miss him
A: and that 's been years ago .
B: Well see , I guess it 's because you lived with , you know , him an , and overcame some fears to get used to him .
A: Yeah ,
A: he was just ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I think , I guess so .
A: But it 's , it was interesting .
B: Yeah
A: Well , what do your cats do besides sitting and purring and letting you pet them
B: Oh , my goodness , these guys , they , well actually they 're my husband 's pets .
A: Yeah ,
A: Oh , and you just kind of took them , over , huh .
B: Well , well actually it 's like he 's the cat person you know ,
B: and I 've , I was always kind of nondescript in that category because I always liked dogs .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And they 've kind of taken over
B: and , and , uh , you know .
A: A little bit easier to have cats in this kind of country , though is n't it ,
A: uh . I think ,
B: Maybe it is ,
B: I ,
B: they 're so independent ,
B: well I 'm glad we have two of them , otherwise , I think they get neurotic if there just one of them .
A: Yeah ,
A: that could be , could be .
B: They get real crazy .
B: But there , brother and sister from the same litter .
B: They look totally different ,
B: they are , they are , well they are Siamese cats ,
A: Oh , pretty ones .
B: but one is , one is , uh , um ,
B: they 're both registered , you know ,
B: one 's a seal point ,
B: she 's the little girl
B: and then , uh , Newhart is the , uh , the , the ,
A: Newhart ,
B: he is something .
B: He 's like a dog ,
B: he really , he just he just wants his belly scratched
B: and that 's it , you know .
B: And he 's just the warmest thing in the wintertime ,
A: Yeah ,
B: he just sits on your lap , sits on your lap ,
B: but they 're like seven ...
A: Tell me what books you read .
B: Oh , boy
B: Well , um , I have n't been doing a whole lot of reading for enjoyment lately .
B: I read , uh , one book a friend recommended to me .
B: I ca n't even remember the guy 's name .
B: It was a science fiction , Dean Cole , or something like that .
B: And it was so frightening
B: and it had so much violence in it
B: I just could hardly stand it
A: Um .
A: I try to avoid the ,
B: Yeah
B: I did n't think it was so great .
B: She thought it was riveting , you know ,
B: but , I could n't deal with that .
B: But , um , mostly I read ,
B: I 'm a marriage and family counselor
B: and mostly I read things to do with raising kids ,
B: and now I have two little kids ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: or co-dependency , or , you know , fifty thousand things like John Bradshaw 's books on , uh , THE FAMILY and HOMECOMING and INNER CHILD , and so
A: Uh-huh .
B: I read usually that kind of stuff .
B: If ,
B: and right now I 'm reading , um , Judith Viorst 's book called NECESSARY LOSSES , where she talks about different losses that we 've had in our lives that we have to get past if we 're going to mature and so ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: in in my spare time with a two and a half and a three and a half year old I , I read
A: That does cut into your , reading time a lot .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's really changed my reading habits , because I used to read so much , especially when I was in school .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , but , gosh it 's , uh , it 's getting pathetic now
B: If , I get through a magazine , I 've been ,
A: Well my , my kids are up , and out of the house now .
A: So , you know , I will , uh , encourage you that you do get a little more time to yourself later on
B: Yeah .
A: I , wo n't say what .
B: Later you 're , probably looking for your kids
B: so you can talk to them when they 're out running around with friends
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: What do you read ?
A: Oh , uh , well , I read for a living .
A: Uh , I 'm an editor .
B: You do ?
B: Who ,
B: Oh , well how interesting .
A: And so , I , I 'm at the
B: What kind of books ?
A: Center for Advanced Study of the Behavioral Sciences and therefore , I read , uh , psychology , sociology , anthropology , political science , philosophy , linguistics , history , uh ,
B: Um .
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: yeah ,
A: and you name it .
A: I 've read some of it .
B: Yeah .
B: Well that sounds like a fascinating job .
A: It really is .
A: It 's , it 's a great place to be
B: Yeah .
A: and the , uh ,
A: it 's nice to work with people uh , who are not required to use your services , and so therefore , are grateful and not arguing with you about them .
A: If they don't , want an editor , they don't come
B: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
B: That 's true .
B: Well , you probably ,
B: I , I seem to remember that , uh , little byline on a lot of things I 've read .
A: Um .
B: Um , is , is , is that , um ,
B: do they have a mail kind of campaign that they send to professionals in the , social ,
A: No .
A: We , don't .
B: No ?
A: Uh , normally we don't publish , uh , things under our own imprint .
B: Um .
A: Uh , we have books that are written here that are then published by all sorts of different , uh , commercial and academic publishers and university presses .
B: That sounds so familiar .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , I end up sometimes reading the things that are written here all the way through , sometimes just a few chapters because that 's as far as they get
B: Yeah .
A: But , I also get , of course , lots of references to neat stuff to read about .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I 'm , uh , I was just thinking when they told me the topic , I should just , I should read the , uh , titles of the five books that are sitting on my desk right now that I 'm in the middle of .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , that sounds interesting .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh
A: it causes the , uh , uh Saint Anthony 's Fire Disease , where , people fell into fits
B: I thought that was going to be
B: Oh .
A: and , There is a , a theory , at least , that a lot of people who were accused of witchcraft were actually under the influence of erga .
B: Oh , my goodness .
B: Huh .
A: And a book called JOB CUES , GENDER CUES , which explains , uh , how certain professions and vocations get , uh , flip flopped from one gender predominance to the other ,
A: like uh , nursing , started out all men and then in the nineteenth century , began to have women .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Nursing
B: or ,
A: And now it 's practically all women .
B: Yeah .
A: And that , uh ,
B: Secretaries .
B: I bet that used to be mostly men who were secretaries of any type for business .
A: That 's right .
A: And the , thing that changed that was the manual typewriter .
B: Yeah .
A: It then it became , you see , just sort of a clerical task .
B: Oh .
B: Yeah .
A: When you wrote it out in long hand you were a ,
B: Then you were important
A: Yes .
A: You were a confidential assistant to the , person .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Like the scribes who did the old documents , you know , for churches and ,
A: Right .
B: yeah
A: And then , I 've got a book called FASHIONS IN SCIENCE , which is a sociology that explains , uh , why certain theories get to be popular in , uh , sociology . And , uh , how difficult it is to swim against the tide if you have a different idea that is n't vatted by your peers
B: Well , that 's interesting .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then I have one novel that 's called FIRST LIGHT ,
A: that 's about , uh , archaeology the British novel .
B: Um .
A: So , it 's really quite interesting .
A: I have n't , got too , far into it yet .
B: Gosh .
B: Really .
B: So , are you reading these in the form of just like printed manuscripts , that have not been
A: Uh , those are , all books that are out , uh , published and bound now .
A: But , they 're just things , that , , pertain to various things I 'm working on or were , uh , mentioned prominently and attracted my curiosity .
B: Huh .
A: So I got them out of the library and decided I 'd read some more in them .
B: Yeah .
B: My goodness .
B: Well , that 's fascinating .
B: Gosh .
A: So , I read a lot of history and , uh , a few novels , occasional mystery stories , just , for fun .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah
B: I never have gotten into any of the romantic novels or any of that kind of stuff .
B: My husband reads a lot of the , um ,
B: well , he did before we had kids the STAR TREK , and all those kind of sci-fi kinds of , things , you know
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: But , he 's got a , quite a collection of those .
B: But , uh , my stuff uh , revolves around , uh , one one let 's see ,
B: I 've got one called ONE THOUSAND PRACTICAL PARENTING TIPS , which teaches you to put elastic instead of shoelaces , in your kid 's shoes
A: Oh , hey .
A: That 's , a nifty idea .
B: Hey ,
B: I 've done that to every pair my three year old has .
A: Great .
B: You know , really .
A: Oh , I think the , the boom to parents and the , the shoelace department was those little Velcro tabs
B: And , uh ,
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
A: I think that 's incredibly .
B: but there 's a surprising number that are still around that are n't , that don't have those ,
B: so that 's an alternate means of dealing with
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , um , I 'm trying to think of what else I 've got .
B: Uh , since I 'm , um , a therapist and all , I 've done recently a lot of research into some of the twelve step groups .
B: So , I 've got all the different alcoholics , what they call the blue , the blue book , the big book , and all the O A literature and all the CODA literature ,
A: Yeah .
B: so I 'm trying to get more familiarized with that because I refer clients and different groups
B: and , uh , well , let 's see I 'm trying to think of the ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: What do you think is , the most promising , or practical book , uh , of that kind you 've read recently ?
B: Um , Oh , I I have a love affair with John Bradshaw .
B: I just have found everything I 've read of his to be fabulous , um ,
A: Um .
B: he started out with one called THE FAMILY , which does the family systems and people 's roles in the family .
B: And then he did , uh , HEALING THE SHAME THAT BINDS YOU , about how shame can just be so paralyzing and people isolate and withdraw .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then the third one that he came out with is now called HOMECOMING
B: Uh , and , uh , there 's a subtitle to it ,
B: I never can remember what it is .
B: It 's something like , um , A JOURNEY IN , IN YOUR INNER , CHILD or something like that .
A: Yeah .
A: I knew , his literary agent in Houston when she was just , uh , convincing him to write all this down .
A: He was teaching ,
B: Oh , he 's just great .
B: And now he 's had the , the first , the first one and the third one put into a ten session , uh , P B S series .
A: Yeah .
A: I I saw one of those episodes on P B S .
A: Uh , from time to time out here , we have four different P B S channels that we can get on the cable
B: Yeah .
A: And , they 'll have all ten of those shown back to back , in the middle of the night for people can video tape them .
B: Oh .
B: I know
B: Yeah ,
B: so people can just tape them I guess , you know
A: Yeah .
B: But , I definitely have gotten a lot out of his lately
B: He 's just probably been one of the most ,
B: there 's an author that 's in , um , that 's in , uh , Arizona , who used to be in Dallas .
B: It seems like we have a lot of these that have been in Texas , called P M Melody , who does a lot of writing on co-dependency .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And she 's got some fabulous workbooks out and a whole series of tapes and , uh , a workbook called BREAKING FREE , and just some real , uh , helpful , practical things for co-dependency .
A: Huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So that 's been another one that I 've thought was real helpful . But , other than that , uh , my reading centers on PADDINGTON BEAR , and WINNIE THE POOH , and DOCTOR SEUSS
A: Oh , yes .
A: Oh .
B: But , I really have enjoyed exploring children 's literature because there 's so much more , uh , new things out that , you know ,
B: I , I 'd pull out the classics once in a while for my kids ,
B: but there 's such cute things , out for kids .
A: Oh , there 's some , absolutely wonderful illustrated , children 's books .
B: Oh , I know .
B: And I just go to the library because I just , they 're expensive ,
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , it ,
B: and they go through them so fast , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I just , I really have been going to the library and getting my ten books out
B: and they just love to sit and read .
B: And now finally the littlest one is oldest to , to sit , you know , and watch the pictures instead of grabbing it and trying , to rip the pages out .
A: right .
A: Uh , well ,
B: So , that , that has been fun to do do that you , know , go through the children 's literature , and , uh uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: I read , THE PUBLISHER 'S WEEKLY , uh , which lists all the upcoming books , forthcoming books ,
A: and , uh , there are so many that look like they would just be absolutely wonderful .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I was tickled to see that some publisher is , uh , reprinting the , the James Thurber books for children . THE , WONDERFUL O and THE THIRTEEN CLOCKS , that have been out of print for about , oh , I think about twenty years .
B: Oh , wonderful .
B: Gosh .
B: Really ?
B: Well , I 'm going to have to , look for those .
A: Well , I had those for my kids
B: Yeah .
A: and they really did , enjoy them .
B: Oh .
A: Oh , but they were , old copies then .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: I did n't buy them when my kids were little .
A: And so , they probably were out of print all of , already when my kids were small .
A: But , um , I , was really happy to see that ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: yeah ,
A: I guess it 's in honor of his hundredth ,
A: Okay ,
A: well , I
A: I mean , what thoughts do you have on the subject ?
B: Uh , you know , we even lived there for a , a while when my husband was in the Navy .
A: Oh , you did ?
B: In fact the first year we were married , he was already over there , had been there two years when we got married
B: and so our , we had a one year honeymoon .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , Uh , it was very nice , um .
A: That 's wonderful .
A: Well do you have , you probably have a different sense than I have .
A: I went to an inner city high school in Chicago .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , and that 's not where I am originally from .
A: It was a divorce situation of my parents .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it was a , a cultural shock to me . Uh , in terms of what I went through .
B: I 'm sure .
A: The high school is now called , in fact , it was called Tulley High School
A: and now it 's called Roberto Clemente
B: Roberto died while we were down there as a matter of fact .
A: That , yeah , that 's exactly , about twenty years now .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , what was it like living there ,
A: I mean did you find that people appreciated having the privilege of being ,
B: It 's like anywhere else .
B: People are individuals
B: and I find it really difficult an , and , frustrated trying to make stereotypes , you know .
A: Right ,
A: I agree with that ,
A: yeah .
B: And , uh , I can understand the , the frustration you must have gone through , uh , going to the , the school , uh .
A: I did n't mean that in a totally negative sense .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: it 's just ,
B: if , if it 's not part of your culture , and you come upon something that you 're totally unprepared for , uh , the
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I had gone to a very , uh , uh , um , conservative , uh , college
B: and when I started teaching school it was in an inner city situation , although it was not Puerto Rican , it was , uh , a Mexican American and black students .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They were n't like any of the Mexican American or black people I had gone to school with
B: so it was , it was very , very , different .
A: Right ,
A: that you had ever been .
A: Right ,
A: I mean , I 'll give you and idea that I had , um ,
A: and I would say , I would say the ones , the majority appreciated what they were having in this country .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , but a lot of the ones that did n't even in the minority , not in the sense of the cultural world , word , they made it worse for the other kids in school .
A: And , you know , Chicago , back then , even had bilingual classes .
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: and I mean , I had geometry ,
A: the teacher was from Cypress Greece
A: and , it was , Spanish and English ,
B: Huh .
A: so if you can imagine how I even
B: Oh , my .
A: And , I mean , and I guess I look at is as an enlightening sense .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , but I think basically , I think they should leave things the way they are right now ,
A: I mean , I don't really have enough in terms of an argument , pro or con in terms of making any type of change .
B: I 'm not , so much against their making , uh , it a state .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I would want a very , very , very clear majority ,
B: because if the minority can be so , vociferous , whether you 're talking this group , or , or , any other group that , that has a stake in something .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: that 's exactly .
B: And they can make , as you said , uh , so well , the , a , a few can make it so miserable for everybody else .
A: And that 's exactly ,
A: I mean , I can remember instances that , uh , was n't as , uh , you know , bad ,
A: Lord , I don't know how it would be today .
A: Well I know what it looks like ,
A: I 've been back up for a reunion .
B: That , that my give you a clue .
A: It does ,
A: yeah ,
A: um , but its ' , but it 's an experience I would n't change ,
A: I mean my husband , um , grew up in , um , a majority , uh , WASP , southern Ohio , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So that , um ,
A: when he saw where I , you know , saw my later teenage years , he was just , I hate to say aghast , because that sounds so trite ,
A: but he was .
A: And yet , how did I turn out the way I did turn out .
B: Yeah ,
A: And I said that 's really irrelevant .
A: What you find is that , um , if you can talk to like ,
A: I mean , I learned a lot about the , um , Island of Puerto Rico from talking to these kids .
A: You know , and you lived there
A: so you know that parts of it are beautiful and parts of it are squalor .
B: Same as , as any other part of the world ,
A: Like here , yeah , it 's the same .
B: really .
B: I , I don't , I don't think it 's really to their best interests , to , uh , uh , attain statehood as it is right now ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they have the best of both worlds .
B: They have , uh , representation ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they don't have to pay all the taxes and so forth that we do .
A: This is true .
B: Uh , being that it 's an island economy , um ,
B: everything is imported
B: and yes , the cost of living is super high ,
B: but , but they 're protected in so many ways without having to , to pay for the rights and privileges .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I know what you 're saying ,
A: yeah ,
B: So , so you know , I , I would just as soon ,
B: an , an , and , if , if they voted to , for independence , I would back them a hundred percent .
B: And that 's , that 's , because , I , I guess , because I 'm not into territorialism or whatever , that we have been in the past .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: right ,
A: I probably would say the something if I knew that intellectually that it was good
A: and emotionally that the people there wanted it .
B: Right .
A: You know , it 's just , um ,
A: I mean , right now they have the privilege of voting with the United States , don't they .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: They count , yeah , as a principle ,
A: that 's what I thought .
A: Um , but I 've also been down there .
A: We traveled a lot to the B V I , the British Virgin Islands .
B: Oh , yes ,
B: uh-huh .
A: So you always pass through San Juan in going to places like or .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , um ,
A: and it 's just , it 's , I think what they do need is an infusion of some of the United States , um , privileges , some of our resources . The educational , the teachers , the , um , academic opportunity , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't think we do do enough of a resource transfer , if there is such a thing .
B: Part of that though has been , I think , uh , selected by , by them , in that , that whereas they want the benefits of some of , of what the continentals can offer ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they , they want to maintain that , um , culture of theirs , which , which I understand .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and so often when you , when you bring in the advantages , the resources and so forth , there , there is a trade .
A: They 'll lose their ethnicity as they say ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's ,
B: Most of the people who that that I know about who really , uh , would , favor statehood , have pretty much assimilated into the , the continental states already .
A: Uh-huh .
A: See ,
B: Or they have family here and this way they can go back and forth
B: and , and it 's not that much of a strain ,
B: and , you know , they 're kind of lackadaisical about it . At least at the present time .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's the way , the way the pendulum seems to be swinging , right now .
A: It sounds like you probably know
A: I mean to this day are you still in touch with any native Puerto Ricans that you have made friends with ,
A: or ,
B: No ,
B: we really did n't keep that up ,
B: it 's just ,
A: No ,
A: that 's natural ,
A: I just thought I 'd ask that because I wondered what you thought they might think .
B: Um .
A: Because I really don't have any , um , personal or professional or familial ties down there .
A: I don't know , the the , the , the , that 's just children , but the , the people that I went to high school with , um , I think the majority are in that , the , probably the generation , yours and mine
A: and the one right after us , that , um , their parents did not want to acclimate to the United States . Um , in terms of retaining , um ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and my background 's European heritage
A: and their background it would be , you know , the , I guess I would say the Latin or Latino heritage .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Not speaking in English , um , having the children drive them everywhere , and these were not old people .
A: These were like in their early forties .
B: Um .
A: Um , and I always , that always bothered me
A: and then there were some children that I noticed as soon as all the kids were out of high school , I mean they went back to Puerto Rico to live .
A: You know , they had made enough money here .
B: And so
A: But on the other hand , I guess it 's all about choice in everything .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , was it ,
A: I mean how were they toward ,
A: that 's interesting the , the way , term you used continentals , which I 'm sure is the proper term .
A: How were they toward the United States in terms of just general , relationships ,
A: I mean , were they glad ?
B: There really were three major , um , camps ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and there were those who , who , uh , were very friendly , very open , any , anything we can do for you , uh , uh ,
B: either way , you know , was great .
B: And then there were those at the other end of the spectrum and those that , ho hum , whatever , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , and , uh , it , it was interesting ,
B: the whole time we were there it was very , very political .
B: There was always some , on Sunday afternoons , uh , going through the , all the little urbanizations , the little neighborhoods with , uh , blow horns , oh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I ca n't think of the term
B: but , you know .
A: I know what you 're talking about
A: yeah .
B: And with banners and , and a parade of vehicles with their , with their colors of the , of a particular party .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So they were very , very , um , passionate , about their beliefs
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it , it , it kind of broke down that you could n't really see ,
B: I could n't see that there was a clear majority that , that stayed .
B: It seemed to shift as , as ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't , I don't predict ,
A: what you 're describing is actually a conflict , very
A: hello , uh ,
A: you know what ,
A: I 've got to go , because that 's my cordless battery going .
B: Oh , oh , I see ,
B: okay
A: I 'm sorry
B: Well I have enjoyed it .
A: I enjoyed talking to you
A: and , uh , thank you for your time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: bye-bye
B: Bye-bye .
A: Well , I think health care is real important , and dental coverage ,
A: but I guess medical insurance is probably what I consider the second most important .
B: Yeah ,
B: I agree on that .
B: And , you know , it seems
B: compared to what we , our salary is versus what our health care is , our health care keeps increasing , increasing , increasing and not to the same rate as our pay
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: I know
A: no matter what you do about that , yeah , unless you 're like a Senior V P or something which I am not
B: Right .
B: Me either
A: Yeah ,
A: I know .
A: It 's , um ,
A: I don't know .
A: And then when you interview for a job or something sometimes people , um , expect the benefits to take the place of a certain salary level .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , they 'll say maybe we 'll pay you X amount annually ,
A: but then we , you know , ten percent to fifteen percent more are your benefits
A: and if you 're like ,
A: are you married ?
B: Yes .
A: Um , like my husband works ,
A: and I do
A: so I don't take some of ,
A: I have certain things that I take ,
A: and he has other things he takes .
B: Right .
A: So I mean in that kind of situation it 's really almost , redundant , you know ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: You know that some of the benefits , I would rather have , um , money .
B: Money instead .
A: Yeah ,
A: more money , actually , um , Or flex time or something that was a little more personal , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: I feel the same way , actually .
B: Um , we don't use any of T I benefits other than I , I buy bonds and , and , um , that 's it
B: because ,
A: You don't use , you don't use the medical insurance ?
B: Not at all .
A: You use your , your company 's ?
B: My husband 's ,
B: yes ,
B: we use my husband 's .
A: Where does he work if you don't mind me ,
B: He , he works for Bramalea Company ,
B: and they pay one hundred percent .
B: Not one dime is deducted from his check .
A: Oh , you 're kidding .
A: What 's the name of that company
B: Bramalea .
A: What do they do ?
B: It 's a security company
B: and , and building , they own a lot of buildings and lease buildings .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And ,
A: Are they a big Company
A: or ,
B: Yeah ,
B: actually they 're from Canada .
B: They 're Canada based .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's , see , that 's probably why cause Canada has the , the , um , government run health care systems , social medicine .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you don't pay them . If you live there ,
A: it 's like Europe .
A: You don't pay a dime .
B: Right .
A: You know ?
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's all taken care , Yeah , but our prescriptions and everything , our visits to the doctor , our hospitalization ,
A: Sounds wonderful .
B: the only thing we pay for is if if something happened , an emergency , and we had to have an ambulance ,
B: it 's twenty-five dollars .
B: I mean that 's nothing .
A: Yeah ,
A: if I were , him , I 'd tell him make sure he stays there .
B: Really ,
B: yeah ,
B: well , T I was getting , for the both of us , it was like seventy-five dollars a month . You know , deducted for an H M O ,
A: Oh , my goodness .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I don't work at T I .
A: My husband works at T I ,
A: but , um , I work for E D S ,
A: but it 's like , um ,
A: You know they 're both
A: basically , E D S is a little bit better than T I
A: but , Um , and we take my dental , my dental , his medical .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And the medical is just , I mean , I think it 's terrible , you know ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: twenty ,
A: but they 're , then they 're getting ready to change it again for Aetna .
B: Okay .
A: Um , I don't know .
A: I just don't think companies , um , they want you to feel responsible and don't abuse the medical system
A: and , you know , Um , T I just did the thing where , with the smoking premiums .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We don't smoke ,
A: but did you , do you know about the smoking premiums ?
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: do you guys smoke ?
B: We don't either .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Neither one of us do .
A: But then , you know , like a lady in my office said , she said her husband works for T I , too .
A: And she said what about the people that are walking around ,
A: and I hope ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , who 's going to croak first ? The people that smoke or , you know ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Seems like , an unnecessary penalty ,
B: Exactly .
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean I 'm not all for smoking at all ,
A: but I just , you know , I don't how they can do it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Carte blanket . * listen : probably closer to `` carte blanche ''
B: Exactly .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Or something .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's like , stupid ,
A: but , That 's why I 'm not a boss , I guess
B: I don't know .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean I don't know , um .
A: What other , what other type of benefits do they have that , I mean , Canadian based companies .
A: They have to be a little bit different than the American , um .
B: Yeah ,
B: they are as far as their like pension plans ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they 're vested a lot earlier .
B: I think at T I , it took five years .
A: Yeah ,
A: T I is at least , five years ,
A: yeah .
B: Five to seven .
A: Yeah .
B: And they 're vested after their first year . totally vested .
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: And they have the four one K and the usual benefits like that , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's kind of nice .
A: Yeah ,
A: T I has that ,
A: but that 's a pretty standard thing anymore .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: You know , um , um , your husband 's company probably matches more than T I , though .
B: No ,
B: they match the same amount .
A: Oh , they do ?
B: Yeah ,
B: well , they match four percent which is the same , You know , fifty percent or four percent . * listen ; particularly nonsensical
A: Yeah ,
A: it is .
A: That 's still pretty good , though . I mean the fact that your vested that quickly in the pension .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I know , um ,
A: E D S has eight years ?
A: I think E D S has seven to , to eight years .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So it 's like T I in that respect , you know ?
B: Yeah .
A: And , and , I mean , and I 'm working for a company that 's making money
B: Yeah .
A: You know , E D S has a cash flow problem as they say but , um , not E D S , T I , um ,
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I , I don't know .
A: I think everywhere they just need to sit down and hire some people , the grunts , as I call them , like myself to tell them ,
B: Right .
A: yeah .
A: I mean , I don't know ,
B: It 's ,
A: but if I were to rank them , I guess I would say next to income it 's really just health benefits .
A: And then , um , for most people I know it would be day care
A: like T I has , no day care .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: that , and I know that 's a big issue
B: because I , I belong to a women 's forum group .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And some of the questions we 're getting are , are on site day care and things like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That they consider a very serious benefit .
B: And I ca n't tell you anybody right now at T I that 's , uh , considering that .
A: Oh , I don't ,
A: I would , think so ,
A: yeah
A: because ,
B: They should be though .
A: Yeah ,
A: they really should because they 're big enough , um ,
A: and the other thing I think is really good is that E D S is much better than T I at , I think , right now than , that we have day care , um , they , uh , the health , the health program like T I has Texans ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: But it , I don't think it , that it 's developed as much as it could be for the size company as T I .
B: Right .
A: I mean if you ever walked into E D S health , corner court health clubs on site and you walk into Spring Creek , well , Spring Creek 's better than the one on Dallas Parkway
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , I mean , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: a lot better .
B: E D S is is better than Spring Creek ?
A: Oh , it 's really nice ,
A: yeah .
B: Oh , man .
A: You know , instead of like six , um , treadmills , you 've got like twenty .
B: Yeah .
A: And E D S ca n't even compare in size . In terms of the number of employees .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: People ,
B: yeah .
A: So I , don't know .
A: I guess it 's just where they , um , and like E D S reimburses you for adoption .
B: Oh , I see .
A: And T I does n't have anything like that .
B: Right .
A: You know , so I guess I , I wish the companies like T I and a lot of others were more progressive in that respect
B: Yeah .
A: so ,
B: That 's good .
B: That 's a , that 's a fortunate benefit , you know , that they 're so active for their employees .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: and there 's , I mean they have some strange things .
A: I mean they have very strange like dress codes
A: and , you know .
B: Um , uh-huh .
A: Um , you ca n't wear slacks at the corporate site and that kind of thing unless you 're in a , you know ,
B: Right .
A: but it does n't , there are n't manufacturing environments because of the type of company it is .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I don't know .
A: I , I guess I also wish that , uh , companies would look more at cost of living increases instead of just merit reviews . Yeah ,
B: Yeah .
B: Me , too .
B: Me , too ,
B: because , you know , with utilities and , and homes that are , uh ,
B: price of homes have went up drastically .
B: Like an average house is now a hundred and thirty thousand .
A: exactly .
B: And that is unreal , because we 've got people out here that are just poverty level .
A: I know .
B: But then we 've got these million dollar homes
B: so you know , where do you find a happy medium ?
A: I know .
B: And how does your salary deal , with that ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's not .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and I mean , I mean , I don't know how you and your husband are , too ,
B: It 's just not doing it .
A: but I mean we have friends that laugh at us
A: and we , I clip coupons .
A: And I said , hey , I 'll probably do this even if I 'm a millionaire which I wo n't , ever be .
B: Yeah
B: Yeah
A: But , I mean , it 's like ,
A: because you just ca n't ,
A: I mean , it seems like every time you try to get ahead and take a vacation or something well , the car insurance is due
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's true .
B: That is exactly where we are .
A: I mean ,
A: yeah .
B: It 's so strange
A: I know .
A: I don't know what we 're going to do about ,
B: Common problem .
A: Yeah ,
A: you , want to rob a bank ?
A: No ,
A: I did n't say that .
B: Yeah ,
B: really .
A: I did n't say that on this line .
A: I don't know .
A: What else about corporate benefits ?
A: I ca n't think .
A: It 's probably been too hot today for either of us to ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , kind of nice to talk to somebody in Dallas .
A: Usually people are all over the country .
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: and I think Dallas , as far as , um , economic uncertainty , is better than what most of the country is .
A: This is true .
B: So somehow , we 're better off than a lot of them .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: and that does n't definitely make it any better .
A: It 's , just something you have to keep telling yourself , you know , that , um , that 's what I want , that , uh , you know ,
B: No
A: people are lucky to have jobs ,
A: and people are lucky to have any kind of benefits .
B: Uh-huh .
A: When you see people that don't have , um , anything but H M O or , you know , I mean really ca n't even afford to get in a job that costs ,
A: like , we had a guy fixing our air conditioner .
A: And he said he did n't even make ten dollars an hour ,
A: and he has three kids .
A: And I went , oh , you know , that has to be rough .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , but benefits ,
A: I don't know .
A: I guess , I guess one thing I 'd like to see , too , and I , I don't know how T I is about this , but I 'd like to see , um , employees rank and file be able to contribute more to their , um , the execution of their job .
B: Yeah .
A: You know .
B: Empowerment issues .
A: Right yeah ,
A: that 's a good word for it , um .
B: Right .
A: How is T I in that mode ?
B: Well , very well , um ,
B: it 's slow , though .
A: Uh-huh .
B: At least they 're making the effort to put it out there and make it available and and , cultural change within the management first .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And now it 's kind of filtering down to the peon level .
B: But , uh , I think they 're really trying .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's going to take years , though .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean it 's just , it 's that mind-set , has to change ,
A: All part of a good old boy network ,
A: yeah .
B: yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: E D S is , oh , they 're better ,
A: but they 're a little bit too , um , stiff collared in terms of , you know , what you want to do .
A: They 're pretty much put the , if that 's where the widget goes , stick it in the hole , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: They 're kind of formula oriented .
B: Does n't want to change .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , and you ca n't really argue with them because they 've always been successful
A: so , You know , what can you tell them
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: Really .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , I guess that 's what I know about benefits .
B: Okay . Yeah ,
A: Okay
B: me , too .
B: good talking to you .
A: Good talking to you
A: and keep cool .
B: Thanks .
B: Okay .
B: Bye-Bye .
A: Okay .
A: Bye-Bye .
A: Uh , I guess my feelings are that , uh , we almost have a universal health care system , uh , to a great degree , except that now I read where we 've left out about thirty-four million people .
B: Oh .
A: And , uh , I don't know exactly how we 're going to cover many of these people , because I 'm sure that some of them don't , uh , don't have the wherewithal to do it themselves ,
A: so , uh , I , I have a feeling , since I have just about as good a health care coverage that anybody can get , that this , uh , then becomes an obligation of the government ,
A: because it 's going to become an obligation of either state , local or federal government , anyway .
B: Yeah ,
B: because when people ca n't pay , they end up going to clinics or , you know , to public hospitals , and that kind of thing ,
B: and , you know ,
A: Well , it seems to me that , that I 'm paying anyway , because when I go , or my insurance carrier , anyway , when I pay something , the bills seem inordinately high .
B: Oh , definitely .
A: And the reason that they 're inordinately high is because that has , to cover the costs for the indigent people who apparently don't have the money or the wherewithal to do that .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: It would seem to spread it out a little better if the employers who , uh , employ these people , and pay them , uh , you know , subminimum wages or whatever , were asked to share their fair burden of this too , just as my employer is .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: And myself , I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: that sounds like a good idea .
B: My only concern is what happens when you turn things over to the government ,
B: I don't know
A: Well well , who , who else is going to do this , then ?
B: Do they wind up with more red tape , and more problems then ?
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I mean , it 's worked successfully in Europe .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 've heard all these stories about ,
A: I travel extensively and spend , uh , maybe half a year in Europe every year ,
B: Oh .
A: and I find that the health care programs there , uh , are administered with , uh , at least people I talk to , with , uh , a great deal of integrity ,
A: and , uh , people don't seem to be reluctant to use them to any degree .
B: Yeah .
A: As a matter of fact , if I 'm injured or have an emergency when I 'm , say in Germany or France , uh , that , I 'm automatically taken care of ,
B: Wow .
A: I mean I don't even have to pay .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I think part of the , the tremendous benefit of that is that there 's so many people who wait now because they don't have the money , until , you know , they have no preventative measures
B: People , um , you know , just go on and on and on .
B: I mean , so many people don't even get prenatal care
B: or , and it just extends with if it , what would be a minor problem to deal with if they had a help available early on
B: becomes just this horrendous , you know , burden on the taxpayers .
B: They 're saying now that one out of every ten child born in public hospitals is addicted to crack .
A: Well I , uh , uh , I know it .
B: Well , you know
A: I have a solution , you see .
A: my solution ,
A: even though I 'm rapidly approaching the , uh , the age when I 'll qualify for Medicare and Medicaid , I , I ,
A: my mother and father both , uh , uh ,
A: well , my father 's not living but my mother is ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they are , um , of an advanced years ,
A: and when I see the money that 's poured down the , down the drain on Medicare and Medicaid ,
A: I mean , the , absolute uncontrollable situation that we find ourselves in ,
B: Yeah .
A: and the extraordinary amounts ,
A: I know that ,
A: because those people vote ,
A: I mean , they 're the ones who get out and vote ,
A: that 's what 's robbing a poor mother of the prenatal care .
A: The young people are n't getting the proper care that they need , and nutrition , I think ,
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: and we 're spending on these useless , many times useless and inordinately complex unnecessary tests in hospitals for older people .
B: Oh , it 's unbelievable how much you go through .
B: When I just had a problem with my neck and they ended up doing a seven hundred dollar CAT scan , and , I mean , a chiropractor got it in one time
A: That 's right ,
A: I mean , it does , seem like we 're ,
B: it was just strange .
A: now I noticed just the other day in the paper that , that Medicare will be based , payments will be based not , uh , just on cost , but on cost effectiveness .
A: So I
B: Oh , well , that should help .
A: Well , I don't know , uh ,
A: we 'll see how that goes .
B: Yeah
A: I think that was just a regulation that was up for comment ,
A: but we 'll see what happens .
B: Oh I see
B: Oh , gosh .
A: Well , listen , uh , I think I 've , I 've exhausted my , uh , self on ,
A: at least I 've blown off steam of the way I feel about it .
B: Okay ,
B: well
A: Okay ?
B: Okay ,
B: thank you .
B: Bye-bye
A: See you next time .
A: Bye .
A: Well , I know that , uh ,
A: I have only like two or three favorite television shows .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think one of my favorite then is from the guy Stephen , is it Brochco , who does like L A LAW
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh-huh ,
A: and , uh , he also did HILLSTREET BLUES .
B: Yeah ,
A: I like those type of shows .
B: Yeah ,
B: we really enjoy that too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I don't get a lot , to watch a whole lot of T V .
B: We have a couple of young children ,
B: and so we 're usually outside ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so it 's usually the nine o'clock shows that if we get them in bed , we usually watch that ,
B: and L A LAW is one of my favorites .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: me , too .
A: I know ,
A: they , uh , I think they 're different than a lot of other shows of which they have like the re runs in the middle of the season
B: Yeah .
A: and then towards the end when everybody else is showing reruns , they start showing some of their newer stuff .
B: Yeah
A: So I thought that was really interesting the way that they did that .
A: Oh , and so you must watch a lot of , uh , Disney or cartoons then ?
B: Well , we have on SESAME STREET and MISTER ROGERS , that kind of stuff ,
B: and I think those programs are really good for children .
B: I know that both of mine have probably learned quite a bit from there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's kind of nice to know that they 're just going to be seeing , you know , not a lot of violence and that kind of stuff
A: Right .
B: and they usually , uh , show a lot of things that really teach them different things about the world .
B: So .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: My older son , he 's going to be five ,
B: and he 's more into watching the cartoons and that kind of stuff now .
A: Oh , that 's true ,
A: that 's true .
A: Well , I noticed that , my kids are , uh , older now ,
A: they 're uh , getting close to the teenage years .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But they did ,
A: we watched all of MISTER ROGERS and everything ,
A: but even some of your , uh , cartoons can be very violent
B: Yeah .
A: and , you know , they talk about death ,
A: and , we were watching , uh , oh gosh , BUGS BUNNY just last night
B: Oh , yeah .
A: and , um , I think it was on , I have to remember which channel ,
A: but anyway , uh , we were watching that
A: and it was talking about opera ,
A: and they showed like what they thought an opera would be ,
A: and one of the things was to kill the rabbit , kill the rabbit
B: Oh .
A: and I thought , Oh , how violent , you know , to kill the rabbit .
A: So he ended up killing the rabbit in the end , uh ,
A: but then of course , the rabbit comes back to life and says , well , see this is how an opera is supposed to be .
A: And I thought , gee whiz , if a little kid was watching this , you know , that would be pretty violent even for a small child .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: and you know , they , especially boys , I mean , they 're always talking about shooting and killing and all that kind of stuff
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I don't think that they really realize that death is forever , you know .
A: Right .
B: And showing them something like that really does n't teach them that it is .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right .
A: Well , I don't think cartoons portray that
A: but like ,
B: No ,
B: and to get them to feel like that that 's just pretend , I think is the hardest part , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: Yeah .
A: A cat has nine lives
B: Yeah .
A: but they don't ,
A: they just have one like we do
A: Oh , so that 's really funny
A: but , uh we 've gotten ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: go ahead .
B: I was just going to say , I know that , at least before our kids were born , we used to always enjoy watching the COSBY SHOW ,
B: Thursday nights usually had pretty good , with that , and as far as very good comedy .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I like to watch DESIGNING WOMEN if the kids are in bed by then .
A: Yes ,
A: Yes ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's true ,
A: that 's a good show .
A: I used to watch , uh , DALLAS .
B: We 're , we 're in Dallas .
A: yeah .
A: I used to watch DALLAS , years ago .
A: And somewhere in the middle I got , uh , bored ,
A: and , uh , so I , in fact , I did n't even watch the finale .
A: Uh , you know , that 's about how disinterested I had become .
B: Yes .
B: Well , I did watch it just to see what it was
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it was n't really that great .
B: So .
A: Well ,
B: I think , after a while , they just kind of , you know , there 's no new stuff they can do ,
A: uh-huh .
B: they 've done everything dirty in the book you know ,
A: Yep .
B: so ,
A: Yep ,
A: I know ,
A: I know .
A: Was it actually based on a book ?
B: Well , no ,
B: I imagine ,
A: Oh , but you were just talking about ,
A: okay ,
A: okay ,
B: Everything you could think of , you know had a hard time ,
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: and I think maybe with DALLAS , as far as , they lost a lot of characters that had been around at the first .
A: That 's true ,
A: that 's true .
B: Where ,
B: I don't know ,
B: I never watched KNOTS LANDING ,
B: but I think they 've had a lot of their characters stay around .
A: Stay .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: You know , and if you notice on DALLAS , they lost all the women .
B: Yeah .
A: Yes .
A: So the men mainly stayed
A: but the women were the ones who left ,
A: and I thought that was very interesting and wondered , kind of wondered about that .
A: Uh , well , anyway that 's a whole new issue
B: Yeah
B: Oh .
A: Oh , goodness
A: so . Anyway . I don't know if our five minutes are over yet
A: But we , uh , we also have the paid , uh , television channels .
A: Uh , the only thing I don't like about it , especially with teenagers , is that all the violence , the sex , the nudity and the curse words you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so , I know they did n't pick up these curse words from me .
A: So , uh , they had to have picked them up from , uh , the T V .
B: Yeah .
A: One nice thing though about the cable company we use , they have , uh , they have that little parental , uh , uh , key ,
B: Where you can lock up , the channel or whatever ?
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
A: So , I , I have that at home ,
A: and I keep the keys with me .
B: Yeah .
A: And that 's about the only way that I can , that I can do it .
A: Because their natural curiosity , you know , to go towards that way and want
B: Yeah .
A: yeah .
B: And I don't know the way the generations are growing up now ,
B: I mean I just think they watch so much more T V .
B: I try to limit what they watch .
B: They are n't sitting in the house watching T V all day because I think it 's good for them to have physical activity and that kind of stuff , too .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And especially in the summer time we are n't in the house very much in the evenings .
B: It 's the only cool time to be outside
A: That 's true ,
A: well , and here lately it has n't been that cool anyway with the humidity being so high .
B: Well , true ,
A: Well , it was nice talking to you .
B: Well , it was nice talking to you , too .
A: Okay ,
A: talk with you later .
B: Okay .
B: Good-bye .
A: Good-bye .
A: Okay .
A: Um , does , is this something that concerns you ?
B: or Well , I think it does , um , especially because I just moved to Massachusetts and , uh , they 're having real problems because they have so many , uh , police layoffs .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , personally I don't live in a real bad section of town
B: but , uh , just because of the general area I live in , the insurance rates are real high on your car
B: and , there 's a lot of crime within a few miles of me
A: Right
B: How about you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I live outside of Dallas
A: and it 's kind of in a little suburb .
A: So , I feel pretty safe out here
A: but I know the murder rate is going up every year in Dallas
B: Yeah ,
B: I , uh .
A: and that worries me .
B: Yeah ,
B: I recently moved here
B: and when I was looking for a job there was a lot of openings right in , the , in the worst areas of town
B: and , uh , my husband , was , was ,
B: what he his concerns were
B: well not that I think you 'll get involved in anything but it just be an innocent bystander , just to be in that location
B: and I thought how sad it was that just to be in a wrong location at the wrong time
A: Yeah .
B: and , and a lot of kids , you know , are caught that way .
B: But ,
A: Yeah ,
A: there 's a little boy just got shot and killed like last weekend down in what they call the projects , which is you know , sort of a bad area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But he was just out riding his Big Wheel
A: and a couple of drug people got into a fight with a gun
A: and he got hit and killed by a stray bullet .
B: Yeah ,
B: that exactly what happened down here .
A: That 's really sad .
A: I 've ,
A: so you know it must be frustrating for the parents who ca n't get out of a situation like that .
B: Uh-huh
A: It 'd be so scary .
B: I know they asked in the topic for ideas on how to control crime
B: and it does n't seem like anything is working
A: It really does n't ,
A: it 's kind of scary .
A: I think that , uh , I think the laws have gotten so lenient , you know
A: the court systems are too lenient .
A: I think that 's part of the problem .
B: But , in , in , on the other hand they have to be because the jails are full .
B: We ca n't , at least in this area , you know , they don't have any room to put anybody
B: so a lot of people just get out , you know , back on the streets because there 's no , they ca n't keep that many people in the buildings they have .
A: Yeah ,
A: they do that here , too .
A: But I say , you know , they commit crimes let them be overcrowded , you know let them suffer a little bit .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I know it ,
B: they have all sorts of , of rights , that , you know , are questionable .
B: Maybe they gave up that right when they committed the crimes .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think so .
A: I think if they knew it was going to be really horrible , wherever they were going , maybe they 'd think twice about doing it .
B: That 's true ,
B: maybe the punishment should be more severe .
A: Yeah .
A: You know , the other thing that worries about it is , kids that are doing such bad crimes so young , you know , like eleven and twelve and thirteen year olds that just go out and kill people .
B: I know it .
A: They ,
A: I don't know if that 's just a symptom of society and the breakdown of family and everything
A: but that worries me ,
A: I wonder what the next generation will be like .
B: Yeah .
B: exactly
B: because they get involved in things so young that they don't really , realize what they 're involved in .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , some people prey on that , you know ,
B: they 'll take , uh , kids who don't really realize the seriousness even at fifteen . And , uh , get them involved in things because , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: well I don't know ,
B: I was watching on , a movie on T V ,
B: I don't know how true those can be ,
B: but you know , they , one guy got all sorts of kids under eighteen to do it by telling them , you know , you wo n't have a record because you 're under eighteen .
B: They 'd steal cars and everything .
A: Oh .
B: So , I guess if they had , more of a deterrent , if they had more severe punishments it might be ,
B: but the courts are so backlogged right now it takes forever just to go to trial .
A: Yeah .
B: I think it would concern me even more if I had children , which I don't ,
B: but if I had children I would n't know where to raise them to protect them .
A: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: because it seems like now , even in the country , you hear about bad things happening .
B: Uh-huh .
B: It 's true ,
B: they , uh , and they , they talk about too , the gangs spreading , you know ,
B: like everybody thinks of them only in L A and New York
B: but they spread out to cover more area
B: and , I don't know , if , if gangs occur much down in Texas . Do they ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I think they have them in Dallas because I hear them talking about in the schools , different things happening ,
A: and they 've had some drive-by shootings outside of the schools .
B: Yeah ,
B: the same in some of the areas around here
B: but I 've never had any personal , you know , I never met anybody that I knew had anything to do with it . Or seen anybody ,
A: Me either
B: but , uh , that 's a scary thing too because at that age kids want so much to belong to a group .
B: And , I think that a lot of people that sort of control them , control what they 're doing are older , you know , business , you know , trying to control whatever . You know ,
A: Yeah ,
A: seemed like , like in the fifties when gangs were big
A: it was just to be part of the gang
A: but now they 're so much into selling drugs and weapons and all that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's pretty scary .
B: It 's true .
B: And the weapons , my God , the weapons that people have are ,
B: some people are seemed to be armed better than the military or the same as the military .
B: I don't know where they get them
A: Really ,
A: yeah ,
A: those machine guns and all that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's scary .
A: It 's a wonder there 's anybody who 's willing to be a policeman anymore .
B: That 's the other thing , uh ,
B: is it 's hard to even ,
B: I ca n't even think of what the benefits of the job would really be .
B: Especially if you 're an inner city , you know , you ca n't really feel like you 're putting much of a dent in what 's going on .
B: And , you 're putting your life on your , on the line everyday .
A: Yeah .
A: Dallas , they were saying in Dallas that they ca n't hire anymore policemen
A: but they keep losing them all the time
A: and that , uh , you know ,
A: eventually we 're going to be way short on the number we need because they wo n't let them hire any new ones
B: I ,
A: and they keep leaving .
B: Uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: I just read an article yesterday , um , where this , what used to be a nice town in this area , they had a lot of budget cutbacks .
B: Massachusetts is broke right now
B: and a lot of the towns are declaring bankruptcy
B: and , they had to cut twenty guys from their forces
B: and the crime wave rate went up almost instantly because it was so well publicized that everybody in the area knew that town would n't be patrolled as well .
B: And so , it 's like
A: Yeah
A: , they figure , what a heyday , huh
B: This is a depressing conversation though
A: It really is
A: Well , there 's someone at the door
A: so I guess I 'll have to go see what my dog is barking about .
A: But it was nice talking to you
B: Okay ,
B: I hope things look up
A: Well thanks
A: same for you .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye .
A: Where have you been on a wonderful vacation ?
B: Well normally when we go on vacation we go home , to Colorado .
A: Oh , that 's where we go home , too .
B: Really .
B: Yeah ,
B: Colorado Springs is where we 're from .
A: That 's where we go .
B: How funny .
A: Yes ,
A: my husband 's family lives just off of Academy Boulevard at Maize land .
B: Really ?
A: Yes .
B: We live up , up , uh , Lake , in the Broadmoor area
A: Uh .
B: that 's where my my in-laws are .
A: Oh , we 've been there .
A: We have n't skied at Broadmoor .
A: We went there last year at Christmas time
A: and it was twenty-seven below .
B: Oh .
A: So we had to cancel our ski lessons
B: Uh-huh ,
B: as of you ca n't even ski there anymore .
A: Really ?
B: Yeah ,
B: they closed it down .
A: Oh , just this year ?
B: Uh-huh
A: Oh , my ,
B: they don't have enough money to keep it going ,
A: Uh .
B: it does n't , does n't pay .
B: So .
A: So that would n't be a good spot to go on a vacation , now if you were a skier .
B: Well you know , well , now I don't know .
B: Now Colorado Springs is real accessible to Lake Breckenridge
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's only a couple of hours away .
B: And , uh , so , it 's , it might not be too bad if you want to go skiing somewhere else .
B: But , you ca n't , ca n't ski up there any more .
A: No .
B: Oh , I 'd like to go on vacation .
B: I my husband and I want to go to Florida to go to Disney World ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but we have two little ones that are under two right now ,
A: Yes .
B: so we want to wait until they 're a little bit older to do that ,
A: Oh .
B: and ,
A: Well , we went on a family cruise last year , on the Premier Family Cruise Line
A: and then we went to Disney .
A: It was all part of the package .
B: Oh .
A: And on the cruise ship they had Mickey and Minnie and Chip and Dale and Goofy and Donald Duck ,
A: and it was really oriented toward little kids .
B: Well , how fun .
A: So the kids could eat with Chip and Dale , you know ,
A: and , you know it was just a lot of fun .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: Oh , I bet .
A: So then we were on the cruise for three days in the Bahamas ,
A: and then landed at Cape Canaveral and then drove over to Orlando and spent four days at Disney .
B: Wow ,
B: well that sounds pretty , Yeah , that sounds pretty good .
A: Yes ,
A: that was the way to travel .
A: Yes .
B: And it was all a big package deal where you just pay one price and get everything ?
A: Yes .
A: That 's right .
A: That 's right ,
A: and kids are really cheaper , too .
B: Really .
A: We really lucked out because the ship we were supposed to be on developed engine trouble two days before our cruise ,
A: so they said we could either cancel , reschedule , or take whatever was available .
A: So we took whatever was available ,
A: and we left a day early ,
A: and they put us up at the Cocoa Beach Hilton ,
A: and the ship that was available , the only , uh , rooms that had n't been booked were the suites .
B: Wow .
A: So we got the suites at the same price as a regular cabin .
B: Oh what a deal .
A: Yeah .
A: So then our cruise was actually extended a day ,
A: and our Disney was extended a day ,
A: so we turned a seven day trip into ten
B: Great ,
A: and they paid for everything .
B: Well , that 's great .
A: Yes .
B: Oh .
A: So that was a wonderful vacation .
B: Yeah ,
B: I bet .
B: That sounds like the way I 'd want to do it I think .
A: Yes .
A: Well , what kind of things do you like to do when you go to Colorado ?
B: Oh , well , we like to ski , of course ,
B: so we spend so much time with our families uh , and seeing our friends ,
A: Yes .
B: because we moved to Texas about two years ago . So when we go back we are just jam packed full of people to see and things to do
A: Yeah .
B: so we don't , we don't get a lot of time to just vacation .
B: We did , um , last year , though , go to San Antonio for Memorial Day which was fun just to get to kind of walk around and see the sights down there and do that kind of thing .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , but , you know , other , other than that , with , with both my kids being under two , it 's real hard to do any , any kind of events that , uh don't , don't require as much ,
A: Right .
A: That would be ,
A: Yes .
A: I know ,
A: I think one of the places I always hit in Colorado , is that current outlet store .
B: Yeah
A: That 's what ,
B: you should mention that ,
B: I just got my catalog this morning and was looking through it .
A: Oh , with the Santa Claus on the cover .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yes ,
A: I 've already ordered from that one ,
A: but we will probably be going up at Thanksgiving this year ,
A: so .
B: Oh , do you live , where do you ,
B: what state are you in ?
A: Texas .
B: Oh , you 're in Texas .
A: Yes ,
A: I 'm in the Dallas area . In Plano .
B: So am I .
B: I 'm in Garland .
A: Uh so that 's not too far .
B: Yeah .
B: I talked to somebody from Wisconsin or something the other day .
A: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: so I guess they get people from all over .
A: Yes .
B: Yeah ,
B: driving for Thanksgiving , that 's going to be quite a drive for ,
A: Well it was when we left last year .
A: We left on the eighteenth , right before that big snow storm hit Colorado
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we pulled in just as it hit .
B: Wow .
A: So , how do you go ?
A: Do you go up through the Raton Pass , when you go up there ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: oh ,
B: well , wait a minute ,
B: yeah ,
B: we do ,
B: we do .
A: That 's on like Route two eighty-seven or something like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: and then we go straight up through Trinidad and straight up I Twenty-five from there .
A: Okay .
A: Okay ,
A: we , uh , went a different way when we went last Christmas because of bad weather and because we were pulling a little U Haul trailer ,
A: because we had to take our dog in the car , there was no room for luggage .
A: So , we went all interstate .
A: We went up , um , through Oklahoma City and then up through , uh , Kansas , and then turned left and went in on I Seventy
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: and it wound up only taking us about an extra hour .
A: It was a little more mile wise
B: Uh-huh .
A: but because you could go sixty-five miles an hour on the ,
B: All set .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Actually I 'm in Plano , too
A: That 's okay .
B: I say Dallas area when I 'm talking to people elsewhere .
A: That 's okay ,
A: it 's more , uh , concentrated , so they know where you are .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , anyway , I know here in , here in Plano some of the things that we do are , um , Kroger
A: and some of the other stores , too , have said , If you bring your bags back to , to the store to recycle , then they 'll pay you a certain amount of money ,
A: and that 's one thing that started in the community .
B: They actually pay you money for that ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , um , Brookshires up in uh , Allen , uh , you bring your bags back , you know , they , uh , the plastic bags back or the paper bags , you put them in the receptacles there ,
B: but I did n't realize some people are actually paying you for that . Um .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I know Kroger will do it ,
A: and I think Albertson 's does it sometimes ,
A: I 'm not sure .
A: Um , and , and yet , I know that , uh , some of the stores will actually help the community , not pay you the money back , but will pay the , the , uh , community , like through the schools or things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Interesting .
A: So , um , that 's always helpful ,
A: and I know that we we have the , the can , the can , different can banks around the city that you can go to and do that .
B: Right .
A: Um , one of the ways ,
A: I don't know , uh , if this would be helpful .
A: It said on the , the computer , what do I think would be helpful .
A: And I don't know if it would be helpful or not ,
A: but I know on Monday , the , the garbage men pick up like just , um , any limbs or any extra trash that you might have ,
B: Right .
A: And that might be an extra day to put out things that might be recycled if we had a , a certain colored can to put them in or something in the city to put , like either glass or newspapers or whatever .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think they already do that out East .
B: Um , they have to , it 's a little bit more difficult , because people have to remember , Okay , today 's glass okay tomorrow 's plastic , and all that
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: but I think that 's the way we need to go .
B: It 's , uh , it 's pretty bad .
B: All these years we 've
B: been , especially in this country , all the , uh , the plastic and the paper and everything , we just used to throw out .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , I know getting a newspaper everyday , I know I could just , you know , do that because I have to pick it up ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it just goes out with our trash ,
A: and I guess I 'm not as , um , recycling minded as I should be
A: but that goes out with the trash ,
A: and it really could be recycled .
B: Yeah ,
B: about six months ago I started
A: Did you ?
B: yeah ,
B: and , uh so what I do is , uh ,
A: Tell me .
B: it 's not bad ,
B: you just have to have a place to keep everything ,
B: but , uh , it , you 'll be amazed if you ever start doing it .
B: Just put your paper in the same place every day ,
B: and it 'll start stacking up .
B: Take your glass , um , you know , pickle jars , or , or whatever , uh , liquid jars , you know ,
B: just rinse them out a little bit
B: and put them all in a place ,
B: and , uh plastics ,
A: don't you have to take like labels off of those jars ?
B: No ,
B: from what I understand , uh , you can leave the labels on , um , although I rip , rip them off .
A: Yeah .
B: I don't , I don't scrub them or anything ,
B: I just tear them off
A: Take them off ,
A: yeah .
B: throw the lids and everything out ,
B: but , uh , put all the glass in one place , and plastics , like milk jugs , uh , orange juice jugs , things like that .
A: Soda ,
A: both liter sodas
B: Yes
A: can you do that .
B: those also .
A: Okay .
B: Um , and then , of course , uh , cans , coke cans , whatever .
A: Right ,
A: right .
B: But , uh , I have n't been down to the recycling center yet to find out exactly what they need or what they take , and all that ,
B: I 've just read a lot about it ,
B: and I 'm keeping these big piles of it right now
B: I going to try to dump it out this weekend in fact .
B: But , uh , you 'd be amazed how quickly it all stacks up .
B: There 's a lot that we throw out .
A: I , I know with our family that we could really be helpful if we could find a way to just , um , get it into different categories like that ,
A: and I , I don't know what it would take to , to get my children to start working on it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I have two older ones that probably would go along with the , if I had it arranged so that it was n't a big project , you know .
B: It 's , yeah , it 's not a big deal .
B: You get used to it .
B: One ,
B: let me tell you one interesting thing
A: Okay ,
B: when I went back to the store , and I said , Hey , um , I understand you all are taking these bags back , uh , you know , what do you do with them .
B: And they told me , they look through them all and throw out the ones that don't belong there and then , you know , go and recycle the rest .
B: And I said , What do you mean the ones that don't belong there ?
A: Yeah .
B: And they said , Well , people come in and put anything in the receptacles .
B: And what I found out is , if you look at the bottom of those bags , Kroger or whatever the plastic ones , they 've got numbers on them .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: and if it 's got the little recycle symbol and inside it it 's got a number , like bags from Drug Emporium have a ...
A: Hello .
B: Hello .
A: Hello ,
B: Hello ,
A: Hi .
A: Boy
A: it took forever to find somebody .
B: Oh , well I 'm glad you found me .
A: Good ,
A: well I 'm , my name 's Gail ,
A: and I guess we have to , talk about credit cards .
B: Yes .
B: My name is Carolyn .
A: Okay ,
A: well , if you 're ready , then uh ,
B: Okay .
B: I 'll just let you start ,
A: Okay ,
A: I 'll press one
A: Okay ,
A: well , I 'm not ,
A: this is kind of an interesting subject to come up for me , because credit cards are my downfall .
A: I just find it so easy to , to charge something when I don't have the money to pay for it ,
A: and I 'm really trying to get out of that habit .
A: So . I think they 're kind of dangerous .
B: I think they are , too .
B: And , unfortunately , um , we use ours in , we don't use them all the time ,
B: but we use them like at Christmas time ,
B: and then it seems like it takes all year to pay them off when you use them like that
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , um , I would love to just take some scissors and cut them in half .
A: Yeah ,
A: me too .
B: I think sometimes when you look at the interest that you 're paying on them , um , that 's what gets to be the really scary part , you know , if you think , when it comes around to income tax time , and you look at how much money you paid out just in interest all year ,
B: you could really get a lot more stuff if you were just able to pay outright for it .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true ,
A: that 's true .
A: Seems just like our society is so , um , pushes so hard for , you can have it , you know , and then no interest , no payments for a year , and stuff like this ,
A: they 're really trying to get you into that situation , because they know they 've really got you then ,
A: so .
B: all I know is some of my credit cards ,
B: like , um , we have a Sears one ,
B: and we always get a maintenance agreement every year
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's just easier to say , you know , just put that on my credit card .
B: Well that 's probably four or five hundred dollars , you know , that goes on at that point
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then it seems like takes forever to pay that off .
A: It 's funny , that we 've got a Sears card , and we bought a washer and dryer on it , four years ago , and we still owe .
A: I mean , I , I think like half the amount that they cost in the first place .
B: Wow .
A: It 's just , uh , you know , you never , never get it out ,
A: and now that 's real irritating .
B: It sure is .
B: We eventually did ,
B: one time we just borrowed , took a personal loan and paid off all our credit cards ,
B: and the interest on the loan was cheaper than it was , you know , to just have that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We have n't done it lately .
B: We probably need to do it again .
A: Well , we did , you know ,
A: one time , we wanted to buy a truck , a used truck ,
A: and so we went down to the bank ,
A: and they said , Sure we 'll give you a personal loan .
A: It was only a thousand dollars that we needed for the truck .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they said , sure that 's no problem , but , you know , why don't we consolidate your bills ,
A: and at the time we thought , Oh , that would be great , you know , we could ,
A: and it 's going to be a lower payment than it was for all of them ,
A: you only have to write one check a month , not all those .
A: You never miss one or whatever
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we did that ,
A: but we did n't realize at the time , until several months later , that we , we were real ,
A: I mean this was four three years ago ,
A: we were pretty young
A: and we were just kind of like ,
A: well , I guess that means these credit cards are closed ,
A: and we did n't , you know ,
A: about six months later we realized we could use them ,
A: and so we charged them all up again .
B: Oh , no .
A: Yeah .
A: So then we were not only paying those bills regular like we were before , but also adding the lower payment for all of them ,
A: So we were paying like twice .
A: Um , so we did n't ever make that mistake again , luckily
A: But , uh , we 're definitely working on not doing that credit thing .
A: We just ,
A: as a matter of fact , this , it 's real interesting the subjects I get .
A: They always seem to be so pertinent .
A: But we just discussed this last night at church , talking about debt and things like that .
A: It 's so , so alluring , and uh , so easy to get ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , sometimes ,
B: I know ,
B: they really encourage you not to go into debt for anything except for maybe your house and your car .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
B: And , uh , if you could stick to that , you know , we 'd get rid of a lot of indigestion and everything else .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's true .
A: Oh , I just picked up my daughter
A: and she was eating a cupcake and now her crumbs all over .
B: Oh , dear .
A: Yeah .
A: What a mess you are .
A: Oh , so I don't know , if I , if I , I just feel kind of .
A: My big thing was my husband really wanted to get rid of our Visa card ,
A: and I just thought , you know , if we ever had something go wrong with our refrigerator or something , you know and we had to , had to buy one , then we would really need that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so he said , Okay we 'll keep it ,
A: and then we were n't smart enough to not use it ,
A: so .
B: You know , one thing you might do with , in a situation like that , though , it 's just like keep ,
A: Okay ,
A: so you 're into microwave cooking .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's just , it 's so easy nowadays , you know ,
B: and it 's , uh , especially when people are working just to come home and pop something into the microwave
B: and it be ready in just a few minutes
A: , yes ,
A: and that 's what we all are looking for , is n't it ,
A: something that we can just cook in a hurry after we get off work .
B: Yeah .
A: I 've gotten in the habit of cooking something big on the weekends so that I have leftovers all week .
B: All week .
B: Well , we 've done that , too .
B: There 's just my husband and I ,
B: and he , he sometimes makes a huge spot uh , pot of spaghetti
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , you know , we 're eating it for a week and a half ,
B: and I kind of get sick of it after he
A: I know .
A: I try not to make too much .
A: It 's just my husband and I , too
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I try not to make so much that it lasts more than that week
B: Yeah
A: but , uh , I usually , I usually like to make spaghetti or soup or chili or , you know , something like that or sometimes a roast ,
B: Right .
A: but ,
B: Right .
A: What 's your favorite thing to cook if you 're having a dinner party ?
B: Um , I have a great recipe for sour cream chicken enchiladas
A: Oh , oh .
B: it 's , it 's really good ,
B: I got it from a friend of mine that I used to work with
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , every time I 've served it , everybody just loves it .
A: Ooh ,
A: that sounds delicious .
B: So that 's , that 's one of my favorite things to make .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What about you ?
A: I end up with an old stand-by that we call Russian chicken , because it 's so easy
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it
A: you have to cook very little to go with it , just some rice and some salad
A: and that 's about it , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , what do you put in it ?
A: Uh , you make , you just take your boneless chicken breasts
A: and then you take and make a , a dressing out of , uh , Russian dressing , one bottle of that and a package of Lipton Onion Soup mix and three ounces of apricot preserves
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Ooh ,
B: that sounds good .
A: and you mix it up ,
A: and you just put it on the top of the chicken ,
A: and then I cover the pan with foil and put it in the oven for about an hour
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then I take the foil off and let it brown takes about another twenty minutes
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's delicious
B: Ooh ,
B: that sounds good .
A: and it 's so simple , because I can pop it in when I come in the door , you know , and then , uh , go about my business ,
A: and by the time I 've got everything else ready , the chicken 's chicken 's done .
B: Is done ,
B: right .
A: So that 's a real easy thing for me .
B: Yeah ,
B: that sounds good , too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've got a , um , a great recipe for cheese cake .
A: Oh , really .
B: I don't know if you get SOUTHERN LIVING ,
B: but
A: No ,
A: I don't ,
A: my mom gets that ,
A: but ,
B: they have one ,
B: if you like to cook , they have ,
B: every recipe I 've tried out of that has been a really good one
A: Really .
B: and , um , you know , every month they 've got all different kinds of recipes ,
B: but , I got one in there about a year or so ago on cheese cake ,
B: and it 's just a regular cheese cake ,
B: and then you can put raspberry , uh , topping on it
A: Uh-huh .
B: but inside the cheese cake , uh , recipe you put , um , lemon peel and orange peel
A: Um .
B: and it 's just enough to taste it , you know , when , when , when you 're eating the cheese cake ,
B: and it is wonderful ,
B: but it takes a long time , because you have to cook it for forty-five minutes , and then you turn the oven off , and you leave it in the oven for another forty-five minutes and then you open up the oven door and leave it in for another forty-five minutes and then you 're supposed to , um , I think , chill it to room temperature
A: Um .
A: Oh , my goodness .
A: Uh-huh .
B: so sometimes I 'll do that overnight , and then put the topping on the next day ,
B: but it 's , it 's very good .
A: Well , I love cheese cake .
A: I have never been , I don't know , the ones
A: I have made I have not done that well with .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I like a baked cheese cake , you know ,
A: I don't ,
A: I have had a recipe that someone has given me that it 's kind of like you just mix cream cheese and stuff and refrigerate it , you know
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: but that 's not the same as a , a New York style cheese cake .
B: No
B: it 's not .
A: And , uh , the recipes that I 've used ,
A: everybody will say , Oh , this is real simple ,
A: and then I make it ,
A: and it 's , it 's really not very good
B: Right .
A: but yours sounds good .
A: I bet that lemon and orange peel gives it a little bit of tartness .
B: It does ,
B: and it , it , it is really good .
A: Um . Well , that sounds interesting ,
A: so there 's your good dessert for your dinner party .
B: Right
A: Are you into serving wines with your dinner party ?
B: Oh , sometimes ,
B: but I mean , I 'm not a wine connoisseur by any means .
A: Me , either .
A: I wish I knew more about it .
B: I 've been to , you know , some wine tastings up in Napa Valley
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , um , you know , and I learned a little bit about them then ,
B: but you know what would be fun , they have some of those classes you can take
A: Uh-huh .
A: They would be , if you just had time to do it .
B: yeah ,
B: and then there 's places , um ,
B: do you live in Dallas
A: Uh-huh .
B: okay ,
B: there 's places here that , um , offer ,
B: I think it 's like once a month ,
B: you can go and , to a particular restaurant or whatever ,
B: and you can kind of take a cooking class
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then you get to eat everything afterwards ,
B: and then they also go into the wines , you know to serve with , you know , different types of of meals and that kind of thing ,
A: Well , how neat .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it sounds like it 's a lot of fun .
B: We have some friends who 've done that ,
B: and they 've really enjoyed it .
A: Um , well , I did n't even know they were offering that .
A: I guess I ,
B: Yeah ,
B: this place is called like Medina 's or Messina 's Kitchen or something like that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , well , I bet that would be a fun thing to do .
B: Yeah ,
B: it , it sounds like , like it ,
A: Jay , um ,
A: my kids are , are both in college , um ,
A: and I 'd , I played a fairly active part in helping them decide where to go .
A: On the other hand , they really decided themselves .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , what , what kind of experience did you have ?
B: Well , I , uh ,
B: one girl went in , in state and has graduated ,
B: and then , uh , that was , uh , you know , that was her choice pretty much where she wanted to go
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I have , uh , one , out of , two out of state , both in Missouri ,
B: and , um , I teach , uh , in a college ,
B: and so I they had heard me talk about it , and for years , that I did n't think it really made too much difference where they went for their undergraduate .
B: Uh , so , that was pretty much , uh .
A: Um .
A: I see ,
A: well , I , may , maybe I 'm wrong ,
A: but I think it makes a big difference in terms of finding a school that is sort of right for the child in terms of his or her happiness and , and , and the appropriate support environment and things like that .
B: Oh , oh , if they , if they 're content there ,
B: I mean as far as the education , as far as looking at the degree at the end , that , uh , it 's very little difference is paid to it , where you get that bachelor 's .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , if it 's a halfway decent school they should be happy naturally ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and if they can get , uh , um , two out of ,
B: let 's see , my son got a full total scholarships
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so there 's , uh , there 's plenty of scholarships out there ,
B: and so people should be advised to look for those ,
B: and , um ,
A: Did , did you play a , a strong role in helping them pick schools
A: or did you just sort of say listen to your guidance counselors
B: Uh .
A: and ,
B: Well , they , uh ,
B: I went , we went around ,
B: my son was a , graduated from a Jesuit high school
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so he , he was pretty much looking for a Jesuit university ,
B: and so there you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: that was limited to five or six different places
B: and , um , so he 's in Saint Louis U ,
B: and I guess I played a role in that .
B: I , I just sort of , uh , let them , um , you know ,
B: they 'd all been , uh pretty efficient as far as studies
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , so I did n't have that much to do ,
B: they just , uh they just knew they wanted to go to college ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I , you know , helped them get there as far as traveling with them to look at different places .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: We did do that ,
B: and I would suggest a person always goes and looks at the school before they sign up .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that 's a great idea ,
A: I mean , that ,
B: Some people don't do it ,
B: and then they get there and hate it , or whatever ,
B: so if it 's possible .
A: Right .
A: It 's , it seemed expensive at the time you 're doing it , but , but the compared to the , the total decision it 's nothing .
B: Right .
B: I think in the short run it is expensive .
B: In the long run it 's very , uh , reasonable if the person ,
A: Yeah .
B: my daughter has been in , in Missouri for a second year ,
B: now she 's coming home at the end of the semester
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , uh , you know , she 's already twenty-one .
B: She started late .
B: So that 's , you know , strictly up to her ,
B: and , uh , she 'll finish down here , uh , uh , finish this year down here and then decide what she 's going to do next year .
A: Yeah .
B: It 'll save me a lot of money because I 'm not going to have to pay out of state tuition
A: Yeah .
B: but again , that 's her decision
A: Right .
B: so , uh , but I have so many students in my classes that have dropped out and come back ,
B: and they 're much better students at twenty-five , twenty-six , may , twenty-eight .
B: So , you know , I don't , I never have pushed them .
B: I just say that education is important , you should do it , uh ,
B: but , uh , they have to do the work
A: Yeah .
B: so , uh .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , back , back to this visiting thing ,
A: I mean , I found that my kids had no conception what college was really like and , and that the process of going around to a few schools with them really helped them understand
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: and being able to go with them to at least some of them gave me a chance to explain things to them and to , uh , in reference to what we had seen .
B: Oh , I think so .
B: And also I 'm opposed to the , to the size .
B: They 've just gotten so huge ,
B: and so my daughter first looked at a place that was forty thousand ,
B: see that 's just too many .
A: Good grief
B: Ended up going to where I used to go ,
B: and that was twenty-five hundred when I went there ,
B: it 's twenty-one thousand , now
B: it 's too big .
A: Good grief .
B: So ,
A: What is twenty-one thousand ?
B: Pardon ?
A: What school is that ?
B: It 's Southwest Missouri State University
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it was twenty-five hundred when I went there forty years ago ,
B: and , uh , my son 's in a school about seven thousand ,
B: and that 's , that 's not bad
A: Uh-huh .
B: I teach in a school about eight thousand ,
B: and that 's , that 's even a little large
A: Yes .
B: but it 's much better than twenty-one thousand .
B: But they do have to visit , and if , if the parent can point out all the different places to look for for scholarships ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then , oh , those rating , uh ,
B: the magazines and all those things are doing the ratings now and everything ,
B: I don't think it hurts to look at them
A: Yes .
B: I don't put that much stock in them ,
B: but
A: Uh-huh .
B: probably fine just to compare .
A: Helps to at least set up range of things to look at .
B: Right .
B: If they , you know , uh , they need to ,
A: Okay ,
A: who do you like ?
B: Okay ,
B: What kind do I like ?
B: I like just about any kind except country and western .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's the same with me , same with me .
B: It 's , it 's , course country
B: and western even I 've gotten a little bit used to because it 's not like it used to be .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Like Clint Black , he 's pretty good ,
A: and who 's the other big guy ?
B: Well , in Oklahoma we say Garth Brooks
A: Garth Brooks ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's , yeah , that 's the other guy I was thinking of was Garth Brooks .
A: Yeah ,
A: in fact I think both of them have performed here .
A: And Kenny Rogers , he 's kind of country western verge , you know on the verge of country western .
B: Right .
B: Of course , Garth Brooks lives about , uh , you know ,
B: his , his home town is about , uh , fifteen minutes away
A: Oh , wonderful .
B: so he is , he 's a home boy
A: Well , then , of course you like him .
A: That 's great .
A: But , well , I have teen age children ,
A: and so , you know , I 'm , hear the , the rock music , not the hard rock , but the , you know , Michael Bolton type stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He 's my personal favorite .
B: My son is , uh , twenty-eight ,
B: so , but he , he 's real unusual in that , uh ,
B: he likes a little bit of every kind .
B: He likes jazz and , uh , blues and , and course the rock
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: I , I ca n't say he 's real crazy about elevator music , as he calls it .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I , I don't , I don't , actually , we don't listen to any elevator music at my house .
A: But I 've got teenagers ,
A: so .
B: Well , my teenagers are all gone .
B: I can listen to any music I want to
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good ,
A: I , actually , when I 'm home alone , which is n't too often , but , uh , our Public Radio Station has wonderful classical music .
A: It 's just very wonderful . Soothing , and , you know , uh , lot of symphonies
A: and , I just , I love that ,
A: that 's probably my all-time favorite .
B: You know , uh , I , I teach
A: Um .
B: and we can have music in the classroom ,
B: but it , you know , it ca n't be the rock or anything like that
A: Right .
B: and I , I find that the classical music is very good for the kids too , it does n't disturb them and yet it 's , it 's , it stimulates them ,
A: Right .
A: Relax ,
B: and and , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: What do you teach , what grade ?
B: Well , it 's ninth , nine through twelve
A: Good for you .
B: and ,
A: A certain subject ?
B: Well , it 's , uh , business technology .
A: Good for you .
B: But , uh
A: I was just sitting here while she was trying to find , a , a , another caller , uh ,
A: I was reading
A: my , my husband and I are taking a computer class at our junior college
B: oh , boy ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's pretty good ,
A: it 's just a real basic class ,
A: but we 're learning a lot ,
A: and we have a home computer ,
A: so it 's , it 's very interesting .
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: I 'd learn it too .
B: Uh , back to , I guess we 'd better get back to music , though .
A: Yeah ,
A: the subject of music
B: I , uh ,
B: do you play any instruments ?
A: I play , I play piano ,
A: I took lessons for thirteen years ,
A: and right now my nine year old is taking piano ,
A: and I just got a whole mess of music ,
A: I , I play the , volunteer to play the piano at the children 's Christmas program for the whole grade school , which is K through six five hundred kids .
B: Ooh , you took on a ,
B: good job .
A: I did it last year ,
A: and , and , um , I , I just sub at the school ,
A: I don't want to work full time ,
A: so I just sub at the school ,
A: and that 's kind of my volunteer thing ,
A: so that , it , it 's really neat ,
A: and my older daughter plays the saxophone ,
A: my next son plays the drums ,
A: and my third son just started baritone this year ,
A: and my little girl will start French horn next year ,
A: so .
B: Oh , well , my son played the sax and drums , my daughter the piano , organ and French horn .
A: Oh .
B: So .
A: French horn is absolutely wonderful instrument .
A: It 's just my favorite .
A: Of course that 's what I played ,
A: and so I 'm pushing that on my daughter because I want to play in our city band , not the symphony , with just the city band once we get the , the French horn
B: Oh , okay .
A: and I get a little bit more time .
A: Right now I 'm busy chasing my kids .
B: Yes ,
B: sounds like you 've got a houseful .
A: I do , I do , I love it ,
A: but we have a , a marvelous band instructor ,
A: and , and he 's just , he 's wonderful .
A: We have , uh , couple of hundred kids in the band ,
A: our junior high band is just wonderful .
B: Oh , that 's a ,
A: He , lot ,
A: and their concert band ,
A: and then he has a jazz band that my older daughter was in ,
A: and my son will be in next year
A: that 's ,
A: I mean , they play college level music in junior high ,
A: he 's that good of an instructor ,
A: and the kids just love him .
B: Oh , that 's wonderful ,
A: So it 's really good .
A: It is wonderful .
B: I , I have totally , totally a tin ear
A: Oh do you
B: and I love music .
B: I can not carry a tune in a basket .
B: I know what I like ,
B: but I
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , and I love to listen to it , love to sing , and I , my kids , when I was little and , they were little
B: and I was rocking them , singing to them .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , I guess , uh , this is a , a topic near and dear to my heart , since I am a , am a healthy eater ,
B: Well , I , I try to be as well ,
A: Well , I 'm not , uh , I ,
A: there really is n't any kind of particular food that I , I don't , don't like really ,
A: and I like a good Italian restaurant or a good , uh , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: especially like good prime rib
B: Uh-huh .
A: so if it 's , uh , nice to get out and find a good restaurant like that ,
A: and I live here in , uh , Rome , New York ,
A: and there are a lot of good restaurants around here .
B: Oh , you 're in New York ,
B: I was going to ,
B: there 's a place , if you ever make it to Dallas they have the best prime rib .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's called Lawry 's , like Lawry 's seasoning salt
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it is absolutely wonderful .
A: Really .
B: And , uh , we were there a few months ago ,
B: and it , I mean , it 's kind of pricey ,
B: well , from New York it probably does n't matter ,
B: but
A: Oh , no ,
A: I 'm in upstate New York ,
A: and it 's actually very inexpensive ,
A: I ,
A: there 's a there 's a place , um , half a mile from me here that , uh , has , uh , fantastic prime rib for , oh , eleven dollars for a whole meal , you know a potato and salad and soup , and the whole , whole nine yards ,
B: Oh , is it , okay .
B: Wow .
B: Uh-huh .
A: so that ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I think the cheapest there probably starts at eighteen ,
B: and it includes , you know , salad and rolls and , oh , some other stuff ,
B: but it is absolutely wonderful .
A: Right .
B: It 's the best I have ever had .
A: Uh , I was going to this place up the street from me is the best I 've ever had ,
A: so , I 'll have to go there when I get to get to Dallas .
B: Yeah
B: Well ,
B: Yeah ,
B: well , we like , uh , lots of people down here like Mexican food
A: Uh-huh ,
A: sure .
B: so , um , that 's ,
B: I , I think Italian and Mexican food are probably my favorites .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , um , I 'm not into sushi or any of that kind of stuff .
A: No ,
A: no ,
A: I 'm not into the , the , don't do the , the raw , raw fish like that ,
A: but I do like , uh , like a seafood bar , like a raw , raw bar like oysters and things like that , uh
B: Uh-huh .
A: that they , uh ,
A: I go on ,
A: I 'm an officer in the Air Force and travel quite a bit on business
B: Oh , okay .
A: so I , uh , find myself down in Melbourne , Florida about once , once a month , once every two months or so and , uh , go and hit the , the oyster bars down there quite a bit
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , yeah
A: but , I love that ,
B: fresh seafood down there ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and , um , and , uh , Maryland 's great ,
A: you get the crabs
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's like , I ca n't go anywhere where I where I don't enjoy myself ,
B: Yeah
A: so ,
B: Yeah ,
B: seafood seems to be a a little bit more expensive than , than other types of food .
A: That 's true .
B: But it sure is good ,
B: and it 's supposed to be good for you .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , uh , it 's really strange that , that , that seafood is so expensive , because when you , in reality , uh , uh , I , say that , uh , the oceans have the greatest resource of food on the planet ,
B: Right .
A: and yet , we have n't , as human beings , have n't figured out a way to harvest it economically
B: Right .
A: so , we managed to , uh , figure out how to get at just about everything else , but , uh , but not , uh , not seafood .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Do you like spicy foods
B: or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I like , uh , I make a , a wicked chili
A: and around here the big spicy thing is like , uh , buffalo wings
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: and so , uh , it , people , they , you know ,
A: you go out to get the chicken wings
A: and those are really hot and the hotter the better ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , we , uh , we like spicy food down here , especially , uh , the hot sauce , Picante sauce , or salsa whatever you all call it
A: Right .
A: Sure .
B: and , uh , we , we sure go through a lot of that
A: Yeah .
B: But I like it hot ,
B: but I don't like it real hot because then my nose starts running
A: Uh-huh .
A: My , generally my , my scalp will start ,
A: I can feel just the top of my scalp getting hot , the weirdest , weirdest sensation , almost like a tingling ,
A: but , uh , I don't know ,
A: but , uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: well , there is n't , is n't too much in the way of restaurants that I don't like .
B: Yeah .
A: Things that are kind of oddball , like , uh , Thai cuisine ,
A: I never been really fond of that stuff .
A: You talk about spicy ,
A: that 'll , that 'll literally blow your head off ,
A: it 's so hot .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , and I can handle just about any kind of food without , uh , um ,
A: well , but that , that stuff is , goes one notch beyond , uh , my tolerances ,
B: Uh-huh
A: So . Although I guess on this topic are to talk about the , uh , service in a restaurant is always nice though , too
B: Oh , yeah ,
A: that 's one thing ,
B: and the price . And the price . Make you want to come back .
A: What 's that ?
A: Yeah ,
A: Well , I find that lately that so many people are working , you know , working waitressing jobs or waiter ,
B: Go ahead .
A: Um , I have n't given this a , a lot of thought .
A: I 'm , uh , that , that 's a whole , pleased with the practice that is they ,
A: I , uh , I don't ,
A: you would favor invasions of privacy on the other hand that 's arguable but that , that , uh , people who 's jobs are critical to public safety should have to meet special standards .
A: Uh , I have n't given this matter enough thought .
B: Do you work for T I ?
A: No , uh ,
B: Oh .
A: I 'm in the Washington area .
A: I work for N I S T .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Oh , all right .
B: Well , see we have the testing already here .
B: We 've had it for , oh , about five years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It used to just be for new employees .
B: And now it 's for all employees .
A: And now ,
B: They , uh , randomly select employee numbers
B: and , uh , the day that they select you is when you have to go and , and be tested .
A: Okay ,
A: and how do people feel about it ?
B: So , we 're familiar with it .
B: Oh , we have a lot of , um , people upset about it at the beginning . Some not all .
B: But what was happening at T I is that they found certain parts of the company there was a lot of drug abuse . Um , mainly the areas where they were doing a lot of , um , manufacturing type things
B: and what they ended up doing is , uh , kind of like doing a little bit of an undercover agent to watch what was happening ,
B: and we had people using on the premises and actually selling and dealing , you know , on the premises .
A: Well , okay ,
A: that 's , that 's a very different issue .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: it was , you know , combination of , of , uh , both activities and , uh , and using too
B: so they developed this , uh , drug policy so that , uh , to eliminate ,
B: there 's some parts of the company that we do , uh , government contracts ,
B: and I think some of those require the drug testing ,
B: but now T I thought well , we 'll just do it for all employees that , um , not just because of safety issues but because we want a totally drug free safe environment for all people to work in
B: and that we should n't have , um , people on drugs within our , you know , offices and such .
A: And ,
B: I have n't personally ever been tested ,
B: but I don't have a problem with it .
A: Um , does the testing cover alcohol as well as illegal drugs ?
B: No ,
B: but one thing that to , to me was , um , going on , stretching it a little too far was that they also check , um , if you are taking somebody else 's prescription drug .
B: You know , it happens a lot of times
B: like some member of the family gets the flu or whatever
B: and , you know then they give it to everybody else in the family and don't always go back to the , you know , doctor and get another prescription .
A: Well ,
B: Well , according to what they do at T I , if you take a prescription drug it has to be in your name .
B: It , you know , it ca n't be in your spouse 's name
B: so they will look , I mean , the testing will look for , I guess , any kind of drugs ,
B: and you have to tell them what they are taking a prescription for .
A: So they ask you to declare beforehand what prescription drugs you are taking ?
B: Right .
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
B: When you get tested you are supposed to tell them , you know , everything that , that might be there .
B: And then if they ever , um , question you or something you may have to show proof that you do have a prescription in your name .
A: Okay .
A: Well , it , I mean , it 's , I guess that , in fact , they don't test for , for , they don't routinely test for very many prescription drugs
A: but that I , but they don't say in advance , uh ,
A: so ,
B: Well , what they be testing for are the ones that would have like , you know , barbiturates or codeine things like that in them .
A: The ones that would kind of constitute controlled substances or something anyway .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: I guess that 's what they would n't be looking for penicillin and antibiotics and stuff .
B: They would be looking for the , yeah , controlled things , barbiturates amphetamines .
A: So what they are asking you to tell them is all the prescription drugs you are taking which are controlled substances .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: You pretty much , you know , put down what you remember even if it was just Contact or something like that .
B: But afterwards , uh , maybe if you had a controlled substance Well ,
A: Is Contact a ,
B: you , you probably put down , you know , you had Drixoral or Contact if you would remember that you did it .
A: Okay .
A: Is Contact a , substance ?
B: No .
B: I 'm , just saying you probably put down on the sheet anything you have taken .
A: Okay .
A: Okay .
B: But if they had a controlled substance , maybe they would ask you then to show that you had that prescription in your name .
B: I know I had one contract employee through Manpower was not a T I person , but was a contract person ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they test them too even if you are not a real , uh , T I
B: If you are a contract employee here they test you too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And he had taken some kind of , um , oh , you know , uh ,
B: just , he had some kind of flu or something .
B: He got a real bad migraine
B: and he took his mother 's ,
A: All right .
A: What is your favorite show ?
B: Well , I was just trying to think .
B: When they called , I did n't have as much time to prepare for this as I did some of the others .
B: Um , I love watching some of the , uh , new , new shows basically .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we , uh , we subscribe to C N N
B: and we took that ,
B: and we started watching a lot of those especially during the war or during anything kind of thing like the earthquake ,
B: and I have gotten stuck on a lot of this .
B: The new shows and the stuff that comes on that , that it , you know ,
B: like the , uh , at night the discussion talk shows and things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we really have n't gotten a lot into the sitcoms that are current , uh , especially with the kids here because we have to kind of filter it before they get here .
A: Sure .
B: We have little ones .
B: Uh , we do let them watch NINE ONE ONE ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we think that 's kind of informative to teach them , how to handle things in situations .
A: It really is .
A: Uh-huh .
B: What do you watch ?
A: I watch just about anything , but not a lot of , T V .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean I 'll watch , you know , maybe a little while when I first get home in the evening .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I usually watch , you know , the news
A: and then I 'll watch that HARD COPY or or that kind of thing , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's the same thing we do .
A: and I like the NINE ONE ONE , and UNSOLVED MYSTERIES .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: that kind , that 's the kind I like really more than , the sitcoms .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I have n't gotten , into many of those .
A: Now , I do , like ,
A: my husband is really crazy about EVENING SHADE that comes on , on Monday evening .
B: I have heard that 's real good .
A: And I , uh ,
B: That 's , Burt Reynolds , is n't it ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've heard that .
A: And I 've got to where every Monday I rush around so I could sit and watch that with him because it 's really funny .
B: Now someone told me that
B: and also , uh , I meant to be trying to pick up on MURPHY BROWN , because they said that that was really good this season .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , his favorite night is Monday night
A: so we 've got to where we will sit , and watch it on Monday night ,
B: You 've got to yeah ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: because that and then that , uh , oh ,
A: I ca n't even think of the name of it .
A: Like I say I 'm not ,
B: DESIGNING WOMEN is on that night , too .
A: Yeah ,
A: and the one with the , the sergeant that married the woman with the kids , Sergeant McGillis .
B: Huh , I don't even know .
A: Sergeant , uh , MAJOR DAD .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Now I , we 've never even seen that .
A: Yeah ,
A: that comes on right after , uh , the EVENING SHADE and then MURPHY BROWN , and DESIGNING WOMEN .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we always , he watches that
A: and I kind of I watch the first one then kind of sit in on the others , as I can .
B: On the others .
B: Well , you know , on Friday nights especially , we like to watch TWENTY TWENTY .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Or , um ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's kind of a competition on Thursdays between PRIME TIME and KNOTS LANDING .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , we used to like KNOTS LANDING a lot .
B: Oh , excuse me just a minute to someone in the
B: The money is right there on the thing and the coupon .
A: Well , you ca n't hardly watch KNOTS LANDING with the little kids around though .
B: Oh , I know .
B: That 's the thing .
B: And so , we ,
A: Except they , probably are in bed , by nine .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , they are .
B: In fact , on weeknights they are in bed by eight ,
B: but we have just gotten any more that where we just keep it off .
A: Did you get your pizza taken care of ?
B: Yeah ,
B: he has gone to get it .
B: Thank you
B: Um , but I was to say on Saturdays there is absolutely nothing
B: and that 's the day my husband , wants to .
A: Well , do you know ,
A: I have picked up a show lately on Saturday night that I 've really liked
A: and that 's SISTERS .
A: Have you watched that ?
B: No ,
B: but I saw that advertised today
B: and it sounds like it 's not fluff .
B: It sounds like it 's good .
A: It 's really , you know , it 's really pretty good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean , it 's kind of like , you know , um , soap opera I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's what they said it was kind of , a little more drama to it .
A: But it 's a ,
A: So far it , I 've watched it about three times now
A: and it 's really held my attention .
A: It 's been pretty good . Some , pretty good acting .
B: Well , and and another one now that it 's getting darker
B: and you are wanting to cocoon more ,
B: that they said is excellent is the I 'LL FLY AWAY and BROOKLYN BRIDGE .
B: Some of these , that are nostalgic .
A: Now I watched , BROOKLYN BRIDGE this week for the first time ,
B: Did you , like it ?
A: but I have n't ,
A: I did .
A: I liked it .
B: Did you ?
B: Well , they said that one and I 'LL FLY AWAY are really quality , you know
B: and ,
A: Now I have n't seen I 'LL FLY AWAY yet .
B: I have n't seen it either .
B: I think what I need to do is kind of read to see what is on these days because by the time we get the kids in bed at eight o'clock and then I get my bath it 's , you know , it 's almost too late to start , something new .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It 's nearly , too late for T V .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's the way I am .
A: I get in , from work
B: Yeah .
A: and I 'm tired
A: and I sit and watch for a few minutes
A: so I have to get up and do dinner , and everything .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: and then we 've gotten to where we rent videos for weekend nights .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , it 's like , we are kind of , tuned out of our T V .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's us .
A: If we are home on the weekend , we always watch videos ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , we do too .
A: But there are some good shows on .
A: I , I really probably should watch more of them than I do .
B: Yeah .
A: But I like ,
A: I don't know
A: I , I 'm always in to making things
A: and , And I don't just spend all my time ,
B: I don't know ,
B: yeah .
B: There 's a lot more to do with , with your time when you get into it .
A: and I , my husband , now he sits and watches T V constantly .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , my , my sister and them and her husband do on weekends .
B: They don't have children yet ,
B: and they just turn it on when they walk in ,
B: they turn it off when they leave .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: So they are used to that too .
A: I could be around here for hours by myself and never have it on .
B: Yeah ,
B: I understand .
B: Same here .
A: But , uh , but there are some really good new shows that I have enjoyed ,
A: and I 'll have to watch that I 'LL FLY AWAY this week .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's real good .
B: And then of course , in the afternoons if I get in from work in time I watch OPRAH , some of those , you know , talk shows .
A: Yeah .
B: I like her .
A: I never get in in time for any of those .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Well , it 's , it 's nice talking to you .
B: I guess we 've kind of exhausted this one ,
B: but it 's nice talking with you .
A: Well , it 's nice talking with you .
B: Thank you .
A: Bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Uh , I guess it 's , uh ,
A: watching the the T V today there had a lot of stuff on , on , uh , crime .
A: In our state right now , uh , recently they 've had a lot of , uh , uh , the rapists , uh , murder type , uh , killers going around
A: and well , I , I ,
B: Oh , gracious .
A: they 've caught them
A: and they , they 're in there .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Was n't it your state that had the , uh , guy that committed all those murders ?
B: There was that , uh ,
A: Well , yeah ,
A: Wisconsin , uh , and Milwaukee area , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: that was really on the national news a lot .
B: We heard a lot about that in Texas .
A: Yeah .
A: So that 's ,
A: well , I , I live right on the border of Minnesota and Wisconsin
A: so I kind of get both , both news
A: and , I know , in Minnesota , uh , they had , uh , the one that just , uh , got out and went after a , uh , college student and raped , and killed her
B: Oh .
A: and they are not too happy about that now , I guess ,
A: so .
B: Well , I can imagine .
A: There .
B: It seems like the violent crimes are increasing a lot to me .
B: I , I don't know .
B: I don't know if statistically they are
B: but it seems like you sure hear a , maybe you just hear a lot more about them on the news
B: I don't know .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , that 's hard to say for sure .
A: I , uh , sometimes I wonder if these people are n't don't it just for the publicity
A: and , They , they get their names in the , in the paper
B: You wonder about that sometimes .
A: and they become big celebrities .
A: But ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's kind of scary .
B: I , I wish there was some way that we could change the news media so they did n't feature these way out stories .
B: Maybe it would n't give other people ideas .
A: Well , uh , I know one I , I think Texas has the death penalty , right ?
B: Yes ,
B: we do .
A: Yeah .
B: Do you have it up there ?
A: No ,
A: no .
B: I see .
A: See I , I
B: Do you think that 's a deterrent ?
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it 's , it 's , it 's not going to prevent any people from doing it
A: but , the person that 's caught , he 'll never do it again if he gets the death penalty .
B: Yeah .
A: And that 's ,
A: and there are a lot of repeaters . Uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: I guess that 's another thing that to me is a , a real problem ,
B: and I know we have got so many people in our prison system now , at least here in Texas
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , they are really in a crisis .
B: There has been times they have had to just close off the prisons and leave them in county jails or whatever because there just was n't enough room for all of them .
A: Yeah .
B: And a lot of them they put out on parole
B: and then some of the ones that they put out early , you know , do repeat offenses
B: and , the crime rate is the worst than ever before .
A: Huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , some , I 'm just wondering a lot of times they will put , uh , people , lesser crimes in , uh , with , uh , people that did more severe crimes
A: than they , maybe they just tend to learn from these people
A: and they , and when they get back out , they just go into worse crimes .
B: I think that could be true too .
A: Maybe they should try and separate them a little bit more . Uh ,
B: I think the whole parole thing , you know , if somebody is convicted of second-degree murder or something gets fifteen years , well , they are out in six or seven . You know , outbound on the streets again
A: Yeah .
B: And to me that 's really scary .
B: Some of these crimes that they commit , you know , seems like the punishment is not really equal to the crime .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , uh , I don't know with , with my limited , uh , psychology background I do have , I don't , I don't even feel that prisons and stuff are , are the answer .
A: If you want to stop the crime , I think you 've got to get , uh , the people when they are kids .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: A lot of this probably just starts with , from the , from the homes . Also from the , the , the media , the T V the , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: all these , uh , gory movies on there becomes , uh , just a natural fact of life .
B: Uh-huh .
B: They think it 's okay thing to do .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think that 's a very good point .
B: You know , I ,
B: there 's a lot more working mothers , a lot more kids in day care centers all that kind of thing .
B: Morality is being taught more by the schools a lot of times than in the home anymore .
B: And ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , a lot of the European countries , uh , they tend to sensor ,
A: well , they probably wo n't sensor so much the sexual stuff as much as the violent .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they have a lot less crime .
B: Huh .
A: Some of , some of those European countries are , are , you can leave your , your , uh , doors open and , and , and be safe .
A: Uh , even , uh , I think New Zealand is one of , one of the places , uh , that ,
B: Well , Sid ,
B: have you established what kind of requirements you are looking for , for your next vehicle ?
A: Well , I don't know if I really have a , a lot of , uh , requirements .
A: Uh , I guess I look at , uh , getting the best deal .
A: Uh , that 's my main objectives normally . Whoever is willing to deal and , and give me a good price .
B: Okay .
B: Well , I , I tend to be more methodical I guess .
B: Uh , I determine first of all what I 'm going to use the vehicle for , whether it 's going to be primarily as a family mover or as a , a personal mover . Uh , where it 's going to be driven , you know , what types of , uh , driving I 'm going to be doing on it , primarily highway or , or local mileage more often .
B: And , uh , hanging in the back of my mind is always the knowledge that I tend to drive cars for about ten years and a hundred fifty to two hundred thousand miles .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I 'm , I 'm real picky .
B: if you are going to keep something that long , you know , you better get something that you wanted to begin with and that you are going to like for a long time .
A: Yeah .
A: I don't know I 've had pretty good luck , you know ,
A: even if , if you take any car and , and you care for it well enough , uh , you are going to get some good life out of it .
A: Uh , my , my Oldsmobile right now that I have , uh , is getting near eighty thousand
A: and it 's still in pretty good shape .
A: Uh , there was a flaw in there where a , where a head gasket bolt broke ,
A: and it cost me some bucks to , to fix that
A: but that was , you know , something that was unforeseen .
A: But I still think I I 'm going to get probably a hundred fifty thousand or more out of it .
B: Sure .
B: Well , it sounds like you tend to drive your cars quite a ways also then .
A: Well , I , I drive like the song says , THE LITTLE OLD LADY but , uh , but not FROM PASADENA
A: But , uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: I , I baby them as much as I possibly can .
A: Uh , it 's a pretty big expense nowadays .
A: Uh , and I guess I like to take care of it , uh ,
A: so I don't have to buy one too often .
B: That 's true .
B: Uh , do you have more than , than one vehicle in your fleet ?
B: Uh , do you have a family fleet
B: or ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I , I got an old , uh , seventy-six , uh , Grand Fury that , uh , does n't want to die on me
A: so I , I just keep running the thing . don't want to sell it or get rid of it until it quits ,
A: but it just does n't seem to want to .
A: I 'll probably have , uh , three , four hundred thousand before it wants to die .
B: Well , that may be .
B: They , Chrysler made some really good old engines back then
B: like the , the three eighteen was particularly an exceptionally good engine .
A: Oh . I 've got the big three sixty in there , gas guzzler
A: but it runs good .
B: Yeah .
B: At the moment I 've got , uh , Cadillac Cimarron which is approaching its tenth year of age and a , uh , reasonably new Plymouth Voyager .
B: It 's only a , a couple of years old .
B: But that 's the second one of , of those that we 've had ,
B: and that 's the , the family travel vehicle .
B: You know , not only does it do all the , the , uh , carpooling around during the week ,
B: but it 's also the vacation vehicle that we all drive in .
B: I think that what I 'm getting ready to get next is probably a Suburban unless they drastically change the , the vehicle a lot .
B: Uh , I 'm just getting tired of when I do get hung up in traffic , not being able to determine what the problem is and , and come to some resolution of whether it 's better to sit in the traffic light and wait or get off at the next exit and that kind of stuff . Just because I ca n't see , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm to , my Cimarron is just so small and so low to the ground that I ca n't see past any vehicle that 's in front of me .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I 'm considering probably some kind of a pickup truck myself for the next vehicle .
A: Uh , I just have so many hauling projects a lot of times
A: and , uh , I , I 'd like to just start doing some , uh , carpentry , uh , type work around .
A: I just feel that ,
A: So , so what have you seen lately that , um , you think is worthwhile ?
B: Um , the last movie I saw was REGARDING HENRY .
B: Have you seen that yet ?
A: No ,
A: I , I saw the previews .
B: It 's really good .
B: I loved it .
B: Um , it 's , um .
A: Does , does he , does it have a happy ending ,
A: or .
B: Yeah ,
B: really good ending
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , uh , it was the , it 's one of the best movies I 've seen in a long time .
B: I generally don't get into movies that much ,
B: but I saw that one ,
B: and then before that one , I saw , um , oh , NAKED GUN TWO AND A HALF .
A: Oh , that was funny , was n't it
B: Yeah ,
B: did you , have you seen that one ?
A: Yes ,
A: and , and , and , and the regular NAKED GUN and AIRPORT and , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's exactly like AIRPLANE was n't it
A: Yes .
B: But it was silly .
A: Right .
A: So , now these are for two very different movies .
A: One , one , uh , absolutely slapstick comedy and one clearly , you know , serious subject .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I guess I have similarly broad tastes .
A: Um , my most recent , um , movie that I , that I liked a lot , not my most recent movie , was HENRY THE FIFTH .
A: I only rented it , you know , maybe a month ago
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's been out for a couple of years ,
A: but . Have you seen that ?
B: I have n't seen that yet .
A: Well , it 's , it 's a , it 's an adaptation of the , of the Shakespeare play ,
A: and it 's beautifully done .
A: Um , I believe that all the language is as Shakespeare wrote it , except it 's been shortened a little bit
A: and there might be a word or two changed .
B: Right .
A: Uh , but it 's , it 's , it 's a glorious movie
B: Um . Such as
A: um , and I like , as you know , these , these , these silly movies ,
A: and I also like just some strange movies .
A: Do you have any .
A: Well , the , the one that comes immediately to mind , I , um , is the THE COOK , THE THIEF , HIS WIFE , HER LOVER .
A: Um , but there are also these various , um , David Lynch movies .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Um , I got , I got hooked on TWIN PEAKS .
A: That made me go out and watch every David Lynch movie I could lay my hands on .
B: Oh , really .
B: I have n't seen any of those .
A: Oh .
A: Um well , I don't , I don't especially recommend ,
B: They 're really good ?
A: I mean , you have , you have to just sort of like this thing ,
A: you have to like ,
A: did you see TWIN PEAKS ?
B: Huh-uh ,
B: no .
A: No ,
A: so , okay .
A: So , if you were n't , if you were n't drawn to watch that , you , maybe you would n't be drawn to these movies , either .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 're , they 're just strange .
B: Are they , I mean , is it , like mystery , or suspense
A: Well , uh . I think suspense is the right word .
B: or ,
A: Uh , and , but , but , a little bit strange and esoteric
A: and , uh , in the case of TWIN PEAK a little , there 's some elements of the supernatural in it , too .
B: Oh really .
A: That was the television show .
B: Um .
A: Um , there 's also a , a a producer of movies in Baltimore called , um , John Walters , who , who puts , puts on even weirder movies .
A: Uh , his most recent ones have actually been fairly mainstream , like HAIR SPRAY .
A: Um , but back in his early days , he , he , he had things , um , um ,
A: what , what are the titles ,
A: I ca n't remember the titles any more . But , some really weird ones , uh , with quite a random crew of , of characters .
A: Um , it would have made , you know , these Fellini movies look normal .
B: Right .
B: So do you like , um , movies a lot ?
B: See I don't do ,
B: I don't .
A: I do , I do like movies a lot .
B: Right .
B: See , I don't do that ,
B: I don't go to movies that often ,
B: but , just recently I 've been to a couple
A: Do , do you rent them ,
A: or .
B: Um , no ,
B: we , I just go to like the dollar movie theater around here generally ,
A: Yes .
B: but , I don't know ,
B: I just , I usually fall asleep
B: or I get bored pretty easily
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what my wife does too , um ,
A: I mean , she falls asleep
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we have to , we have to pick just the right kind of movie to , to , to , to appeal .
B: Yeah .
B: Right ,
B: that 's exactly right .
A: Well , well it was good talking to you .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's good to talk to you , too .
A: Take care .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: did they tell you our topic ?
B: Uh , no ,
B: somebody else answered the phone and put my number in .
A: Okay ,
A: it 's , uh ,
B: Uh , what is the topic ?
A: The topic is cars .
A: What kind of car will you buy next
A: and what kind of decision you 'd , do you think about getting , you know , pick that car out and , uh , and why .
B: Okay .
B: Uh , my next car to buy probably would be a Cadillac .
A: Okay .
B: I 've had , uh ,
B: well , I 'm on my third one .
B: And I 'm not real sure that I 'd be in the market for a car for quite a while .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm the same way .
A: I was , uh , I had two Cadillacs .
A: I went to my first Lincoln this last time .
A: I travel
A: and , uh , my grandfather worked for Ford Motor Company
A: so he always said why don't you drive a Ford , or why don't you try a Lincoln
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I finally tried one after fifty years
B: My ,
A: and , uh , I 've had , I guess , I guess four Cadillacs and , and one Suburban in my last five cars ,
A: but I bought a Lincoln
A: and I like it .
B: My dad has been a , a , uh , Lincoln man for a lot of years ,
B: but I 've always been a G M man .
B: I 'm in the auto parts business myself .
A: Oh , are you ?
B: And , uh , the last Cadillac I bought was an Allante .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I just love it to death .
B: I 'm not sure I 'd ever get rid of it .
A: Well , I 'm a , I 'm a traveling salesman .
A: I travel on the road
A: so I like a little heavier car
A: but ,
B: I used to do that quite a bit myself .
A: So that 's why I choose , you know , to drive a heavier car and more luxury car .
B: Yeah .
A: But , I tell you what ,
A: I will probably get a Cadillac the next time quite honestly .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah ,
A: because I like the Lincoln
A: but , there 's just something about that Cadillac that , whether it 's a G M C product or whatever . Seems they handle better .
B: They seem to put , They seem to be put together a little bit better .
A: I think so , too .
B: And , you know , the buttons on the controls and things like that are a little easier to get to than Ford products
B: and I think that 's one of the things that makes me shy away from , uh , imports is they put so much , you know , gadgetry on the dash
B: and , and the , the buttons are so small to push
A: Yeah ,
A: they really do .
B: and G M does n't seem to do that .
B: I kind of like that feature ,
B: so .
A: You know , I 'm a funny duck
A: that came , it comes to the simple things like front end alignments
B: Uh-huh .
A: I have never had to have a front end alignment on a Cadillac .
A: I don't know why , why whether I just seem to drive them better or what ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , I 've never had to have a front end alignment on a Cadillac .
A: They always appear to hold well .
B: I 've , uh , I had an Eldorado , was my first one , was an eighty
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I think at about sixty thousand miles I finally had it lined up .
A: Did you .
B: And I had them do all four wheels .
A: And the only thing I miss about a Cadillac is ,
A: a Fleetwood Brougham was my last car
A: and I traded it in , traded it in on my Lincoln
A: and they 're just not as large as before .
A: I do miss that .
B: That 's true ,
B: yeah .
B: But , what is big today .
A: Well , you 're right .
B: You know . Lincoln is still as big as it always has been
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's big ,
A: but the trunk space for me , uh ,
A: what I usually do is I usually take the back seat out of my car
A: and that 's where I put my samples because trunks just are n't big enough .
B: You know a car I ran across recently that has a tremendously large trunk is the Lincoln Continental .
A: Yeah ,
A: now , I have the Town Car
A: and it 's , it 's a deep trunk , but not as broad as the , uh , the Cadillac .
B: Well , the Town Car , I noticed , uh ,
B: or with the , with the Continental , uh , I was , rented one , one time uh , we could , uh , put golf clubs in them .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , good .
B: You know , straight across .
B: I mean ,
A: They went all the way down ?
B: Front to back .
A: Well , that 's good .
B: Not going from side to side .
A: That 's good .
B: And we got three full sets in there and still had room for luggage .
A: Yeah ,
A: I sell sporting goods , uh , hunting related items ,
A: I sell guns , gun cases and things like that
B: I see .
B: Yeah .
A: and I need to , you know ,
A: that 's about the same size as a golf club .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They need to , samples need to stretch out and gun cases and things like that
A: and ,
B: I don't know if you 've ever looked at a Continental .
A: Nope .
B: Uh , it 's not as peppy as a , as a Town Car
A: Right .
B: because it 's a V Six ,
B: but it , uh ,
B: I I drove it from here to Memphis
B: and I really enjoyed driving that car .
B: If I was going to buy a Ford product , that 's what I would buy .
A: Yeah .
A: I drove mine a couple weeks ago to our , one of our big national sales meetings in Nashville .
A: I usually fly .
A: I drove it with another one of my guy that worked for me .
A: We drove it ten hours to Nashville ,
A: and it , it handled real well ,
A: but , my main thing is space ,
A: so if a Continental ,
A: I might consider it the next time ,
A: a Continental has more trunk space .
B: You might take a look at them .
B: They , they had a , a lot more trunk space .
B: As a matter of fact , they had more trunk space than my , uh , Sedan De Ville had .
A: You always have leather interiors on your Cadillacs ?
B: Uh , all three of mine have had leather interiors ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I like leather interiors also .
B: Uh , I had a eighty Eldorado , which was leather
B: and , uh , then my eighty-six was a touring sedan .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it had the gray leather package in it
B: and my Allante has , uh I guess saddle , saddle colored type thing .
A: That 's a nice car .
A: You bet ,
A: and I 'll , I will say one thing about Cadillacs versus ,
A: Uh , so my favorite team is about the Rangers .
B: Is it ?
B: I 'd have to agree with that .
B: They are my favorite team , too .
A: Yeah .
B: A little disappointing the last few years .
A: I 'm telling you .
A: You think they 'll sign Ruben ?
B: You know I really don't .
A: No ?
B: I just don't think , you know , with that guy from Pittsburgh getting all that money , twenty-seven or twenty-nine million or whatever it was , I just don't think that they 're going to be able to sign Ruben Sierra
B: and it 's just going to be a shame for , you know , our area .
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think it 's going to have a big effect if they don't on the other , uh , Hispanic players .
B: Oh , I do , too .
B: I just ,
A: I think that 's going to be the big problem .
B: The main thing ,
B: It 's just going to effect on the , the team , you know .
A: Right .
B: We just ca n't seem to , you know ,
B: I think we 've been in this spot ,
B: I think we finished second once or maybe even twice .
B: I don't know ,
B: I I 'm , I have n't been to a baseball game in a couple of years .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's just , it 's just too disappointing .
B: I just watch them fall every year .
A: Right .
B: I was a Pete Incaviglia fan
B: and , uh I liked him ,
A: Oh .
B: but , of course , I understand baseball decisions are all just ,
B: decisions like that have to be made by someone
B: Glad it 's not me making them .
A: Right
A: I think they just want to stay mediocre and draw their two million fans out there and then be happy with it and not have to pay the bucks to get a contender in here .
A: But ,
B: They say as long as they draw up two million fans that Greave and Valentine will be there .
A: Right .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: So , and that 's the name of the game , too .
B: You got to make money . You know , pay these players so much money ,
A: Right .
B: now , it 's just it 's frightening .
A: Right .
B: You and I should be so lucky to , you know , to go out and swing a bat and get two thousand dollars every time you swing the bat or something like that .
A: That 's true .
A: But , uh , they were talking about trading him , if they 're not able to sign him and , uh , use the money that it would take to sign the guy , you know , to pay for pitchers or , you know , what it , what it , what they , what else they need .
A: Because they 've got the hitting ,
A: but they need the pitching .
B: Yeah ,
B: they really do .
A: Um .
B: I think they , uh , I think they need them all .
B: I just don't I understand the big cities , like in New York or L A or somewhere because big cities
B: and , you know , a guy , a pro athlete can go out there in the afternoon and probably make five thousand dollars just by doing a personal appearance at a at a men 's clothing store , or something , or sporting goods store ,
A: Oh , I know .
B: but , I realize the difference ,
B: but , I just don't understand ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's sure aggravating when you go out and bust your butt working , you know , your day job and you can work your day job the rest of your life and not bring home as much money as they bring home in one game .
B: Oh , I know .
B: I tell you .
A: It 's real aggravating ,
A: but ,
B: But , one thing I don't understand is why a group , you know , headed up by George Bush would buy the Texas Rangers and not really get behind them
B: because I tell you , we need a winner in this town .
B: It looks like our Cowboys are coming back
B: but , So that 's , that 's going to be a big help to Dallas ,
A: That 's right .
B: but , you know , in the past half a dozen years , all we 've had is the , uh the soccer team .
A: It 's always got ,
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's always , it 's always wondered me why , I mean , they act as though this area is not , you know , a big metropolitan area ,
A: but you think we 'd , someday get an owner in here that could afford to buy the , the , the players we need .
B: Oh , I know .
B: It 's ,
A: Just real aggravating to
A: because I 've lived here , you know , since , well , I was born and raised here ,
A: so I 've been a Ranger fan since about seventy-seven ,
A: so it 's a lot of losers
B: Oh , I know .
A: It 's about to get , you know as bad as the Cubs or whoever , you know .
B: I 've been one ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've been , I 've lived here since seventy-four
B: and I 've really been a Ranger fan for the longest time
B: and excuse me , I don't miss a time picking up the morning paper and checking the box score .
A: Right .
B: I mean I follow them
B: and I follow them like I follow the Mavericks and like I follow the Cowboys ,
B: but , and I want to see them win , because you know , damn it , they , the fans deserve it .
B: I mean , it , You know , we have pretty , uh , great fans , put two million people in that stadium .
A: Right .
A: I 'm telling you .
B: I love Nolan Ryan .
B: I guess you probably love him , too .
A: Right ,
A: I think this town would go crazy if they ever got a , even a playoff team .
B: Oh , I do , too .
A: I mean , It would be packed .
A: And they got that new stadium they are building .
A: So , at least , at least that will be exciting when we get that ,
B: It will .
A: but ,
B: Well , where do you think they are heading this year ?
A: Uh , it 's hard to say .
A: It 's going to be depending on where the , what they do with Ruben Sierra
A: and , uh , I mean , I 'm getting tired of them going into each year saying , you know , Bobby Witt is the answer and Kevin Brown is the answer ,
B: Right
A: and , man , that 's getting old , you know .
A: These guys have been pampered .
A: I mean , it 's time to , to either , you know , put out or shut up .
B: Yeah ,
B: Bobby Witt gets forced into wins like seventeen games or whatever
A: And ,
B: and they have the later ten game winning streak
A: Right .
B: and they give him all kinds of money
B: and then he just goes right down the tubes .
A: And Valentine and Greave , they 're about to get , you know , they 're about to get old .
A: But I like this Sandy Johnson .
A: Hello .
B: Yes ,
B: I forgot we had to hit one
B: Our time will be up .
A: Well , I hit one and nothing happened .
A: What 's going on ?
B: Well , just go ahead and talk ,
B: that 's all .
A: Are you sure ?
B: Yeah .
A: don't they usually tell you to say something ?
B: I don't think so .
A: Oh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: we 're supposed to talk about lawn and garden .
B: Yes ,
B: I 'm , I 'm supposed to find out what you do for your lawn and garden .
A: What do I do ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I , uh , I cut it occasionally .
B: Good .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: you 're ahead of me .
A: Is , uh , is that good ?
A: Okay .
B: That 's better .
A: And I edge it occasionally .
B: Oh , that 's really good .
A: Yeah ,
A: see , am I good , or what ?
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , Uh , much beyond that I don't do
B: I don't do any of that .
B: Really ,
B: well , I call my lawn man , Eric , whatever his name is , I ca n't remember . Who 's going to come and build me a fence , too .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , he is going to build you a fence .
B: Well , he 's giving me an estimate .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And for ten dollars a week , I don't see any reason for me to be doing it .
A: What , for a fence ?
A: Oh , well , I thought , is n't he the same one ?
B: he is .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: but ten dollars , or what what does he charge , not even that .
B: What does he charge me ?
A: Well , my ,
A: I don't know .
B: It 's like next to nothing .
B: it 's ten because I ,
B: it 's forty a month .
A: Yeah .
B: But if there 's five weeks , I still pay forty .
A: Yeah ,
A: but you know , you ought to get him to pull the weeds .
B: Well , he wo n't pull weeds .
B: He says he 'll spray them ,
B: but he wo n't pull them .
A: Oh .
B: Uh , he wo n't cut them is what he wo n't do . Because he said with the rocks that it 's too dangerous for him to take the , the trimmer over the rocks
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and he 's right .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's true .
B: But he just says to keep spraying them so ,
A: Well so ,
B: Anyway , Gene sprayed them once or twice for me
B: so that was real ,
A: Yeah ,
A: so you have n't , you have n't pulled any weeds lately ?
B: No .
B: No .
B: There are two out front
B: I thought I 'd grab one of these days ,
B: but I have n't bothered as I walk on by .
A: Yeah .
B: I started to pull the weeds in the rocks out front
A: Uh-huh .
B: and all of a sudden I came cross this big clump of weeds
B: and there was dog dirt in it
A: Oh , oh , goody .
B: and I threw the gloves in the trash bag that was out there
B: and I left the whole thing
B: and that was about a month ago .
A: I thought you were going to say there I thought you were going to say there was a snake in the weeds
B: I would rather a snake ,
B: no
A: Oh , God , oh
B: I just left the whole thing .
B: The bag is still out there because I have n't touched it .
A: Yeah .
B: I have n't gone back over there .
B: It really made me mad .
A: Oh , God .
B: So anyway but ,
A: But , uh , how are your , your flowers , your little things you planted ?
A: Did they die or what ?
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: now they died .
A: Oh , they 're all ,
A: so they , oh ,
A: are they going to come back in the spring ?
B: I don't know .
A: Oh .
B: I don't know ,
B: and then I got some nice , uh , mums at Thanksgiving that I put in the pots out there
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I thought they were supposed to live through all the cold weather .
A: Yeah .
B: They looked real pretty until about a week before Christmas ,
B: then they started to die , too .
A: Oh .
B: So , I don't think any of it comes back
B: but I don't know ,
A: Yeah .
B: maybe these ,
B: sometimes things do that are n't even supposed to .
A: I don't know , uh ,
B: So ,
A: Those flowers , remember those little ones you gave me ?
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , they 're , I know they were still blooming up until about a , a few weeks ago .
B: Really ?
A: Yeah .
B: Well , that 's good .
B: They 're the best kind .
A: Yeah
A: they , They 're really pretty .
B: They , they 're like indestructible .
B: They really grow nice
B: and sometimes , they 're not supposed to come back ,
B: but lots of times they do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: Yeah
B: We 'll see .
B: They 're letting us have a lot of time on this are n't they ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I mean is n't it supposed to be five minutes ?
B: But that 's because we did n't hit one for a long time .
A: We did n't disconnect , did we
B: I hope not
B: Neither one of us is getting paid for this .
A: Boy , I hate to think I hate to think I 'd be talking to you without getting paid
B: Yeah ,
B: really ,
B: I know it .
B: I ca n't believe this .
B: I got somebody from Utah and somebody ,
A: What ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: where was the person last night was from far away .
A: You 're kidding ?
A: Really ?
B: And we get each other down the street .
B: This is so funny .
A: Well , the , uh ,
A: I , I talked to someone woman from Oklahoma City and some woman from Dallas
A: and that was it .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've had Dallas , Arlington .
B: I 've had , uh , one Plano and then a lady from Brigham , Utah whose son lives in Plano on Ranier someplace . And then , uh , another state ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Wow .
A: Really ?
B: I ca n't remember ,
B: but she told me about the Utah Jazz ,
B: we talked about basketball .
A: Oh , really
B: And I don't remember what , what the place was last night ,
B: but I 'm thinking Colorado ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I 'm not sure
B: I 'd know the place , anyway .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So ,
A: I don't know ,
B: But mostly they 're from the area .
A: Yeah .
B: It ,
A: Well , there is n't really much to talk about as far as lawn and garden goes .
B: Not for me .
A: Not for me either .
B: You know , not not for me because all I have is rocks and weeds .
A: What do I ,
A: Yeah ,
A: but I don't , you know ,
A: I , what do I do , cut it one , you know , and , and edge it
A: and that 's about it .
B: I know .
A: What do I do with it ?
B: I know ,
B: we 're not typical Texans .
A: No .
A: What 's going on ,
A: are they going to tell us to stop or what
B: I don't know ,
B: I hope so .
B: Come on ,
B: come on .
A: Is n't it five minutes ?
B: I don't know .
A: I , I mean , I 'm all talked out about gardens .
B: I know .
B: Well , we can talk about something else .
B: It 's just a suggested topic .
A: Oh , oh , it 's just suggested ?
B: So , how 's the baby , do you think
A: What ?
B: How 's the ,
A: We could talk , Let 's talk about the baby .
B: Let 's talk about the baby .
A: Do you want to tell me about your budgeting plan ?
B: Yeah ,
B: our budgeting plan includes me getting a job
B: We 're , we 're at the point now ,
B: I I quit working about six months ago to start this house
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I 'm out of cash
B: and I 'm not out of project yet .
A: Oh , no .
B: So , uh , I 'm going to go back and do some consulting work .
B: As far as budget 's concerned , I 'm , I 'm fairly fortunate .
B: Uh , we 've , we 're right now where if we don't buy anything extra , we can make it on what my wife makes .
B: So , you know , the project 's kind of halted until then .
B: But as far as budgeting is concerned , you know , we have , uh , some pretty strict guidelines that we go for , you know ,
B: we always put ten percent back ,
B: and that 's a never touch .
A: Uh , into savings .
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: Either savings or investment , one of the two ,
B: but we don't ever put it in a high risk .
B: It 's just always going to be there .
A: Well , that 's pretty good .
B: And as far as the rest of it 's concerned , we don't have any kind of , uh , what I would call extravagant expenses , you know ,
B: we , uh , we pretty much live on about eight , nine hundred a month , you know , just travel to and from work and clothing and food
A: Boy , that 's pretty good .
B: and the rest of it , you know , we pile into the house .
B: And , uh , you know , I 'm fairly fortunate .
B: I mean , our credit cards are out to the max right now because I 'm a little behind on that ,
A: Sure .
B: but , uh , we 're still making the payments on them .
B: It 's just , when you ,
B: see in Texas you can not borrow the money to build your own home and do it yourself .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's tough here too .
A: You have to have the contractor sign with you .
B: Right ,
B: exactly .
A: But it 's easy to find a contractor for a couple of hundred bucks who 'll sign it and let you do it
B: Yeah .
A: , where I live , that is .
B: And where I live , it , it 's pretty scary , because Texas is one of those strange states where if you have a contractor sign on your note like that and you screw up , you don't get it finished ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: the bank can eat the contractor .
A: Oh , bad for him , huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: bad for him .
B: But , the homeowner ca n't be touched .
A: Um .
B: It 's a homestead state .
A: Is that right ?
B: Yeah ,
B: see right now if I quit paying any of my bills ,
B: the only thing they could do is cut off electricity .
B: They ca n't take your land unless you don't pay your land taxes . Period .
A: Wow .
B: You know . They can take your car and your clothes and your , anything
B: that 's not the tools of your trade ,
B: but as far as , uh , you know you 're pretty much bullet proof in this state .
A: Well , that 's kind of handy .
B: Yeah .
A: I just finished James Michener 's TEXAS book .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Pretty interesting .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Texas has quite the history .
B: Well , you know , we 're , we 're not ones to budget much , you know
B: We just going to spend it all .
A: That 's kind of what we do .
A: We , uh , we 're L D S
A: and so we pay ten percent tithing
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then , you know , we put I guess it 's like fifteen to twenty percent into a savings account .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But that sometimes we use for emergency type things .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , and my wife does n't work .
A: We 're fortunate that way , that I make enough to do what we want to do .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: we 're pretty , pretty fortunate as far as the , uh , the budgeting is concerned , because , you know , we don't have any long term debt .
B: You know , uh , we paid cash for car .
B: Well , we bought the car on time , one of them ,
B: but we , you know , we since paid it off .
A: Well that 's pretty .
B: The land is paid for cash ,
B: so we don't have to worry about that .
A: That 's a great position to be in .
B: Well , it 's fraught with other problems
A: Is that right ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm not very motivated
A: Oh
A: What kind of consulting do you do ?
B: Uh , systems consulting . Computerization for construction firms .
A: Is that right ?
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm into computers , too .
A: I I 'm a E D P auditor .
B: Right .
B: Oh .
A: And .
B: You into mainframes ?
A: and P C s .
B: oh really ?
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm just brushing up on , well , C plus plus .
B: Are you really ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: And ,
B: I just got that a few days ago .
A: Three oh ?
B: Oh , gees ,
B: don't get me to lying .
B: I bought it at a fire sale .
A: Oh .
B: This guy 's place burned down ,
B: and he had a bunch of computer stuff ,
B: and , you know , I bought it all .
B: It was two hundred bucks for everything he had .
A: You got a buy .
B: Well , some of it was n't worth anything , you know .
A: Sure .
B: You know , a lot of the , uh , diskettes were just totally unusable .
A: Melted , or Just wet
A: or ,
B: Well , yeah
B: , or wet
A: Okay .
B: But I did get out of there with , uh , Vermont Views , which is a huge ,
A: Okay ,
A: Cindy , you there ?
B: Yeah .
A: Okay ,
A: what kind of dinner parties have you had ?
B: Well , I 've had them , uh , where I 've served up to twelve to sixteen people .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and I had help with them .
B: Uh , and part of them I did were like a buffet
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , it ,
B: I had , uh , just different , uh , side dishes and appetizers
B: and one of them that , that I 'd remembered was , uh , some , uh , sausage hors d'oeuvres
B: and , uh , anyhow , uh , you take , uh , a couple of , uh , cups of Bisquick and , uh , sausage , oh , like a , a Owens mild ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you can , I guess you could use the hot if you wanted to .
A: Whatever you like , huh ?
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , you put that in
B: and then you get some real sharp cheddar cheese and put that in and a little bit of milk and make it all doughy
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then , like , I just put them in little balls and bake them for about fifteen minutes
A: Um .
B: and they are so good .
A: Oh , that sounds delicious .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's making me hungry for them right now .
A: Yeah .
A: You know , I 've made like little Swedish meatballs ,
A: but they 're just made out of the beef , you know . And , uh , with spices and things in them . But never anything mixed with Bisquick .
B: Have you ?
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I , I 've used that quite a bit
B: and it , and it seems to work real well .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh ,
A: Um .
B: And , uh , uh , when I 've had so many people , uh , to feed , like I try to do a ham and a turkey
B: and and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's my , that 's my parties mostly is at Christmas time and Thanksgiving time .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , I 've , uh , I had an open house party here once when , after we moved in here , uh , which I had things like that ,
A: but I always cooked them ahead of time
A: and then I just sliced them . You know , and had macaroni salad with , uh , shrimp in it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Have you ever had that ?
B: No .
B: What ,
A: Put some fresh , little fresh shrimp
A: and it 's , in your macaroni salad that you make .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The shrimp just gives it a really good flavor .
B: Oh , I 'll bet .
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't like the can , but the fresh .
B: Yeah .
A: You know .
B: I 'll have to try that .
A: Yeah ,
A: that was really good .
B: I like things that are easy and , and , uh , nutritious .
A: Yeah ,
A: right ,
A: right .
A: But , uh , at , uh , Christmas time we just have a regular sit down dinner , you know . Which is kind of hard because you got so many people
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then by time you pass everything around ,
A: it seems like everything on your plate 's cold .
B: I know .
B: I know
A: So ,
B: Well ,
A: But anyhow , I ,
B: Thank God for microwaves , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: you can , always take your plate and just heat it up , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , other than that , I , I don't have too many parties .
A: Uh , you know , I have , like , maybe just a another couple over for dinner .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , other than , than , than that I don't have , you know a whole bunch of people like except , except at Christmas
B: Yeah .
A: and I have my family .
B: Right ,
B: well I don't anymore .
B: it 's been a few years
B: and , and , uh , I don't have , you know , over a couple either
B: and and , uh , I try to , uh , have everything all ready
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and it , it just makes it a lot nicer where a don't spend all my time in the kitchen .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: And , uh , Spaghetti
A: Right .
B: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's easy .
A: I always like to have that , too .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Everybody seems to like that , too .
B: I know ,
B: I don't think I 've ever met anyone that did n't .
A: No ,
A: everybody likes that .
B: Yeah .
A: And , then , uh , if you have a nice big roast that you can throw in the oven , then you can put your potatoes and carrots or whatever else all in there , you know . Especially if a pork roast .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: That 's what I love , with my
B: I like it , too .
B: I do , too .
A: And , uh , other than that , in fact , I 'm just thinking of what next weekend when the Super Bowl 's on
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 've asked a couple people to come over
A: and I just , uh , had been thinking what to have for that
B: Yeah .
B: Well , have you had any good ideas yet ?
A: No
A: not yet
B: Oh , okay .
A: No ,
A: and I , you know , I don't want to have to come away from the T V .
A: I want something that I can just take them and serve them while they 're sitting in front of the T V .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , so , I 'll think of something , just that we can munch on over there , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: And they can just fill their plate up at intermission and then go back over there and sit down .
B: And that 's the way to do it , too .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: I think it 's , you know what 's I think is so nice is that in this day and time that we can have good food that 's good for you
B: and you don't have to spend hours and hours and hours in the kitchen .
A: Yeah .
B: And , And it makes an awful lot of difference , does n't it ?
A: Preparing it ,
A: right .
A: Oh , it sure does .
B: Well ,
A: Well , when I was brought up , you know , we did n't ,
A: Uh , go ahead ,
A: tell me what you think .
A: Do we get our money 's worth ?
B: Hey , listen , if I had my way , I would n't pay my taxes .
B: Not with the , not with some of the things that I hear that our tax money is going for some ludicrous things .
A: Yeah ,
A: did you see SIXTY MINUTES last night ?
B: No ,
B: I did not .
B: I ,
A: Well , they did a thing on the thirty-five billion dollars we waste every year just on storing stuff for the military we don't need .
A: And , uh , it 's staggering .
B: Well , how does this grab you ? How did this grab you ?
B: Uh , this ,
B: I , I mean , I 'm , I 'm a lady ,
B: but this , I heard this on a Christian program
B: and it was , uh , about the N E A
B: and , that 's the National Endowment for Arts ,
B: and they fund , they funded this thing , this act on a stage and did a study on it between two lesbians and two homosexuals and wrote a report about that with our money .
A: Well , there are a lot of things that people , I think general ,
B: And then it just frosts me terribly .
A: Well , I think it 's interesting to look at , uh , where the money goes ,
A: and it goes a lot of places where it probably ought not go
A: and and I don't think generally , I think what 's interesting is that we probably represent the majority of people in this country in terms of their feelings about the government
B: Absolutely .
A: and how it serves us given the extraordinarily large sum of money the government has to operate with .
B: I believe that 's true ,
B: yes .
A: And that , what I think is going to be really interesting is what we do about it .
A: I mean , we are going to have to change the people who represent us .
B: That 's correct .
A: I mean , and I think it 's going to be real interesting to see and , and then force upon them , uh ,
B: Heavy involvement from the public .
A: Yeah ,
A: right that 's I think that 's the only thing that 's going to change it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: heavy involvement from the public .
A: Our anger is going to have to , to give rise to , to more activity on our part .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , I 've , I 've said for years that there 's full employment for the politically active
A: and in our society , uh , there 's very little full employment .
A: Most people in this country are getting worse off , not better off .
B: Absolutely .
A: Eighty percent of the public , according to Bill Moyers ' , uh ,
A: recent , uh ,
A: piece for , uh ,
A: Public Broadcasting , which , by the way is a very good use of government money . I think P B S is wonderful .
A: But this special focused on the fact that eighty percent of the people in this country are , are seeing their real incomes ,
A: and thus , standards of living , decline .
A: And twenty percent are seeing theirs improve .
A: That 's not a formula for a better society .
B: No ,
B: it is not .
B: It 's lopsided , very much
B: so .
A: And the government really plays a role in this .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: that 's right ,
B: they pull the strings .
A: I mean , well , they are the people whose strings are pulled and by I guess powerful
B: Right ,
B: the ,
B: yeah
A: You know , and it 's really interesting to see how that affects people because essentially more and more people in this country are not likely to revolt in the way that people used to think of , of the voter revolting .
A: But people are pretty much getting the picture that some people get taken care of and others don't
A: and they think it 's unfair ,
A: and when they recognize that it 's their tax money , they 're going to do more about it .
A: I I 'll tell you one quick , uh , one thing very interesting .
A: C B S , after the State of the Union address is going to open up a telephone line , an eight hundred number
A: and people can call in and say what they think about what 's going on in this country .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They expect , opening it for one hour , that they 'll get three , hundred thousand telephone calls .
B: I 'm sure they will .
A: And I 've thought for years it would make a lot of sense to create an eight hundred number for voters to call and , and vent their frustration with government . Like one , eight hundred capitol or something like that . You know , just a number you could call from anywhere , anytime .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I think that 's coming
A: and I think once , once people really start to communicate how they feel , things are going to change .
A: Until then , I think , you know , it 's going to be really painful .
A: So the question is , how soon are we going to start to get our money 's worth
A: and , as you said , it 's how soon we get involved ,
A: and I think we need to create mechanisms to allow us to get involved , like allowing us to call a toll free number and say , hey , look , do it this way , not that way , or I like this , or I don't like that , or this is how I feel about your spending my money on art that I don't think is art .
B: Yes ,
B: I understand that ,
B: but hopefully that the people that are listening to what our comments are take some action on it .
A: Well , that 's the good thing about what is happening because I think more and more the news media , which takes a heck of a beating and , and deserves some of it , is telling us , you know , about the problems .
A: So the more we communicate , hey , look , we want a change here , because , you know , as it turns out , we 've wasted a tremendous amount of money on our defense spending in this country .
B: Oh , absolutely .
A: Over a very long period of time .
B: Right ,
B: absolutely .
A: Uh , and , uh ,
B: We only see the tip of the iceberg only .
A: Right .
B: You know , there 's so much of it going on that it would really , you know , uh , set us into a deeper depression if we knew the whole picture .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , you may be right .
A: What I think is really going to be interesting is to see how , uh , we as a society deal with it
A: and I , and I think it is , what you say , it 's , it 's a ,
A: Well what do you think about the everyday occurrences that are , that are an invasion of your privacy ?
B: Well , the , uh ,
B: what I really , I don't like is the the constant calls , people selling things people telling me I want things . You know , people trying to solicit for different , you know , organizations .
A: Oh .
A: Right .
B: You know , that 's what I really .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that 's , that 's the only thing I wrote down also ,
A: because that 's just a , it 's terrible today ,
A: I mean , my wife and I , seems like we get home at five thirty and the damn phone starts ringing and rings up until ten , eleven o'clock sometimes .
B: Never stops ringing ,
B: right .
B: That 's right .
B: Well , you know , the , the great , uh , thing for that , it 's , uh , is , is an answering machine
A: Yes ,
A: I know ,
A: that 's true .
B: I mean , this is , this is the , one of the best inventions ever , you know ,
B: you just switch that thing on ,
B: and , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: Yeah .
A: But , you know , people ,
A: it 's like your name must be on a list or something , because I know at my office , I get calls , I mean , I must get at least , I probably average at least a call a day ,
A: and a lot of days I 'll get two and three calls , from from people selling insurance you know , to the small business man
B: Um , even in an office ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: and , uh , you know , I think Dunn and Bradstreet puts your , according to what I understand , Dunn and Bradstreet puts your names , your name out to people also ,
A: as far as brokers all , I get calls from brokers in New York ,
A: and , uh California , always trying to sell something , oil , oil investments or stock investments or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: right .
A: And now I 'm getting the same calls at at the house .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: I know .
A: And they get your , and they get your name from Dunn and Bradstreet ,
A: and , uh , credit card companies , they sell your name .
B: Oh , yeah ,
B: uh , well , you know , these people , they sell your names ,
B: I mean
A: I know . Yes .
B: you know , I ,
B: that 's also an invasion of privacy .
B: I think it the whole thing is , uh ,
A: American Express does that , by the way .
B: Oh , they do ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I understand they sell it , you know , they sell names because it 's quite profitable to them .
B: Well , sure it is .
A: And that is an invasion of privacy ,
A: you 're right .
B: That 's right .
B: Well , you know , if you 've ever gotten anything , you know , in your life , your , your name is somewhere
A: I know ,
A: that 's true .
B: I mean , one magazine , and boom , they got your name forever .
A: Exactly ,
A: magazine companies , uh , uh , from , from subscriptions do the same thing
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's the way they make additional money .
B: That 's right .
A: But , it 's , uh , you know , I guess , it , uh ,
A: you have to be a certain income holder to , uh , have an American Express card ,
A: so your name is valuable to , I guess , X amount of solicitors calling .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's right .
A: So , I don't know .
A: What , what do you , where are you from ?
B: Oh , I 'm from Texas .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: well so ,
A: yeah ,
A: we live in the Dallas area , Richardson .
B: Oh , we 're in Plano .
A: Okay
B: Well , you know , the only call I really got that , well , was out of state ,
B: I got one from Oklahoma City , and one from California .
A: Did you ?
B: And that was , uh , California ,
B: I was thrilled to death , because that 's , you know , the furthest I 'd gotten any call from , you know ,
B: and , um ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I got , I 've talked to people in Utah , people in New York
B: Oh , really .
A: and a lot of times I 'll call eight or nine o'clock in the morning
A: and I 'll get people you know , from out of the , uh , out of the state .
B: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: see , well that 's , uh , the , there was another call on Saturday , Saturday that was also from , uh , that was the one from California .
B: I don't know why I ask people on the weekends from out of state ,
B: or , uh , I don't know , you know ,
B: but ,
A: I 'll be darned .
A: Where you from ?
A: Not from Texas .
B: Uh , originally from New Jersey .
A: New Jersey ,
A: right .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: My wife 's from New Jersey .
B: Oh , really ,
B: what part ?
A: Yeah ,
A: from , uh , Saddle River .
B: Oh , that 's nice over there .
A: She ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we 're from more , uh , from sort of towards the shore , central New Jersey , you know ,
A: Okay .
B: we 're like , uh ,
A: Well , that 's nice , too .
B: Yeah ,
B: oh yeah ,
B: it was beautiful ,
B: that 's why I , I really miss it .
B: I , I don't really like it here at all
A: Really ,
A: yes ,
A: my wife 's been away for twenty-five years ,
A: so she 's been away for quite a while .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Her dad was from Little Rock , Arkansas ,
A: and her mother was from New York ,
A: so they just they over there in New Jersey .
B: Yeah ,
B: so they ,
B: Yeah
A: Uh , and anyway , this topic is , is a good topic , as far as invasion of your privacy ,
A: but that 's the , the biggest one I can think of is just , just all the solicitors calling .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: I mean ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and , then , of course they call , you know ,
B: before I got the answering machine , it was ridiculous
A: I know .
B: you know , I said , this is absurd ,
B: I , you know , I , the minute I get home the phone would be ringing .
A: That 's a , that 's a good suggestion .
A: I might start using the answering machine more , because it 's so hard to not pick up that phone when it rings .
B: Oh , it 's great ,
B: I mean .
B: Well , you know , in fact , I 've been missing calls from the T I switchboard ,
B: because I , I always have it on you know ,
A: Right .
B: and I 'll get that , that message that says , uh , to , uh , um , you know , uh , end this call , press three
A: Sure .
B: and I assumed I , you know , it was from the switchboard .
B: You know
A: Yeah ,
A: you 're probably right .
B: Yeah
B: it is , because one day I listened , you know , and it was you know ,
B: but , um , I , I just got totally disgusted ,
B: and then , you know , people asking for , for money for everything , you know ,
B: I mean . Exactly ,
A: I understand .
A: I mean , I ,
A: it 's hard to believe there 's that many deputy sheriffs associations
A: and ,
B: and , you know , the policeman 's associations .
A: I know ,
A: they call you one time to send three kids to the carnival or circus
B: Oh , I used to do that .
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I used to do that ,
B: I 'd send , or three kids to the movies or something
A: Right .
A: There 's always a
A: and I , my , my pat answer now is , well , you just called me the other night ,
A: Okay ,
A: Gene
A: So , it 's nice to talk with you
A: and , um , food is a very intriguing thing .
A: Our lives are , are built around foods that we like and , nutritionally good for us .
B: Yes , sir .
A: What kind of dining out do you like ?
B: Well , there is two kinds .
B: One I guess I 'd say is with my wife where we enjoy , uh oh , I guess we usually enjoy a good seafood restaurant .
A: Oh .
B: Uh , you know , something nice .
A: Yeah .
B: And the other is with my whole family whom we , uh , go somewhere that the kids will enjoy
B: Uh , recently we have been hitting Pancho 's up .
B: It 's a local Mexican restaurant .
A: Uh-huh .
B: because they have got a good rate on , you know , good prices and everything .
A: Pancho 's , that 's , a new one .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's , it 's a chain down uh ,
B: it goes up into Colorado and down here .
B: I don't know where else it is .
B: What about you ?
A: We have one called Chi Chi 's in in our area .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And , uh , we had a restaurant called La Bamba
A: but it 's just , it closed recently .
A: But Chi Chi 's is a national restaurant , I think .
A: Is n't it Mexican ?
B: I think , think it might be .
A: Do you have it there ?
B: I 've I think I 've seen it around .
B: Yes , sir .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , I love Mexican food myself .
B: Oh , do you ?
B: Yeah .
A: But you go ahead now
B: Oh , we , we do too .
B: We , uh , we enjoy Mexican food .
B: I 'm just not impressed with the quality of it .
B: It 's just primarily the price that 's , uh , satisfying at this point .
B: But the kids , seem to enjoy it .
A: Is that right ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , and , uh , let 's see .
B: We 've , uh , just recently discovered a super restaurant down here
B: but it 's , uh , not part of a chain
B: it 's just an individually owned seafood restaurant .
B: But the first one we 've been to that , uh , I don't think there was anything on the menu , that , that any of us had
B: that was , uh , not just really super .
B: It 's nice to find a place like that .
A: Oh , boy that is wonderful .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , I , I agree with you on that .
A: And I was really a seafood addict myself .
A: I , I love crab meat in particular .
B: Um .
A: I , uh , I can almost live on , on seafood and almost live on the crab meat if I had to .
B: Oh , boy .
B: Have you ever been to , uh , what is it , Original Book Binders in Philadelphia ?
A: I , uh , know the name
A: but I have n't been there .
B: Uh , that 's an old established , uh , restaurant .
B: I used to go there when I was in college .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Where did you go to college ?
B: Uh , I went to the Naval Academy .
A: Oh , the U S , Naval Academy ?
B: And we used to , we use to go up there on , uh , for football games sometimes . And have some liberty .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And ,
B: yeah ,
B: we would go over there to , uh ,
B: pretty sure it was original , Original Book Binders
B: I think it was ,
B: yes .
A: I 'll be darn .
B: I have n't been back there in years .
A: Well , we 're , we 're supposed to be talking about dinning out ,
A: but I 'll just make one comment that , uh , I just retired from Penn State ,
A: and , uh , all my work has been in research for the Navy
B: Okay .
B: What area ?
A: Underwater acoustics .
B: Is that right ?
B: Did you have any dealings with the , uh , underwater sound reference laboratory in Orlando , Florida ?
A: I have dealt with nearly all of the , all of the research laboratories that the country has .
B: Yes , sir .
B: My dad worked there for years , and years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's that 's , uh , that 's where I grew up was down in Orlando .
B: So ,
A: Oh , you grew up in Orlando .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's , uh , that 's interesting , Well , I was in submarines . Uh ,
A: Well , that 's what I worked on .
B: Okay ,
B: yeah ,
B: must have had some interesting , uh , assignments for you there .
B: when did you retire ?
A: The end of last month .
B: Well , great .
B: I 'm sure you 've seen some interesting developments in acoustics .
A: I certainly have
B: Yeah .
A: So , I hate to , uh ,
A: I wish I could talk to you about that , uh ,
A: but , uh , I guess we should continue on , uh ,
B: Okay .
A: Okay .
B: Right .
B: Where 's ,
A: How do you like Chinese food ?
B: Oh , we , we do enjoy that .
B: Yes , sir .
B: Uh , I don't know if we are particularly adventurous ,
B: we find something we like , uh , like cashew shrimp or something that 's got a good , uh , at a particular restaurant
B: and then we usually stick by it .
B: But do you , What about you ?
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I , uh , enjoy the Szechuan type of , uh , Chinese food .
B: Hot ?
A: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yep , uh ,
A: it 's , uh ,
A: I , I do a lot of Chinese cooking myself .
A: I have in the past .
A: I have n't done recently ,
A: but , uh , it 's in the sweet and sour porks and things like are just really delicious meals .
B: Um . Where did you learn how to do Chinese cooking ?
A: Uh , just at home .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I enjoyed the food
A: and I bought a lot of , uh , good cookbooks ,
A: and I 've been following through on that .
A: When you find the right cookbook , why it works out .
B: Uh-huh .
B: What 's a good reference cookbook for Chinese food ?
A: Okay ,
A: well , that one 's a good question .
A: Here it 's right under my nose if I can find it
A: Oh , boy .
B: I guess one of the things we 've , uh , started avoiding is the , uh , run of the mill chop suey and things like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: But we enjoy trying , uh , different kinds of chicken or , uh , you know , even , uh , shrimp , uh , dishes that are fixed in a Chinese restaurant .
A: One of this book I have is called CHINESE COOKING MADE EASY .
A: Uh , it 's a paperback
A: and I think it 's by someone named Chang .
A: Yeah ,
A: Isabelle Chang .
B: Okay ,
B: thanks for that , uh , reference .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I think you will enjoy that .
B: Okay ,
B: good .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , it certainly is nice talking with you Gene .
A: And , uh , what is your phone at home ?
A: That 's it .
B: Yes .
A: What do you think are possible changes in the , uh , way trials are conducted these days ?
A: Do you like the way some people in there for instance , really take over and , uh , we have no way , uh , of knowing whether they are legitimately right or wrong and so forth .
B: Yeah .
A: What do you think about these things ?
B: Well , as I look at our trial systems ,
B: I think they 've gotten to be quite a joke . The way the people can appeal and file for mistrials
B: and they 've taken a lot of the things that were set up to make it be a fair system and used it to their advantage .
B: I think that a jury should listen to the courts , uh , to , to the hearings and to everything ,
B: but I think they should only weigh fifty percent of the decision .
B: I think the judge should hold the , or maybe even forty-nine ,
B: and the judge should be able to rule one way or the other .
A: so you 're saying you think the judge should actually have the final say ?
B: I think he should .
B: And I think that there should be more than one judge .
B: There should be maybe two , at least that sit in and listen so that there 's no way that you could have like a crooked judge .
A: Huh .
B: Do you know what I mean ?
A: Yes .
A: I know what you mean .
B: Um , and I think that there , it 's important to have a jury , but I think the way that they go through so much time to get it a fair one .
B: That 's okay too .
B: As long as it 's not used to delay the trial so much .
B: They need to have a fair jury
B: but they only you know , would cover forty-nine percent of the decision or fifty percent
B: and then the two judges would go ahead and make the final decision .
A: Well , I had n't , uh , thought of it from that point of view before .
B: How do you feel about that ?
A: I have been in a fairly important trial ,
A: and , uh , what bothers me is I was concerned of the ability of some of the people in the jury to adequately understand what was being presented so that they themselves could make a proper and , uh , accurate decision .
B: Right .
A: That 's the part that bothered me about it .
A: Um , I really think that the , the , the jury ought to have more say so in the selection or in the determination of whether they are guilty or not .
A: But I also think that the jury should be , uh , very , very , uh , carefully , more carefully selected to make sure that they are entirely intelligent people and that they understand some of the details that are involved so that they can make accurate decisions .
B: Right .
A: I hate to see people brought in who basically have lived out in the country and don't know much about any of this stuff ,
A: and , and they just make a decision based on whether they like the dress she wore that day or whether that guy smiled or growled all the time .
B: Right .
A: That 's no way to make a decision on some terrible problem .
B: Right .
B: Well , what if they used , you know ,
B: I just had a thought come as you were talking .
B: What if they used law students and had that be credit hours to sit in trials ?
A: That would be certainly nice
A: let 's say
A: we , we would have fifty percent of them law students , anyway . Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: at least .
B: At least , on the jury .
A: Yeah .
B: And that would give them , experience in the courtroom ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it could count as some aspect or hours going into their major .
A: That 's a very neat idea ,
A: and they would learn a lot about being lawyers later in life when they see what it is like to be in the jury side of a trial .
B: Right .
B: That 's right .
B: That would be a really good thing to do .
A: That would be a , a really good thing to do .
A: So it 's
B: I have a girlfriend that just went through a three year trial ,
A: Huh .
B: and what happened was her husband was , uh , involved in a motorcycle accident where a drunk driver ran the stoplight
B: and he ran into the motorcycle .
A: Huh .
B: But the reason , the actual reason that the motorcycle person , her husband , was killed was because his brakes went out on his motorcycle .
B: He was just taking it home from the place .
B: It was brand new ,
B: and his brakes did not work .
A: For goodness sakes .
B: And this expensive , big company that owned these motorcycles , um , railroaded this into three years worth of trials for this lady
B: and she had a son that was just only two years old when it happened
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they were following him home in the car . Saw the whole thing happen .
A: Oh , they saw the husband , get ,
B: That 's right .
B: They were following him home from the motorcycle shop .
A: Yeah .
B: And they railroaded this whole trial into mistrials , um , this and that and the other .
B: Every time she 'd get a verdict that would be in her favor of her , of a settlement ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: They would find something wrong with it .
B: Until finally they won and , said that it was the drunk driver 's fault
A: Did they really ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: but I just felt like justice was n't served because they had the money , the big lawyers , and she did n't ,
A: That is a shame .
A: You 'd think there would be enough , uh , people who saw the accident other than his wife , to , to also , uh , make statements ,
B: Right .
A: and they have nothing to gain one way or the other .
A: So if they say a certain way , then why not believe them .
B: Right .
B: And I don't know all the details on that ,
B: but I certainly think that we 've come up with a good idea with the , the the students coming into the jury .
A: Yeah .
B: And I don't think that it would be such a bad idea even if the judge did n't have the final say .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you have any ?
B: Yes ,
B: we do have a pet .
B: We have a , a dog that we got from the , uh ,
B: well , we call it the S P C A .
B: It 's the , uh , from an animal shelter .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , he 'd come in there as a stray .
A: All right .
B: Uh , he 's a Pomeranian and Sheltie cross .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , well , he was very well trained when we got him .
B: Uh , he 's ,
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: You don't often find that ,
A: I don't think .
B: No , uh ,
B: we suspect that he was hurt in an accident , you know , got away from somebody traveling through , and hurt in an accident because a dog that looks as good as he does and is trained as well is someone that has lost him and not have been able to locate him .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , if they were local people , they would have been able to find him .
A: Sure .
A: There 's a ,
A: okay , uh ,
A: that 's interesting .
A: Yeah ,
A: the only pet that I 've had , uh ,
A: I 'm a , I 'm a doctoral student right now
B: Uh-huh .
A: and in my , in my earlier days as a student I kind of time shared on a dog with a , a good friend of mine
A: and , uh , it was an amazing dog ,
A: it really was .
A: They had , he had gotten it from the pound
A: and , uh , it , it 's a Spanish Pointer named Domino . Kind of looks like a a Dalmatian
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we trained it from a pup ,
A: and basically it , right now it , it 's fully trained
A: and it can do a lot of things .
A: It will get beer for you out of the fridge ,
A: and it will get the newspaper and do all kinds of stuff .
A: So , it 's really , it 's , it 's kind of a show piece
A: and whenever anybody comes over , we all have to show him Domino you know .
B: Oh , I think so .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , uh ,
A: she 's been a real good , a real good dog
A: and , uh , just , it 's kind of a shame that I 'm , I 'm I 'm away from it now .
A: I , I I actually live in Florida
B: Uh-huh
A: but I 'm on an internship up here for a year
A: and then I go back down ,
A: but , uh ,
A: yeah ,
A: Domino 's a real good dog .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , what , uh , possessed you to get the dog ?
B: Well , I guess , in one sense we felt that , it , it 's nice to have a dog even though there are , you know , complications come with it .
A: Yeah .
B: And then with our children , uh ,
B: at the time they were , oh , grade five and , and grade eight ,
B: so it was an age where it was , uh , we thought it was be good for them to have the discipline that goes with , with having a pet .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Sure .
B: Uh ,
A: Sure learn a bit , learn a little bit of discipline and how to care for it and things like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
A: That 's good .
A: That kind of builds some character a little bit .
B: So ,
B: Well , that 's the idea .
B: I think the reality of it is , that they perhaps ,
B: uh , it depends on the , on everyone 's discipline .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , from that aspect , I 'm short on the discipline , because I don't , uh , enforce that the kids look after the dog
B: and , uh , we 've had him about four years now .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , but I think it does , it , it , you know ,
B: it 's necessary that individuals have the discipline to look after the animal properly , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's something that 's important for sure .
B: Yeah .
A: I think , uh , do you live in a , in a , in a fairly rural part of the , uh
B: Uh ,
A: or ,
B: Actually no ,
B: we live in a , in an area that 's , oh , probably about two and a half miles from the university .
A: Oh , I see .
B: Uh , we live right , might say we live right in , uh , in the middle of a residential area .
A: Um .
B: And , uh , so that is not as good , uh , you know ,
B: this dog , being a small dog it 's , uh , more you , more acceptable
A: Yeah
B: but again ,
A: it 's not that big of a problem .
A: With Domino , she was full grown ,
A: I would estimate seventy pounds .
B: Yeah .
A: And , you know , we lived in Oviedo , which is a small town ,
A: it 's a suburb of Orlando
B: Uh-huh .
A: but there 's not , there was n't a lot of room for her to run around ,
A: and she was a dog that loved to run ,
A: so that was the biggest problem I saw ,
A: and I think that 's one of the , uh , the issues people need to think about before they get a dog is , you know , do you have the room for this dog to run around ,
A: or , you know , I guess you ca n't really say for cats .
A: Me and cats don't get along too well , uh
A: but , you know , that whole space issue , I think , is real important .
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , uh , that 's one of the biggest concerns .
B: It 's like , uh ,
B: there 's a lot to be gained from a relationship with an animal ,
B: but the same time , one has to recognize the reality of physical requirements of of the animal
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: that , that ,
B: and the larger they are , the more room they need to exercise .
A: Sure ,
A: and that 's all part of of keeping your part of the relationship . You know , showing the maturity and responsibility to recognize those , uh , those issues .
B: Right .
B: Well ,
A: You know , and also , the whole , whole thing with noise .
A: My mother , oh , she freaks out because she 's got neighbors that have dogs , that don't train them
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , we we had a neighbor in Nebraska when we lived there that had , uh , Brittany Spaniels
A: and they 're very high strung animals to begin with ,
A: but , uh ,
A: Okay .
A: How do you get your news mostly ?
B: Generally , I get most of my news from , uh , the radio .
B: And then sometimes , uh , if I 've got time , I 'll be reading the front page of the newspaper and just fall off on the articles that I like .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , also , since my wife likes to watch T V , sometimes , uh , having just being there I get , uh , you know , I have to watch the news late at night with T V .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , I can hardly wait for my morning paper to come .
B: Uh-huh
A: So that 's the first thing I want is the headlines .
A: It 's really funny because because , uh , uh , my sister grabs the sports and I grab the headlines
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , and then when five o'clock comes around I just want to get in the house and turn the T V on to watch the news .
B: Um .
A: It 's really weird .
A: Uh , I don't stay up late to watch late news because my eyes wo n't stay up that long .
A: But , uh , I love to watch the five o'clock news
A: and I , makes me angry when my paper boy 's not there on time where I can read my paper
B: Um .
A: Uh , I do have my radio going most of the day though ,
A: so about every hour it breaks in and gives me news too , you know .
B: Okay .
B: Do you get like one of the talk stations , the news stations ?
A: But ,
A: No .
A: Uh-huh . * listen ; mistranscribed 'uh-uh '
A: I just have a channel that has music except for , like every hour , you know , say eight o'clock , nine o'clock , they come on for just a little bit of the news .
B: Sure .
B: Right .
A: But as far as the actual news , I get that from like a call from the ,
A: can you hold on just for a second ?
B: Sure .
A: Just a minute .
A: answers the other Hello sir comes back to speaker
B: Yes .
A: Yes ,
A: I 'm sorry to keep you waiting
B: Okay
A: Uh , I was calling from work
A: so and that was a call waiting .
B: Right .
B: it sounds like you , uh , like the news a lot more than I do .
B: Me , I figure if it 's something really important , somebody will tell me about it .
B: But , uh , you know , I , the thing is if , if I catch the news all the time , it just makes me depressed because they tend to produce a lot of bad news .
B: Or that 's what comes on first .
A: Yeah ,
A: That 's true too .
B: And , uh , you know , also late at night , you know , I don't like watching the news late at night
B: but my wife is usually up then
B: and so I ca n't go to sleep with the T V on .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: I , uh ,
B: but , you know , I , I wish I had , uh , more news on things like , that I consider long range . Things like science and medicine
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , I 'm more , I guess I 'm more into science and science fiction
B: and , uh , there 's , you know ,
B: not that the news is science fiction ,
B: but , uh , uh , I 'm more interested in that .
B: Things like , uh , is NASA ready for another space shot . Uh , you know , how hot are they on the trail of a cure for such and such cancer
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , uh , you know , a lot of the news is n't that interesting to me .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , you 're right .
A: There is a lot of it that 's , that 's just garbage , as far as I 'm concerned , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I just like the , more or less , the , the daily news , you know . Just , uh , especially the weather .
B: Yeah .
A: I like that
B: Me , too .
A: Although they 're usually wrong
B: Yeah ,
B: Georgia here , they 're usually wrong too .
B: We have weird weather systems .
A: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , like I say , as far as , as actually listening to the news , it 's mostly T V , five o'clock to six thirty .
A: Uh , that seems like a long time for news
A: but that 's how long it is .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , seems like they have the local news and they have the world news .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then , uh , my morning paper . I can hardly wait for it to come .
B: Yeah .
B: I 'm you know , I , I just , uh , I would ,
A: And , uh ,
B: I , I , I 'm not a morning person
B: so I would begrudge the time it takes me in the morning to catch my morning news .
B: I get up just barely in time to get up , get ready and get off to work
B: and then at work I have no time to read the news .
A: Oh .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
A: Once you get to work , I would n't either ,
A: huh-uh .
B: No
A: But I 've always been a morning person to get up , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I ca n't stay up late at night to watch the late news
A: so I guess that 's why I watch it at five o'clock
B: Yeah .
A: But anyhow . Well , listen , I guess that 's about it then .
B: Okay .
A: It 's been nice talking to you Tony .
B: Nice talking to you .
B: I 'll probably talk to you again .
B: I had a friend who was in this
B: and he said that he got calls from the same caller sometimes .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh , well that has n't happened to me yet .
A: So , you never know ,
A: it might this time .
B: That 's right .
A: Okay , Tony .
B: Take it easy .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye
B: All rightie .
A: Okay .
A: Do you have a budget that you go on ?
B: Yeah .
B: I sure do .
B: Uh , I have , it 's pretty much a ledger sheet
B: and I just write down all my bills , how much I 'm going to have to pay
B: and I do it per paycheck for me which is every other week .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I mean I include everything from groceries to insurance to car payments to credit card payments , you know , everything .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it tends to work out pretty well that way .
B: I can anticipate , you know , a little better .
B: I usually try to guesstimate
B: and then when the bill actually comes in , I go ahead and fill in the actual amount .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: That way I know how much pocket change I 'm going to have left at the end of the month or at the end of the paycheck anyway .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh
B: So that works okay for me .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , my bills I usually know approximately how much they 're going to be .
B: Right .
A: Each month they are more or less just about the same , you know .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: same here .
A: Uh , very seldom are they any different .
A: And then , uh , like for groceries and everything , we try to put , like , two hundred and fifty dollars in a little can in the kitchen
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then that 's what we use to buy the groceries with .
B: Oh , okay .
A: And then we put our receipts in there , you know ,
A: and usually that 's enough .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , but I don't have any , you know , small children to have anything extra come up , you know , like , uh , running to the doctor or something like that with them .
B: Right .
B: Luckily I don't either .
B: I mean , you know , maybe my cat would get sick
B: but , I mean , usually that 's not so much that it would throw me off
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: right .
A: In fact , I did have to take my dog to the vet the other day
B: But you so you know what I 'm saying ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: that , it 's worse than having a kid , huh ?
B: I ,
B: sometimes it can be .
A: Yeah .
B: Sometimes it can be .
B: I guess the worst thing I 've ever had come out is like car maintenance kinds of things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But I do try to build in a little extra money each month to , to be able to do that type of thing
B: so .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , I 'm not working right now .
A: I worked for P I E
A: and then , uh , they went bankrupt
A: so I just went ahead and took my early pension .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: But I only get that once a month .
B: Oh , that 's tough .
A: Yeah
B: My roommate only gets paid once a month
B: and that last week 's pretty lean generally speaking
A: Yeah .
A: So ,
B: so .
A: Yeah .
A: So , you know , I really have to try to budget , that I don't go over that amount , you know , each month .
B: Right .
B: I , for , for years got paid once a month
B: and , and in ways I liked it because I could go ahead and pay all my bills at once .
A: Uh-huh .
B: There 's always one or two stragglers that usually they were ,
B: for me it worked out that they were the smaller ones
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: but I would pay all of them at one sitting
B: and I would know okay , you can go spend this much on groceries now and you get this much a week and that is it .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: And , and it worked okay for me .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know .
A: And ,
B: Right now I , I 'm in the mode of trying to dig out of debt , I think as everybody is
B: and so ,
A: Oh , yeah .
A: Right now it 's terrible is n't it ?
B: It 's , yeah , it 's really bad .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , it 's going pretty well
B: and I 've got a real good plan mapped out here ,
B: so .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I also like long-term Christmas club you know .
A: I used to belong to a Christmas club ,
A: last year I did n't .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Then , so then , naturally , Christmas comes along
A: and that puts you behind too , you know .
A: So this year , now I have them taking out fifty dollars a month out of my checking account for my Christmas club .
B: Oh that 's ,
B: Yeah .
A: So I figure , you know , that 's going to help some .
B: That 'll cover your gifts come Christmas time .
B: That 'll ,
B: yeah ,
A: Yeah ,
A: right , you know .
B: That 'll be good ,
B: yeah
B: most people are spending three or four months you know , at least , digging out after Christmas
B: so .
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: And I 'm
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I was pretty fortunate this Christmas
B: I did n't get in debt ,
B: so .
A: Oh , that 's good .
A: I 'm taking like , uh , sewing lessons to try to learn how to sew better than what I can
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I wo n't have to go out and buy the ready-made clothes anymore .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: It 's so rare
B: you hear anybody doing that any longer
A: I know .
A: I even bought myself a Surgery , you know ,
A: and I just love it .
A: I have n't learned everything to do on it yet
A: but I figure that will help me save you know .
B: Yeah .
B: My , uh , roommate does sew some
B: and , and , uh , she has n't sewed anything in a long time
B: but I , I 'm sure that she could pick it up again .
B: My mother always sewed .
B: She tried to teach me when I was young but not interested
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , see , some people are , some are n't
A: because I have some sisters , I have three sisters
B: Yeah .
A: and none of those are really interested in sewing .
B: Yeah .
B: But that 's a real good way to save money , though by doing that .
A: Yeah ,
A: and then I can also , you know , do some crafts and sell those at garage sales .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: So , which I 've been doing .
B: Well , that 's a good way to , to make a little extra money .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , this is another way that I 'm making a little extra money
B: so that was , you know , nice that I tripped over this opportunity
B: and you 're actually my first call .
A: Oh , really ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
B: I had not , uh , done
B: I , I guess today today 's my first day that I could even do it .
A: Well , have you called ?
A: Oh .
A: Oh , it is ?
B: Yeah ,
B: you beat me to the punch , here
A: Oh , well , that , that 's nice you know .
B: I , I was about to call to get , to see if I could get on with somebody ,
B: so
A: Uh-huh .
B: so that was great .
A: Yeah .
A: Well I guess that 's about all I can talk to about budgets .
A: When I was working , I , uh , bought a bond a month out of my , you know ,
A: they automatically took it out of my out of my payroll .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I take , have some money taken it and put in a Four Oh One K ,
B: So , what sort of car are you interested in getting next ?
A: Well , actually , I love the car I have .
A: I have a Chrysler LeBaron convertible .
A: And I love it .
B: Ah .
A: And I would get another one in a minute .
A: Unless I could afford what I really like which would be a red Ferrari or , you know , a little Corvette or something like that .
A: And that 's what would influence my decision to change because I like a really sporty car .
A: And I 'd love an expensive one
A: but I probably , can never afford it
A: so
B: Uh , well I understand and can sympathize with that because I also enjoy driving performance automobiles .
B: Uh , I currently have an eighty-seven , five liter Mustang G T that I 've done a bunch of modifications to , to make it , uh , handle and perform better ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I suspect if I were to be able to get another car where object was , uh ,
B: the best car I could get regardless of money , uh , I probably would be tempted by something along the lines of a Lotus or possibly a Ferrari .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I 'm a nurse here
A: and we have a doctor at this hospital that has a beautiful new red Ferrari .
B: A , a three twenty-eight G T S ?
A: And I could n't tell you
A: but it 's just beautiful .
A: And I go out and I love to touch it
A: but I ca n't even do that because of the alarm .
B: You just go hunting ?
A: So , I just look at it a lot
B: Go out and lust after it .
A: Really
A: Exactly .
A: But it sure is a pretty thing
B: So have you had the opportunity to drive a Ferrari ?
A: No .
A: I 'm working on it
A: No ,
A: I really have n't ,
A: no ,
A: huh-uh
A: I did test drive a Corvette last year . Maybe the year before .
A: It was brand new , white ,
A: it was like a big marshmallow .
A: When you sat in the seats , they adjusted to fit around you .
B: uh .
A: I mean they came in and up and out
A: and I mean , they did whatever
A: and , and we went for a test drive in that
A: and I was able to open that up pretty good
A: and that was really fun .
A: And I wanted it ,
A: but I had a choice of that or my house
A: and I thought that I 'd continue , to live in my house
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: there , there 's something about having a place to live ,
B: I don't know .
A: Yeah ,
A: you know , it 's just necessary .
A: And I did , I thought well a tent would n't be bad but probably not practical .
B: Could sleep in the back of the 'vette .
A: Yeah ,
A: right
A: So ,
B: I find that , uh , that the Corvettes are , are becoming really , really nice cars .
A: They are , they 're pretty are n't they lately
B: Yeah .
B: And they , they 've improved , the performance and the suspension such that they 're actually a lot of fun to drive .
A: They really are .
A: Really .
B: It 's not like driving a , a Winnebago or something .
A: Oh , no
A: No ,
A: no .
A: See , I 'm not into station wagons and vans and things that people are really buying now
A: and they go is n't that a nice van
A: and I go , um .
A: Not really , you know .
A: How about a Greyhound bus
B: Nice .
B: Yeah .
B: Nice is n't the word I 'd choose .
B: Maybe practical .
A: Yeah .
A: I mean that , you know .
B: Is n't that a practical van .
A: There 's some that are prettier than others
A: and
A: yeah ,
A: the new type is prettier than what their , they used to look like
A: but I sure don't think it 's attractive , you know .
A: It 's not like , like driving a little sports car .
B: Yeah .
B: It , it 's very hard to find something practical that 's also attractive .
A: Yeah .
A: I don't think that happens
A: so , but I , I love mine ,
A: so , and I , I bought it because I drove a friend 's in Hawaii
A: and I just went home
A: and I walked in
A: and I picked it out
A: and he said take it home and bring it back if you want to ,
A: and I never did .
A: I just went back and signed the papers
A: and I knew nothing about my car when I got it .
A: Nothing .
A: I did n't know how anything worked .
B: Well , so it was a completely new experience for you .
B: And I 'm sure you enjoyed every minute of it .
A: Yeah .
A: And I 've had it ,
A: it 's almost three years actually .
A: And I 've , I still love it .
A: I put the top down everywhere I go .
A: I timed it when I first got it
A: and it took twenty I mean twenty seconds
A: and so , I figured there was nowhere I was to late to go that I did n't have twenty more seconds .
B: Right .
A: So .
B: And , and you could n't get ,
B: how long does it take to go back up ? About the same time .
A: Twenty seconds ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's all it takes .
A: I mean , it 's just a button , that 's it .
A: You release it right at the top ,
B: Yeah ,
B: so
A: so you don't have to get out or anything .
B: So you wo n't get ,
B: Yeah
B: and twenty seconds you probably wo n't get caught in anything too substantial .
A: Well I did , actually .
A: Last week going to the airport ,
A: I just hit a downpour
A: and I was on a highway going like eighty .
A: So I really did .
A: I mean I was soaking wet .
A: I thought I would drown in the seconds that it took me to pull over
B: Whoops .
A: But it all dried out , you know . Did n't take long when the sun came out
B: Yeah .
A: but it was kind of funny .
A: I 'm sure people around me really enjoyed it
A: but ,
B: Oh . No I was just down in Austin last week
B: and the weather was pretty nice too .
B: So ,
A: Oh
A: and was n't it pretty last week with the Bluebonnets and everything ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: With the Bluebonnets out ,
B: yeah .
B: It really was .
B: Yeah
B: I decided that Austin is certainly someplace that I could handle living .
A: is Yeah .
A: A lot of people say that
A: and it 's pretty far from where I live
A: I 'm ready if you are .
B: Okay .
B: Um , where do you stand , uh , on ,
A: Well , I think that people should be allowed to have them .
A: Especially if they go hunting ,
B: Oh .
A: which my son goes hunting .
A: He goes deer hunting .
A: He goes duck hunting .
A: Uh , he 's read books about guns since he was like probably eleven or twelve years old .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I just think that , uh , as far as that 's concerned , he should be able to have them to go hunting with , you know .
A: As far as just having handguns around to , to have them , I don't believe that you should have handguns around .
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I agree too .
B: I , uh ,
B: it 's , it 's , as far as the ban goes and everything , I don't think it 's possible , uh , to completely ban guns .
B: There 's just too many .
A: Well , no .
A: There 's too many sports people out there that , that do do these things .
B: Right ,
B: and I ,
B: yeah ,
B: right ,
B: I mean ,
B: yeah ,
B: that , that 's true .
B: And I mean the , the technology 's not that hard .
B: I mean , you could make a gun , you know , from simple , you know , you know .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I suppose you could . Uh ,
B: You know , if , if you really wanted a gun , you , you could make one . Uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: And I think if they want one , they 're going to get one .
B: Oh , you know
A: You know .
B: true .
B: That 's true .
A: The bad guys are , you know ,
A: like I say , if they want a gun they 're going to find out somehow to get one .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's ,
B: yeah ,
B: I mean ,
B: yeah
B: there 's , there 's no way to stop , uh , stop anybody from getting a gun .
B: Uh , I think there should be more control as , like , uh , like maybe waiting periods and things like that , you know , uh ,
A: Well I agree with you on that because I know , uh ,
A: in fact I had bought my son a rifle like for a Christmas present one time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And for a rifle there 's no waiting .
A: There was n't anyhow .
A: Now there might be now .
B: Yeah .
A: But there was n't anything for , you know , rifles and things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess it was just handguns that there was a , some kind of a waiting , you know , two weeks while they checked you out or something .
B: Sure .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , most of these people that 's got these guns that 's going around , you know , robbing people and shooting people ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , I , I know my friend is , uh , really into guns
B: and , uh , uh , I went a couple of times with him to gun shows , you know , that come through town and everything
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , I mean , they just have , I mean they have anything you 'd want ,
B: I mean
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , you know , anywhere from rifles and semiautomatic weapons and there 's , I mean , there 's nothing .
B: You can just go buy one and take it home
B: and it 's easier than getting a , like a video membership card at , you know , a video store .
A: I , see now , I know they were having a gun show about a month ago
A: and I was just wondering how that did work , if somebody wanted to buy a gun at a gun show .
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: You just go and , uh , buy the gun
B: and , uh ,
A: There 's no restriction though .
A: You don't have to wait or nothing then huh ?
B: No .
B: Well , except for the , the pistols and
B: I 'm not sure how they do that .
B: I know they ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I was just curious , you know , because , uh
B: Uh-huh .
A: I know at , at the regular gun show , you know , gun shop that you , that you do have to wait for pistols , like a couple of weeks
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: and then they check you out ,
A: then they call you up
A: and you go pick it up .
B: Yeah .
B: I think that 's ,
A: Which I think they have to do on rifles and things now too .
A: I think there is some , something like that .
B: Uh-huh
A: Anyhow , here , out here in California , I think there is now .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah
A: But ,
B: I 'm not sure ,
B: I 'm not really sure but , what uh , the gun laws in Pennsylvania are like .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Now we don't have guns because we don't go hunting or anything like that .
B: No .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But like I say , my son , he 's , he 's always had a ,
A: like , I think his first little rifle that we got him was like he twelve or thirteen years old .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But he 's always , he went to the , to the school to learn how to shoot it .
A: He goes to the pistol range
A: and and the rifle range to shoot them .
A: He likes to go to that , uh , shotgun thing where you shoot at those , uh
B: Oh , yeah .
B: The skeets , you mean ?
A: yeah ,
A: right
A: He likes to do that you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh I don't know .
B: Yeah .
A: I think they should try to control it and everything , you know .
A: But as far as just banning it completely , there , that 's not going to happen .
B: I don't , yeah , I , I don't think it can happen either .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I just don't , I don't see ,
B: and , then , I , I think , uh , had n't thought about this before
B: but if you do that , if they would , uh , uh , decide to ban guns , it would just open up a , a market , you know , a black market for them .
A: Yeah ,
A: right ,
A: right .
B: And so , you know , they , they would just ,
B: all the profits would go to , you know ,
A: Now I do believe though , like in California , if a little kid gets a hold of a gun that someone has I think they 're liable now for ,
B: Yeah .
A: they can be , you know , put in jail and everything . The , whoever owned the gun .
B: Oh , Oh , yeah ,
B: the owner 's responsibility ?
A: You know , now when they have kids around , you 'd think that they would be locking them up
B: Yeah .
A: or , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: you know , that 's , that 's true .
B: Uh , you know , I , I had a friend who was a , uh , a policeman in a , in a local borough just a small , uh , one of the little neighborhoods , you know , one of the small towns , uh near Pittsburgh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , she said that , that , uh , you know , he used to always keep his guns locked up and everything like that
B: but , I mean , you know , you 're , you know ,
B: people make , you know ,
B: they forget or , you know , you know ,
B: kids get in ,
B: the way kids , the way kids are , you know , I mean , they can , you know .
A: Well they can get into almost anything anymore
B: Right .
A: Okay Uh , let me see .
A: Unfortunately , we are not much into recycling .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We don't , we don't do enough .
A: I know we don't so
A: Uh , although lately I 've been , uh ,
A: a friend of mine that I spend a lot of time with does recycle quite a bit
A: and it 's , it 's , it 's , uh , interesting to watch some of the things that she does
A: and then she 's almost had an impact on me , uh , where she does n't say anything to me when she comes to my house but I can kind of tell it bothers her so , just unconsciously I 've , I 've stopped buying a lot of , uh , uh , paper plates and paper cups
A: and I don't do that anymore .
A: I don't know why ,
A: I just don't I just , just from socializing with her
A: so .
B: How do you , how , uh , is recycling done in your community ?
B: Is ,
A: It really , it , there 's not a whole lot ,
A: there really is n't .
A: Uh , I know in my mother 's neighborhood in San Antonio , each , each house has ,
A: they 're , they 're given three baskets
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they put them out on a certain day of the week
B: Right .
A: and each , uh , home does participate
A: but we really don't have anything , uh , close in this area that , that do anything .
A: And , and some of the communities that do , the residents are having to pay to participate in it . Which really does n't make sense .
B: Oh .
B: Right .
B: Over here , they , uh , have several private companies that you can take , uh , recycled , materials to .
B: But , uh , if you want to take them all to one place , they have , uh , the first Saturday of every month , they have certain places that you can drop them off .
B: That 's what I do .
B: Uh , and I , I recycle aluminum , glass , uh , newspapers .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good .
B: So it 's nice to have , you know , one place that you can take them all to instead of driving the glass to one place
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's another thing .
A: You have to go to different places to do that .
B: Right .
B: So it 's , so that 's nice .
B: It would be , it would be really nice if they , uh , came to the house to pick it up
B: and they just were talking about a bill in Tucson about that ,
B: but , uh , uh , it did n't go through .
A: Uh-huh .
A: But I heard that most homes that do participate in that are having to pay a monthly fee to do that . Which , uh ,
A: I don't know ,
A: it just does n't make sense to me .
B: Right .
B: I guess what they , what they were talking about here was , uh , was reducing the garbage collection in order to make that up or something , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , so I guess that 's one option .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's good ,
A: that 's good .
B: I guess one thing they 're working on now is recycling plastics too .
B: Like , uh
A: Uh-huh .
B: have you noticed that on the bottom of plastic goods , they have this little number now that tells what kind of plastic it is ?
A: Huh .
A: No .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess the problem with plastic is there 's so many different kinds that you ca n't recycle ,
B: you ca n't just throw all plastic into one recycler .
A: Oh , I did n't know that .
B: Yeah .
B: So now they 're like marking , uh ,
B: they 're ,
B: I don't know ,
B: there 's six , seven , eight different kind of plastics
B: and they , they mark on the bottom what kind it is .
A: Yeah .
B: So I guess that makes it easy to recycle
B: and then they 're , they 're , uh , trying to make plastic goods that don't have a bunch of different plastics in them , you know , that are , that are only made out of one kind of plastic
B: so that that makes it easier I guess .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , that 's good .
A: I , I 'm , you know ,
A: unfortunately Garland does n't have , does n't ,
A: they don't , I don't know , they don't do anything like that
A: or I , you know , I read those little slips that come in to your , utility bills or your , uh , garbage collection
B: Right .
A: and they have n't , you know , talked about doing something like that
B: Where does your friend go to to recycle ?
A: She lives in Garland
A: and I 'm not sure where , what she does .
A: But she 's , uh , oh she 's very heavy in that
A: and she takes her own bags to the grocery store
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , she has , I , I really don't think she has any paper products in her house .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , and just a lot of things I 've learned off of her that , to start doing .
A: And she does make a lot of sense .
B: Yeah .
A: Just her whole house is like wow .
B: I guess that 's how it gets passed on . You know , when one person , you hear from another person
A: Yeah .
B: and then , uh , and then you , and then you pass it on .
A: Yeah .
B: It seems to be catching on , uh , slowly but surely , I guess
A: Yeah .
A: And , uh , my little boy has , watches a program that was really neat .
A: I sat and watched him .
A: You know the Barney ?
A: You know the little , I don't know if you know the little character Barney .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They had one , uh , on that kind of , type of thing
A: and how children can , can do that
A: and how to save water when you brush your teeth in water
A: and it 's really caught on
A: and he 's only four
A: and he 's really caught on .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Wow ,
B: that 's cute .
B: That 's neat ,
B: yeah .
B: When you ,
A: And keep the refrigerator door closed and that kind of thing .
A: He 's really caught on
A: so that 's really neat
B: Well , when you start early , I guess ,
A: Hi .
A: How are you doing ?
B: What ,
B: I could n't hear you ?
A: I said , how are you doing ?
B: I 'm doing fine .
B: I 'm , uh , just editing a spreadsheet right now .
B: I 'm trying to figure out how I can retire without having to work until I 'm ninety-five .
A: Yeah .
A: We 've been doing that too
A: We 're trying to retire in our fifties .
B: Yeah .
B: This is a very appropriate topic for our , uh , conversation today because what I 'm figuring out is that I 'm going to have to put in a lot more money than what I 'm making
A: Good luck on that one , then .
B: What is that ?
A: I said good luck on that one , then .
B: Well , we 've got a pretty good situation , my wife and I , since our property is already paid for .
B: You know , the main things that I like about the uh , in the job benefits would be the , uh , the availability of the health insurance and the availability of , uh , you know , being able to transfer around , inside the organization without having , you know , when they cut off a system and they don't just can everybody that is working on it , like some companies I know of .
A: Huh-uh .
B: You know , they give you an opportunity to either transfer into an on going , on going project .
A: So you work for it T I then
A: You ca n't say ?
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: What ?
A: Yes ,
A: you do .
A: Well , I work for D I S D
A: and I don't know what your talking about when you say health insurance ,
A: but Dallas does n't pay .
A: It pays most of mine , you know ,
A: now , after you work I think five years , they begin to pay most of it .
A: But then , for the , the family , you know , I put my kids on my policy .
A: It 's like two hundred dollars
B: Huh-uh .
A: and it 's gone up quite a bit
A: and they predict , you know , of course , it 's going to keep going up .
A: I wish they could go on and pay for all of our coverage , at some point .
A: And benefits , you know ,
A: I 'd like to see child care paid for or on-site child care sometime .
A: I think that would be a ,
B: Huh-uh .
A: and it would make women go to work sometime if they knew their kids were being taken care of .
A: They could go visit them during the day .
A: What ?
B: Yeah
B: that 's uh , something I had n't really thought about because we don't have children .
B: But , I can see how it would be a a real benefit .
B: Yes
B: I do .
A: Well , we keep a shelter , also monies that we 're going to pay in for child care too .
A: You know , go on and pay a lump sum
A: and as long as you pay that amount you 're okay .
A: But if you paid in more than you actually used , and the same thing for insurance , what you predict your going to be paying for insurance , as long as you pay , actually pay out that amount of money , you 're okay .
A: But if you pay out less , then you lose that money .
B: Um .
A: I don't like that part ,
A: but you don't have to do that option if you don't want to .
B: Well , that could be , I could see where that would be important .
A: And then we got that cafeteria plan ,
A: do you have that ?
B: No .
A: No .
B: I don't know what it 's about .
A: You can , uh ,
A: well you ,
A: let 's see , it , it shelters you 're money that you pay for , for insurance .
A: It takes it out of your salary before taxes .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: we got that .
A: Okay .
B: Pretax insurance ?
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But we call it the cafeteria plan ,
A: I wonder why .
B: Um ?
A: I said , I wonder why .
B: Oh , it 's probably what the first guy who did it , called it .
A: Cafeteria ?
B: Yeah .
B: He was probably in the cafeteria when he thought of it
A: Maybe
A: so . Let 's see what else can we do ?
A: Changes ,
B: I 'll tell you what we could do .
A: What ?
B: We could prohibit people from being hired that are historically going to cost the company money . You know , do a little bit better research on who gets hired
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because you know ,
A: You mean , like for health insurance ?
B: Well , not only just health insurance , I mean for the whole benefit of the company .
B: See , I look at it this way . If the company folds , I got to go find a job .
A: Yeah .
B: Okay .
B: Now , if we got somebody in a position to affect the way the company performs , just about anybody in the company , and they 're not doing their job or they 're not capable of doing their job , then we should find a place to put them or you know , boot them out .
A: Well , that 's easier done in a company than it is in , uh , school teaching .
B: Well , frankly , I think school teachers ought to get about ten times what they 're getting paid .
A: Thank you
B: What ?
A: I said , thank you .
B: Oh .
A: We 're both school teachers .
B: Oh , I 'm , I 'm ,
A: But it 's hard to get rid of a teacher if they 're not good .
B: I know .
A: It 's almost impossible .
B: Well , there 's two schools of thought on that .
B: You know , I , I 'm looking at trying to get into a university job position as a a professor
A: Huh-uh .
B: I got about eight years of education ahead of me before I can do that
A: Um .
B: but , once you get that job with the university , you 've got ten years of probation .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Then you have tenure .
B: And they ca n't fire you .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Well , you know , in a situation like that , I don't know if that 's good or bad .
B: I do know that I 've had tenured professors that were just sorry .
A: Right .
B: And I 've also had tenured professors that were the best things on two legs .
A: Well , they did away with tenure in teaching along time ago , you know , in the public schools .
B: But in addition .
A: It makes you more at ease .
A: You know , you knew you were n't going to lose your job unless you really did something horrendous .
B: Well , they , they really ca n't fire you without cause ,
B: you know the governments taken care of that ,
B: but , um , what I 'm looking at is , you know , there are a lot of teachers that are n't getting paid what they need to be getting paid ,
B: and there are some teachers out there that are n't worth having around as janitors .
A: Right .
B: You know , and I could see a point protecting someone 's position ,
B: but , on the other hand , I don't think it , you know , that someone that teaches , uh , say shop , for instance , should have to have degree at all .
A: Well they don't .
B: Well .
A: In some places they don't .
B: In some places that don't .
A: Do they ?
B: But , you know , you , you get specialized education now , for instance , take computer science .
B: We 've got kids twenty years old , right now , that could beat any computer professor at micro computer applications .
B: I know we could .
B: And these people ca n't even get jobs doing anything besides digging ditches , because there 's no comprehensive test that they can take , that would allow them to , to step into that position without having to go through the rigamarole of college .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I went to college late on in life
B: and I realize that hey , it 's nothing but four years of endurance
B: and you might be teachable ,
B: you know what I mean ?
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , my agree is absolutely worthless . * listen ; agree is probably degree
B: It 's my experience and , and my knowledge that , that is beneficial ,
B: but then , you know , like I said , I came in backwards .
A: What did you get your degree at ?
B: Industrial Marketing .
A: And what 's your job now ?
B: Well , actually I 'm selling computer software .
B: But , the two are mutually exclusive . Because , the , the experience that got me the job that I got now , was my experience in the construction field , prior to going to college not my degree , which is I think kind of bizarre .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Maybe .
A: All right ,
A: what else could we change ?
A: Oh , I 'd like to see flexible hours . And teaching , shared , job sharing , more of that .
B: Well uh , We 've , we 've , we 've already got that .
A: Well , see , we 've got a little bit of it , but not much .
A: It would be nice if you had full insurance coverage if you were doing job sharing .
A: What else .
A: I 'd like to be able to , to evaluate your boss
A: and it really carry some weight ,
A: and you get to choose your boss .
B: Well ,
B: yeah .
B: Supervisor evaluations have always been a tough one . Especially in my line , because , you know , my supervisor has nothing to with my job , except to make sure I get my check .
A: Huh-uh .
A: Well , so you get to evaluate him though ?
B: Well , not really .
B: You know , I mean , there 's , what 's to evaluate about him , you know ,
B: I mean , my , my , supervisor level is like practically zero .
B: I run the whole show .
B: And when I need something , I tell my boss
B: and he gets it for me , because he knows , that I know , what I 'm doing .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , and uh , that , that is something that I think needs to be expanded on , specially in the large market place . You know , the major corporation , because so often , you know , you get a guy who 's got eight or nine or ten people working for him in separate areas so to speak .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , it 's , it 's hard for me to , you know , especially since I 'm in marketing sales , you know ,
B: I make more than my boss . Because he 's salary and I 'm not .
B: I make as much as I earn .
B: You know , if I don't make a sale , I don't make anything
A: Huh-uh .
B: Yeah .
B: Well it 's tough ,
B: but , uh , you know , there are requirements , and quotas , what not , for me to make ,
B: but , um , the bottom line on , on that kind of thing is , you know , we have a lot of people , especially in major corporations , who are n't doing a damn thing .
B: They 're just there .
B: You know , the work they do could be totally eliminated ,
B: and not that they are n't worth or not that they are n't trying or anything . But , it 's just that their jobs are useless .
B: Take , for instance , um , a large construction company I used to work for . Ed Swampers .
B: Swampers is a guy , who 's in the union .
B: He 's a laborer .
B: And he 's assigned to ,
A: Yes ,
A: I saw HOME ALONE with some friends just a couple days ago .
A: I wanted to see it , uh , because there was , uh , much recommended , for months and months and months
A: and it was a , a genre that I was n't in the least bit interested in ,
A: and I usually , when I hear about a movie that 's supposed to be very good even if it 's in a genre I don't like ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I figure , well , I should go see it , because if this is , you know , the best of the genre and I should know about it , or something like that
B: Yeah ,
B: right , uh-huh .
A: and I usually come away thinking , no I really don't like this show
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I , I , I feel that way when movies are like blown up , out of proportion , you know
A: Yeah .
B: usually people tell you how good they are ,
B: and you always , you know , end up with expectations too high or whatever ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Right .
A: Well , the , the problem I had with the movie was the problem I 've had with a lot of , uh , I guess , Hollywood movies which is they are , it 's a formula movie ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they 're making the movie according to certain formula that 's a good formula
B: Uh-huh .
A: but they seem to fall short of , of being really creative with a lot of things ,
A: I mean here 's the situation of this kid at home , you know ,
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh .
A: it 's a classic slapstick situation with these bungling burglars trying to get in
B: Right .
A: and , you know , he did some clever things ,
A: but given the size of the house and how clever the kid was , it seems to me they could have done a lot more , I mean , you know , basically stepping on things and yelling in pain
B: Yeah
A: and it seems to me they could have been a lot more creative stuff used .
B: Yeah .
B: I was very surprised that did do a slapstick movie , because that 's , uh , not really the way comedies are right now
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , all the comedies are more like jokes and , you know , gags and stuff like that
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: there 's not as much slapstick anymore .
A: Well , I guess it was a , uh , a very successful movie financially ,
A: so we may see more slapstick .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , that 's true ,
B: it 's very cheap to make a slapstick movie .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is , it is ,
A: and I guess you don't have to , but , you know , if you look at oh ,
A: have you ever seen any of the movies ?
B: Excuse me ?
A: The French movies that .
B: No ,
B: not really ,
B: the last movie I saw I guess , uh , was , uh , uh , the one about the French , the Frenchman that leaves and comes back , and he 's someone different .
B: Um , he 's , uh ,
B: well , it 's about a man , uh , that , uh , leaves his home and comes back to his wife ,
B: and his wife 's all excited
B: but the guy that comes back is not her original husband ,
B: but , um . O'Gear um , I 'm sure you 've heard of it ,
A: Um .
B: it was a very famous , uh , popular movie .
B: Norman Gray ,
B: Norman Gear .
A: No ,
A: I 'm not with you so far ,
B: Oh , shoot , I 'm going to hit myself after I hang up .
B: I 'll remember the name .
B: But , uh , anyway , that was a French movie
A: Uh-huh .
B: it was , um , that was the last one I saw downtown ,
B: but I live in D C well , actually Falls Church , Virginia , outside the city
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , so a lot of times they have the , the , the , international films downtown
A: Oh , yeah .
B: but , uh , so this , uh , French I guess are into the
B: I guess they would like Jerry Lewis , too .
A: They have , they have a
A: Yes they like your Lewis much to the chagrin of sophisticated of sophisticated American everywhere .
B: Right .
A: But they have this one guy who does slapstick comedy ,
A: and there 's something about it that 's so innovative , you know ,
A: he 'll have trouble picking up his hat , or catching his umbrella blowing in the wind , or something ,
A: but there 's something about it that just , it is n't just slapstick ,
A: there 's something about the human character in it
B: Oh , uh-huh .
A: and that 's what I find lacking in a lot of , you know , like HOME ALONE .
A: There was a lot of the human character when he was home alone and he was trying
B: Right .
A: and there was a lot of human character there ,
A: but when it was , the real slapstick moments , him versus the criminals kind of thing , it just sort of lost the human element and became purely a caricature
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: does that make since to you ?
B: Yeah ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I see what you 're saying ,
B: there 's less character development , rather just the , the , the funniness of the gag , rather than
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Did you go with kids though ?
B: and how it fits with the character , right .
A: Did you go with kids ?
B: Excuse me ?
A: Did you take kids along ?
B: No ,
B: we went , uh , without the kids ,
B: it 's was a night out , away from the children .
A: Oh , I would have liked to have a kid with me , I think , preferably someone seven or eight just , just to get a sense for , you know , how , how it affected them . especially to come home
B: Oh .
A: and , you know , I would have gotten in trouble the next day ,
A: I 'm sure .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: that , that 's true .
B: I , I was thinking about that too ,
B: I saw that , um ,
B: that 's why I watched another silly movie , um , um , with my cousin , was uh , uh , the one about the , um , the turtles ,
A: Oh , TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES .
B: Right
A: Uh-huh .
B: yeah ,
B: I saw that with my cousin , just to see what , you know , what the kids are into
A: And your cousin 's a kid ,
B: and that is ,
B: yeah ,
B: he 's a little
A: Uh-huh .
B: yeah ,
B: he 's ,
B: anyway , and that was just excessively violent .
B: I was worried
A: Yeah ,
A: is n't it amazing .
B: it 's like golly ,
B: if kids start imitating that they 'll knock each others blocks off ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was all bloodless
B: Uh-huh .
A: and the good guys can get hit all day long
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they have to shake it off
B: Yeah .
A: they don't , they don't , you know , get , uh , epileptics , that sort of thing from getting hit on their head
B: Right .
A: you know , it 's a little disturbing the violence in these films ,
A: partly it 's supposed to be a little bit more okay because it 's comic book on the other hand it makes it seem like ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I read an article one time talking about even the quote unquote realistic movies , don't have very realistic upsets of the violence .
A: The violence can seem very realistic ,
A: but the aftermath is usually not there .
B: Right .
A: So you see people who are severely injured , very , very badly , lose control of body functions
B: Uh-huh .
A: they thrash around ,
A: they scream , you know , uh ,
A: it 's just a very , very bad thing ,
A: and they never present that ,
A: even the movies that want to show violence as real , they don't really show you what happens with that real violence
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I 'm not really sure how I feel about that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , on the one hand I 'd like it to be a warning ,
A: on the other hand I would n't want people who currently get sort of enjoy their violence fixes from these movies to start thinking gee , now we want to see the aftermath all the time either .
B: You 're right ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's true .
A: But
A: yeah ,
A: TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES was sort of the same way ,
A: they , I guess they figured , I mean , they know what they 're doing ,
A: and they make the movies good enough , I guess I 'm a bit of a snob , they make the movies good enough to be successful
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then they don't , and they , but they could make them better , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: they could try to make ,
A: I mean , as far as I was concerned , TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES could have been a classic of world theater
B: Really .
A: , it could have been , you know ,
A: it was , it was innovative , uh , a completely new approach to making a movie in a lot of ways ,
A: and yet it ended up not being anything particularly memorable , because the , the story was stupid , and , and then things like that ,
A: and they built up ,
A: I remember feeling annoyed , again , I did n't have a kid with me , and I remember feeling annoyed that they had this whole thing about the Master and the passing of wisdom , the , from older to younger generation ,
A: it was , it was a classic Greek , you know , you know , a sort of , European mess going back three thousand years that they 're playing with
B: Uh-huh .
A: um , and he had to ,
A: and he told them , remember , remember , you were united , you can succeed , individually you will fail
B: Yeah ,
B: right ,
B: right .
A: and then there was a big climactic fight scene ,
A: and they did n't remember that ,
A: they did n't fight together ,
A: they fought individually ,
A: and they failed individually ,
A: and then that was it ,
A: then they had to have the Master beat him
B: Right .
A: and the Master should , according to the classic myth , the sort of Joseph Campbell type myth , he , the Master should have died at the end because the , the lesson was passed to the young generation
B: Right .
A: and the older generation is not needed
A: and is reborn to the younger generation ,
A: and on and on and on , and all this wonderful mess
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it still would have been every bit as accessible a movie for the kids if they had included all this stuff that , I , anyway as an intellectual adult would appreciate ,
A: it would n't have hurt the movie to do that ,
A: and it would have make it , uh , broadened the audience that it could have been targeted for , I thought
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , I , uh , I 'm truly enough , you know , I 'm truly an intellectual snob , to be going to these kinds of movies ,
A: I realize that . I mean , to go to these movies and expect them to be , you know , other than just , just good entertainment kind of thing .
B: Right .
B: That 's true .
B: Yeah ,
B: there 's not too many that are , uh , that are good just on their , you know , that , that you would n't want to change something ,
B: and there 's always something that , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I , I , I , I 'm very , I 'm very critical ,
A: I , I , I 'm actually originally from Hollywood ,
A: and then , then , then
A: and my father works in films
A: and such ,
A: and I tend to , tend to be hypercritical of these things ,
A: and then , perhaps , perhaps it 's unfair , because I , I , I must admit I enjoy these movies
B: Yeah ,
B: right .
A: and that 's what they 're for ,
A: but I don't , don't remember them ,
A: and I think it 's , I think , I can think of movies I have less fun during
A: and then after the movie 's over , I remember it so terribly well because it , it had some , some meaning to me or something .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right ,
B: exactly ,
B: yeah ,
B: there , there , there are several movies that hit home like that .
B: Of course the ones I always remember are the , the older ones
A: Uh-huh .
B: I always like the musicals , and uh , those ones , that just stick in your head .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: they leave ,
A: yeah ,
A: they leave , they leave some songs with you ,
A: I don't know what it is
B: Uh-huh .
A: but it just ,
A: I mean , I don't know if this is old fart talking here or something , because I 'm not that old
B: No ,
B: it could be .
A: you know , those old movies seemed to have had something that , uh , that was memorable somehow ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't know what it was .
B: Um . Okay ,
B: well , I guess I got to get going ,
A: Okay ,
A: well , um , thanks for hearing me rap , I guess
B: Got to go take care of the children ,
A: All right ,
A: nice talking with you .
B: Yeah ,
B: nice talking with you .
B: Are you calling from Texas , by the way ?
A: No ,
A: I 'm in California .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: the first person I 've talked to outside of Texas .
A: Yeah ,
A: there must be Texas people , as near as I can tell .
A: Well .
B: Yeah ,
B: okay ,
B: well , thank you very much .
A: Okay ,
A: well , I 'm from the .
B: Bye-bye .
A: All right ,
A: bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: we 're rolling .
A: I , uh ,
A: what , what would you , what would , has your experience lead you to advise , uh , if my child were thinking of going to the Air Force Academy ,
A: what would you say ?
B: Well , I 'd encourage it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's a good general education for a , a bachelor 's degree .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And obviously , and obviously it 's where they don't have a , any post graduate program there ,
B: but you get a , an excellent , wide , uh , basis of topics .
B: You know , you get a good broad education out of it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You don't , they don't graduate the best engineers or the best English majors , but maybe a graduate pretty good overall students out of there .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Uh ,
A: How do you feel about ,
A: it must be a somewhat different environment from a regular college .
A: How does that , uh ,
A: how do you feel that is for someone at , at that phase in their life ?
B: Well , the for some people , it 's good because they maybe they need a little discipline , need a little reining in at that , that stage in their life .
B: Uh , other people ,
B: it , uh , it 's , uh , suffocating ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: you know , you kind of choke on it
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: uh , it , it depends on the person , on the individual ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , the one factor I think more than anything else in this day and age that 's got to be a big factor in your decision 's just the , the cost of , how much you 're going to pay no matter where you go to school .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And if you 've been in for twelve years , I 'm sure you 've , you 've got a , your share of student loans that , uh , you 're probably going to be paying off or have been
B: or ,
A: Well , I sort of ,
A: one of the reasons it 's taken so long is I 've been working all , you know , sort of half student , half working and source of income and stuff ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I 'm actually managing to do this with zero debt .
B: Oh , that 's good .
A: Uh , I could n't , you could n't do it otherwise .
B: Oh , I mean I know people that graduated , or that I went to high school with that went to civilian colleges
B: and they , they 've got twenty , thirty thousand dollar debts ,
B: I mean you could have , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I think if there 's any major piece of advice I 'd give , is to find a way of getting an education that does n't incur that kind of debt .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's not ,
A: I mean , I remember seeing an article one time about , you know , if the average person who spent that much money going to college just took the same amount of money and put it in a , a , in an investment fund , they 'd be considerably wealthier than they would be from the job they 'd get after college .
B: Exactly .
A: So , it 's , it 's really kind of crazy .
B: It 's , it 's staggering when you think that , just here in central New York , is , uh ,
B: Hamilton College is just a few miles south of , you know , maybe about twenty miles to the south from where I am
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , they 're looking for twenty-two thousand dollars for tuition and room and board now .
A: Really ?
B: A year .
A: Huh .
B: At just a small ,
B: I mean they , they , they are it is a select , college .
A: Yes ,
A: yes ,
A: I know .
A: I was actually , I I was thinking of trying to get a job there
A: I heard of it .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: But , you 're talking incredible tuitions now .
A: Uh-uh .
B: I don't know how many people actually pay the whole shot .
B: Very few I would imagine .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , I get ,
B: I just could n't
B: I mean it 's more money that I make in a year ,
B: so
B: You know , it , you know ,
B: me being one person with a above the median income , for New York state , you know ,
A: Yeah .
B: I 'm a I 'm a second lieutenant in the Air Force now ,
B: and , uh , I ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: even as a somebody making twice what I was making , how could you put half of that into , to your child 's education
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then just when they make , made , make it to the college years it 's ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: My God , I ca n't imagine .
A: Well , my , my real feeling about , about the purpose of undergraduate education is it 's really the time ,
A: yes ,
A: you do get an education , you do learn some things ,
A: but you eventually forget most of it .
B: Yes .
A: But what you don't forget is the growing up .
A: It 's really the period when people become adults .
A: I mean people who don't go to college become adults in other ways .
A: But , really ,
A: it 's the entry into adulthood , I think .
A: And I think that the best way to choose a college is to decide what kind of environment you want to be fostered in as you become , you know , as you gain new social skills , as you become , you know , more of a functioning member of society .
A: And maybe the Air Force Academy is a perfect ,
A: as you said for someone who , you know , a more , you know , who needs to learn self-discipline and so forth would be appropriate for them .
B: Or , it 's also a good environment ,
B: it may be good for someone who already has self discipline , who has a certain amount of leadership quality in their own , that ,
A: Yeah ,
A: and want to develop that .
B: And , that ,
B: yeah ,
B: the
B: it 's the same .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It can benefit different people different ways .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: But , uh , you know , I , I agree with that , because I see people that I know again , from high school , that I still keep in touch with , that did n't go to college Same patterns of behavior , same , uh , same socializing , same exact crowd that they hang with
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: The same patterns of behavior , you mean ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: and it 's like , it 's like frozen time , you know .
A: Exactly ,
A: it 's I find it kind of sad ,
A: I really do .
B: It is .
B: It really is that they have n't found anything , anything better that , uh ,
B: or their , their experiences have n't been broadened at all , to , to you know , you know ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's , it 's a , it 's a tremendous thing when you sit in a , in a college environment and discuss some issues and really sit there with people with disagreeing opinions
B: and you hear all these different sides of the story that you never thought of
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: and , uh , that 's another big thing I think people get out of college is the appreciation for different point , differing points of view , you know , or different opinions .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: in high school everyone sort of tries to have the same opinion it seems .
B: Yeah ,
B: exactly ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: the , the one thing I think that 's no good for anyone is these monster institutions .
A: These institutions of thirty thousand students and such .
B: Oh I ,
A: And I see some freshmen wandering around in there
A: and they 're they 're just like , you know , someone from the country lost in the big city ,
A: I mean , they , they ,
B: Yeah .
A: I don't see them getting ,
A: I mean when I was undergraduate , I went to a , relatively small school for my first two years
A: and then I transferred to a very large school .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And that worked out pretty well .
A: I went from a , you know , a second rate institution to a higher rate institution .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But the first couple of years it does n't matter to me what the quality of the education was .
A: I needed to make friends .
A: I needed to sort of learn the ropes .
A: You know , there were things like that , that mattered a lot more
A: and I needed basic , really simple education that you can get , pretty much anywhere for the first couple of years .
B: Well , your education 's a lot what you make of it , too ,
B: so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: exactly .
A: And if you 're alienated ,
A: I mean I see people at supposedly really good universities who are just having psychological problems , that , you think this is n't sinking in .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I , I 've seen more graduates from M I T
B: and that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: being ,
B: I work in a , in a an Air Force laboratory
B: and so we 've got a lot of , uh , M I T graduates that are in there
B: and they are the biggest collection of screwed up people that I think I 've ever run into .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Even , even more so , uh , like , military academy grads are a strange lot , too ,
B: I , I mean I have to confess to that .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's sort of a , a rare select environment .
B: Yeah ,
B: and they have their own quirks and tolerances and , you know , certain things that don't bother us at all , that would drive other people nuts
A: Yeah .
B: and then certain things that
B: ways , things we do ,
B: the way we do it that drive other people nuts that ,
A: Right ,
A: right ,
A: sure .
B: But , these M I T grads are off in their absolute own world .
B: It , it 's a ,
B: I , I have more I have a lot of respect for M I T master 's and doctorate , uh , degrees ,
A: Yeah .
A: It 's a top rated institution
A: and now I ,
B: but they 're undergrads are like ,
B: I , I 'm amazed , at , at that 's a lot of them even graduated .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I don't know .
A: Well , I , I had known a lot of undergraduates who pick schools because they want the best reputation for a school . Not realizing that the reputation for M I T is because of the , of the doctorate research , and the professors who go there ,
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: and you 're not going to see the professors
B: Nope .
A: you know , you 're going to see some T A , you know .
A: Uh , so they they , they want , you know , they want the best
A: and they don't think , they think what the best is , is , reputation for , for research
B: Yeah .
A: and that 's a one standard ,
A: but it 's not relevant , to what they need .
B: No .
B: It 's interesting that you mention ,
B: and I did n't think about that before when you were talking ,
B: but the service academies have all , all the faculty , uh , for the most part is , is military with a few exchange , professors from other , schools .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: But , uh , having the military faculty is really beneficial because they see it as doing their job and spending time with the cadets there , uh , is investing in the Air Force ,
B: and it ,
A: Right .
B: or the , the military itself , it 's the future officer corps
B: and so , I hear horror stories from friends of mine that they could never see their instructors ,
B: they could never get extra help .
A: Uh-huh .
B: For me any time I needed extra help any time of the day I had all my instructors home phone numbers
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and could call them ,
B: you go to their office anytime .
B: I had some instructors that , uh , would invite me over to their house for extended study things on weekends , when I was having trouble with something
A: Huh .
B: and ,
A: Yeah ,
A: you wo n't get that at M I T or virtually or anything like that .
B: No ,
B: no ,
B: and that ,
A: And you you know , and you ca n't blame the professors either , because you look at their job description ,
B: No .
A: you 'd you know ,
A: teaching is third down on the list of importance things
A: and ,
B: Right ,
B: right .
B: Publish first ,
B: and the
A: yeah ,
A: and , and that 's appropriate if the university is trying to do serious research , because it 's hard to be a researcher and a teacher at the same time .
B: Right .
A: So I 'd say go to a , go to a college that has teachers .
A: People who really are committed to the students and can afford to be because that 's their job .
B: Yeah .
A: But , oh , well
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's , there 's a lot of factors that people don't ever , ever consider in , in their selection of a college
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I don't know ,
B: maybe , I wonder if , if they enter these conversations that people have been having , uh ...
A: what kind of fishing do you enjoy ?
B: Well , uh , normally I like to , to go out fishing in a boat , and , uh , rather than like bank fishing , and just like to try and catch anything that 's swimming , because I 've had such problems with trying to catch any type of fish , that , uh , I just really enjoy doing the boat type fishing .
A: So , you like fresh water .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: I 've never tried like with , deep , uh , sea water fishing because you get , I get sea sick
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh I see
B: Well , one of these days , I 'm hoping they 'll have some kind of medicine ,
B: so I can go out and go , uh , deep sea fishing .
B: Now , that would be nice .
A: Well , I was raised on the Texas gulf coast , in the summers ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and during the Christmas holidays we 'd go down to our house on the coast
B: Uh-huh .
A: and so , I thought fish came out of the ocean
B: Oh , my goodness .
A: and anything that was fresh water was muddy
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I did n't learn to fish in a lake until I was well into my twenties
A: so I had , I had always been a , a sea fisher type which is a lot of fun .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh I bet it is .
A: There 's so many different ways to catch fish .
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , at night you can go walking in the shallows , and gig flounder and things like that .
A: Which is n't technically fishing ,
A: but it 's a lot of fun .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , I , I grew up fishing .
B: Uh-huh .
A: What area of lakes do you like ?
B: Well , uh , now , I have n't done much fishing here in Texas , uh , because I moved from Ohio ,
A: Oh , I see .
B: uh , but , uh , we did a lot of fishing when we were up there .
B: But down here , I have a brother that likes to go over on the east , in East Texas , and do fishing .
B: I ca n't remember what the name of the lake is ,
B: and he was just here this past weekend .
B: I could have ,
B: I , I think he mentioned it again ,
B: but I could n't remember what it was .
B: Uh , I want to call it Salt Fork , or Lake Fork .
B: I , I ca n't remember ,
B: but he said it 's one of the best bass fishing places .
A: Oh , oh , oh , uh , I think I know where , uh , Lake Caddo , or something like that .
B: I , you know ,
B: that may be it .
B: That may be it .
A: If it 's supposed to be one of the best bass fishing places . They hold tournaments there , and everything .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and he said that he has never gone anywhere before ,
B: and he 's fished all over the United States , in which they can catch the biggest bass that you 've ever seen .
B: So I would love to go over there .
B: They were talking about going over there , and , and some time in the spring ,
B: and I was thinking it would be great to go over there to go fishing , and , uh , and catch some bass .
A: I would love to do that ,
A: but they have snakes over there ,
A: and I 'm not too welcome around ,
A: I don't , I really don't want to share a boat with a snake .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I just , I , I , I don't see it .
B: Yeah .
A: I just , I don't I think that I perhaps would let them have the boat or something ,
A: I 'd make some quick arrangements
B: That 's true .
A: and I 've told so many stories about the snakes
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , when they pull in , there 's a snake instead of a fish , and things like that
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm just ,
B: Oh .
A: I don't know ,
B: Yeah .
A: What 's the largest fish you ever caught ?
B: Uh , gosh ,
B: I think it was only like three and a half pounds ,
B: and for me that 's big .
B: That 's why I 'm saying I love to go fishing because I 've never caught anything really , really big .
B: Uh , so , because it 's always been , you know , in the , on a lake , and , uh ,
B: I know they have bigger fish than that
B: but , you know , three and a half pounds , and that was , huge for me ,
A: Oh , on a lake ,
A: yeah .
A: On a like that 's not a bad size fish . * listen ; transcript should probably read `` lake '' not `` like ''
B: yeah ,
B: that 's a good size fish
A: I would be impressed
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: So , uh , but
B: yeah ,
B: I 'd love to go catch like the Marlins or whatever in the deep sea fishing .
A: I 've never done that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 've , I 've seen it , uh ,
A: and , and I have no problem going out in a boat , uh ,
A: it 's just so dreadfully expensive ,
A: and there 's just so many other ways live down there .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's not a treat
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's what you do every day .
B: That 's right .
A: You know .
B: That 's right .
A: Uh , one of my favorite things was , we were forever catching crab and steaming them you know , out on the , on the beach and you know , just , uh , pitching them out , on , uh , on , uh , what am I trying to say , newspaper and , and , breaking them up and sitting out there and eating them , and then digging a hole and pitching the whole thing in it you know
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Wow .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , and that 's it .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , but , the other little creatures would take care of what was left .
B: That 's right ,
A: So , going out on a boat , never did appeal to me simply because it , you know , there was so much else to do .
B: that 's right .
B: Right .
B: Right .
B: Well , do you live like along , uh , Houston , down there ?
A: No ,
A: no .
A: I live in Dallas .
A: I lived in Dallas .
B: oh , okay .
B: But you , uh ,
A: We had a house in Port Aransas .
B: Oh okay .
A: It 's a little fishing village that is , Corpus .
B: That 's close to , uh , South Padre .
A: Well , uh , South Padre is on down the bend
B: Oh Corpus .
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
B: Okay .
A: it 's like if you drew a line from Austin straight down , it would be in that region .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Small island .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: I , I 've been to Port Aransas
B: but , it was when I was a child .
A: Oh , okay .
B: Yes ,
B: because I have relatives who live in Houston ,
B: so when would go , and we would go to Port Aransas or then , on down to Corpus or further ,
B: yeah ,
B: like what your talking about .
B: Because I was just wondering , we went to Galveston this , this summer , even with all the oil spills and everything ,
B: I mean , I was , oh , it was horrible .
A: Was it bad ?
B: I well never , ever go back .
B: I don't think . Uh ,
A: Oh , I hate to hear that .
B: and ,
B: yeah ,
B: and that , that 's true , uh , uh , you know ,
B: the , the water was murky ,
B: and I would hate to think about catching fish or anything there
A: Huh-uh .
B: huh-uh ,
B: no
B: I would n't want to eat them .
A: No ,
B: So ,
A: no ,
A: no .
B: Yeah .
A: You went to Galveston .
A: Uh , I have a favorite hotel that extends out over the water
B: Uh-huh .
A: the , uh , what is it , the Flagship ?
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Is it still there ?
B: It sure is .
A: I like that place .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: It most certainly is , so , uh , so that , it , it was , it was certain things that were enjoyable about it ,
B: but , uh , I don't , I think it 's lost a lot of it 's appeal since then , because of all the oil spills that they have had ,
B: and , uh , it always smelled the entire time we were there .
B: It was ,
A: I did n't realize that had happened , for some reason .
B: Yeah .
B: We went swimming one time , in the whole week that , we were there ,
B: and the rest of the time we stayed in the pool , because the water was so awful ,
B: and ,
A: Well , of course , being raised on the water I 'd never swim in it .
B: yeah .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Yeah .
A: Swimming is for swimming , pool .
B: Yeah .
A: That 's why they call them swimming pools
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's where you swim .
A: You do not swim in the ocean .
B: No .
B: No .
A: No .
B: Not anymore .
A: I 've seen what comes out of the ocean ,
A: and I have no desire to share , any space with anything like that .
A: But , really , but huge sharks are down there .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I mean incredibly large sharks .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , some of the young dread naughty boys in my family would fish for them all night
B: Uh-huh .
A: it was incredible the size of them ,
B: Wow .
A: the next morning they would have them strung up across the getties
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it , you know ,
A: so , just strung up ,
A: their tails would still hang on the bottom of the getties
A: yeah ,
A: just ,
B: Wow .
B: Wow .
B: Yeah .
B: Now I never knew they were that , that big , huh ,
A: I wo n't have anything to do with .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Right .
B: Well , it was nice talking to you .
A: Well , it certainly was , uh ,
A: Maybe you can get ,
A: how many ,
A: have you had very many of these calls ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: almost ever day .
A: How wonderful .
B: Yeah .
B: Almost , almost ever single day from when they started it .
B: Yeah .
A: Maybe I 'll just be so lucky .
A: Okay ,
A: I enjoyed talking to you .
B: Okay .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Bye-bye
A: Phil , I guess a good question to ask is do you do your own work , or do you like to do it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I , um ,
B: about , or just over a year ago I bought my own house ,
B: so this has been the first opportunity I 've had to , uh , be working on my own lawn and garden ,
B: and , uh , you know , when , back when I was a kid , you know , mom would send me out to weed the garden .
B: I , I 'd hate it , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: Now , I sort of take pride in , uh , in the yard , and , you know , how the place looks ,
B: and , uh , so I don't mind doing it so much anymore .
A: Yeah ,
A: so do you have a , do you have a garden ,
A: or do you just do your landscaping now and your lawn ?
B: Well , it 's , yeah , it 's , it 's primarily just , uh , like landscaping a little bit .
B: You know , I 've got some , uh , bushes around the you know , foundation planning , things like that ,
B: and then there 's some , just some little flower beds ,
B: and my mom grows ,
B: she 's an avid gardener ,
B: and she starts her own stuff from seed now ,
B: and she gets a little over zealous when she is planting these seeds in the wintertime and starting them .
B: Uh , she ends up with so many plants that she ca n't fit them all in her garden .
B: They have a huge yard and a huge house ,
B: and so she brings them up here from Philadelphia and gives me all her extras .
A: Well , that 's pretty good .
B: Yeah .
A: My , my sister is very over zealous , too .
A: She 's got some really nice flower beds .
A: She puts a lot of time into them .
A: This is my first year in a , in a house where I 'm thinking about doing some flower beds and stuff .
A: Oh , we , I 've always had crude ones at my father 's ,
A: but this is the first time that I really have to landscape a house .
B: Yeah .
A: His house is more like a farm house .
A: It 's not on a main road .
B: Uh-huh .
A: My house is on a main road ,
A: and it has nothing
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , nothing .
A: But , um , what I do do , and I 've always done it is ,
A: at my father 's house , we have , my sister and I have a couple of gardens .
A: I think we figured out total , this is for vegetables about two thirds of an acre .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So we each have a third of an acre we do .
B: Jeez ,
B: that 's more than , that 's more than the property I have right here , that you 've got as a , uh , garden ,
A: That 's a lot
B: that 's amazing .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , it 's my dad 's ,
A: and we 've had it for he 's been there for a long time
B: Right .
A: so , um , it just happens they built a shopping center next to it
B: Oh , jeez .
A: but , um , they put up a nice fence ,
A: so we still have a lot of privacy ,
A: and we grow a lot of food .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , I enjoy it ,
A: um , the gardens are kind of old ,
A: you have to step down in them now because we 've tilled them so much ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but there 's still ,
A: we , we , my sister uses probably a fertilizer .
A: I don't know if that 's a good thing or a bad thing .
A: But I wish this phone would stop screeching ,
B: Are you getting a lot of static on your end of the line ?
A: Yes .
A: I 'm trying ,
A: I don't know if it 's my phone .
A: This is bad .
A: It 's not getting any better .
B: Yeah ,
B: I ca n't even hear what you 're
A: Oh , okay .
B: Oh jeez ,
B: it 's gone .
A: I don't see , I don't think my phone really does that ,
A: but every time I have this phone is a little weird ,
A: I mean it 's been dropped on the floor a hundred times .
B: Well , I don't know ,
B: there was
B: well , whatever it was , there was a second there
B: I could n't even hear what you were saying ,
B: but , um ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I was beating on the phone going ,
A: Can you hear me .
B: Yeah ,
B: I guess I was having a hard time there too .
B: I thought it sounded ,
B: well , I guess we better stick to the subject for the benefit of the people uh , uh , doing this work .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I mean , that 's a heck of a
B: you must have a lot of different stuff you get out of there ,
B: especially up in Vermont there , you should have , uh , some really nice soil .
A: Yeah ,
A: we grow a lot of , uh , the basic , corn , potatoes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She likes to really get into her pumpkins
A: and see how many she can grow . corn , potatoes ,
A: and , uh , acorn squash are good winter keepers .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , things the way we grow are carrots , cabbage , that sort of goes to waste
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , we eat it , we ,
A: just too much .
A: She , she starts her own plants .
A: She plants a lot of tomatoes
B: Uh-huh .
A: I let her do all the planting and putting ,
A: and I , I do a lot of the , uh , a lot of the , the the back work , and stuff .
A: But she does , she helps me a lot , too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She puts a lot of financial .
A: She plans it all out .
A: Beans like to be near certain types of plants .
A: Now , they find that tomatoes don't do well if you put them next to something like , uh , peas ,
A: I don't know .
A: Something ,
B: Oh , really
B: because of like the cross-pollination ,
B: or ,
A: No ,
A: it 's just like , something like an onion and a tomato would go together , but you 're not supposed to put your onions near your beans .
A: I guess it 's , it 's just what scents it gives off ,
A: they just don't like each other .
B: Huh .
A: I mean , she , she reads all kinds of books ,
A: so . I wish I knew more to tell you why ,
A: but ,
B: Huh . My mom put , uh , cantaloupes and cucumbers near each other once ,
B: and the got cross pollinated by the bees
A: Yeah
B: And we ended up with these , these , like things on the cantaloupe vines that , I mean , were looked like round big huge round cucumbers .
A: Oh , that 's really weird .
B: Yeah ,
B: I mean , there , these were like some mutant .
A: I 've put my cucumbers down at one end of the garden
A: and like I 'll make an L shape I 've put my cantaloupe .
A: So they 've been pretty close together .
B: Huh .
A: But I don't think the vines .
A: They don't they don't have to be touching or anything ,
A: like you say , they cross pollinate just by bees ,
B: No ,
B: it 's just the , like the bees and insects will do it .
A: Um ,
B: Either that or my mom just had some bad seed or something .
A: Something weird .
B: Yeah .
A: This year , this last season it was too wet up here
B: Uh-huh .
A: we lost a lot of our root things , our squash and our potatoes ,
A: and we got half our yield .
B: Oh , well .
A: It was really bad because of the water .
B: Yeah ,
B: when I ,
B: my family used to live in Littleton , Massachusetts ,
B: and when we moved in there we had a , a really wet backyard ,
B: and , uh , my mom wanted a vegetable garden .
B: So we trucked in , uh ,
B: I think it was seven , what was it , cubic , seven yards , cubic yards ,
B: I think that 's how they measure dirt
A: Yeah .
B: yeah ,
B: seven yards of sand .
B: I got to shovel it all , lots of fun .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have to do that ,
A: I want to make some flower beds ,
A: and I 'm going to have a seven yard truck come in with some top soil .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I 'm going to ,
A: my problem is I want to use those rail ties to build up a planter
B: Sure .
A: but I don't know if the creosote in the rail ties is going to do something , you know , if I want to grow a tomato or something in there
B: Right .
B: Well , it seems ,
A: I mean , I guess it 'd go with my flowers .
B: I 've seen a lot of people use them , you know , for flower beds ,
B: but I don't know what , whether they 'd have creosote would do anything ,
B: I mean ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I don't , I don't , I just don't think you ,
A: I always thought I 'd put a tomato plant in there or something weird
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I don't think I could really eat the fruit off it without wondering .
A: And I don't know if they make landscape ties that are n't treated .
B: Well , you can get , um , you can get pressurized lumber ,
A: Yeah ,
A: but they put , some kind of chemicals in there too .
B: Oh , that 's right .
B: there 's even , there 's bad chemicals in those too .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I 'm not really worried about it ,
A: it 's mainly for flower bed ,
A: so I 'm not going to , no I 'm just not going to put that tomato plant in there .
B: All right .
A: But , I ,
A: yeah ,
A: I do want to have a raised bed .
A: I 've never ,
A: my flower gardens are always been like on the ground .
B: Right .
A: They don't , it just looks so much better when it 's up against the house , tiered up .
B: Well , you can see it a little better
B: and it stands out .
A: Yeah ,
A: this house that I have is just a three bedroom ranch
A: and I can tell you there 's nothing around it , cement foundation all the way around it . Not a shrub , not a bush .
B: Um .
A: There was a lilac tree ,
A: and the landlord cut it down and said , Yeah , that 's one thing you have to do is keep that lilac bush cut down so it does n't rub up against the siding
A: And I 'm looking at him like , Jeez .
A: People would kill to have a lilac bush
A: and he 's cutting it down
A: So . That 's all right .
A: Flower beds are all right .
A: Anything , as long as it does n't rub up against the siding .
B: Rub up against the siding . Uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what he 's worried about . The trees , or a bush , because lilac bushes , they , they grow fast .
A: Some people , uh , would really like to have them ,
A: and then the people that do have them , they spread , and they sprout all over their lawn .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , they 're kind of a pain ,
A: but , you know , people who don't have them think they 're great .
A: And people who do have them , curse .
B: Right .
A: Another thing I have that , um , is weird is the , a locus tree in the back yard .
A: As a matter of fact there 's three of them , very badly trimmed ,
A: they are n't trimmed at all .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I can imagine if I had to mow the lawn in the back , which we said we 'd do , if the trees hang down
A: so , and the locus trees have like three quarters of an inch thorns on it .
B: Yeah ,
B: they 're like ,
B: I think I 've seen those before ,
B: but I don't remember what they look like .
A: They 're a pretty tree ,
A: but you just , when you walk up to them they 're covered with thorns .
A: So we 're going to get a chain saw and limb it extensively so it gets the trees up overhead ,
B: So it 'll give you room to get under it ,
B: sure ,
A: Yeah ,
A: because I can just see brushing up against it , that it would rip your skin .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's worse than a rose bush .
B: Um .
A: Many times worse , because of course , it 's a tree .
B: Oh , a tree is always something very nice to have .
A: Yeah ,
A: my dad used to work on them ,
A: so I don't think I 'll have a problem .
A: My husband will have problems borrowing one .
B: then you got to get him to ,
B: if he 's going to do it , you 've got to twist his arm to get him to go do it .
A: Well , if that 's not the problem ...
A: Okay ,
A: did you vote in the last , uh , national election ?
B: Yes ,
B: we , uh , uh , I have n't missed a one since I 've been eligible to vote .
A: Oh , that 's good .
B: Did you get to vote at the last one ?
A: I voted in the last national one .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm not sure * slash error ; one utt with next
A: if I got the last local one .
B: Oh , uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: and sometimes the , the local ones are n't as publicized it seems that , uh , they should be .
A: Yeah ,
A: you 're not sure where to go and vote and all that .
B: Right ,
B: and , uh , there 's usually nobody running against , you know , the incumbents .
A: Right ,
A: or you don't know what they you know , where they stand or anything like that .
B: Right .
B: So , uh , but I , I feel that , uh , a lot of people have gotten lazy about voting .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think you 're right .
B: And , it 's , it 's , they 're ,
B: and also they 're fed up with the system ,
B: and they say , well , why should I even vote .
A: Yeah ,
A: or sometimes they don't like either of the choices for the candidates ,
B: Right .
A: so they think , well , you know , why vote .
B: Right .
B: The lesser of the two evils is how we usually look at it .
A: Yeah ,
A: really ,
A: especially in Texas
B: Oh , I know it
B: The last gubernatorial race was , oh it was awful .
A: It really was ,
A: yeah .
B: So I don't know ,
B: I , I ,
B: it 'll be interesting to see how the next , uh , few years go .
A: Yeah
A: Did they get the serious problem that half the people don't vote .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think , well , it 's , it 's definitely a problem ,
B: and I think it could get worse .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , we get this lackadaisical attitude ,
B: and say , huh , you know , why should we vote ,
B: then , you know , it could , uh , it could lead to some serious things .
A: Yeah .
A: It also seems like maybe another candidate that nobody wants could slip in if , you know , not enough people are voting .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right , uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: we can get , uh , yeah , if we get someone in there like that , then , you know , they could make all sorts of changes that they were , you know , had enough pull .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's kind of like in Louisiana where that , uh , guy that 's like a Ku Klux Klan member something got elected .
B: Yes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Kind of scary when you think about that .
B: Yeah ,
B: and , uh , who 's the other guy , LaRouche that , uh , is sort of the , uh , socialist , not socialist but
B: he 's so off the wall that , uh , he 's gone in and tried to get into city elections
B: and , uh , but he 's got , he 's been put away for , uh , credit card fraud , I believe .
A: Oh , gosh .
B: Yeah ,
B: Lyndon LaRouche , that 's it .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: people will sit home and assume , oh , that guy would never get elected .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Next thing you know , you 've got him .
B: Right .
B: If you don't go and vote , then , you know , very good chance that they , they will because a lot of the people like that , they 'll strike a chord in something , you know , in some of the people , that so will say , look , you know , this guy 's got everything together .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I like what he says ,
B: and he 'll be so far off the wall that they 'll elect him .
A: Right , yeah .
B: And , uh , I think that 's sort of what happened with Louisiana because , because , um , the guy did get elected , correct ?
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: That 's what I thought .
A: Yeah ,
A: he sure did .
B: And , uh , , but you know , they can always fool us , you know .
B: He might do a good job .
A: Yeah .
A: I think one thing that maybe would help people vote is if the polls were either open more days , or you could mail it in , or something like , if you have , if you have real strict work hours , and you can only go like at seven in the morning or after work and you have to stand in line for so long
B: Oh , yeah .
A: I think that discourages a lot of people .
B: What we do , usually , is , uh , vote , uh , absenteeism
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , I know , here , you know , you don't have to have any reason ,
B: you can just go and vote
A: Right .
B: and the polls are open , what was it , a couple of weeks ,
B: the hours are good
B: and they 're even open on Saturdays and a couple of Sundays .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so we 've got plenty of time to go , because down here in Houston , it 's , uh , the lines are long .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 'm in Dallas ,
A: and they 're long here too .
B: So , uh , but , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: I voted absentee one year .
A: I really was going to be gone .
A: So , I did it ,
A: but , uh , it was nice .
A: I would be tempted to do it again .
B: Well , uh , I recommend it , because you just walk right on in , and there 's usually not anybody in line
A: Right .
B: and , uh , you know , that vote 's just as good as , you know , the one on election day .
A: Yeah .
A: I think they should change the whole system so that it 's easier
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: I think more people would do it if it was n't such a hassle .
B: Um , yeah ,
B: I 've been involved with , uh , some of the campaigns and the state conventions of the , of the Republican party .
B: And it 's really interesting to see the process as far as what goes through as far as the voting and the , uh , how the , uh , the not the ballots ,
B: but , uh , my mind has gone blank .
B: I 've been all evening How they develop , uh , what the candidate stands for
A: Uh-huh ,
B: you know , the views , and , uh , you know , everybody gets to vote on , you know , well , should he be for this and on and on and on ,
B: and , uh , it 's , it 's interesting .
A: Yeah ,
A: that would be .
A: I usually vote .
A: A lot of times I 'll vote a straight party ticket just because I don't take the time to find out what every , you know , other than the major candidates , what they stand for on what issues ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so I 'll just trust well , the party kind of goes along these lines so I 'll go ahead and vote .
B: Right .
B: There for a while , that would , that worked .
B: We 've , uh , I know I have , um ,
B: I 'll stick to uh , to the , you know , sometimes I 'll stick to a certain party , depends on the guy .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , if it , uh , gets down between two , then I 'll , I 'll vote for the party because I know , you know , something about the other guy
A: Yeah .
B: or , you know , they 're both just as bad ,
B: and I 'll say , Well , I know what this guy stands for as far as for his party ,
B: and , um , but
B: yeah .
B: You know , that 's not the best way
B: but ,
A: No ,
A: I guess it 'd be best if you knew each person and what they stood for and why and everything .
B: But it gets to the point where ,
B: I mean , you 've got to have the find the time also to read about the guy and , and be able to find the information about what he stands for .
A: Right ,
A: and try to determine if what you read was objective or not .
B: Right ,
B: or what you 've heard on T V , which I think is just outrageous .
A: Yeah .
B: I , I don't agree with how the media handles elections .
A: Yeah .
B: I , you know , I 'm tired of hearing about the polls , you know , you know ,
B: this is how he stands such and such a day the way they break it out ,
A: Yeah .
B: it 's just , it 's just ridiculous .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think it could affect the outcome , you know , could make it unfair .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: it really could ,
B: and , uh , then , how , sometimes , how the media will blow things out of proportion and will run an issue into the ground which is good and dead ,
B: and they keep dragging it on ,
B: and it could hamper the outcome of an election for the guy that should have won .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: so , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: the press has a lot of power .
B: They really do .
B: I , I sometimes think that that should be limited more .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , but , boy you try get into that ,
A: you 'd really open a can of worms .
B: Oh , yes ,
B: or they , I agree with the freedom of the press , you know , and all the amendments ,
B: but sometimes it 's for the public 's own good that we don't hear things .
A: Yeah ,
A: seems that they should regulate themselves a little bit ,
A: and I don't think they ever care to .
B: No ,
B: they don't .
A: Well , I ca n't think of anything else really about the polls or voting , to talk about .
B: Well , I enjoyed talking to you .
A: Well , it was good talking to you .
B: All right .
A: Bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: so do you all keep a budget ?
B: No ,
B: we don't .
A: You don't ?
B: No ,
B: I , I make so much money here at T I that , that we just spend it .
B: And we never have a problem meeting it from paycheck to paycheck .
B: It 's pretty neat being that independently wealthy and working for a major semi-conductor firm ,
B: you can just spend it well .
A: Are you being smart ,
A: or are you serious ?
B: I 'm being facetious .
B: I 'm being very comical .
B: Uh , we have a budget , um that works well .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I kind of look at it for more of a ,
B: we have a financial , uh , analyst , a finance administrator , I guess , that , that , uh ,
B: I guess the financial planners , the training now .
B: We 've had it for about four years here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Got our businesses and , and , and our life in line , how to manage credit cards , how to put away , say for , you know , money markets and this kind of thing .
A: Yeah .
B: And , there 's some freebies out there are
B: you should put ten to fifteen percent of your monthly bring home in some sort of savings account .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: That being money market , uh , bonds , , savings , uh , or just a liquid account which , which we do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , you should always have three months of your salary in a savings account in case there 's a major need for that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Okay .
B: You should always have an umbrella permit that bridges your life insurance and your medical and your , uh , uh , car insurance in case you run into a lawyer and you break his arm .
B: He 's going to sue the pants off of you .
B: These kind of things are about a hundred dollars a year .
B: So you know , these are all equivalent to the monthly budget things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Some of them are there to pacify situations .
B: And some of them are there to prevent things from happening .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , I guess we kind of got away from about the last sixteen months as far as saying , two hundred dollars for food and three hundred dollars for this and two hundred for that because we had a child which is about a year old ,
B: and then uh , we 've just been kind of working on ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've been developing it ,
B: but it 's kind of hard .
B: Diaper prices are going up , you know , and formula and stuff , you know .
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's funny .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have a ,
A: we 're twenty eight , and he 's been working at T I for five years ,
A: and that was pretty much his first real , really major job of any , you know , professional , because he had worked , you know , part time during school and what not ,
A: and , uh , he was a little late graduating ,
A: so we 're , you know , uh ,
A: and we have a nine and a half year old son ,
A: and it 's because , you know , we were eighteen when we had him ,
A: so , we 're , we 're kind of looking at this from the other aspect of , we , you know , we have a lot for , to be our age and , you know , just everything , and having the responsibilities we 've had on us for , at such a young age .
A: You know , we have a , like a nice house .
A: People , you know , are really shocked at how nice everything is in our house .
A: But , we don't , you know , live in a brand new house , either , maybe a ninety , hundred thousand dollar house
B: Uh-huh .
A: but we 're in a thirty year old house that would probably sell for forty-five thousand .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , you know , we have trade-offs .
A: So we 're more , we have a monthly budget with this , this , this , this .
A: But , we have no savings , which is n't real wise ,
A: but we just , we don't have the income at this time really to have any , because we have three debts that we 're trying to pay off from both of our student loans .
A: We 're still paying trying to pay those off .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And we have one car payment that we don't , I think we have about thirteen months left on it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And after that , we either ,
A: what we want to do is begin doubling up our car payment , um ,
A: they 'll pay ,
A: our car payment is equivalent to both of our student loans .
A: So what we want to do is next year keep driving the same cars and , um , pay on the student loans , split that car payment in half and pay , you know , double up payments on both our loans .
A: And it 'll work out perfect .
B: Do you have your , uh , loans through the Texas Credit Union ?
A: No ,
A: we don't .
B: Okay .
B: Thing about the credit union is , it 's , the way it 's set up is if you have two thousand dollars left , let 's say , on , on the loan .
A: Uh-huh .
B: If you go up there and write them a two thousand dollar check it does n't all go towards principal .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They take out for the , for the finances the finance charge , which is kind of , you know ,
B: it 's like one of these lose or swim type of credit ,
B: one of those loans is . Not really the best in the world ,
B: but . But , you know , they 're , uh ,
B: since your husband is , is , is , um , a T I
B: but does n't have the loans with the credit union , they 're offering something that might be worth taking a gander at .
A: Really .
B: I don't know what your percent is on your , on your car payments
A: Uh-huh .
B: but they are , they 'll take any T I non-credit union loan like if you have a fourteen percent loan for a new car .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , really .
A: Uh-huh .
B: One of the secretaries we have down here is paying twelve percent through G M A C or something .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And she 's doing it .
B: I mean , it 's not like , it 's like .
A: Does she have to pay to have it refinanced ?
B: I think they even cover that because they want you as a they want the T I to be part of the credit union .
A: Uh-huh .
A: T I to ,
A: See ,
A: we got ripped off buying our new car .
A: We both come out of , uh , drugs and stuff ,
A: and we became Christians about five years ago .
A: Right when he got home from Terrell . Right before he got hired for T I , he had gotten saved and stuff ,
A: and so , I mean , when you get come out of drugs and stuff , you have nothing ,
A: I mean , you know , you don't have anything .
A: You have the clothes on your back ,
A: and you might have a car , and that kind of thing .
A: And so , when he , when he started working at T I , we , uh , you know , we really felt like God told us to buy a new car because he had an older car that was going to need to be fixed and high gas .
A: But we got ripped off on it because we wanted it financed at four years ,
A: and we were young
A: and we 'd look about nineteen .
A: People still think we 're about ,
A: they ask us where we go to high school when we get our hair cut and stuff , both of us .
A: And so , it 's just kind of strange , you know ,
A: so five years ago we probably looked like real ding dongs , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: So we went in , and the financed the car for five ,
A: and we did n't know that .
A: We got kind of taken , just a little bit .
A: So we 're kind of upset that we 're having to , you know , pay this fifth year on the car , because it was just not a wise thing .
A: But we learned a good lesson .
A: So , you know .
B: Well , five years is not that , uh , five years is not that bad of a problem only because you 're paying more interest ,
B: but your payments are lower .
A: Yeah ,
A: but they , they would have only been about twenty dollars a month higher ,
A: and he
B: Oh , really .
A: Yeah ,
A: he just told me this last week that he , he said , don't you remember I asked them to finance it at four years
A: and they came back
A: and they said that they had it figured for five
A: and we 'd already signed the papers .
A: And I maybe , I might have been there .
A: I don't remember hearing that .
A: But , I also was n't the one in charge of it ,
A: so I was n't paying as close of attention .
B: Sure .
A: But , anyway , instead of putting our foot down about it , we just went , okay , whatever , you know .
A: So anyway ,
A: so next time we 'll do that different .
A: We want to next time pay cash for our car , too .
A: We want to pay cash for everything we can possibly do .
A: When we buy a house , we attended a Bill financial seminar ,
A: and he has a lot of wisdom on that , just on Biblical , you know , principles to finance .
B: Uh-huh .
A: He runs a big , the largest real estate company in Fort Worth debt free .
A: And we really believe in debt free living and debt free car buying and debt free house buying .
A: And if we do take out a loan on a house in the future , what we 'll do is pay twice a , twice a month on it , and , because you save a lot in interest , just doing that .
B: Yes .
A: And then ,
B: You save a lot .
A: Right .
B: If , if , if , if ,
B: and you need to be very careful ,
B: if the loan is set up to have bi , they call it a yuppie loan , if it 's set up for bimonthly payments .
A: Right .
B: If you ,
B: because you 'll save fifteen to seventeen years off the end of the loan .
A: Right .
B: I 'm sorry , seven to nine years off the end of the loan .
A: Right .
B: And there are , there is a local firm that 'll actually ,
B: if , if ,
B: like in my situation , I don't have that , because the loan was not available .
B: I can have ,
B: this firm will pick up my loan for a six hundred fifty dollar fee .
B: So I can cut that much off the end of ,
B: but I 'm not interested because we 're moving out of the house next year .
A: Oh really .
B: Yeah .
B: But , uh , those are all great .
A: Uh-huh .
B: The , the interesting thing , we 're getting ready to have a house built
A: Uh-huh .
B: it 's not , a lot of the firms that offer ,
B: mortgage loan firms , are n't offering , um , that loan .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You can ask and you can wheel and deal ,
B: but it 's not as open as it should be .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's a great idea .
B: Hell , I 'd love to cut ours in half ,
B: but , uh
A: Uh-huh .
B: man .
B: And if you figure , get with a financial person .
A: Yeah .
B: And you can figure up exactly when like the eighteenth month of a loan , if you make like a four hundred dollar payment over and above your house payment it 'll make , uh ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it has a magic with numbers .
B: It , I , it 'll shave almost , you know , X number of dollars off ,
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: we we 've become aware of that .
A: We have a , there 's a loan officer through our church , too , that I think could help us better .
A: You know , he does that full time with the bank , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so we 're going to use people that we 're in a relationship with that we know , that , you know , we know are people of integrity .
A: So .
B: Sure .
A: You know , that is another thing that , you know ,
A: we feel like our long term goal is going to be benefitted by next time
A: we buy a car we 're not just going to go to Toyota of Irving , you know ,
A: we 're going to go to somebody that we know ,
A: we 're going to take someone with us older ,
A: and we did n't do any of those things .
B: Somebody you trust .
B: You know , there are so many rip-off artists here in this town .
B: It 's , it 's , uh , it 's really a sin ,
B: it really is .
A: Yeah .
B: I got taken on some on firewood .
A: Really .
B: I mean , uh , uh , the guy shorted us a half a cord of firewood ,
B: and my wife did n't know ,
B: and I stopped payment on the check ,
B: and he 'd already been paid by a cashing firm .
B: And , and they 're suing us , they 're suing me on this ,
B: and it 's for a hundred and thirty-four dollars .
A: Oh , my .
B: Absolutely pathetic .
A: I stopped payment on a check .
A: Oh , that 's funny .
A: Oh , this last week , we bought a sewing machine at Zak 's ,
A: and then I found that you could get the same machine better for less locally .
A: Not much less , but it was enough less ,
A: and I found they locally serviced it .
A: And we just stopped payment on the check .
A: So I hope they don't sue us over it
A: But we never received any merchandise either ,
A: so I don't think it would hold Anyway .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: well
B: probably something like that ,
B: did you call them and tell them you just , you just .
A: No ,
A: we did n't even call them .
A: We just did it .
A: Maybe my husband should call today .
B: Might be a good idea , because you 're going to get , what , a , a check ,
B: Well , this is kind of ironic because I work in T I legal department .
A: Do you ?
B: And although we don't have any criminal actions here , we do have other , um , lawsuits that do go to trial from time to time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , when was it ,
B: a couple weeks ago I was asked to go to , uh , jury duty
B: I , I was n't selected
B: but , um , for some of our cases in particular we have , um , very technical cases from time to time because of like our patents and such .
A: Sure .
B: And it 's very difficult for lay people for somebody who might just , you know happen to be selected in our jury , to understand what we 're talking about .
A: Well , I do think that the cases like the , uh , oh , say something like Texaco versus Pennzoil ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: or , or the Texaco Pennzoil problem , uh , is ridiculous for people just taken off the street to understand , and , really should have some better way where people who understand both the circumstances and the complex issues involved , should handle cases like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: you know , some I don't ,
B: you always have the option ,
B: now in criminal I guess you always have a jury ,
B: but in civil cases you have the option of whether you want a jury or not .
A: Oh , is that right ?
B: Yeah ,
B: and in some incidences I think they ought to , ought not to have a jury ,
A: Yeah .
B: um
A: Okay ,
A: boy .
A: Or , uh , or there should be some way where it could be opted for them not to have a jury .
A: Uh , I was only on one jury ever , so far in my life ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , it really was a pretty trivial , case
A: and it seemed to me all the time I was thinking of all these people in the courtroom over the case that involved , oh , a couple thousand dollars I think , it was , it was really just , uh , uh , terrific waste of everybody 's time and money .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um .
A: And it finally ended up that , uh , even though we had reached a verdict before we were allowed to give it , they settled the case .
B: Oh .
A: They they had settled while we were deliberating .
B: Yeah .
A: Now , the one thing I did approve of there was that we did n't have to be unanimous because it was a civil case .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , we were split , uh , ten to two
A: so , it was , uh , a good thing that , it was n't a total waste of time to have a hung jury on a case that trivial .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , um , I 've never fully served ,
B: I mean , I 've been asked twice to go down
B: but I did n't get elected on the panel ,
B: but , I know , that , um , for a lot of the civil cases it 's rare ,
B: I mean , if your a lawyer , um , there , you could be a lawyer who never actually gets into the courtroom
B: there 's a lot of attorneys like that , that never get to the courtroom .
B: Some , their kind of law does n't get them to the courtroom ,
B: but even in , um , litigation which is doing lawsuits , is a lot of times that you never get to the courtroom itself
A: Well , I think that the trial in a sense , is kind of a threat to hold over people to try to get them to reach an agreement out of court , because it does cost so much money .
B: But it 's a shame that , oh ,
B: it 's not so bad for the court system because the money there is n't being spent
B: but there 's awful lot of money in time and effort spent in preparing for trial only to then finally get scared enough by going to the court
B: and usually it 's the scare kind of , of the jury because you really don't know one way or the other how that jury is going to feel .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You could feel that you really have a very strong case and that you 're very much right
B: but the jury may or may not see it that way ,
A: Sure .
B: so you get a little you know , anxious there and go well , you know , I don't feel that sure
A: Yeah .
B: and who knows what the jury will say because sometimes , you know , the juries come down with a result and you go , gee
A: Yeah ,
A: I was a witness in a case , in a criminal case .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it was absolutely horrifying to me how that operated because so much evidence was excluded ,
A: and that the jury was never allowed to hear
A: and they convicted the defendant , I , on as far as I could tell , very flimsy evidence and two perjured testimonies .
A: And I knew the people involved , both the people who d and the people who , uh , were defendants .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And ,
A: yeah ,
A: I think that was just a , a horrible miscarriage of justice because of the , uh , you know , staying by the absolute strict rules and not allowing things to be presented to the jury , that , uh , were highly irrelevant to the case and could , I thought , have established the defendant 's innocence .
B: Yeah .
A: So , uh , I do ,
A: although I 'm a lawyer 's daughter and I have lawyer 's , and judges on both sides of the family , and uncles and cousins and things like that , I really think that we have gotten into much , too legalistic of society and that we , we spend far too much on the fine points of the law and far too little on achieving justice .
B: and it seems a lot of times that , uh , especially in criminals that , their rights are so protected
B: but what about the rights of , you know , the rest of society ,
B: I mean , we 're protecting this person 's rights who has broken the law , um ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we protect him so much ,
B: but what about the rest of the society ,
B: you know , what are we doing for them ,
B: we 're kind of , you know , forgetting about them
B: and , I think sometimes that a criminal should kind of ,
B: if he breaks law , especially it he 's a repeater , the law should n't just always cover for him , that some of his rights as should be taken .
A: Well , and then in a lot of ,
A: Yeah ,
A: in criminal cases , uh , for instance , you ca n't bring up prior convictions unless they are somehow directly related to the case .
A: And it seems to me that a jury can make a much more rational decision if they know somebody had fifteen convictions for a similar crime ,
B: Yeah .
A: now it 's possible that he did n't commit the
A: but the likelihood certainly tilts it .
B: Yeah .
A: With a record like that .
A: And , that was one of the things that we 're not allowed to , was not allowed in the , uh , trial I went to ,
B: Yeah .
A: though , uh , one of the two people who gave the perjured testimony , had a long criminal record and had been , you know , a real sleaze bag .
A: And he came in and was presented to the court as a standing young man who had , uh , been in seminary to become a priest ,
A: and ,
A: but I happen to know his background
A: and I know that he would have sold out his mother for , uh , uh , shorter sentence .
B: Jeez .
A: And , you know , it 's , it 's really annoying when the ,
A: I asked the defense attorney later why he did n't bring up all this other trouble the guy had been in .
A: He said that , that was barred , uh , by the court .
B: Um ,
A: So , we do have some problems
A: and it seems to me that , uh , maybe it 's time to just scrap all the case law and go back to general principles and start over . And then make a legal system that carefully protects people
A: but , uh , where you ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'd even go for , for trying to get some truth out of the witness stand if they come up with some pretty reliable , uh , um , lie detector tests that we can see right then and there whether they 're lying or telling the truth .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that would be wrongful .
B: Yeah , you know .
A: Sure would .
B: Yeah ,
B: I witnessed one trial many years ago when I was first , um , studying to be a paralegal
B: and , uh , uh , they barred priors on this , uh , person
B: and they never then told us , I guess , because priors had a reason as to why these two people were very much in hatred of each other .
A: Um .
B: And they never told us why these two people had such a vendetta against each other
B: and the crime was , uh , uh , attempt to commit murder , you know ,
A: Um .
B: but they never told us why these people were mad at each other
B: and gee , you know ,
B: that 's ,
A: And you think that would be relevant .
B: Yeah ,
B: you know , because they , they told us in school that , you know , crime has to be an intent , you know , has to be not just the act but you have to intend to do it
B: because there could be accidental kind of things , you know ,
A: Right .
B: but they never told us why these two people , hated themselves or if one had done something to , you know , really aggravate the other
B: there was never any motive , given
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and I had a tough time with that
B: and , and being a person who saw what the jury did n't plus what the jury did , because we were just observing , you know , there in the courtroom , at the end of it all , I still did n't know
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: I still have a lot of reasonable doubts
B: and I 've seen everything presented
B: and , you know , they just have n't done a real complete case here to my thinking .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I don't know that I want to , sit on a jury like that
A: I think so ,
A: and I ,
B: and you 'd still , you know ,
B: I want ask some questions here
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's something I thought would be a very good idea of when juries come in they are told just to shut up and listen .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And it seems to me that you 'd get a lot more , uh , information if your questions were heard , if you were allowed to ask the witnesses things , or if , or the lawyers things or even the judge .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: But particularly the witnesses .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: allow them to , uh , go back and , and deliberate and , uh , you know , after each days proceedings come out with some questions that they want answered like the next day , bring those people back ,
A: Or if they would allow them to , uh , give broader answers , they ,
A: it 's really kind of , uh , choreographed .
A: It 's like a script has been written when people testify .
A: They are n't testifying really in their own words ,
B: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I can remember , uh , friends of Daddy ...
B: There we go .
A: Okay .
A: Well , uh , what do you think about taxes ,
A: do you think we 're paying too much ?
B: Yes and no .
B: Income tax , no .
B: I , uh , I look at it this way , uh , you 've got to pay for the privilege of living here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , being a , uh , a rec vehicle owner ,
B: well , in fact , I live in a motor home .
B: I 'm a what they call a full timer
B: and , uh , it burns gas like crazy .
B: I only get seven miles to the gallon .
B: I really resent this fact that they keep adding on gasoline taxes
B: and they call it , uh , uh ,
B: what 's the word they use ,
B: anyway , a , a luxury tax .
A: Yeah .
B: They add it on on to tires and gasoline , cigarettes , liquor .
B: It does n't bother me any because I 've quit drinking
B: and I quit smoking .
B: So , that does n't bother me
B: but I don't think it 's fair .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's too , um , um , it 's attacking just certain people .
A: How true .
B: Even with the gasoline tax .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , gasoline , especially , in this part of the country we all use it all the time , you know ,
A: it 's , that 's not what I would consider a luxury .
B: No .
B: Uh , fifty years ago the automobile was a luxury
B: but it 's a necessity today
B: and , uh , as hard as they try to get these public transit things going I have never seen nor heard of one that really got of the ground . Or that accomplish what they set out to to accomplish .
A: Yeah .
B: What are your feelings on it ?
A: Well , um , I , I think that we probably are paying a little too much tax considering what we 're getting for it and how it 's being managed and so forth .
A: I mean , I , I think there could be a better system
A: and we would get more for our money .
A: It 's totally out of our hands
A: so we don't , we ca n't really do a whole lot about how that money is spent and where it goes
A: and , uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: That , that 's , that 's so true .
B: I mean , they say well , you voice your opinion , uh , uh , uh , on election day .
A: But not really .
B: No ,
B: you don't .
B: Look what happened on the last presidential election ,
B: read my lips .
B: And what happened they turned around and double crossed us .
A: Yeah .
B: So , uh , I mean , you ca n't believe what you hear .
A: Well , I think too ,
A: one of the things that rubs me the wrong way the most is those programs that are funded by Congress and , uh , that don't seem to have any validity at all .
A: I mean , they 're always far out
A: and , uh , you know , they 're studying some obscure bug , you know , in some other part of the world or some such thing ,
B: Oh .
B: Uh , yes .
A: and our tax money pays for those things
A: and I think that 's wrong .
A: I ,
B: I agree
B: and , and , uh , I , I also think we extend too much help to other , uh , countries
B: we need enough help here in this country .
A: That 's right .
B: They 're still people starving people here * They 're There 're
B: why should we help starving people somewhere else .
A: Yeah .
A: And I think here lately they 've been saying quite often and maybe somebody 's coming to realize we 're the nation in trouble .
B: Absolutely .
B: Now I ca n't wait for , uh ,
B: I , I could just picture what 's going to happen here in the not to distant future .
B: We keep hearing well , we 're going to receive , uh , eight billion dollars from Japan for the , uh , uh-huh , the , the , the big , war over there in the Mideast .
A: The war .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , so many billions of dollars here and there and everything
B: and , uh , the next thing you know we 'll be turning around just like we did to Poland
B: and say , well , just forget it .
A: Yeah .
A: And I think that 's a mistake .
B: Oh , definitely .
A: Somewhere , you know , we have to realize that we ca n't just keep giving it away .
B: Well , another thing now they keep decontrolling different things .
B: First , it was the airlines then it was banks and , and , uh , um , savings association , and whatnot .
A: We know what trouble they got into
B: Exactly .
B: And the same with the airlines back in the days when they were , uh , controlled and , and , uh , Transcontinental or , um , um , Interstate , uh , Trucking .
B: I mean , as soon as the federal government gave up control on all that , they just went to hell in a hand basket .
A: Yeah .
B: Prices went sky high .
B: Then , in , in the case of airlines , of course , they became highly competitive
B: and they cut each others throats until they 're , they reach the point where they 're cutting their own throat .
B: And , uh , well , of course , that 's getting away from taxes is n't it ,
B: that 's government controlled .
B: But , uh ,
A: Well , I , I think another thing too that , um , I 've had a little contacted with , uh ,
A: in regard to taxes let 's say that , uh , you have something that the I R S disagrees with or , you know , says , hey , we 're not going to allow that .
A: Well , I think they 're very unfair in the amount of penalties and interest that they can attach to that because you , you will not only payback that that you wrote off
A: but you will at least double that amount
A: and ,
B: Oh , by the time you get through with the , uh the penalties .
A: Yes .
A: And that 's , to me there 's something wrong there , you know .
A: Yeah .
A: I mean , I can see paying the interest and some small penalty
A: but they really stick it to you big time .
B: Uh , I agree .
B: I think the I R S is , uh , just too powerful .
B: There should be some sort of a control on it .
B: And they should be a little more humane .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Absolutely .
B: Uh , the , uh , typical bureaucratic , I guess . That 's , that 's one of my pet peeves .
B: I came up with a brilliant idea how we could reduce the , the budget .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Very simple .
B: Give , uh , uh , uh , government employees the average number of , uh , holidays as the , uh , private industry .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , you think about it now ,
B: they , they get about sixteen holidays a year .
A: That 's a lot .
B: It sure is .
B: And I think here at TI we get , what is it nine or ten ?
A: Well , I have n't counted .
A: I , I would have guessed eight even
A: but you might be right .
A: I don't have any idea .
B: Well , I remember , uh , uh ,
B: thinking , I think it was the last time I did hear that we get about the average .
B: Maybe even a little more , a day or so more than the average .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , government is ridiculous .
A: Wow .
B: Just think of the money they could save .
B: I mean , they 're , they 're paying out this money anyway .
A: Yeah .
B: Why not get the work out of the people .
A: Yeah .
B: And , well , anyway that would , of course , eventually come back to taxes .
B: But , uh , as far as income tax is concerned , I ca n't complain too much about it .
B: Uh , I 'm single ,
B: I have no , uh , dependents or anything ,
B: my children are all grown
B: and they 're out worrying about their own income taxes .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I , I have another thing that I thought about too , for instance , when you try to save money and you earn interest on whatever your investment is
A: and , you know , we 're not typically talking about big dollars
A: but here you feel like you 've , you 've done something good
A: you 've , you 've earned your interest
A: and then you have to go back and pay taxes on it .
A: So , the real amount of your savings on that is , is , not much .
B: Uh , very true .
B: That 's ,
A: You know , it 's kind of a vicious circle there .
B: And then they tell you to , uh , well , invest it in , uh , is it I R A or something
B: and , and , when you turn , When you turn sixty-five why then you pay the tax on it
A: And then , at a took that away as far as being ,
B: and the tax is a lot less .
A: Yeah .
B: But in the mean time you 've got your money tide up in a low , relatively low interest bearing investment .
B: I mean , it 's not making ten , fifteen percent like a business is today .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Uh , me I 'm a firm believer in that if you got it spend it .
A: Well , you can come over to my house and spend it
B: Well , you , well , do you , do you need some help spending yours ?
A: I wish I had some to spend .
A: No .
A: No .
A: I just don't have any .
B: Oh , uh-huh .
B: Well , that 's my problem too .
B: I 'm , I 'm trying to figure out from one payday to the next whose going to be the lucky one this month that 's going to get paid .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's the way it goes
A: Well , I guess we probably talked just about long enough .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , let me ask you something .
B: Did you get a catalog or something from these people ?
A: Yes .
B: You did ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 've , everybody I 've talked to has received one
B: but I have n't gotten mine .
A: Uh , I don't know .
B: Um , well , anyway Ellen , it was nice talking to you .
A: You too .
B: And , uh , until next time .
A: Okay .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Good-bye .
B: Uh , no
B: I think that maybe the , the automation people that are very discrete . Or not discrete , electronic devices .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Oh .
B: So , and , did he , is he the one that got you connected with us ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Okay .
B: It 's a lot of fun .
A: Yeah .
B: You want to punch the button and go ?
A: Sure ,
A: you ready ?
B: Yip
A: Okay .
B: Well , are you going to buy a car soon ?
A: Well , it wo n't be too much longer because my husband and I are both going to retire .
A: And when we retire we 're going to buy us , a , you know , a new one and , and get rid of the two that we have right now .
B: And what are you going to buy ?
A: I I don't know ,
A: we 're either going to buy a pick up ,
A: or we 're going to buy a van .
A: Or we 're going to buy an economy car ,
A: how do you like that
B: Well , have you been listening to Iacocca 's arguments that , uh , that Chrysler products are the only ones that , that all have air bags ?
A: Uh , yeah .
B: Does that make a difference to you ?
A: Yeah .
A: It sure does .
A: I really would like to have something like that ,
A: and I 'm hoping that by you know ,
A: that 's like , right now ,
A: my husband would like for me to buy another vehicle right now .
A: But I keep saying lets put it off , lets put it off , because I 'm hoping they 'll get so many better features .
B: Yeah ,
B: like what ?
A: Well , just like that air bag .
A: I think that thing is fantastic .
A: Because I 've seen some of the , you know , like the head on collision type things , when they had it and people walk away from it .
B: Yeah .
A: We had one here ,
A: I guess it was about three weeks ago ,
A: and the people walked away from the , wreck , with no scratches nothing . You know , a few bruises .
B: That 's .
B: did you see the , uh ,
B: I don't know if it was TWENTY-TWENTY , last Thursday or Friday night on , on seat belts ?
A: Uh-huh .
B: Did that scare you a little bit ? With the lady being thrown out and run over .
A: Uh-huh .
A: You got it .
A: I , I , tell you what ,
A: I would not , I would not buy a car that had the seat belt where it was hooked under the door .
B: that really
B: I , I guess , I ,
B: that , that a little more than scared me ,
B: that irritated me , uh ,
B: that ,
B: because it , it , it surely did n't come as a surprise that , that if the door came open the lady would fall out ,
B: I mean , and ,
A: Well , you know what the average person ,
A: would you ever have thought of that ?
B: uh
A: I mean now
B: no ,
B: probably , well ,
A: you probably would n't have ,
B: I might ,
B: the problem is I 'm really into cars ,
B: and so it 's not a , uh ,
B: for me it 's , it 's a real , it 's a real consideration , uh , uh ,
B: and , and , uh , the ,
B: but no
B: I probably would n't have even though I 'm really quite into cars
B: it 's , it 's probably my main hobby .
A: Right
A: because you always think ,
A: I mean , I don't know ,
A: maybe you don't ,
A: but just like me , I always think well , you know , these things must be safe ,
A: but that 's just like ,
A: I don't know if you 've heard about it a few years ago , they said , you know , before they had the , like the shoulder strap thing where it was just like a seat belt that goes across your waist ?
B: Yeah .
A: All these people were ,
A: and , and it , it was on one of those kind of shows like TWENTY-TWENTY
B: Uh-huh .
A: these people were like paralyzed ,
A: and because , it threw them forward ,
A: but they were hooked at the waist ,
A: and so it like , you know , did something to their spinal cord
B: Yeah .
A: then they were like paraplegics .
B: yeah ,
B: you know , ROAD AND TRACK had a , had some articles on ,
B: and particularly with , with back seat , uh , with some , where kids , were , were sitting in the back seat with seat belts on ,
B: and they were thrown forward , into the front seat ,
B: and there was enough stretching , the combination of stretching the spine to , uh , I mean , the serious injury , even though they were , they were still locked in the
A: Right .
B: they were forced to go ,
B: so really if your sitting in the back seat , your better off not not to have your seat belt on , if it 's just a seat belt .
A: Yeah .
B: We have a van , that , uh , just has seat belts in the back does n't have a shoulder harness
A: Well , tell me about your van .
A: Do you like it ?
B: I have an Arrow Star van ,
B: we really do .
B: Uh , it 's , it 's a mini van ,
B: we 've had it ,
B: goodness in May will be five years
B: and , uh , they replace the engine at sixty thousand under extended warranty .
B: And the transmission was replaced
B: but they really are nifty , uh ,
B: the mini van , it 's
B: actually , we had a station wagon before ,
B: and it 's a foot or two shorter than a ,
B: we had a regular size station wagon
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it really , uh ,
B: we like it ,
B: it , the
B: interestingly enough one of the features we like are the electric locks .
A: Huh . The reason that we 're thinking about something like that , we took a trip in my brother in law and sister in laws to Florida
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , like I said , I mean , we 're not that old
A: but my husband works for the State ,
A: and after a certain amount of years you can retire .
A: And when he retires I 'm retiring .
A: Well , as soon as I get my quarters in , I 'm , retiring period ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: that 's it ,
B: Yeah .
A: you know , no more
B: Well , but , the ,
B: did you , did you go to Florida in a van ?
A: As though
A: Uh-huh
A: And we wanted to travel ,
A: well , that was really nice traveling
A: but you know , I like to know more , I mean , hear about more people that have things like that you know ?
B: Yeah .
A: And see what they think of them ,
A: the different kinds
B: Yeah .
A: because I 've only ridden in the one ,
B: What , what kind was it ?
A: that 's it .
A: Uh , shoot
A: I ca n't even think of the name of it now .
B: What , what was remarkable , this van , even with , the ,
B: we have two kids ,
B: and we went to Disney World
A: Uh-huh .
B: uh , actually I grew up in Alabama ,
B: and I went to see my mother ,
B: and then went on down to Disney World ,
B: and it got better than , I think twenty-two , twenty-three miles a gallon .
B: And this was with the air conditioner on and , and you know four people with , with luggage ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , uh , course this ,
B: grant it ,
B: that 's , you know , it 's been four years ago ,
B: but it 's remarkable that the , that the bigger vans , uh , they 're , uh ,
B: my boss just bought a , a pick up truck ,
B: and , uh , he only gets seventeen miles a gallon .
A: Yeah .
B: But it , it has a big engine ,
B: and it , it , pulls a boat and stuff ,
B: but it 's , and it , it 's got the seats
B: that , and the other thing that is interesting , is it has , uh , rear air conditioning .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that , that makes a lot of difference in those of us that live in warm climates .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , now , this one that we went in ,
A: it did
A: to baby what kind of van was that that we went to Florida in ?
A: Ford .
A: A what ?
A: Ford .
A: A Ford ?
A: Ford what ,
A: you remember ?
A: conversation with He was trying to think of what the name of it was ,
B: Well , the big , you know , the big vans are all , real nice ,
A: this was a big one .
A: I mean it was a big one ,
B: yeah ,
B: oh those are
A: it has the front and the back and you know , it has the uh , back seat let down into a double , I mean a queen size bed
B: yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: and then it had the two swivels in the middle , and then the two swivel chairs on the front
B: All right .
A: and , I mean it was fantastic ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it got good gas mileage ,
A: but I don't know
A: I don't really , I don't ,
A: I want something I can drive too , you know ,
B: Well well , the mini , that ,
A: and I was scared to drive that big van .
B: you 'd be surprised if , if you drive a , one of the , the mini vans , uh ,
B: more or less alike the , the , uh , Chevrolet
B: and , uh , well of course , Oldsmobile has got one ,
B: and Chryslers got one ,
B: but they drive remarkably like cars .
A: Well , do you , does yours have that this one had it where you know , you would see something coming in the rear view mirror , I mean not the rear , those little side mirror things
B: Yeah .
A: and it would look like it was further back than it was .
B: Yeah
B: but , the little , thing etched in it ,
B: say objects are , are closer than they appear or something
A: Yeah ,
A: does yours do that too ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh . I was wondering if all vans did that ,
B: Well you , you can , you can , uh , install those mirrors ,
B: we 've got the big side mirrors , which are really nice .
B: I don't know if you 've , well , if you 've driven a pick up truck , you know ,
B: these are , these , uh , mirrors must be six inches across not nearly a foot high ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and they 're really nice , uh ,
B: got them on both sides ,
B: actually they , they fold , so when you get in tight situations , you can fold them back .
A: Yeah ,
B: But they 're
A: well , see that 's the reason we could n't make , really make them ,
A: at first we were going to get a pick up truck , with a camper on the back of it , of it ,
B: uh-huh .
A: but then that gas mileage was just atrocious ,
A: I mean it 's , unreal ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: it 's , it just practically don't get any .
B: Well , they have got , some of the newer ones they , you know , with the aerodynamic features ,
B: you can get pretty , pretty decent gas mileage .
A: Yeah .
A: And then , uh , he talked about a van ,
A: and I said , well , you know , I don't know , I don't know how the gas is on most of these .
A: And another thing was
A: that 's the reason I said you know , there was such a big difference you know , in a little economy car ,
A: but I said maybe we might have to get us an economy car to pull along when we went somewhere .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: But really and truly the safety features
A: but I would n't get one that ,
A: if it had , the seat belts on the door now I would n't get it .
B: Yeah .
A: Period .
B: Ford now announced I think in ninety-two , they 're going to put , uh , air bags in their , in their vans .
A: Oh that would be good .
B: So , uh , and I think , I , I believe safety ,
B: I , I , I , I really do believe in this stuff , uh ,
B: and I , I think it can go , ,
B: I 'm not ,
B: the air bags are a good deal
B: but , uh , surprisingly , uh , they 're , uh ,
B: you really need to do ,
B: you need a combination of both the air bags and the , uh , and the seat belts
A: Oh I think so too ,
B: so ,
A: I don't think they should do away with the seat belts now .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm
A: but I think you need the shoulder thing
B: Yeah .
A: I think you need the thing around your waist ,
A: but , I think you need that bag to pop out too .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , because I know so many people , here that have been killed in head on collisions , where maybe if they had , had that , that air bag , they may still be walking around .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , I think it 's fantastic .
A: I wish they required it in everything .
A: Every new car that came out , I wish they would require it in it .
B: It would be that would do to our insurance rates , you know , if , if , uh , if the insurance companies says it , says we 're not going to pay , you know , a claim , if , if the car does n't have , uh , air bags .
B: Would be interesting would n't it ?
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , that would n't be fair
B: but , uh ,
A: Well , no because what they would do is , that 's what they 're going to plan on , you know ,
A: they would have to do it ,
A: the insurance company would have to do the same thing .
A: They 're given like , a ten year time limit where ,
B: Yeah .
A: okay .
A: These cars , I guess they figure all the old cars , will be off the roads or something by the , in ten years
B: Yeah .
A: and then , you know , if you did n't have a car that had one , then your insurance would go up enormously ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: uh , I 've got to go
B: my son 's in a performance tonight ,
B: I have to leave , in a couple of minutes .
A: Oh that 's okay ,
B: Uh , I think we 've probably spent a reasonable amount of time .
A: Okay .
B: It was good talking to you ,
A: Well , you , you too .
B: Okay .
B: Good night .
A: All right
A: bye bye .
A: Okay ,
A: Dee , are you familiar with the Latin American policies ?
B: Yeah ,
B: to a point ,
B: it 's not my best subject .
A: Really ,
A: yeah
A: it 's not mine either ,
A: but , uh , I know , I know our policy ,
A: like in Nicaragua , I am familiar with that because we have , uh , some friends that live on the Nicaraguan border
A: and they are missionaries there
A: and they , they live there
A: and they have to travel by boat forty-five minutes to get to their car and stuff ,
A: and uh , I know that they helped a lot of those Sandanistas refugees coming across the border
A: and they housed them and stuff .
A: They have been down there about three years now ,
A: and they wrote that it 's kind of weird
A: they have bats in their roof ,
A: but the bats eat the bad spiders
A: so they leave the bats , you know .
A: So .
B: Yeah .
B: It 's a whole , whole different culture
B: or , It , it 's weird down there because there 's always lizards and things running around that people live there ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they just , they take it for granted
B: and it 's like we go down there on vacation ,
B: it 's like oh , how can these people live with these lizards and like bats in their house ?
A: Yeah .
A: I think their policy with them that though , is , uh ,
A: I don't know ,
A: I think ,
A: I wish we would have just ,
A: I 'm not that up on the policy of ways .
A: I know that 's kind of old ,
A: but I don't know ,
A: I just , I 'm glad that the Sandanistas are n't in power anymore because I think that they were very wicked . And , uh , probably some of the biggest drug dealers that the world has probably ever seen ,
A: and I feel like most of the leaders in Latin America are probably ,
A: you would be safe to say that they were just very very , you know , big into drugs .
B: Very very corrupt , like the Panamanians are , were very corrupt .
A: Right .
B: The thing about it though is the Panamanians is , a lot of servicemen down there .
B: A lot of , a lot of American servicemen are involved ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: because I guess there was a big , big , uh , scam that , that all these guys up .
B: Thousands of servicemen , got caught for running a drug ring .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: So , it 's , it 's like everybody is into it ,
B: it 's just greed . Human greed .
A: Yeah .
B: Interestingly in Honduras , It 's very pro-American .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And we have I ,
B: my girlfriend used to , uh , be in the Navy
B: and she was based , uh , based in Panama .
A: Uh-huh .
B: In Honduras , very , uh , uh , pro-American .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And there 's a lot of men , I don't know how many American , uh ,
B: soldiers are there ,
B: but there 's a lot .
B: I mean , they , uh ,
B: and you ca n't , the American government you ca n't trust them either , because you think , you don't know how corrupt they are . I mean they keep people in power like the Shah of Iran and , things like that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean , it 's the lesser of two evils ,
B: they will probably say this is the lesser of two evils .
A: Yeah .
B: But I don't know how corrupt the Honduran government is .
B: But the ,
A: Yeah ,
A: they need to have more checks and balances in their government to get rid of the corruption . But I think first though ,
A: I don't know ,
A: they need to , I think they need the repentance on the leadership of the different nations for all their , uh , you know the atrocities that they commit and the drug dealings , and in the , just in the drug crimes ,
A: because I feel like a lot of the leadership in those nations are so engrossed in the drug crimes that until they repent or they are moved from power , that you know ,
A: because there are so many of them that the next one to come up , if you just knock one off and then have another one ,
A: and I know a lot of those nations , there 's , uh , Brazil , I know , is like forty percent evangelical Christian . Not just go to church but , you know , really on fire for God ,
A: and they are just surpassing America , Latin America by the drugs .
A: You know , it 's just incomprehensible ,
A: and , uh , so I just think that , I think that God is going to honor that and that he is going to put in some good leadership ,
A: and I know , the president of , I believe Costa Rica is a Christian .
A: And he goes to , no Guatemala , because he goes to virgo church in Guatemala City .
A: The church is in real close relationship with him .
A: And he is a former president of Guatemala .
A: He 's an elder at virgo church
A: and , you know that , that God is doing something
A: and he is raising up some leaders
A: and the people want him back as president bad ,
A: but they have a rule in Guatemala that he ca n't have another term
A: and so the , the people are trying to override that , I mean not just the Christians , but all the people because they see when a righteous man is in authority , the people rejoice .
B: Yeah ,
B: good .
B: See , that 's the thing ,
B: that it 's going , have to ,
A: Yeah .
B: that 's the undoing of everything ,
B: and it 's the ,
B: we have no morals , when we , talk about the crime and all that in the city ,
B: it 's just the kids have no morals .
A: Right .
B: That 's the thing that will eventually , you know ,
B: if anyone is going to be saved .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It is having a good moral background .
B: And it 's funny you mention Costa Rica , because they are just , they are one of the most successful and peaceful countries , in Central America .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah .
B: So , I was reading an article in the , uh , National Geographic
B: and , I don't know ,
B: I don't think they have any more money than any of the other countries ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: they don't have oil or anything ,
B: and they don't have big tourism .
B: So maybe it is their faith that enables them to keep the crime out .
A: Uh-huh .
A: I know that Costa Rica , they don't allow anybody to come that , uh , to come any , uh , what do you call , what do you call immigrants ?
A: They don't allow anything like that
A: like I could not go to Costa Rica and live as an American citizen .
A: They would not permit me to live there to work .
A: They would n't .
A: Their jobs are there for Costa Ricans .
A: They don't allow people to move in , like less nations , you know ,
B: They don't , they don't probably take a lot of refugees from other countries either .
A: take the job .
A: No
A: they don't take any .
A: I mean I could n't even go there .
A: My husband had to receive all this special permission to go ,
A: so even with , uh , you know , in , uh , inner company , you know , transfer , or something ,
A: and I have another friend in , uh , Costa Rica that ,
A: she was born there .
A: She 's Costa Rican .
A: I guess I do know a little bit .
A: I went to Mexico City one time and stayed .
A: I have been there twice and stayed
A: and , that , aw , that was just really sad .
A: But , a lot of it though is their debt .
A: I think that we should not loan them anymore money ,
A: that if we still want to give them money , give them money , quit loaning it to them .
A: You 're not going to get it back .
A: don't be indebted to anybody .
A: don't be the loaner or borrower .
A: It 's just not good .
A: We need to , if we feel like we need to give them money then give it to them ,
A: but quit loaning all the money out .
A: Which I don't think we are loaning anymore now ,
A: but that 's how we got into a problem .
A: If we got , the ,
A: we have , we went in the hole by us loaning them all of these billions of dollars .
A: That 's common sense ,
A: you could just look at it and say they 're not going to be able to pay us back .
B: Yeah
B: also , uh , uh , Mexico , uh , we will loan the money in uh ,
B: a lot of the higher , the higher people , were just stealing it and , building these beautiful homes , and nice ranches and things .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So we are , we 're suckers .
A: Yeah ,
A: we , we are , it 's like we are partly responsible for their problems by loaning them all that money ,
A: that was really stupid on our part to even loan it to them .
A: You don't loan money to people like that .
A: I mean if you feel like you need to give them something to help them out , fine ,
A: but you don't go making billions of dollars of loans in , to people that you can just look at the situation ,
B: They know they 're not going to pay it back .
A: Yeah ,
A: and know that they are going to be capable of paying us back ,
A: and that puts a bondage on them .
A: It makes , you know , pressure on the nation , and on the people , and on the leadership , and makes their inflation go up ,
A: and it 's just a big mess .
B: Did you go to Mexico City , uh , anywhere near when the earthquake hit .
A: No ,
A: but I knew people ,
A: I was there before that ,
A: but I knew people ,
A: I got a letter from a friend of mine that I had met there , that who , who the apartment building was destroyed
A: and they were living in a tent ,
A: so it 's kind of weird , you know .
A: To these people who were on U S dive , the Mexican diving , we went to the pool together , and watched them dive and all this ,
A: so they were you know , just normal people , were n't squatters or poor people or anything that , uh ,
A: I did , I knew all of my friends there ,
A: but none of them that I know of , got killed in it .
A: But , uh , they 're all Christians though .
A: God really protected them .
A: See that broke out a revival in Mexico City . That C B S news and A B C never told you about .
A: There 's been a real revival in Mexico City since that earthquake , because there 's a lot of , you know there 's a lot of sin in those nations and a lot , lots of witchcraft , a lot of witchcraft . A whole lot of witchcraft . So , a lot of it in the name of Christianity .
B: Oh , I can imagine .
B: Oh , really .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: There 's a lot , you know
A: they call themselves Christians ,
A: but you know they are over there doing witchcraft and stuff , and just a whole lot of the generational things too , like the Mayans and the Incas .
A: You ca n't find a trace of them because God totally destroyed them for how wicked they were .
A: And yet , they are revered and honored and almost worshiped by
A: so many people ,
A: even now in America , you know , we would n't know the truth with all of Indian groups that were totally removed from the face of the earth , because of how wicked they were .
A: I 've been down to the pyramids
A: and I have climbed to the top of the pyramid where they used to take a beating heart out of a young thirteen year old boy ,
A: and they hold it up to the sun God ,
A: and that 's pretty of heavy duty .
B: Yeah ,
B: is , is there still blood stains on the altar
B: or has it worn away through the years ?
A: I don't think so .
A: The little box is black on the top of the pyramid in the sun .
A: It 's black ,
A: so
A: yeah ,
A: you ca n't really tell ,
A: but it was kind of weird , you know ,
A: you think , wow there is where they did sacrifices to false Gods .
B: Do you get spooked , you feel ,
B: or do you get butterflies in your stomach when you go there ?
B: Because ,
A: Uh , at that time , I kind of did .
A: It really impressed me , just you know , feeling
A: but I was n't a Christian when I went there ,
A: but , uh , I think that a lot of those , those you know , generational things
A: I think , that God sees I 'm praying , you know ,
A: that keeps the Christians that are beginning to rise up there to be able to pray , because that does affect that things , you know , in your background .
A: Hi , Maureen .
A: How are you ?
B: All right .
A: Well do you have a family budget ?
B: No ,
B: we probably should ,
B: but we have n't .
B: So why don't you explain to me some good tips about what you 've done , which you 've found useful and workable .
A: Okay .
A: We do a few things ,
A: and I have to say we 're , my husband and I are both from financial backgrounds .
A: I , I 'm an accountant .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , he has an M B A ,
A: so , uh , we were sort of , you know , keyed in on expenses and things like that .
A: So
B: Um , okay .
A: Um , coming from that background , what we pretty much do is we , in our household , as far as living expenses , we live on a cash budget .
A: Every month , my husband , uh , goes to the credit union and withdraws , you know , X amount of dollars for the month ,
A: and then that money is used during that month .
A: We have a certain budget .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Excuse me . For instance , I control all the household expenses , the groceries , uh , the haircuts , the gasoline for my car , any miscellaneous expenses , baby-sitting , things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , excuse me , if , uh , it comes the end of the month and I don't have any money , uh , we don't buy any more milk
B: Uh-huh
A: But , uh , we 've gotten pretty good at it ,
A: we 've been doing it a couple of years now .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , we , our budgets are realistic
A: and they are not so stringent and , you know to make us feel uncomfortable .
B: Hm .
A: And I , I really try to stretch my , my dollars here and there , shopping , uh , at warehouses sometimes , like at Sam 's and things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , we live , we live on , on a cash budget
A: and it , sometimes it 's tight come the end of the month ,
A: but generally , we always make it .
B: What do you do for the surprise things that you don't necessarily plan for ,
B: the , you know are sometimes several hundred dollars , like , uh , tires for the car or car repair of some sort , or , like a , a dental bill or something that you 're not prepared for ?
A: Right .
A: Well , uh , most of our medical things , we don't , uh , have to worry about , because of insurance
A: and they 're , they 're relatively small .
A: Uh , we 've been lucky .
A: In the past we did n't have that problem
A: but right now we don't .
A: For the other things , the things that crop up , that we are n't really expecting , we have different funds set aside for different things .
A: Like we have a car fund
A: and we put a certain amount of money into that every single month whether we need to or not .
B: Oh .
A: So , I mean ,
A: and I , I ca n't really remember what it is .
B: Do you kind of continue , call this like , a part of savings account or a different savings account
B: or ,
A: It 's all part of the savings account .
A: We just keep track of it on paper .
A: Uh , you know a certain amount goes straight to the savings account .
A: We decide , okay , you know , let 's say it 's a hundred dollars .
A: You know , every month fifteen dollars is for car fund . You know ,
B: Oh .
A: Ten dollars is for vacation fund whatever .
A: Uh , and we just , we constantly do that , so that there 's a buildup of money for those things if something does come up .
A: Like I know that my washing machine is going to go any day .
B: Oh , okay .
A: So , but , we have the money set aside ,
A: so if it does it 's not going to kill us .
B: Hm .
A: Uh , so we 're , we 're actually , we 're pretty disciplined ,
A: so it makes those surprises not so difficult to get through .
B: Okay ,
B: then , so like your pay , what kind of a percentage do you basically keep out that you think that , you know , will cover all of the expenses , kind of thing ?
A: Well , in .
B: Or like what , what percent , do you then save or something ?
A: Uh , we have a lot of different things .
A: Right now , we save about twenty-five percent of our , of our pay .
B: Hm , okay .
A: It , and it goes toward different things ,
A: it 's for , you know , for vacations like I said , for , you know , emergencies like for car , uh , breaks down , something like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and we also put money aside for our kids college .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Neither of us had any help with our college degrees ,
A: and just this last month we paid off my final school loan .
A: So
B: Oh .
A: We 're starting our kids a little bit early .
B: Okay .
A: Do you , uh , use a lot of credit cards or your checking account when you go out and buy things ?
B: Checking account a lot , uh , not so much credit cards .
A: Sure .
B: and so pretty much now , uh , we don't use them too much .
B: If we travel or something , yeah . But , you know . Standard , we usually don't .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Or if it , it is a purchase , uh , then it 's paid off when the bill comes .
B: You know , so it is n't any extended , uh ,
B: it may be that I picked up something at the store ,
B: but then when the bill comes we always pay it off then ,
B: so it 's not any , you know , uh , build up on the charge cards at all .
A: That 's good .
B: And , but that has n't always been the case
B: So , I 'm kind of ,
B: I feel at least better now that I have finally gotten some of those things , uh , you know , in the past ,
B: and I don't have , you know , big cumulative amounts due to those charge cards , because that interest rate just is a killer .
A: Oh , and it 's not deductible anymore .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I 've never been in the situation of itemizing anyhow .
B: But , uh , pretty much when I always , I go to the grocery store or something I just always write checks .
A: Yeah .
A: We did , we did that for a long time
A: and it got to the point where we had no idea how much we were spending on things .
B: Hm .
A: And it seemed like we did n't have enough money when things cropped up , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so we decided to put ourselves on a cash budget .
A: Well the first time we did it , we just took some arbitrary amount that we estimated it would be ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then we kept track of everything for a month . You know , how much we spent on food , how much we spent on gasoline , how much we spent on everything , and from that built , you know , a cash budget .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So now , I mean , I have ,
A: I don't remember what it is now , four hundred dollars for the month , let 's say .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I mean some months I may spend three hundred on groceries and a hundred on everything else ,
A: and some months it may be different .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's not as though we feel like we have to keep ourselves , you know , down to the dollar or the penny in certain categories kind of thing ,
A: but the way we set up , you know the amount that we want to save and the amounts that we have to spend for , you know , uh , utilities and , uh , the house payment and all that .
B: Yeah .
A: those are things you don't really have much control over .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , the cash budget just fits right in there
A: like I said if we don't have , we also set aside money for entertainment .
A: I mean , but again it 's a set amount every month . And , uh , on special occasions , I mean birthdays and things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We , we don't , we still have fun on things
B: Yeah .
B: Uh , we are in the process of trying to buy a house ,
B: do you know , how did your budget work
B: or did you have a budget to , uh , get your down payment going to get a house ?
A: Well , no
A: not originally , because when we , we did buy , when we bought our first house , it was at a time where you
A: and the kind of loan we got , you really did n't have to put down anything .
B: Huh .
A: So , we got into it fairly cheaply ,
A: and then , uh , after we sold the first house , we were left with enough cash that there was enough to make the down payment on this house .
B: Oh , okay .
A: So , we , we got out of that one pretty easily
B: Okay , uh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I just keep thinking all the time
B: I mean , it , it 's really rough to keep yourself on a strict budget for a long long time when your , you know , your priority , at least mine is to save for the house .
B: But then it 's awful hard to really scrimp for a long , long time and keep putting all the money into that down payment .
B: You feel like you want to live a little bit in the meantime .
A: Sure ,
A: I know .
A: That 's how I feel sometimes about my kids ' education ,
A: I mean jeez , they are one and four
A: We have got a long time to save ,
A: my husband , he 's the real , he 's the real disciplinarian when it comes to that money usually .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , no ,
A: no
B: Well , I know ,
B: but there are times when I sit there and I think , wow , you know we make X amount of money and where is it .
B: I mean you look around
B: and you go , where is it ,
A: What do you do with it ,
A: I know .
B: you , you have n't made , uh , big purchases
B: and that 's the easier thing to see ,
B: if you can see a big purchase and you go okay , well this is the year that we bought the couch or the T V , or something like that .
A: Uh-huh ,
B: But , all those , just monthly payments and stuff that just go out the door
B: and there 's big chunks of your money to pay like the utilities and the gas and the groceries , and stuff .
B: That you don't have tangible , I mean the perishable kind of things that 's gone , used and gone .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's , it 's amazing how much we spend on some things .
A: My husband cut himself down to ten dollars a week for his lunch at work .
B: Oh .
A: And that 's all he has ,
A: he has a ten dollar bill .
B: Huh .
A: And , I mean , so I 'd say at least , two usually three times a week he takes his lunch .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The other times , he 'll , uh , I don't know go out somewhere , eat in a cafeteria or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , but he keeps himself on that ,
A: I mean , he found it 's , it 's so easy to spend five dollars a day on lunch .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's a hundred dollars a month on lunch .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's , that 's twelve hundred dollars a year just on lunch .
B: Yeah .
A: When he can take a sandwich , you know .
A: Well , how about you , are you an exercise fanatic ?
B: No .
A: Me either
B: I 'm definitely
B: I do like to walk .
A: Do you ?
B: Yes .
B: Since T I has , uh , uh , instituted that , um , walkabout , I have gone out and started walking even more , bought me the , you know , the proper shoes and everything to get started , and , uh , park out there , you know , way out there in the boondocks .
A: Yeah .
A: Wonderful . Uh-huh .
B: It was so funny the other day ,
B: I took some guys to , to lunch
B: and when we came back they said `` Oh , there 's a parking space real close , '' and I parked way out in the boonies ,
A: Way . * what is this ?
B: and I said `` you can walk off your lunch . ''
A: That 's the way to do it .
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm kind of like you ,
A: I 've never really gotten into it ,
A: it 's just a , it 's just a chore , you know ,
B: Um , um . Oh .
A: and I finally decided one semester , I 'm in college and I 'm taking night classes and I still don't have any of my P E classes ,
A: and so one semester I thought , okay , that 's what I 'm going to do
A: and that will get me where I 'll have to do it , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they were offering a , a walking class , where you , you know , you have to walk , you know , that like for every mile you walk and every so many minutes , you get , you get points , you know ,
B: Um , um . Um , um .
A: and then you have to go in once a week and log your points
A: so it 's not like you can do the class like anytime you want , you know ,
A: and , at the end of the semester you go back in and your , like your final exam is a three mile walk .
B: Oh .
A: And if you walk it in this many minutes , you get an A ,
A: this many minutes you get a B ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , I thought , oh , this will be an easy class .
A: and , you know , and I did it , and I did it for a long time
A: like about the middle of the semester I ended up having to have surgery on my foot ,
B: Oh , no .
A: and this has been a couple of years ago ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know , I had , I did that ,
A: and I just ended up having to drop the class .
B: Oh .
A: you know , by the time the final came around , I was n't even where I could wear a shoe yet , let alone walk three miles , you know .
B: Oh , no .
B: Yeah .
A: But , that was the only time I have ever been able to like start an exercise program and really stick to it , because then I had to , I had to go every week and log in what I had walked ,
B: Um , um . Right .
A: and , my teacher looked at it every week , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , other than that I just , you know , I kind of get in the mood every once in awhile , say , okay , I 'm going to start going to aerobics now , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: There you go .
A: and , I 'll go for like two weeks and go , this is for the birds , this is too much work .
B: Well , you know , I have noticed too that , uh , when I started the exercise , uh , not the exercise but the walking program , uh , that I did tone up , you know , like all over ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but it did n't get the upper part of my body ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , so , what I do , is I bowl .
B: I am a fanatic when it comes to bowling ,
B: and I used to bowl five times a week ,
A: Wow .
B: so , I really loved it ,
A: Yeah .
B: and I still bowl at least once a week now , on a league , on , on a ,
B: and I 'm bowling on the T I league .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , but I 've noticed that what I do is that I have my towel that sits on the floor , so that every time I get up to bowl , I have to bend over to pick up my towel
B: and that way I get the little extra exercise .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'm always explaining to people , I do little things like that , like , you know , take the stairs instead of the , um , the elevator ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , I do silly things like that versus a , a regular program that you would have .
A: But that 's ,
A: you 're amazed at how much that adds up .
B: It sure does .
A: I was on , uh , Nutri Systems for a while ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , that is one of the things that they really stressed doing , you know ,
A: when you come to your Nutri System meeting , don't park in the parking place outside the front door , park at the other end , you know ,
B: Yeah
B: Right .
A: I mean , and they stretched , stressed things like that too .
A: You know , during , when you 're sitting watching T V at night , during every commercial get up off the couch , go to the living room and get a glass of water , go to the bedroom and make the bed , go do something , but get up during every commercial . And , things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: There you go .
A: And , you 'd be surprised at how much just that little bit adds up , you know , just gives you a little more activity
A: so ,
B: That 's true .
A: especially when you 're like us and don't really want to do it anyway .
B: No ,
B: I used to ,
B: I really did , uh , years ago
B: and , uh , I was thinking about that not too long ago that I used to walk
B: and not only did I walk
B: but , I used to watch all those exercise programs on T V ,
B: and I would tape them ,
A: Yeah .
B: and then I would do them like two times a day ,
B: but I don't do any of that kind of stuff anymore .
B: I think having children everything just kind of , everything goes by the wayside .
A: Well , I ca n't use that as an excuse because I did n't do it before
A: I had mine either .
A: I 've never been ,
A: I just , I 'm more into , you know , sitting , than I am
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Me too .
A: so , but , you know , I have found that with ,
A: I have a two year old ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I have found really though , I 'm kind of the opposite , I 'm more active now with him , than I was before , because now , you know , he 'll `` I want to go outside '' and I 'll go outside with him
B: Yeah .
A: and we 'll walk up and down the street ,
A: and we 'll go to the park
A: and I 'll run around with him and stuff like that ,
A: that ,
A: so I 'm getting more , you know , more exercise that way than I ever did before I had him , you know .
B: Um , um . Um , um .
A: so , I think , I think that has helped a little bit ,
A: I don't know .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
A: Just chasing him around the house , you know , will be plenty for you .
B: that 's enough .
B: Well , mine are older now , doing , uh , their own things
B: so ,
A: Right ,
A: right .
A: You 've kind of gotten out of that little stage there .
B: Oh , yes .
B: Yes ,
B: I have a thirteen year old and an eleven year old ,
B: so .
A: Oh , lucky you ,
B: Yes .
A: you 're getting into even more interesting stages .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: We 're actually going through the same stages the two year old and the teenager
A: Uh-huh ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah
B: Yeah ,
B: you watch it 'll be exactly the same
A: Same thing , huh , it repeats , the terrible twos repeat at about thirteen
B: It does ,
B: it , it absolutely does ,
B: so .
A: How interesting , I can hardly wait
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I , I know , I just know you ca n't .
B: But , no ,
B: I don't get as much exercise as I used to
B: but , I at least , since T I has implemented that program , I do ,
B: I 'm more aware of it ,
A: Yeah .
B: and , you know , that I 'm need to do this , that and the other
B: and , uh , so , I try to do combinations of things but not , like go down to the President 's Health Club , like I see all these people do .
A: Right .
A: That , that walkabout 's a good program .
B: It is ,
B: it is .
A: It really is , you know ,
A: when they first started it , I , I got all the information , of course ,
A: but just like everything else , I was real gung ho with a friend of mine ,
A: '' Oh , we 're going to do this , we 're going to do this , ''
A: and we did do it for a long time ,
B: Yeah .
A: and then I started school , you know ,
B: Um , um .
A: and like two nights a week I was going to school
A: and then the other two nights a week my husband worked ,
A: so I had to pick Ryan up , you know ,
B: Oh , yeah .
A: there 's always an excuse , you know , to not do it
B: Oh , yeah .
A: so ,
B: And , it gets worse ,
B: it does n't get any better .
A: Yeah ,
A: oh , I 'm sure ,
A: I 'm sure .
B: Yeah ,
B: because I 'm constantly running my children around someplace
B: and that 's where I actually get my exercise , is running them from here to there , in the car .
A: Yeah .
A: here to here ,
A: here ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: to the mall , to the movies , to the friends , to the ,
B: There you go ,
B: that 's it ,
B: that 's it .
A: Sounds like fun .
B: Well , it was nice talking to you .
A: Well , it was really good to talk to you .
B: Yeah ,
B: well okay ,
B: we 'll talk to you later .
A: Take care ,
A: talk to you later .
B: Um , um .
B: Bye-bye .
A: So , do you fish ?
B: Oh , yeah .
B: My dad has a lake cabin ,
B: and so we go there for the small lake , uh , just outside of the Dallas Fort Worth area .
B: It takes us about three hours to get there .
B: And we go , and we fish ,
B: and we catch a bunch of junk Nothing , nothing to talk about for the most part ,
B: but it 's fun .
A: Uh , from a boat or from shore ?
B: From the dock , from shore .
A: Oh , that 's nice .
A: Uh , mostly catfish
A: or ,
B: Oh , mostly we catch carp .
B: If we 're doing good , we catch a catfish or two once in a while .
B: And , you know , we go ahead and eat those .
B: But we 've never caught enough to really have what you 'd call a fish fry .
B: What we normally do is just , uh , go ahead and clean it up , and then , uh , you know , put it in a bag and freeze it .
B: And , and somebody takes it home and eats it then when there 's just a couple people instead of a whole crowd .
B: Usually , there 's a pretty good crowd there ,
B: so we don't ever catch enough to eat .
B: Carp is usually pretty much fun .
B: Because I 've caught up to about an eight pound carp on a little , you know , a little pole with twenty pound test line .
B: And that , that 's a pretty good fight .
B: So that 's a lot of fun .
A: Yeah .
A: A real light line , real light rig ?
B: Yeah .
A: Well , that sounds like fun .
B: They fight hard .
A: Fish in Colorado different than that .
B: Yeah ?
A: Mostly trout in the mountains .
B: Yeah ,
B: and in the rivers and stuff ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: mountain streams and rivers .
B: Are they good to eat ?
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: very . Yeah , very much there , you know .
B: Oh , you mean size wise they 're not very big ?
A: Um , by and large , no .
A: But , but they 're big fun .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , I 've been ,
B: is that mostly , uh , fly fishing when you 're doing that
B: or ,
A: What ?
B: Are you fly fishing
B: or are you using a bobber ?
A: I , I , I 'm a fly fisherman .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I cast a ways .
A: I 'm not highly proficient ,
A: but it 's fun .
B: I 've never even tried that .
B: My ,
B: if I don't have a reel with a button on it , I tend to get so much backlash , it 's not worth the trouble
A: Well , let me explain fly , fly fishing to you then .
A: You 're not casting a weight on the end of the line ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: You 're casting the weight of the line .
B: With the little thing on the end .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , the fly on the end weighs nothing .
B: Yeah ,
B: I thought it had a weight .
A: It weighs less than the line .
B: Oh .
A: So what you do is , you strip off , oh , four , five , six little rolls , coils , of line into your hand .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you whip the line .
B: Um .
A: As you whip it , over your head , or side to side , you slowly feed out more and more .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um . So you 're fishing downstream so it will carry some ?
A: Well , no ,
A: no .
A: You fish upstream .
B: Oh , you fish upstream ?
A: Right .
A: And then you let it carry it downstream .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then you reel it in ,
A: and you do it again .
B: You hope that they think it 's a bug and , and eat it .
A: Yeah ,
A: exactly .
A: Yeah ,
A: exactly .
B: Yeah .
A: Jump at it .
A: Uh , from what I 'm seeing and hearing and all , the , the big pattern that 's really looking forward for spring is the grub pattern .
B: That 's a fish ?
A: No ,
A: no .
A: It , it looks like a grub .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , it 's a , it 's a lure .
A: Okay ,
A: whenever you , yeah ,
A: a lure , a fly .
B: I see .
A: Whenever you have a , something that looks like something else
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's a fly , you call it a pattern .
B: Oh .
A: All right , uh , you know , there 's bumble bee patterns there 's excuse me . Uh , there 's bumble patterns , there 's mosquito patterns , there 's wasp patterns , there 's grub patterns .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Um .
A: Uh ,
B: Did someone just come up with this design ,
B: and , and you 're going to make one for yourself ,
A: Uh ,
B: or are you going to buy it ?
A: You can buy them .
A: Uh , I 've got some .
A: And , They seemed to have been hitting real heavy on it in Fall .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , it 's just , that , that just happens to be what the fish like this year ,
B: huh ?
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Um .
A: You know how that changes , the phase of the moon
A: and ,
B: I guess so .
B: We tend to use just bait . And , a few lures ,
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I , You see , I 'm from west Texas .
B: but bait tends to work the best , just some blood bait .
B: Oh , are you ?
A: Yeah .
B: Where are you from ?
A: Lubbock .
B: Oh , I 'm from Midland .
A: Oh , another west Texan .
B: I went to college at Tech ,
B: so . You 've been out to Buffalo Gap fishing .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I 've been up there .
A: It , It , it 's kind of nice way to get away from everything for the day .
B: I did n't catch anything ,
B: but I 've been up there
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's fun .
B: It 's lazy .
B: Take a picnic lunch .
B: I used to do that with my dad .
B: Every once in a while we 'd go out on a Saturday and just spend the day . Before it got too hot .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , there you fish mornings and evenings . And nights .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: we do most of our fishing at night .
A: Yeah .
B: Just from the heat of it all .
B: That 's one advantage you 've certainly got on us .
A: It , at times , gets incredibly hot here .
B: It does ?
B: I 've only been up there once .
B: In the summer . Well ,
B: no ,
B: I 've been up there twice in the summer .
B: But both times it was really pleasant .
B: In fact , it snowed on us in , in , gosh , when was that ?
A: June ?
B: We were in Mesa Verde Park ,
B: and it was like the end of It was just before July fourth .
A: Oh .
B: And it was twenty-eight , twenty-nine degrees .
B: We were out in this silly tent with regular little sleeping bags , not knowing any better
B: And here it went and it froze ,
B: and it snowed on us .
A: Yeah .
B: We did not know what to do about it .
A: Fishing is not just , just dragging fish out of the water .
A: It 's , it 's a total experience , you know , getting out in nature and , hearing the crickets , and listening to the birds and , seeing the squirrels and , camping out , and eating out , of doors
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Do ,
B: Yeah .
A: and ,
B: Do you have to ,
B: do you wear waders when you fish ?
A: Uh , I probably ought to .
A: I just freeze .
B: Oh .
B: Goodness , it must be a little bit cold .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: well , you know , ankle deep or standing on the bank , and slipping it out there .
B: That 's cold water around there .
B: Um . Do you have any ,
A: You know , I always intend to just stand on the bank and just kind of slip it , out there ,
B: Oh , I see .
A: and you know how it is .
A: The water 's kind of ,
B: Yeah .
B: And you get , you get a little more carried away with it ,
B: and you move a little closer .
A: And then you 're in to it just a little bit ,
A: and then you splash in
A: and , the next thing you know , your knees are wet .
B: Yeah .
B: Do you have any kids that you take fishing ?
A: Uh , got a stepdaughter .
B: Uh-huh .
A: She 's real sweet .
A: And , uh , at times she enjoys it , at times not .
B: Yeah .
A: A fuzzy little dog .
B: I have a three and a half year old and a one and a half year old .
A: Oh .
B: And the little one , of course , is , could care less .
A: Yeah .
B: The , uh , three and a half year old has just gotten to the point ,
B: we got him a little pole last year ,
B: and just put , uh , his big thing last year was throwing it in the water and reeling it up
B: That was what he considered fishing
B: This year , he 's gotten to where he can .
B: We , we were at a friend 's , uh , stock pond , we were out at their farm ,
B: and , and they had been fishing and let him use the pole while we we all walked off a healthy hundred yards or so and let him fish .
A: Yeah .
B: And he started trying to cast it .
B: So , he , he was kind of getting there
B: but he 's , He 's at a dangerous point right now
A: Yeah ,
A: you guys sure want to be out of range .
B: He understands the mechanics of pushing the button and throw , but not necessarily the direction it 's going to go in .
A: It takes time .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Last year , we had a , oh , just a wonderful trip up to Travers Lake . * Trapper 's Lake in Colorado ?
A: Oh , it was cold , and rain the whole time .
A: And we still had a good time out , of the deal .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: Uh , and Colorado is a beautiful place to live .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: My husband would like to live there ,
B: but I don't know . All of our family is here
B: so ,
A: Well , and you 've got to have ,
A: you 've got to work for a living .
B: Well , yeah ,
B: but T I is up there ,
B: so that part of it would probably work out
A: What division you all in ?
B: I 'm sorry , what ?
A: What division are you all in ?
B: We 're both , uh ,
B: I was , uh , military ,
B: but he 's division three .
B: It goes back and forth .
B: Division , well ,
B: maybe division one right now .
B: He 's in computers .
A: Oh .
B: So ,
A: Well , the only thing up here , is division one .
B: And he 's in school , and everything else .
B: I have some friends who work up there .
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: Kathy and Kevin Guy .
A: Okay .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: And they like to fish .
B: They 've been inviting us to come up there in the summer .
B: Her dad has a cabin ,
B: and they go fishing , up there .
A: Oh , fishing 's , fishing is fun up here .
B: So that would be neat to , try it some time .
A: It 's not ,
A: It seems like the success ratio , the success rate here is not as good as on some of the better lakes there .
A: But it is fun .
B: Yeah ,
A: You know , The , the experience is , is better up here , I think .
B: long as you have a good time , that 's the main point
B: so ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , it seems more relaxing , there 's more to look at .
B: Definitely more to look at .
A: And , and there 's something about listening to water run that 's relaxing to the soul You know , if you 're , if you 're just sitting on a nice hot lake ,
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: The only thing you 've got to watch is when that creek comes up .
B: We camped next to one , one time when we were there a couple of summers ago .
B: And we figured we were up a long way off .
B: And then it rained that night ,
B: and we thought , well , wonder how far off we are ?
B: And we got up the next day ,
B: and that creek that had been fifty or sixty feet from our site of our tent was now about three feet away
B: And it 's like , oh , well , maybe we ought to move just a touch .
B: So , that was kind of funny .
A: Yeah ,
A: it , it is interesting to watch that water rise all of a sudden .
B: Yeah ,
B: I just love the way it looks .
B: I could almost just watch the
B: we , in fact , we have gotten out on , on trips before and just stopped and watched it because there was so much ,
B: and if you were there . I mean ,
B: it was ,
B: one time we were there ,
B: and I guess it was late May ,
B: so it was really your spring almost , you know , at , even though it was , it was really summer down here .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and the , I guess the creek , the mountains were really starting to melt ,
B: and the creek was just wild , just running .
B: And , and all the white water and noise and the ,
B: it was just beautiful .
A: Yeah .
A: it gets foamy almost .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And you know it 's just pure and pristine . And the froth
B: Yeah .
A: and ,
A: Okay , um ,
A: I have two children
A: and they 're older now ,
A: but , um , I found it very difficult to find good child care when I was looking for a place to for stay while I thought school ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , um , I wanted when they were very young when they were babies say till they were about two years old I preferred that they had an individual take care of them in a home
A: and that 's what I looked for
A: and I was lucky enough to find one right across from my school ,
A: and that worked .
B: Well , that 's good .
A: Yeah ,
A: that worked out real well
A: but when they got older I wanted them to be in a school type situation , three , I think they were both three when they started where they could learn to interact with kids and , and be around kids their own age because I think that 's that , that would prepare them for school also , it 's real important , that they do that , um , that they get that preparation for school ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yes ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: so
A: but I had ,
A: I have switched schools several times because I , I really did n't care for what was going on at that the school .
A: I wanted them to learn to play I did n't academics forced on them at an early age .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , um ,
B: that , that 's ,
B: oh , oh , you mean you switched schools for the kids .
A: Yeah ,
A: for the for the kids .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yes .
B: well , I 'm just recently married .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I don't have any children . Though we plan on having them soon
A: Okay .
B: but I think , um , that I , that that 's probably one of the biggest difficulties , uh ,
B: I think , um , I 'm lucky though that , um , my wife will probably not have to work while our children , are under four , or five .
A: Oh .
A: Wonderful .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 'm a college professor ,
A: Oh ,
B: so ,
A: great .
B: and that 's also ,
B: and it 's nice for me because , um , most of the time you have so , so much flexible hours so that I could probably work two or three days a week , and then one or two evenings , so that if my wife does , um , does go back to work part time , um , there probably will be a possibility that I could stay home two days that she would go to work and that I would have to teach at night .
A: Um .
A: Great .
A: Oh that 's , wonderful .
B: Yeah ,
B: so it will probably workout real nice for us , uh ,
A: Yeah .
B: I think we 're very lucky because just my job sort of builds in flexible schedules ,
A: That 's wonderful .
B: I can even teach on Saturdays and , and things , like that .
A: Oh ,
A: great ,
B: Yeah ,
B: um , I do know that my brother and his wife have a terrible time finding , uh , child care ,
A: Right .
B: and one of the things they made in , um , uh ,
B: real
B: they 're number one priority was that , um , they 're children did n't have to leave their home * transcript error -- spelling of initial `` they 're '' should be `` their ''
A: Oh , that 's , wonderful too ,
B: So , they , um , um ,
B: my sister-in-law is a , uh , um , a clinical speech pathologist ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , she is
B: I guess her most recent position after she returned back to work , she applied for a director 's position and got it .
B: So , I guess she 's very well qualified for her field I guess
B: and even though she took off two years for , um ,
B: I guess four years all together ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: it would be three years ,
B: how old 's Kayla
B: three , yeah ,
B: I guess she took off three years all together , um , for cause I guess they have a four year old ,
B: and yeah , and my nephew is two , almost two ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I guess she took off three all together
B: and then when she decided to go back to work , um , she was able to find good position and pay for somebody to come into their home .
A: Oh , that 's wonderful .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think they were really lucky there ,
B: but I think they 've lost this woman she she will not continue .
A: Oh , dear .
B: And , and she wo n't do it in the summer because her kids are home from school .
A: Sure ,
A: yeah .
B: So I don't know what they are going to do .
A: Oh , you know that 's an ideal situation ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but not many people can afford , something like ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I think , I think they they 're both , they were both professionals unlike me they 're , um , they were married , my brother 's five years younger then she is ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so she was probably twenty-seven when they were married ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so she already had , had gotten bachelors and masters and established herself in a , in a practice almost . Um , where , you know , he then they waited a couple years
A: Sure .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , and he got himself pretty far along , I guess they did n't have kids until he was about , twenty twenty-six
B: so by that time she was so well established , you know , I guess it made it a lot easier .
A: Right .
A: Sure .
B: but , uh , I think the longer you wait the easier , the easier it is , if you have that , that professional occupation where you can change .
A: Oh , I do to .
A: Oh , yeah ,
B: Yeah .
A: but they 're they 're are just so many people out there that are n't that , uh , lucky , uh ,
B: Yeah .
B: That 's right ,
B: that 's true , yeah .
A: uh , because I 'm a single parent ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and I , uh , you know , my husband and I , ex-husband and I got a divorce , um , when the children were small
A: and so I , uh , was a teacher
A: I , uh , still am teacher ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it was really difficult to find affordable child care that was that was what I wanted , where I could , have piece of mind and when I taught school * transcriber spelling error -- '' piece '' should be `` peace ''
B: Yep .
B: Yeah ,
A: and I knew my kids were being taken , care of .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: and , uh , plus I , I , uh , wanted them to get something out of it , I just did n't want it to be a day where they went and slept and ate cookies and , that 's it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
B: that ,
B: yeah ,
B: that 's , you know , that 's so important I , um , I , I guess it 's so funny now with schools , you know , they don't take kid into kindergarten , and when , I guess when they 're five ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and sometimes they flunk kindergarten now .
A: Right .
B: They don't let them into kindergarten unless they can count to ten and know their A B C
B: and I think that 's so funny because , um , I don't , I don't know if I want
A: Sure .
B: and I ,
B: it 's a very important part of your life
B: and I hope to read with my kids ,
B: but I don't know if I want my kids to go to school . At four , or three ,
A: Well .
A: I agree with that .
B: you know , I can see that when you make that point .
A: Well , the thing is , I teach this grade and I , I can see very readily the kids that did n't never learn socially how to get along with other , children
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they 're the ones that are having problems not only getting along with the other kids but academically , because they were not , they 're should be , there 's to many things in their way , * to should be too
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yep ,
B: uh-huh .
A: and so I want my
A: I wanted my children
A: and they did learn to get , to get along with other people .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: that 's a really important point .
A: Yeah ,
A: and I mean I feel a lot of maladjusted adults
A: and I bet if we trace back to their , early childhood we could see some , you know , times they did n't get to play or be with other kids their own age really learn how do get along with , people .
B: Yep .
B: I think that 's really , that 's important
B: I , I 've seen the same thing
B: I , I think you 're exactly right because , you know , I 've gone
B: or
B: before I was married I went out with a girl ,
B: and you know , um , boy , after , you know , after about two months I realize this girl really has some deep set emotional problems .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I bet ,
B: and they could be traced back to just not being , uh , you know , being moved between day care centers when she was one and two and three years old , and never , always being a bit snippy and spiteful .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I bet you could trace all the way back
A: I bet you could too , because it , you know , kids have to learn how to get along with other people ,
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if they don't they just don't turn out to be really , you know , good adults or , successful adults I should say ,
B: That 's true ,
B: yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: you know , really
A: but , uh , it is a big problem
A: and you I have lot of friends right now that , uh , have young children
A: and they daily have problems with , with whoever is taking care of the child ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: or they switch a lot , which is not good for the child either .
B: Yep ,
B: that 's true .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's really true .
A: So you need ,
A: cause you need that consistency when they 're young like that ,
A: and it would be ideal like you , you hope when you have children , your wife gets to stay home ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I would have , have given anything if I would have been able , to stay home with my children .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I think I 'm , I 'm very lucky .
A: Yeah ,
A: you .
B: Um , because of having , you know , flexible higher education provides a flexible schedule .
A: Right .
B: I teach a computer classes
B: so , it 's , it 's one of things where I 'm paid a little bit better then a History or an English professor
A: Oh , great .
B: and I 'm also , um , you know ,
B: they have vocational type courses on weekends , almost everywhere ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , you know , you can take you can teach two three hours classes on a Saturday , which means , that , you know , whole week 's worth of courses
A: Oh , that 's , wonderful .
B: so that lets you be available three days during the week , you know ,
A: Oh , great .
B: so you be will home with your kids I you know
B: it 's really funny is that I , I picked this career when I was in college because , uh , I think with my commitment to family and , um , wanting to spend more time with my children , because my dad had very , um , nine to five type job , with , uh , forty-five minute commute into the city , and a forty-five commute home ,
A: Um . You 're very wise .
A: Uh-huh .
B: so , by the time he got home he was so tired
B: and he was all rung out from the day ,
A: Sure .
B: and I think he , he missed a lot of , um , our up bringing .
A: Sure .
B: You know , my mother
B: I , I came from a family , that my mother stayed home until we started school .
A: Uh-huh . thirteen and a sixteen year old .
B: Um , and I , I don't , uh ,
B: It 's probably costing you a fortune .
A: Oh it is ,
A: they really are expensive ,
A: yeah .
B: My goodness , if , if you want them to be able to drive the car , the insurance bill .
A: Exactly .
B: um ,
A: Well , and they
A: most of the area where we live in most of the kids have cars .
B: Oh .
A: So , you know , right now I 'm looking for a little truck for my for my son ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so that you know an older , older , older , truck
A: so I can afford it ,
B: Yeah .
A: but , you know , I , I just look forward to him helping me out because I for years just car , drove in carpools all over the place
B: Carpools , uh ,
A: and , And it will be nice just to be able to have him say will you go to the store , will you take his sister somewhere , something like that .
B: Yeah ,
B: my parents did a lot of that .
B: That 's right .
B: Yep .
B: And just to save you trips to and from , you know , uh , ball games and athletic events , and activities at the school .
A: Right ,
A: exactly .
A: Right .
A: That 's right .
B: Yeah ,
B: is n't that something how , you know , you think about child care
B: and it lasts along time . * along a long
A: It , does for ever .
B: It , it lasts a long time .
A: And then when you get through with your own you 've got grandchildren ,
A: so
A: It 's not ending is it
A: You think we 've talked a long , a long enough time ?
A: Oh , they come in , see this is the first time I 've done this .
A: Oh , in ten minutes , you have to talk that long .
B: Well , you don't have to
B: but they , they ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: um , you go the length
B: and sometimes if it 's a very busy time period you 'll go about seven minutes .
A: Oh .
B: Depends on how old the tapes are at that time .
A: I see .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I see .
B: Yeah .
A: Are you from the ,
A: where are you from ?
B: This is Baltimore , Maryland .
A: Oh , my gosh , I 'm from , uh , Plano , Texas which is , which is outside of Dallas .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , most of most of the people I talk to are from Texas .
A: Yeah
A: because that 's where T I is
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: and I 've discussed , I 've discussed , um .
A: That makes sense .
A: Okay .
A: Guess we can go ahead .
A: Uh , well , I guess you know it 's , you know ,
A: since living in Dallas it 's always so hot , so in the summertime , I just , I wear lots of shorts , so because I don't work during the day .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , do you work ?
B: Yes ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: I do work .
A: Oh .
B: Uh , and ,
B: but I work at a manufacturing plant ,
B: so I wear a lot of blue jeans , and T-shirts .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But occasionally I have to get dressed up and wear panty hose and a dress , and high heel shoes
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I feel really uncomfortable doing that
B: and , in the plant so , uh , it 's , it 's a problem for me .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , normally I just wear blue jeans and a T-shirt .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Very , very , comfortable .
B: I like that so much better than having to wear dress clothes .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: and buying suits and stuff , yeah , because just being at home
A: and , I work at home ,
A: so , I just have , you know , I just wear my , you know , my shorts and stuff like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I don't go out and spend lots of money on , uh , different , you know , suits and stuff , you know .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: But when I ,
A: before I got married , you know , I was working
A: so I , uh , you know , I had more suits and stuff then
A: but ,
B: Right
A: Worry about all that kind of stuff
B: Well , I have plenty of suits and dress clothes because I 'm like you , when I first started working , uh , I have all these suits and blouses and skirts and mix and match , and that kind of stuff
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: but now that I , you know , work in the manufacturing plant , then it 's just , it 's so much more difficult for me to , to actually get dressed up to come in to work like that .
A: Right .
B: Uh , but occasionally I have to because , uh , part of my job is teaching , and training ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , uh , so you have to look just a little bit nicer than your normal , garb
A: When you 're training , right .
A: Yeah .
B: Than your normal garb
B: But I 'm like you , too , uh , I moved from Ohio down to here
A: Uh-huh ,
A: moved from , Winter .
B: and I had mostly polyesters and , wools and winter clothes and buying all these cotton clothes ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then , of course , you have to iron them all the time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's really ,
B: that 's been a problem for me .
A: Yeah ,
A: because I came from Wyoming
A: and I had wool suits and wool skirts
A: and , You know , I 've got all these clothes that I never wear , because you ca n't wear them here .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , the seasons are just so much different .
A: You have so much summer .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , so then when I , you know , I finally get a chance to go out with my husband it 's like a real chore to find something nice to wear
B: That 's true , that 's true .
A: Yeah
B: Well , I know , I was just now , uh , uh , putting away a lot of my winter clothes ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I was going through here
B: and I was thinking , I have n't worn this in three years .
A: Yeah .
B: And , because it 's a wool skirt
B: and there 's just not that many opportunities to wear it .
A: Yeah .
B: And I have five or six wool skirts ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I was thinking well , maybe , you know , I need to think about getting rid of them ,
B: but no , I folded it up neatly and put it away maybe next year
A: Yeah .
A: You hate to get rid of it , because you know how much you spent on them .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And it 's real hard to get rid of some of that stuff , I know .
A: So ,
B: Well , I know last year , uh , well , this past winter , it was n't that cold .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But the previous winter we had more , uh , cold weather where I was able to actually wear , your double and triple layerings of , uh , clothes yeah , like you would when you 're up north .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Clothes ,
A: yeah .
B: So that 's really interesting .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: and I , I just don't spend , you know ,
A: right now my clothes come from Target , you know
B: Yes ,
B: yes ,
B: yes ,
B: and they 're all one hundred percent cotton
B: and
A: Yes ,
A: and they ,
A: you take them out of the drier
A: and they 're wadded up in a ball .
B: Yes ,
B: yes ,
B: I know .
A: Oh
A: I 'm so glad to meet somebody that , that their iron board is their permanent fixture in their house .
B: It is , it is .
A: You know , I have very little furniture ,
A: but my ironing board is part of my decor
A: so ,
B: That 's true ,
B: and , and I 've been looking at these , uh , uh , like in Home Depot where you can go and they 've got , that ironing boards that will just flip right down off of the uh , uh , what , the , the , the door .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh ,
B: and then you can actually have one where you can put it inside of a wall , you know , to have it , permanently attached ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that 's what I 'm thinking I 'm going to have to do because mine 's sitting right out in front of my bedroom
B: and it 's just , it 's just an eyesore , I think , with all the ,
A: Yeah ,
A: well , yeah
A: it is , it is ,
A: but it 's like , uh , I just don't want to do it
B: Uh-uh ,
B: uh-uh .
A: Yeah .
B: No .
B: I 've been thinking about putting the ironing board in the closet , and , and running , you know , a line in there for my iron so I could do it in there
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I would n't have to have that eyesore
A: Yeah
A: that 's an idea .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I have a big closet .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , you know ,
A: if I have ,
A: if I know I 'm having somebody come over to the house and there 's a possibility they might be going back into my room , I will put it away ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
A: but I iron our clothes as we go along ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so , you know ,
B: I no longer do that weekly thing , because I have so many ,
A: Right ,
A: no .
B: and I 'm like you , I , the night before or that day , I will iron whatever it is that we need
A: Uh-huh .
B: and that 's it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Because it 's too many ,
B: hundred percent cotton .
A: Uh-huh .
A: You ca n't iron it all
A: and ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
A: And then with my kids , they 're always getting into , you know ,
A: they ca n't decide what they want to wear so they , change their minds , you know , I know , I mean my oldest is only four ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but she 's still changes her mind two or three times , before she figures out what she 's going to wear
B: Right .
A: so ,
B: Right .
B: Oh , I know , I know .
A: And then they never put anything back .
B: No ,
B: no
B: of course not .
B: No ,
B: that , uh , that would be too simple .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
B: Absolutely not
B: That 's right .
A: Our lot in life is to make her life miserable
A: so ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: absolutely , absolutely .
A: Uh .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah ,
A: well that 's ,
A: it 's been good talking to you , to see somebody , hear somebody that does the same thing I do because I tell people what I do
A: and they just go , oh , how do you do that ?
A: It 's like , it 's easy , you just do it , you know .
B: That 's right
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh ,
B: but , yeah ,
B: I , uh , I know several of my girlfriends , though , we , uh , we all keep our ironing boards out and just , uh , an ever present thing in our household
B: so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I don't think I 'd know what to do if it was n't there , you know .
A: My husband would n't know where to hang his dirty clothes .
B: There you go .
A: You know .
B: Things that need to be mended , things that have to get ironed ,
A: Yeah .
A: He would n't know where to put things
A: so ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: That 's true .
A: Yeah
A: so ,
B: Oh , well , it was nice talking with you .
A: Oh , it was nice talking with you , too .
B: Okay ,
B: take care .
A: Take care .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: bye-bye .
B: So eating out .
B: What are you interested in in restaurants ?
A: Right , uh .
A: So .
B: Uh , once a week , twice a week ?
A: Oh , at least once a week .
A: We 're , we 're retired now .
A: When we working out we ate out more than that
B: Yeah ,
B: I understand .
B: Uh , but we both work
B: and we have a daughter ,
B: and we normally manage to eat out once a week anyway .
A: Well , what type of restaurant do you like , Richard ?
B: Uh , really , I 'm kind of open on food .
B: I 'm what you might call a culinary adventurer .
B: I 'll , uh , try anything once .
A: Right .
B: Been on a real barbecue kick lately .
A: Oh have you ?
B: Yeah .
A: We like Chinese .
A: We eat , a lot of Chinese food .
B: Excuse me . Uh , yeah ,
B: we usually have Chinese once a month .
A: What do you look for in a restaurant ?
B: I hate franchised restaurants .
A: You what ?
A: You ,
B: I despise franchised restaurants .
A: Oh I ,
B: I , I , I always prefer to go to something that seems more family run . Uh , some place where you seem to have the attitude like you 're going into their home for dinner almost .
A: Right .
A: I know what you mean .
A: I like some ambiance ,
A: and I like good food .
A: I don't like fast food hamburgers and all of that .
B: I don't ,
B: but I don't like something fake or put on either .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , if I could have a good small restaurant or a good large restaurant I 'd go to the good small restaurant .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I don't know why that is .
B: I think it 's probably due to pricing , often .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
A: I don't care to go to a place just for the price of it
B: Well , yeah ,
B: yeah ,
A: I mean , it 's like continental French restaurant or something really with high prices
B: Yeah .
A: and seven courses is n't what I usually look for
B: It is what you look for ?
B: Oh , is n't , is n't .
B: Uh , I try to get my money 's worth .
A: Right
B: And not just that , I try to , well , that 's a big part of it . I try to get my money 's worth . You know , and not just in quantity , you know , but quality , and , and flavor and texture and care .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Presentation
A: and ,
B: Well , presentation 's not always all of it either .
A: Well , like we , we 've been eating some in a restaurant that that just changed hands recently ,
B: It 's , it 's important .
A: and we 're trying to give them a little patronage .
A: But Sunday we went there ,
A: and I had a pretty good meal of grilled pork chops and a baked apple and potatoes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So I said if they would just add a little bit of cranberry sauce , something like that
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: something a little extra
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's what I mean by ,
B: and just for color if nothing else .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
A: It would mean a lot to the looks of the plate .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: What I miss up here is , I 'm originally a Texan , and I miss home cooked Mexican .
A: Tex-Mex , Tex-Mex .
B: Yeah ,
B: home cooked Tex-Mex .
B: Uh , Mexican restaurants where it 's not owned by an Anglo or a corporation .
A: Right ,
A: I know .
A: Uh , we have a daughter in Texas and one in New Mexico ,
A: and we 've really gotten to like ,
A: we like the real Mexican food better than Tex-Mex .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , there 's real Mexican food
B: and there 's real Tex-Mex Mexican , you know , by third or fourth generation Americans of Hispanic heritage .
A: Right .
A: It 's all pretty good , is n't it ?
B: Oh , yes ,
B: and , and there 's big differences , of course ,
B: and , of course , when you talk about Mexican cuisine you , that 's kind of like talking about American food or Chinese food , in because its regional , too .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: that 's true .
B: So .
A: I 'm originally from Maine ,
A: so we like seafood , too .
A: And that 's something we don't get here ,
A: and we 're in the mountains in Virginia .
B: Oh .
A: And most of the seafood 's frozen .
B: Uh , yeah
B: that 's the way it is here in Colorado , also .
B: No fresh , or almost no fresh seafood
A: Right .
B: and in Texas we got it from the Gulf .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that 's true .
A: Lots of shrimp .
B: And , yeah ,
B: here a couple years ago my wife and I went to Seattle on vacation .
B: And I think everything except breakfast was seafood for almost a week .
A: I know it
B: And it was ,
B: I was like a man starving at every meal .
A: I know the feeling .
A: We do the same thing .
A: My son-in-law is a Texan ,
A: and when he goes to Maine , he eats lobster , I guess , at least twice a day , all the time he 's up there
B: It 's a lot cheaper there , is n't it ?
B: Lobster ?
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: It 's like two ninety-eight a pound for a pound lobster .
B: It 's like shrimp on the Gulf .
B: Two ninety-eight a pound .
A: Yeah .
B: That 's as cheap as steaks some places I mean in a grocery store .
A: Oh yeah ,
A: cheaper ,
A: right .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
A: A lot of the restaurants you can get two two one pound lobsters for like ten ninety-nine .
B: Oh , my gosh .
B: I 've got to go to Maine then rattling in
B: You may have sold a trip for some time .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a good place to go .
B: Uh , it sounds wonderful .
B: Uh , so ,
A: Lots of little restaurants , too , with home cooked food , that 's up there .
B: That sound good .
B: Uh , down in the Gulf I 've eaten a bunch of those little uh , seafood shacks , we 've called them .
A: Right ,
A: uh-huh .
B: And , uh , it 's just so much different than to eat something that 's been frozen . You know
A: Uh-huh .
A: We went to
B: shrimp straight out of the bay .
A: We were in Galveston last year right well , the first of this year , actually .
B: Hm .
A: And , ate in a restaurant ,
A: and they claimed to have the best shrimp on the Gulf coast .
B: Was it true ?
A: No .
A: It was n't .
A: On the way across Louisiana , we pulled off , we saw a billboard and just pulled off taking a chance on a place .
A: And they had ,
A: it was a small restaurant , just kind of out of the way ,
A: and they were set up with two buffets , one for their regular Sunday chicken and roast beef and vegetables and everything . And then one complete seafood buffet .
B: Hm .
B: Huh .
A: That was the best shrimp I have ever had in my life .
A: They had shrimp fixed probably six different ways .
B: Uh , yes ,
B: the cajuns .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: right .
A: It was wonderful .
B: They can , they can do things to shrimp that , that no one else can .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , have you eaten crawfish yet ?
A: Uh , I tried it ,
A: but I did n't care for it .
A: Not there , but at my brothers I tried it .
B: Oh , as with anything , it 's preparation .
A: That 's probably true .
A: It ,
A: We just ,
A: he went down and bought some at a local place that steams them , just so we 'd try them .
B: Uh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: It ,
B: there 's all kinds ,
A: Probably needed some cold beer with it
A: and
B: So you do eat out a lot .
A: Quite a bit .
B: One of our other real problems with going out to eat , Sunday morning brunches .
A: Oh .
B: You know , Sunday brunch , all , all you can eat brunches .
A: Right .
A: We used to do that , once in a while ,
A: but we don't anymore .
B: Uh , we still find it fun .
A: Uh-huh .
A: It 's fun ,
A: but it 's just so much food
A: Hate to come away feeling uncomfortable
B: Well , I work in machine shop and do a lot of physical labor .
A: Do you ,
A: well that makes a difference .
B: And so ,
A: Where do you go to brunches ?
A: Like at hotels , or restaurants there ?
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , actually one of our , one of our favorites is a chain . Shoney 's .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
A: We eat at Shoney 's .
B: Yeah ,
B: in spite of the fact I 've spoken so badly about chains , chain restaurants , uh , we , uh , do like Shoney 's pretty well ,
B: but then there 's a place up the pass , up in the mountains that we pretty reliably like to go to on some Sunday mornings , drive , drive up to , I think it 's about eight thousand foot elevation . And , and drive through Woodland Park and go for a short drive in the mountains and have breakfast .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: that sounds nice .
B: It , it , it 's the way to spend a nice Sunday morning .
A: Right ,
A: I imagine it is .
B: I think it 's as much the , the trip to the mountains as it is the breakfast brunch .
B: You know , and it 's not that far .
B: It 's thirty miles .
A: out of , which direction ?
B: Colorado Springs .
A: Out of , which direction from there ?
B: West
A: Uh-huh .
B: west out of Colorado Springs .
A: What are your favorite programs ?
B: Uh , it 's kind of hard to put my finger on a , on a favorite T V program ,
B: however , uh , one that I 've been watching for a number of years is DALLAS .
B: And , uh , And , uh , it 's going to be going off the air , uh , let 's see , a week from a week from tonight .
A: Oh , how funny .
B: It 's going to be its last show .
B: So I 've , I 've kind of enjoyed watching over the years .
B: I 've been disappointed in it and also pleased in it .
B: And , uh , I was , uh , greatly disappointed , uh , when I did move down to Plano to , uh , find out that the , uh , the , uh , great South Fork Ranch was really only a one bedroom house .
A: I 've seen the sign that goes to there .
A: I 've ,
A: well I think I 've seen it in the distance .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I have not even seen it .
A: And I have not seen the program .
B: Oh well , That 's a shame .
A: So
A: And , and , uh , I know when we went to London , it was really funny .
A: Uh , people recognized Dallas , Texas , by the , the Texas , uh , the , the cowboys and by that program .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yes .
A: And that 's , that 's the two things they associate with Dallas , Texas .
A: So ,
A: I ,
A: and I ,
A: they asked me , uh ,
A: several times , several times they ask me , why are there two bridges ?
A: And I did n't know what they were talking about .
A: It took me a long time , they 're talking about the viaducts .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Is that ,
A: that is right , is n't it ?
B: Yeah .
A: Because they ask me , why are there two bridges going into Dallas ?
A: Darned if I know
A: I was blank looking , you know .
A: I felt really dumb .
B: Well , it 's , it 's , uh ,
B: when you look at the , uh , you know , route seventy-five , coming down there . I mean , it 's actually a bridge ,
B: but it 's a bridge over top of roadway .
B: There 's no water there . I mean , uh ,
A: Well , there 's water in the Trinity .
A: I thought it was to , going to Oak Cliff over the Trinity .
B: Yeah .
B: Well there 's , there , uh ,
B: well they ,
B: I think when they open the show up they give you two different views of Dallas .
A: Oh , do they ?
B: One from the east and one from the west .
A: Uh .
B: And that 's why .
A: Oh , I see .
B: But it kind of confuses people .
B: But , uh , uh , I enjoy , uh , uh , a lot of different comedies .
B: Um , I think it 's mainly for an escape , um , you know , you , uh , my job is not the most thrilling in the world
B: and , uh , I enjoy laughing and , uh , some of the shows that , uh , are on the air , some are just purely , you know , brain drainers .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then there 's other ones that , uh , deal with , uh , in a funny manner , uh , socially relevant things .
B: And , uh , one show that comes to mind is like DESIGNING WOMEN . Uh ,
A: I think that is just a hoot .
A: That 's one of those few that I do watch when the television is on .
A: My husband likes to watch T V .
A: It 's on .
A: I usually read and watch T V .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But that 's one of the few that I just actually watch .
A: Because it 's funny .
B: Yes .
A: I really enjoy that one .
B: Yes .
B: It , uh , it has been very entertaining
B: and , and also , uh , the , the issues they deal with , uh , really tends to open , open your eyes as well as your mind to some of the problems .
B: And , uh , I 've , I 've really enjoyed that one since it came on .
B: Um , I don't like the politics surrounding the program though ,
B: but , I mean , other than that , you know , there seems to be a little in fighting going on between the producers and one of the actresses .
B: But , uh ,
B: and then , uh , I 've kind of gotten hooked on P B S stuff , uh , public , uh , T V .
B: Uh , I like things like NOVA and , uh , some of the , the special programs they come up with on nature and stuff .
B: I just enjoy watching that stuff .
A: Now , we watch a lot of those .
A: Uh , and the ones that sometimes will hook me , to put down my book , will be the one , there was one , uh , recently about the Gettysburg Address .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they wrapped a fictional story around it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I thought that was well done .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and it , it caught my attention .
A: I wound up watching the whole thing .
A: Uh , I guess the awards ceremonies , and there seems to be dozens of them per year .
A: Maybe I 've spent two minutes watching to see what they on and if they make a fool of themselves or not
A: But they could take that whole collection
A: and it would disappear
B: Yeah .
A: I , I , particularly take issue with those .
A: I , I really dislike those .
B: Well I 'm one of those rare guys , who , I , I rarely ever sit down and watch a whole sporting event , um , if ever watch one .
B: Uh , there 's just not that much I 'm , I 'm interested in .
B: Um , for a while , I , I , I watched some football ,
B: but I 've just got too many more important things in my life now than to sit around and , and watch a baseball game .
A: You know , my husband used to just be riveted to the Dallas Cowboys .
A: And now , we 're out running around ,
A: and if they 're , if they 're playing , he 'll turn it on while we 're in the car to see what the score is ,
A: and he 'll listen .
A: But , even I 've said , hey look , you 're fascinated with this , you sit and listen to the Cowboys .
A: Let me run in here ,
A: and I 'll do some things
A: and I 'll come back
A: and you don't have to miss , he 'll say , na , na , na .
A: And he does n't , he does n't watch it .
A: He like I say ,
A: if it 's convenient he 'll listen to it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But he just does n't watch them on T V like he used to .
B: Well I think it was great when they were , you know , like world champs and they were doing real well .
B: I , uh , I
B: personally , I , I came from the Washington area .
B: And so I was a big Washington Redskins fan .
A: Uh .
A: Oh , those people .
A: Yeah
B: And , uh , when I came down to Dallas , it was , uh , you know , I found myself rooting for the home team .
B: I , uh ,
B: in fact I have a , uh , a baseball hat that was signed by Tony Dorsett and Hershel Walker the only year they played together on the Dallas Cowboys .
A: Oh , how neat .
A: Well , I actually got to go see them win in the Super Bowl when they went down to New Orleans .
B: Oh , wow .
A: And , I , I , I make the trip and did the whole New Orleans before the game and the game and everything
A: and , uh , that was , that was a lot of fun .
A: But , I don't know , I have n't been as ,
A: I 'll tell you what I love to watch . And this is not , this is rarely on television .
A: But what is a lot of fun to go attend , is this arena football .
B: Huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I like it so much better than straight football .
B: No ,
B: I have n't seen that .
A: It , it does n't ,
A: it has a lot of different rules .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The field is half the size
B: Uh-huh .
A: and there 's no ,
A: they ca n't call time and things like that .
A: It moves a lot faster .
B: uh . Gee , I 'll have to try to catch that sometime .
B: It 's ,
A: Uh , again I think it may be on cable more than anything else .
B: Yeah ,
A: We don't have cable .
B: that 's probably true .
B: Yeah ,
B: we don't either .
B: I , uh , I could n't rationalize paying , you know ,
B: it 's like if I pay for a movie channel , then I have watch what movies they want me to watch when they want me to watch them .
B: And if I , you know , if I did n't use cable for anything else other than the basic , well I can get that for free .
B: And well , I really don't need C N N , I see enough bad news all the time .
B: I don't need to see more of it .
B: So I , I 've kind of , uh , rationalized that it 's , it 's probably a lot more economical for us to just go rent the movies we want to see .
A: Well ,
B: And of course when we were living in Texas , it was real convenient with Tom Thumb .
A: Oh .
B: You know , having movies , uh , back then it was ninety-nine cents .
B: I mean , go ,
A: They 're everywhere , they 're on every corner .
B: Yeah .
A: Everything you 've ever wanted to see .
B: Um . You can see them a lot sooner than you can see them on any of the stations like H B O or Cinemax .
A: Well , and I like to rent tapes because you can put the thing on hold if you get a telephone call or something like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Or it becomes snack time for various reasons .
A: You can put , you know ,
A: the only thing , this DANCE WITH WOLVES , I want to see it in a theater .
B: Oh , yes .
B: I do too .
A: Because I understand that , that your , you 'll lose fifty percent of it if you don't .
B: Yeah .
B: And I , uh , I 've been trying to get my wife to go with me to go see it .
B: She , she does n't like going to movie theaters because usually they 're dirty ,
B: and , uh , you know , she just does n't like them .
B: And , um , she does n't think that she could sit still for three hours and watch the movie .
B: And I 've told her , you know , everybody I know that has seen it has said that the three hours go really quick .
A: That 's what I hear too .
B: And , uh , so I 'm , I 'm hoping I can get her talked into it soon .
A: Well , my husband smokes .
A: He 's one of the dinosaurs that still smokes .
B: Um .
A: And you ca n't smoke in movie theaters .
A: And that has really slowed down the forward progress of going to movies .
A: But I have n't really cared up until this point .
A: But I ,
A: we are this weekend going to go see DANCE WITH WOLVES .
A: It 's ,
A: that 's it .
A: We will do it .
B: Um .
A: So ,
B: That 's great .
A: Yeah ,
A: finally .
B: Yeah .
B: But as , as far as , uh , regular T V shows , I mean , I 've got some , some shows that , that , that I would be afraid to admit to you that I 've actually sat down and watched
B: And then there 's , there 's others that , uh , uh , I wish I had time to see .
B: It 's like I enjoy watching CHEERS .
B: It 's very funny .
B: Some of the things in it are mindless ,
B: but I , I just don't have time to watch it .
B: Um , I think about the only night that I really sit in front of the T V set all night long probably is on Monday night .
B: Because , um , I work so hard over the weekend , doing other things with the kids and stuff and going to work on Monday .
B: Monday night I 'm just worn out .
B: So I kind of use it as the time to catch up on correspondence and , and look over things .
B: And I can sit in front of the T V set and look at , you know , do , go through my mail and , and watch T V at the same time .
A: Well , I tend ,
A: my job tends to be very demanding .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And to sit down and to mindlessly either read or just mindlessly stare in absolute comfort is n't as bad as it used to ,
A: I 'm actually at work .
B: Oh ,
A: I 'm in facilities and happen to have , uh , weekend duty here .
B: Oh , okay .
B: What building do you work in ?
A: I 'm in the South Building .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Okay .
A: We , we pull mostly evenings .
A: We are having ,
A: there 's three of us , uh , facilities ' managers are covering the off shifts . Just to have somebody here , uh , from management to , uh , see if they need anything .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Okay .
A: Oh , the ,
A: how many calls have you made ?
B: I 've only made a few .
A: Okay .
B: Um ,
A: I 'm , uh , getting close to twenty .
A: This is the ,
A: yeah , hopefully you have a lot to talk about in this one ,
A: but I don't really have a lot in this one .
A: Usually I can talk for hours on most of the subjects they pick .
A: Go ahead , you first
B: Okay ,
B: our topic for today is invasion of privacy .
B: So , I got a good one .
A: Okay ,
A: good .
B: When the phone rings and you 've got a recording , and this always happens like around five or six o'clock , at night . It rings and you get this recording
A: Okay , yeah .
B: and then it wo n't go away
B: and any , any of the type of solicitation that , where they call all the time , you know .
B: There are evenings especially Friday nights , Thursday and Friday nights .
B: Well , we must get in the neighborhood of anywhere from three to six calls about that time of night .
B: More people call , that 's where you want to jerk the phone out of the wall , you know , your sitting down to eat and the phone rings
B: and , it 's like , I don't want anything , thank you very much
A: Right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I ,
A: the worst one , I guess , is like you , when it 's a recording . I I don't mind so much someone calls
A: and it 's a , and it 's a salesperson , at least you can chat or whatever and say , okay , now , we want to go
A: and then when , when they actually start off with a , a computer , and expect you to talk to a computer , uh , that 's where I draw the I just hang up immediately , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: Uh , shut my other radio off here
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's real irritating to me .
A: Uh , I guess they get their
A: I 'm , I 'm amazed the question about that the ,
A: my concern would be everyone seems to have an answering machine
A: and I have one too ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they say that they can tie up your answering machine and just have a big long , if they catch your answering machine ,
B: They can leave their whole spiel on it .
A: Yeah ,
A: they , they can erase all your others , you know , because if you have ,
A: I think that 's the way it is , no , mine , I guess , if it 's full , it will not take it , I 'm not sure .
A: But they can certainly , uh , block your answering machine so someone else calls you , uh , and your answering machine is full , you know , it wo n't erase .
B: Huh .
B: Yeah
B: I ,
A: But your right . * your you 're
A: That was a good one .
B: yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's a high irritant for me .
B: Drives me crazy .
B: And it does n't matter if you have an unlisted number or not because a lot of times these computer things will just make up numbers at random and just call them .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so it really , really does n't make much difference as to whether or not , you know , you have a unlisted number or not .
B: And they pass around , uh , cards that have everybody 's name on it .
B: Like if you order something through a mail order catalog , you know , then you 'll start getting a bunch of stuff in . And a bunch of stuff and a bunch of stuff because they sell their customer list ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: or they sell their catalog list of people , to different companies and everything .
A: Yeah .
A: but it 's , uh , annoyance for me in the office with , uh , speaker phones .
A: You know , I ,
A: they 're great for an office
A: but this one guy next to me , who 's not here just so I could talk about him , he uses his speaker phone all the time ,
A: and it carries over
A: and so not only would you hear ,
A: it seems to me that you talk longer from you kind of yell into it .
B: Right .
B: Right .
A: Uh , and so he yells into it ,
A: and you hear the other person too ,
A: so it 's kind of a double annoyance .
A: He actually , uh , ruins my privacy you might say because the , the T I offices are so open anyway . Uh , that I 'm amazed that , the fact that I 'm about ready to say something , uh , if he 's even thought of that that 's a real uncourteous thing , an , an invasion of everyone else 's time and , and concentration to just be loud .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: I don't know whether that 's an invasion of privacy just being loud and , and annoying , you know .
A: Uh , that 's , perhaps not quite an invasion of privacy
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I think it is ,
A: and
A: we both picked phone items there .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Let 's see , I 'm trying to think .
B: Oh , have you heard that , that , I 'm trying to think of what company it was , there was a company that was going to , uh , be giving out information about your financial status .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: I heard something about , not that exactly ,
A: but go ahead .
B: Well , um , I work in the computer science center
B: and so we hear a lot about things that are , that computers are capable of doing .
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh , this was a software program that a company was developing that was going to have X amount of million peoples financial history and information on it .
B: And they were going to sell it to companies who would up in turn solicit you for business et cetera , et cetera .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , they finally , uh , stopped production of it because of all the hullabaloo it caused , because it was such a big deal .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And I would n't have been too thrilled about it either .
B: I mean , there was a lot of stuff going on about it .
A: Well , I , uh , heard something similar to that .
A: I listen to ,
A: I 'm a , uh , uh , talk show person .
A: And there was ,
B: Okay .
A: when I , when I do my chores up at the
A: I 'm a radio person I guess is what I mean .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And so I listened to , was it five seventy , which has continuous talk on the weekends , and Neil Sperry and everybody , I mean , the lawyers and veterinarians and all that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I don't know if it was a lawyer or whatever it was talking about when you make out a a financial application , all that information on there is really not necessarily ,
A: even a , your Social Security number , you know , they , you should just put down the basics and put N A , where you don't want to answer .
B: Huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Whether it 's your personal salary or whatever .
A: Uh , if your just making out a credit card application you don't need to put down
A: and I was curious as to you know , what specific things you , you did have to put down .
B: Huh .
A: But he says Social Security , you don't need to put that down there . Which I thought was surprising .
A: So maybe there 's something along that same line where , you know , in all these financial , uh , applications that you make out , you don't have to put all that stuff down there .
A: It would be nice to know what 's , what was ,
A: of course , of course , they could say , well , I ca n't give you a card ,
A: and you could say , fine ,
A: but , you know , some things will be private , you know ,
A: but he said just put N A
A: and he said usually you 'll get approved anyway because they just want your money they want your card .
A: But if you don't feel like putting it down , just put N A , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , that 's real interesting .
B: I know that a lot of times they ask for information that they don't really need , on several things and , you know , your credit ap and all , all they ever need you to do is give them permission to , to pull a credit thing on , on yourself
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: and there it is .
B: That 's all they really care about .
A: Yeah .
B: They just want that credit history to see if you 're a person .
B: If you 're going to go ahead and pay your bills on time and things like that .
A: I have n't ,
A: I don't have any friends down at the , the Austin plant ,
A: but I heard that they were really upset about the drug thing ,
A: and we seem to up here have just breezed through that
A: and apparently some other companies are having trouble
A: that , I don't have any trouble with it .
A: Uh , it 's kind of unusual here we are in Dallas , you know , the biggest location and , and it just breezed through
A: and was n't really , no one was , I guess , was really too concerned about it , uh , yet in Austin , there , there were , whether it was a class action or how far it got , I don't really know because T I only had a few things on T I NEWS I think about it , that they were objecting to
B: Uh-huh .
A: but the ,
A: some people object to that which I don't mind , no problem at all , you know .
B: Oh , I know that there 's several people I 've talked to that really have a problem with it
B: and , I 'm former military
A: Huh .
B: so you get kind of used to , to going through stuff like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: right .
B: You know , you don't pay any attention to it . I mean ,
A: Right .
B: once you sign over your soul to Uncle Sam , , you know , you just kind of , kind of blow it off
A: I know .
B: but
A: I know , yeah .
A: I served my time too , yeah .
B: So , I think , I think the people who have , who have been down that route or have had it , to deal with anything like that have learned , you know , it 's just one of those things .
B: You just do it and be done with it and don't worry about it .
A: Yeah .
B: But I do know that there are several sites .
B: I did n't ,
B: I was n't aware that Austin was one of them ,
B: but I think Johnson City was one .
A: Oh , did they object too ?
B: Yeah ,
B: there 's , there 's several of the cities that have been having real trouble with the issue . And the , but also on things that I 'd heard too from a stockholders meeting was that there were people , uh , there were , the same places where they had a real bad problem with people fighting it were also places they had a big bad problem with the drug usage too .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: well , I 'm , I 'm all for it .
A: I ,
A: uh , it does n't bother me that whether they do it in high schools or , you know , carry it to wherever you want to carry it really , uh , uh , of course , that would really be a big thing in a public school
B: Uh-huh .
A: but , uh , I 'm saying certainly at work I have no problem with it .
A: Uh , uh , and I think it is , they , they found that it 's been very low really .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess maybe at the locations though , I don't know if they have it done but , done it by location .
A: I don't really know if , uh , they need to publish that really .
B: Oh , I don't think it 's a necessary thing to publish it they just need to deal with it and , , on an individual basis .
A: Right .
B: I mean , if they 're going to do it , just deal with it and , be done with it .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: But I think that was an actually a good thing that happened , uh , I never considered it , I guess , it 's an invasion of your privacy
A: but it 's something that is for the good of so many people , you know , to , have everyone , uh , take the test right away
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , and hopefully , maybe some people will convince other people that are on drugs that , well , uh , I might as well get off , you know , if I want to stay so , you know , if that was an invasion of privacy maybe it was good .
B: Oh , I , Oh , I think it 's a safety factor too because , you know , when people are inebriated , whether it 's alcohol or drugs or whatever , they are very unsafe for the , their co-workers , you know , it 's like , you know , my father was a fireman
A: Oh , sure .
B: and I can just imagine if , you know , you know , some guy being on drugs they go there
B: and , and , you know , you 've got somebody that 's supposed to take care of you
A: Right .
B: and they fall , they fall out because of the drug issue ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but the use of drugs or anything like that , will , uh , be a problem .
A: Right .
A: this is , this is a tough one , I don't , really have n't thought about any of this .
A: They had gardening yesterday and all the repairs ,
A: and , boy , I could ,
A: Okay ,
A: what did you buy ?
B: A Ford Explorer .
A: I 'm sorry , what ?
B: A Ford Explorer .
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah ,
B: one of the new ones .
A: Yeah .
B: And , um , I 'd , I 'd probably buy another , this is the first American vehicle I 've owned .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So I would probably purchase another one , um , I would be more selective in the dealership that I purchased it from
B: but as far as , uh , the quality seems to be there , um , it 's quiet , it 's , it handles well , um ,
B: but I believe I 'd get that or a Porsche , one of the two .
A: Oh really ?
B: No ,
B: not
A: Um , if I had the money , I think I would love to own a , a B M W .
B: And why would that be ?
A: I don't know , I ,
A: from what , or
A: either that or Mercedes , just because they 're put together so well .
A: It seems like they last forever .
B: What 's wrong with the Volvo .
A: Oh , I don't know , they 're , they 're not as nice looking .
B: Oh .
A: Uh ,
A: to me , I don't know , I 'm sure there are some that are ,
A: but everyone I 've seen is kind of plain ,
A: but .
B: What , what city are you calling from ?
A: Sherman .
B: Oh .
A: Where are you ?
B: Up in Dallas .
A: Dallas .
B: Um .
A: Yeah .
B: B M W or Mercedes , yeah ,
B: well that 's a , that 's a ,
A: If I had , um , had the money , I mean that 's just ,
A: I know I never would own one ,
A: but , uh , I don't know . I like ,
A: my actual favorite cars were , uh , like the Ford Thunderbirds of nineteen eighty-five .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I really like that body style ,
A: but I don't own one of those either
B: What do you presently drive ?
A: Uh , Mercury Topaz .
B: Um , fun .
A: Cheap taste , cheap taste in cars , okay
B: Well there nothing wrong with those , uh . They 're , they 're nice they 're nice vehicles , nothing wrong with those .
A: Yeah ,
B: It , um , it 's just everybody has their own taste ,
B: but man the Mercedes are expensive .
B: My wife has a Volvo
B: and it , it 's nice , I mean , you know , it 's okay an .
A: Sorry I roped on Volvos then
B: Huh ?
A: Sorry I roped on Volvos then .
B: Oh no ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: no ,
B: no
B: it ,
B: it ,
B: I , I kind of wish we would have maybe gone for the G L rather than the D L
A: Oh , is it ?
A: See I don't much about them I guess .
B: Yeah ,
B: there just safe to just ,
B: that 's the reason why we mainly got it .
B: We got white
B: and it 's the safest four door , you know , it 's good for , if you have a family , which we do .
A: Yeah .
B: We just , we just
B: one out
B: and so it 's , it 's , uh , um , you know ,
B: they 're kind of low to the ground after driving the Explorer .
B: You know , I presently ,
B: I used to have a two , eighty Z ,
B: and I 'm a tall guy an ,
B: and , uh , they 're hard to get around in traffic to see .
A: Really .
B: Because you ca n't see a car ahead of you ,
B: but they 're fast as lightning and all that crap .
B: But the Explorer , I mean , you 're sitting up on top of everything
B: and you can really see real well .
B: And I just ,
B: it 's so comfortable So , you 're ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: what are your feelings about American versus European cars ?
A: Um , I like anything besides Japanese .
A: Of course everything has Japanese parts in them anymore .
A: I don't like Japanese cars ,
B: Why not .
A: But , uh , European , I don't have any , I mean ,
A: those are the kind I usually end up liking the most .
A: American cars , a lot of people say they , they don't last long
A: but I 've never had any problem with , um , my Mercury ,
A: or ,
A: my
A: my husband has a , uh , Cougar
A: and he 's never had any problem with it either ,
A: so , I don't know .
B: That 's the way it goes , I guess .
A: Well what are your ,
A: I guess this is your first time to buy American ,
A: so .
B: Yeah ,
B: I was real hesitant
B: but it was
A: Yeah .
B: I don't know , uh , I mean , I think European cars are great , course you 've got to have metric wrenches and stuff
B: and they 're
B: some , some of them are easy to work on .
B: A Volvo , being a four cylinder is very easy to work on .
A: Really .
B: Uh , excellent warranty , I mean , just , unbelievable warranty .
B: And , and , uh , of course , Ford is n't too bad .
B: I think Chrysler would probably make a good vehicle ,
B: uh , but all of it has to do , in my opinion with the service . and the attitude of the service , of the dealership .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I would n't send my dog to buy a car from Middlekauff Ford .
A: Where ?
B: There 's ,
B: Middlekauff Ford in Plano .
A: Okay .
B: Their just ,
B: their attitude is just slimy .
B: And , and , uh , I 've written a , a letter to Middlekauff
B: and I 've told them that , matter of fact I got another letter last night from the Quality Ford Division , their still concerned about my attitude * spelling `` their '' should be `` they 're
B: and it , it will never change about that place .
B: And , uh ,
B: but , uh , anyway that 's my own personal comment I guess ,
B: but .
A: Yeah ,
A: this girl that works for me just bought a car down there
A: and
A: they , they had a problem with they , uh , took their Camaro in to get it traded and they , they had n't signed any papers
A: and they had all ready , uh , taken it in to paint it and everything
A: and everything was stolen out of it
A: and the people , um , would n't reimburse them for anything .
B: Middlekauff would n't ?
B: She needs to find herself a lawyer .
B: She 'd , she 'd come out like a champ on that one .
A: Yeah ,
A: so , I 've heard some stuff about them .
A: But , um .
B: So have you been using , well anyway .
A: What .
B: That was ,
B: I was asking you some questions about the telephone and how long and how many have you been doing ,
B: but that 's ,
A: Oh .
B: they , they don't want to hear that .
A: Oh , just about a week .
B: Is that all ?
B: A week .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: Good Lord ,
B: I think I started in January or February .
A: Really .
B: Oh God , I 've ,
B: I 'm like twenty some phone calls .
A: Oh , wow .
B: That 's why I , I was n't sure if this was the second time around or what .
B: Well look , I 've enjoyed speaking with you .
A: Yeah ,
A: you too .
B: And keep smiling .
A: Okay ,
A: thanks .
B: Bye , bye .
A: Bye .
A: So , child care , your views .
B: Uh , well , we only have one child right now and another one on the way
B: and right now I 'm , I 'm all with her during the day .
B: I ,
B: if I was looking for outside care I probably would stay away from professional child care centers and try to find , if I was close to home , relatives or people with it is same values and possibly religious faith or something similar so that she would be raised in an environment that would be similar to what we would have in our own homes as , as parents .
A: And what religious faith ?
B: Uh , Latter Day Saints .
A: Oh that 's , that 's good .
B: So so that 's what I would try to do .
B: With a teaching background I 've , um , had a little bit of experience with the child day care type situations
B: but I 've seen some good ones
B: and I 've seen some really bad ones .
A: Uh , they do seem to be at the outside edge of both extremes don't they ?
B: Uh-huh ,
A: And , whenever they are they seem to regulate the good toward the bad instead of bad toward the good .
B: and so ,
B: Right .
B: By trying to get them to conform to concern standards they , uh , kind of , uh , eliminate a lot of the , uh ,
A: Better situations .
B: Yeah .
B: The , the , uh ,
B: what am I trying to think of that , not the imagination but the creativity in , in the situation
B: and so ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah
A: that 's , that 's very well phrased .
A: Uh , so , have you ever used outside child care ?
B: No ,
B: I have n't .
B: We 've had like people come in and baby-sit for an hour or two
B: but I 've never had , um ,
A: Real day care .
B: Right .
B: She 's , she 's not even a year yet ,
B: so , we have n't been in , you know , a lot of need yet .
A: Uh
A: our step daughter 's ten now
B: Uh-huh .
A: and most of the day care has been provide for by Grandma .
A: But , quite honestly what I believe to be the best day care situation was while we lived up , the Pass of Woodland Park there was , uh , ex-school teacher that , uh , did a small amount of before school and after school , you know , kindergartners , or half dayers in her home
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they would read and play ,
B: Have a relative a structured , activities and not just , you know , stick them in a corner and say you 're on your own .
A: seem to be ,
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: and , uh , despite our beliefs , she was , uh , one of the more , uh , Charismatic Christian faiths
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it worked out wonderfully .
B: Yeah .
B: I know that , uh , that I guess if you have the opportunity to pick and choose and you 've got the time and that , uh , I don't know if the resources are the proper term , you know , just the , the know , knowledge of who 's a available , then you could probably find some really good care .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: but I don't know that it would be state approved .
B: That 's true .
B: You can get somebody maybe willing to baby-sit
B: but actual , you know , that 's sometimes different , done on a different scale .
B: I have even considered , you know , baby-sitting myself , I have a teaching degree , and , uh , thought well , you know , I could structure and then for one reason or other decided not to ,
B: but I think if you take more than three children in , well ,
B: that was how it was this Virginia , we 've recently moved here to Texas , but in Virginia I think if you take more than three children in on more than a several hours a day bases you have to be licensed .
A: I ,
A: now I don't know what the current Texas laws are
A: but I , but I do know that the license does n't seem to , uh , guarantee quality .
B: Yeah ,
B: a lot of times you might just need to go now and feel , file for it just like a business .
B: You may not have to prove any type of qualification for it I don't ,
A: Uh , now here I believe that child care meets , by in large , certain standards for , uh , balanced food , if they provide food , cleanliness , and levels of supervision levels being defined as number of working adults for number of children
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's , uh , kind of a minimum there that you 're getting .
B: Your covering basic care there and not all the extras that most people would like to see done with there children , you know , like the educational activities , the supervised play and so forth .
A: uh , my wife is , uh , agnostic
A: and I 'm , uh , a backsliding Presbyterian
B: I like that term
A: and , uh , get , I really believe that this Charismatic care , or the Charismatic belief when emphasized on care , or semi Charismatic I might say was quite good .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: it was a good influence for your daughter , uh .
A: Yes ,
A: very
B: Well , that 's good .
A: and , and , uh , the care is what I guess you should emphasize in the term child care instead of the child .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: a little bit of love and , and attention is what most of them need .
B: You know , even if it 's not a real educated program you can have good educational program
B: and , and ,
A: And not have any care .
B: Right .
B: And , and that 's not certainly what you want for your child or what you would give your child yourself
B: and so ,
A: And I 'm not sure that really child care per se should instill any education per se .
A: Do you know had a I 'm saying ?
B: Well , even educated play , uh , supervised play , can teach without ,
B: and I 'm not saying talking about sitting down and teaching them math or , or , or something like that but just kind of promoting social skills
B: and , uh , uh , you know , like my , my child that ,
B: she want be an only child for long ,
B: but , you know , she was an only child ,
B: or maybe your daughter , not having ,
A: Proper interface .
B: yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: just ,
A: It 's just , just correctness of , of social skills , if you will .
B: Right ,
B: those basic things that , uh , they would , that , you know , you would be a little bit of , uh , I don't know if manners is a good term or not but , you know , dealing with other through proper mannerisms and politeness and so forth , you know , that sort of thing , you 'd want your child to learn that , from the experience of someone else , certainly you would n't want your child 's day care person to yell at them and scream at them and say do this , do that , you know , you 'd want them it promote politeness and niceness , you know , the things that you would want any child to learn
B: and , the reason ,
B: that 's done through example , you know , not an actual sit down learn situation
B: so ,
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: uh , it 's a very broad issue .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: it is
A: And , you know , it 's a shame
A: but most people doing , child care earn almost no money .
A: They operate at , you know ,
A: the owner of the of a , you know , a large child care facility now ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: we 're not talking somebody that does six kids , in their home or three or whatever .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Somebody that does n't really put a lot of overhead whatever into it .
B: You mean somebody that has an actual establishment .
A: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: Their employees earn almost nothing .
B: Yeah .
B: I know I , I did that for summer
B: so I can , I can vouch for that
A: And that 's really , really a shame too because ,
A: do you and your husband both work .
B: No ,
B: just he does I 'm , I 'm here during the day with her .
A: Well , that 's wonderful if , if you can make it that way .
B: Well , we , we decided to ,
B: we live on a lesser budget so that we have
B: that , that 's more important to us , you know , as , as , uh , there may come a time when I will be working again , you know ,
B: but right now that 's what we 've chosen
B: and we wanted to have several ,
B: we got her
B: and we 've got another on the way , and maybe another , one soon after that ,
A: Well , like I said , that 's grand if , if you can pull it off
B: so
B: Right .
A: but more and more we 're being forced into a situation , we as Americans are being forced into a situation , where you 've got to have ,
A: Well , I 'm talking to you from Dallas .
A: What part of the country are you in ?
B: Oh , boy , this is going to be tough , I 'm in Plano
A: Well , we can , uh , complain together or swear we can complain together about the humidity
B: Exactly .
B: I guess the weather has n't been too different between us .
A: No ,
A: I don't think so ,
A: I would n't think ,
A: yeah .
A: I ,
B: what part of Dallas are you from ?
A: Far north Dallas
B: Oh , north Dallas .
A: Yeah ,
A: about a half a mile from Plano
B: Well , jeez .
A: So we 're in the ,
B: Well then you 've been getting quite a bit of rain also .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's been very , very rainy , I know .
A: Oh
B: How about that .
B: How does it compare to the years past ?
A: um , I don't know , I have n't lived here , let 's see , we lived out of state in Wisconsin
A: and we just
A: we lived here ten years ago ,
A: and when we first lived here , we we were in Garland , East Richardson , and , um , does n't seem like it was quite as humid .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: And , I don't know , then we went , we lived in , uh , Madison , Wisconsin for five years , um , for my husband 's schooling , graduate schooling ,
A: and it just ,
A: it 's a lot cleaner up there ,
A: but , um , it 's a lot colder too .
B: Huh .
B: Well , what brought you guys down to Texas then ?
A: Uh , his job , he came back to start work again for a different company ,
A: so , said , Here , here 's a
B: How about that .
A: here we are again .
B: That 's great .
A: It just seems a little more humid than it ,
A: I don't ever remember , of course , you know , you only remember the good stuff ,
A: but , um , I just don't remember the humidity .
B: Right .
B: Well definitely , I 'm sure , the winters are more mild here .
A: This much rain , and this much humidity .
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: they are .
A: Actually , though , it was a lot rainier here in the winter , uh , we came back last August .
B: Uh-huh .
A: It 's just a lot rainier than I remember it , all through the seasons , you know .
B: Sure .
A: Um ,
B: It seems that progressive ,
B: I 've , been down here five years , just over five years now , that , every spring and summer seems to get more and more rainy .
A: Yeah ,
A: and I think it 's because it 's just getting more crowded and more polluted .
A: I really do think that 's part of it .
B: Huh .
A: Um , uh , in , in Wisconsin and Minnesota , when they get winters it 's , um , the winters are bad , but not what you hear about .
A: It 's just like down here , when you hear , when people here think it 's a hundred and six , people up north think it 's a hundred and sixty down here .
B: A hundred and sixty .
A: I 'm making that up .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: right .
A: You know , when it 's only like ninety-five .
B: Sure .
A: Um , it 's just like up there , when you hear it 's forty below , it 's probably really only five below .
B: Right .
A: Um , and it 's so dry , that it 's , it 's like going to
A: well , probably what Arizona used to be like , you know , it 's just dry and cool ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: so it 's not , it 's not what you think it is .
B: True .
A: Um , no ,
A: there have been times , though , when it gets so frigid that you you ca n't stand it .
A: Where did you move here from ?
B: Colorado .
A: Well , there ,
A: you could talk about that , that 's , that 's a strange state for ,
B: Oh sure , I , I 'm uh , I 'm very familiar ,
B: my grandparents and all my relatives are from Wisconsin .
A: Oh , there you go , okay .
B: So , I 'm , uh , quite familiar with how it is up there ,
B: and if you ,
B: kind of interesting , uh , the people down here typically don't think it gets above , you know , fifty degrees
A: This is very true .
B: And it 's always snow , you know ,
B: but , uh ,
A: Yeah ,
A: right ,
A: well actually , the summers up there , we thought , were the most beautiful time of the year .
B: Oh yes .
A: Um , in terms of Colorado , I know my husband likes to camp and backpack and all the stuff I don't like , um ,
A: but I 'd ,
A: used to go on ,
A: I worked for a mortgage company in Wisconsin
A: and I did a lot of business in , uh , um , well , Denver ,
A: and that 's , that 's probably one of the stranger things , when you see the air inversions , and then you go into the mountains
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it 's snowy
A: and uh , it just was a very mixed bag in terms of Colorado .
B: Oh sure .
B: My parents just live , uh , thirty miles south of Denver
B: and it can be sunny and , and no problem in Denver
B: and they 'll be having snow
A: Is n't that strange ?
B: So it 's pretty amazing , it can be that drastic in just a short distance
A: Yeah ,
A: and then things like
A: are there tornadoes in Colorado , yes or I don't ,
B: Uh , it 's getting to be more and more of a possibility .
A: Yeah .
B: It used to be no problem , just because it was such a , a rugged terrain and with trees everywhere ,
B: but now , as they start to clear more things out .
A: The mountains ,
A: yeah .
A: Even , I mean ,
A: I 'm originally from Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania ,
A: and I can tell you that , um , they 've even had ,
A: in eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania , they 've even had , I 'm going to say , mini tornadoes for lack of a better word .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , and that 's just a part of the country that it 's rolling hillside .
A: That was unheard of , you know , twenty years ago .
B: Right .
A: Um , so I don't know what 's happening , if it 's , you know , we are , the greenhouse , I don't really know .
B: Yeah ,
B: me neither .
A: It 's just , you know . It 's definitely not as , um ,
B: But ,
A: I know I associate the pollution with weather in general ,
A: so I guess one thing we do miss , is that 's a smaller town ,
A: and it it was ,
A: it just seemed a little bit more pleasant in terms of the atmosphere , you know .
B: Sure ,
B: sure .
B: Well , it 's been good talking to you .
A: You too .
B: Good-bye
A: Okay .
B: Good-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: what kind of things do you like to do in your spare time ?
B: Well , uh , I have two children ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: so I do not have a whole lot of spare time right now .
B: One of the things that I have made time for is , uh , playing softball .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I really enjoy ,
B: I enjoy softball ,
B: but I enjoy all kind of sports .
B: I enjoy watching and participating .
B: I really like water sports like swimming and skiing ,
B: but I do not get to do that too often .
A: Yeah .
B: And then I , I really enjoy sewing ,
B: but I do not get much of a chance to just really sit down and do much sewing .
B: How about you ?
A: Oh , I , uh , like sports type things too .
A: We like to get out and walk ,
A: and we like the water sports too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But like you , unless you have a pool in your backyard , it is kind of hard to get to do that very often .
B: I , know it .
B: It is .
B: Do you work full time ?
A: Yeah .
A: Well , part time .
A: We are going to have a baby in July .
B: Part time .
B: Oh .
A: So part of my big hobby has been trying to put together a nursery and all that kind of stuff , lately .
B: Right .
B: Yeah ,
B: that definitely takes over your time .
A: Yeah ,
A: it does .
A: I have been ,
B: Is this going to be your first ?
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: I have been doing some cross-stitch for something I wanted to put in the nursery .
A: So , I have not done that in years ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I have kind of enjoyed that .
B: Yeah .
A: It is just hard to find the time to sit there and do it .
B: Right .
B: Well , that is ,
B: it sure is fun to do that kind of thing because then you have got something to show for it .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: That is neat .
A: And I guess I kind of consider shopping a hobby
B: Yeah .
B: I do too .
A: I just go out just to , just to enjoy it and not really spend money sometimes , just look .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: But you will probably find after your children get bigger , uh , like when they want things like tricycles , toys , things that cost quite a lot in the store , you can find that kind of stuff at garage sales for just a few dollars .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: we bought some baby clothes , yeah , last weekend at a garage sale .
B: And ,
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: So , I am ,
B: I have become a garage sale shopper .
B: And it is fun .
A: Uh-huh .
B: On the weekends I drive around , look to see , you know , who is selling what .
B: And I found my little daughter some tap shoes for her tap class . And just , you know , all kinds of things like that , that you would probably pay thirty dollars for ,
A: Oh
B: and I got them for two dollars
A: Wow !
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: So ,
A: Yeah , at a lot of places .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
B: It , it does take more time .
B: But I do not work ,
B: so , uh , that is something I have decided I am going to make sure my kids have a , have a happy growing up years
B: and
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
A: I think that is important too .
A: I am not going to work after the baby comes .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , Well , that is good .
A: So , I guess , hopefully I will have more time for hobbies .
B: I am glad ,
A: I do not know
B: Well , at first , when you first have a baby , you , uh , seems to take every moment of your time . Partly because you are not used to , you know , juggling your time around like that .
B: But , eventually the , you will , you will be doing lots of stuff .
A: Right .
B: So ,
A: Yeah .
B: But I think , my husband is real into sports too .
B: He plays on a T I softball team and the church softball team .
B: And by the time he plays two games a week and I play a game a week , we go to lots of softball
A: Wow !
A: Yeah
B: But the kids enjoy going because there 's usually a lot of other kids for them to play with
B: and we , that is getting outside and , you know , doing things they like to do too .
B: So ,
A: Yeah .
A: So that is good .
A: A whole
A: your whole family can enjoy those hobbies .
B: Yeah .
B: And one other thing we are doing this year is , uh , we bought Wet and Wild passes .
A: Oh .
B: We have never done that before ,
B: but the kids are always wanting to play in the water .
B: And , uh , like you said , unless you have a pool in your backyard or access to a good place to play , it is kind of hard .
B: And , uh , they have real good kiddie areas , uh , at both of the Wet and Wild 's around here .
B: So , we are planning on going two or three times a week
A: Oh , wow .
A: That will make the summer go by in a hurry .
B: Yeah .
B: I think it will .
A: Keep the kids busy .
B: Yeah .
B: Because my oldest daughter is in school ,
B: and she gets bored real fast when she is home with nothing to do .
A: Right .
B: So , I think that will be a lot of fun .
A: Yeah .
B: So we are looking forward to that .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh , do you consider yard work a hobby at all
A: or is that just a chore ?
B: Well , when I got married , I thought it was going to be fun
A: Uh-huh
B: But my husband and I both , I think , consider it a chore .
B: It 's ,
A: Yeah .
B: our yard has had so many problems .
B: It has completely died out two times .
A: Oh , no .
B: And , uh , we have had to start all over trying to plant grass .
B: So it has become a chore
A: Huh .
B: Do you and your husband like to work in the yard ?
A: Oh , well , we like it once in a while but not as often as we have to do it
B: Yeah .
A: I like to put flowers out and , you know , a few little things like that .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But as far as mowing every week , and finding time to get all that stuff done , it gets to be a chore .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: That is true .
A: Seems like sometimes hobbies do that .
A: They kind of take over and turn into work instead of fun .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that is how sewing .
B: I love to sew ,
B: and , uh , I wish I had more time to do it .
B: But sometimes I will get started on a project and then finishing it is more of a chore than
A: Yeah .
A: If it does not go quite , quite right .
B: Yeah .
B: Another thing I enjoy doing is cooking .
B: I , I like especially ,
B: it is real strange ,
B: but I like to cook for other people .
B: Like I have a friend that is , uh , pregnant
B: but she ca n't get up and walk around right now .
A: Oh , no .
B: So , I enjoy , you know , cooking things to take over to her house
B: or ,
A: Oh , that is nice .
B: Yeah .
B: And it , it is fun for me to do that .
B: It is , it is something I enjoy doing .
B: It is funny though , it is like I do not really want to cook for us
B: It is kind of like when you are a kid and , and someone else 's house was fun to clean ,
B: but you did not want to do your own
A: Yeah .
A: Your ,
A: How funny .
A: I think I will enjoy cooking more when I am not working , when I do not get home until five-thirty or six , and I have to cook and clean up ,
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: it is not , it is not fun .
A: But I think I will like it better .
B: Yeah .
B: When you are home it 's , it makes a difference .
A: Yeah .
B: It sure does .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , do you guys go camping or anything like that ?
A: Uh , yeah ,
A: we have done a little bit of camping .
A: We like that .
A: It 's ,
A: there again , it is just so hard to find time to get away for a whole weekend .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , that is something that we are planning to do not this weekend , but the next .
B: My parents go camping a lot ,
B: and they invited the kids and my husband and me to go with them
B: and ,
A: Oh .
A: That sounds fun .
B: Yeah .
B: We are really looking forward to it .
B: The girls love it .
B: They have been a couple of times , and , uh , just getting to be outside , you know , all the time and sleep in a tent . And that is really fun to them .
B: So , We are looking forward to that .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , that sounds nice .
A: I , I think that would be a good family thing to start doing more often .
B: Yeah .
B: I think so .
B: Yeah .
B: My , uh , my husband loves to fish .
B: I am not much into fishing ,
B: but , uh , my daughter thinks she wants to learn how to fish
B: so I think it will be real good for them
A: Uh-huh .
B: They can go fishing .
A: Yeah ,
A: we have camped with some friends who have young children
A: and , uh , if you can find some place where those little sunfish are right around the shore where they can just pull in a line .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Oh , they have so much fun doing that .
B: Yeah .
A: And they think they are really great fishermen because they are catching so many
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Oh , I know .
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , she is really looking forward .
B: I am hoping ,
B: that is another thing though , when sometimes your , uh , hobbies can interfere with each other .
B: Because my husband is afraid he is going to have a softball tournament that weekend .
A: Oh .
B: And I am saying , no , no
A: Yeah .
A: Skip this tournament
B: Yeah .
B: If you are doing a lot of things , sometimes you have conflicts ,
B: and you have to decide what you enjoy the most .
A: Right .
B: So ,
A: Yeah .
A: Do you do any other crafts or anything besides your sewing ?
B: Well , not really right now .
B: I keep thinking when the kids get bigger and I have a little more time , uh , I might take up , there is , I would love to cross-stitch .
B: I think cross-stitching is so pretty ,
B: but I have never done any .
A: It is not too hard .
A: It is ,
B: Yeah .
A: I do not think it is as hard as like knitting or crochet or something like that .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
B: I , I crocheted when I was younger .
B: It is funny , when I was in high school , I made a blanket .
B: And ,
B: but you know , I ca n't even remember how I did it now
A: Yeah
B: It has been so long since I did it that
B: but ,
A: Yeah .
A: I started to to knit a sweater .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I got off on my rows somehow ,
A: and so what should have been the back all of a sudden was on the front .
B: Oh , yeah .
A: And then I tore it out and threw it down .
A: And I never have , picked it back up again ,
A: and now I ca n't remember anything about it
B: Yeah ,
B: well , I did the same thing .
B: Uh , when I was pregnant with my first daughter , I was really bored ,
B: and I bought one of those latch hook rug kits .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: It was a real pretty rug .
B: And I thought , well I could use this as a gift or something , you know .
B: And oh , it was so ,
B: it was beautiful ,
B: but I did not realize how long it took .
B: And I got about two , two-thirds of it done ,
B: and then I just ,
B: I had the baby
A: Yeah
B: And then it was just like I forgot all about it .
A: Forget it .
B: And every once in a while I will be digging through the closet ,
B: and I will find that thing .
B: And I will think , oh , maybe I ought to get the rest of that out , you know , and finish it .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh , for a while there latch hook rugs were a real big , uh , hobby .
A: Yeah .
A: I remember that .
B: It seemed like people did them a lot .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , uh , people do not do that much any more .
B: So , it was something easy I could do
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: They are pretty easy .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , it has been real good talking to you .
B: Yeah .
B: You too .
A: And I hope you enjoy your camping trip .
B: Oh , thank you .
B: And thanks for calling .
A: Uh-huh . * used to mean `` you 're welcome ''
A: Bye .
B: Bye-bye .
B: in Well I always think I 'm paying too much taxes .
B: How about you ?
A: Yeah ,
A: oh definitely
A: Seems like ,
B: Although at least Texas does n't have a state income tax yet .
B: I mean , you know , they keep threatening us that maybe there will be a day that they 're going to , uh , enact this I think , uh , the , um , other means of providing income for the state have been dwindling
B: so they keep trying to say we may need a , uh , state income tax
A: Yeah ,
A: I think that , uh , we probably will have to have , have to , uh , have a state income tax because , uh , Texans don't approve of such things as lotteries , uh , well I , I , come here from New York
A: and New York had a state lottery ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it really raised a lot of money for the , for the state .
A: Uh , although we ,
A: in New York we had to pay a state and a city , uh , tax .
A: And it was really a great relief when I got to Texas that I did n't have to pay that city income tax , though .
B: Yeah ,
B: makes quite a bit of difference in your , uh , well your income level .
A: Right .
B: You know , because other states quite a a chunk out for , uh , city and state taxes
B: so you 're , uh , looking at your yearly salary , it makes quite a difference .
A: It sure does make a difference .
B: A little more take home here
A: Uh-huh .
A: Do you live in Dallas ?
B: Yeah ,
B: Richardson area .
A: Oh , you do ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I work at , well mainly the Expressway Site is where I work like
A: Oh , I do too .
B: Oh , okay
A: Okay ,
A: and then , you know too , that , um , taxes are , are less , like if you live in Mesquite .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , some people will go shopping in Mesquite at the malls out there , uh ,
B: Or up to Collin County , somewhere that you 're getting out of the , um , Dallas County area because , what do we pay , like eight and a half percent , something like that for the , uh , sales tax .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Eight point five .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Which , yeah , that really is pretty high .
A: Is it the
A: is it , uh , less in Collin County than it is in Dallas County ?
B: or I guess maybe if I was going to buy a car or something , maybe I would consider where I was buying it , to try to , you know , save a little bit on that sales tax , because on a car that really kind of mounts up
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: it sure did
A: and then once you could deduct at least some of that , um , off , off your income tax
A: and you ca n't do that anymore .
B: Yeah .
A: It really hit me yesterday , I had , uh , air conditioning service for my car done .
A: And I had a little , little , uh , coupon special that was twenty-two dollars for , um , air conditioning service where they , uh , checked it and recharged it and put one , one pound of freon in
B: Uh-huh .
A: and if you needed another pound of freon they
A: it , it was like seven dollars and something .
A: And then with the with the twenty-two dollars and the seven something , it all came out to , I , I ended up paying like thirty-four dollars .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah
B: that 's true .
B: Although I I wish , you know , overall they 'd try the lottery again .
B: When did you first come to Texas ?
A: Really , where did you come from ?
B: Um , well , Ohio , kind of .
B: My parents live in Ohio .
B: I had lived a little while in Michigan ,
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: but , you know , basically I went to high school and college in Ohio and lived there uh , more years than I ever did in Michigan .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , uh , I did visit , uh , Michigan , I visited Kalamazoo once .
A: My sister used to live there .
B: Oh , okay
A: Uh-huh .
B: But you know , when we first came down here , I really thought this place was somewhat backward , I mean , I was just shocked that we could n't shop on Sunday .
B: Remember that ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , there were stores that you could go to , uh , you know , like discount stores and stores down in the village and just all over the place where you could go to
A: and you could shop until like twelve or one o'clock that night
A: and that was like , that was really the only night they were open that late ,
A: but it was Christmas eve .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And when I came to Dallas , I thought I was going to do that Christmas eve
A: and I could n't find hardly anything open , after five o'clock in the afternoon .
B: Were you shocked like , oh no , I 'm stuck I need to buy stuff .
A: An I was , oh , I was , I really , I really was stuck
A: And I think Target was the one that stayed open later than any , anybody else .
A: And , uh , I was able to pick up a few things in there ,
A: but , boy I was , I was really shocked .
A: And then another shock I had well , when I went to , um , to buy a slice of pizza and found out that I had to buy the whole pie .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , few places now seem to do it by the slice
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: now ,
A: but they ,
A: back then they did n't .
B: Right .
A: When I first came , no .
A: Anyway ,
B: Well the , the , uh , there was other things too , I mean , I think it 's taken us Yankee 's influence down here , to get them to , uh , come to the , you know , the correct decade here and century .
B: Um , I could n't believe that you could have open containers of beer , alcohol , whatever , in the car !
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: voice says , that 's not the I mean , you could always , um , uh , be careful about that back then because , uh , you know , if if a cop stopped you then you would , um , you know , get arrested or what not .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: and talk a talking about alcohol and beer , look at the taxes on that , and the taxes on a package of , of cigarettes .
B: And people would just drink openly .
A: I used to smoke , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , that would have been enough to , to make me , me give them up .
A: The price of them now ,
A: but I gave them up a couple years ago because I had some sinus problems .
B: Oh .
B: I don't smoke ,
B: so I don't really know what the , taxes are and stuff on it .
A: Well ,
A: Well they 're like two ,
A: or , I , I believe they 're hitting two dollars a pack now .
B: Um .
A: A little bit , a little bit more in some places .
B: So you end up about paying about twelve dollars for a pack and two dollars of that is taxes .
B: Huh .
B: Gee .
A: Um , because I remember we went to , to Oklahoma to this bingo place . This Choctaw Bingo , uh , a couple weeks ago
A: and somebody that went with me bought a carton for , uh , ten dollars and something
A: and they really thought they were getting a big discount .
B: They 're cheaper there ?
A: Well because , it 's , you know , the Indians , I don't think they pay tax .
B: Oh !
A: In , in Oklahoma .
B: Oh , I got you ,
B: okay .
A: And , uh , it was a Indian , well it 's a bingo hall for the benefit of the Indians there .
B: Uh-huh
A: Although I did n't see very many Indian people in there
A: There were just bus loads of people that come from everywhere else to play that bingo because it 's , it 's , the stakes are higher and payoffs are bigger and so forth .
B: Well how did you do ?
A: I won a dollar
B: A dollar , oh well ,
B: but you had fun playing , right .
A: Yeah ,
A: I had fun , uh , a couple on the bus won some money .
A: One , one guy won
A: Okay ,
A: do you have any pets ?
B: Yes ,
B: I 've had , I have had a number of them in my lifetime
B: and I 've ,
B: I am a Golden retriever fan ,
A: Oh .
B: but I had to replace it with something that the kids could carry .
A: Oh
B: Yes .
B: Yes .
A: Instead of being carried
B: Yes ,
B: well , they were ,
B: they really wanted something teeny tiny ,
B: and I , uh , really wanted that retriever 's disposition . Uh , the ultimate to tolerant , trainable disposition ,
A: Yeah .
A: Really .
B: so I called four or five dog trainers because I don't like the little dogs .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , and I asked them , you know , these are the ages of the kids , what do I get .
B: And they all said , Golden Retriever
B: and I said okay , put it under twenty pounds .
B: And the only thing that they could come up with was a Bichon Frize which is a ,
A: Huh .
B: Do you know what that is ?
A: Yes ,
A: I 've seen those .
A: They 're cute .
B: They 're cute .
B: They look like an air headed let me tell you .
B: They 're calm , they 're not yuppie , they 're trainable , they 're , uh , very personable in a different way that a Golden Retriever is .
B: They 're not dignified like a retriever can be .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: So how old is your retriever ?
A: Oh , she 's about four .
A: She 's not completely pure .
A: We got her from the , uh , Humane Society when she was a puppy .
A: She looks like a
A: she looks just like a Golden Retriever ,
A: but she 's a little bit smaller .
A: She 's like fifty-five pounds .
B: Well , actually , you know , that 's the breed standard for females .
B: What you ,
A: Is it ?
B: yeah ,
B: what you see shown and bred now as Golden Retrievers , this , you know , plus eighty to a hundred pound range .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That is not breed standard .
A: Huh .
B: Fifty-five is the minimum
B: but they usually run about sixty to sixty-five .
B: And the ones that are shown , they are inside that weight allowance .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You can not show your retriever if it 's , you know , a hundred plus pounds .
A: Oh , huh .
B: So don't say she 's small , just say she 's perfect .
A: Yeah .
A: She 's perfect .
A: Well , she 's got a brown nose instead of black too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Which makes her , I guess , unshowable , even if she had papers which she does n't
B: Yep .
A: but , but we love her anyway .
A: She 's just a lot of company to us .
A: We did n't ,
A: we have n't had any kids
A: and we 're expecting a baby this summer ,
A: but up until then , she 's been our substitute kid
A: and she was a lot of fun .
B: Well , they are , they are the ultimate dog to have around kids so long as your kid is not scared of a big dog , because I had a retriever , actually I had a retriever Irish Setter cross . Which is a really nice animal
A: Right .
A: Oh .
B: and fortunately it was just like a retriever
B: and then I 've had a retriever .
A: I bet it had a pretty coat too .
B: It was gorgeous .
B: It was just gorgeous . I mean just gorgeous .
B: Um , and they both , you know ,
B: both the half breed and the pure breed had the , uh , what I consider the , the , the perfect disposition .
B: But you know what , you know what scares me about Golden Retrievers ?
B: Since they 've become so popular you get what I call backyard breeders . Which is probably where yours came from . People that don't know what they 're doing , and they breed them , you know , for a certain characteristic .
B: And in the retrievers it happens to be they like them big , for somehow big is perceived as the better .
B: And when you start doing that you really tamper with , you know , the , all the , the years of , uh , culling litters
B: and , and , uh , you tamper with what the dog innately is .
A: Yeah .
B: We
B: when I was ,
B: when I bought my last purebred retriever I mean I looked all over because I wanted one that still looked like a retriever , you know , the short to the ground , stocky , golden , uh , trainable , tractable , quiet animal that could hunt and still be in the house .
A: Right .
B: And I ended up getting one that , uh , came out of a , a , a hunting stock because I wanted one that could still perform like a retriever did .
A: Oh .
B: And I 've seen an awful lot of lately really dumb , dumb retrievers
B: and I 'm , and I really fear for the breed because I love that breed ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I really figure right when it becomes really popular that it 's going to be ruined .
A: We have some friends with a brother and sister Golden retriever
A: and those dogs have been having seizures ,
A: and I wonder since both of them are having them if it 's some kind of breeding problem .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: You bet you .
B: You bet you .
B: You know how they came up with the retriever , don't you , the Golden ?
A: Huh-uh .
B: It was bred out of several different retrievers ,
B: and they bred it for companionship and , uh , uh , disposition and , and ability to hunt .
B: It was kept only by kings .
A: Oh .
B: But they selectively culled those litters , I mean , for many hundreds of years
B: and since it slept in the castle with its master , I mean it had , it had to be of a disposition to make it , you know , an animal you could keep around that closely .
B: But they would go through all the litters and destroy the puppies if they were anything other than perfect .
B: Now , you know , that seems like a cruel thing to do .
A: Yeah .
B: On the other hand , you sure , you know , they sure created a , a wonderful breed , I mean a wonderful breed .
A: Yeah .
A: They did .
A: I , I had never really had a Golden retriever before .
A: We were going to get a shepherd and something mixed because my husband 's family had had shepherds
A: and all the other ,
A: we looked at some of the shepherd mixes and the puppies were n't very , uh , social and stuff .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And we went to a pen of a little bit bigger dogs
A: and all the others were standing there barking and jumping up and down .
A: And one dog would stand there wagging her tail and smiling
A: And that , was mine .
B: Well , I tell you , you know the , the German shepherd is the classic case of what I 'm talking about because in America that 's called a Rin Tin Tin phenomena .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Only in America is there a dog called a German Shepherd .
A: Oh , really ?
B: That dog is bred out of three European dogs . The Belgian Tervurien , a German Skutzhund , and a makes a I always forget the third one . I can see it .
B: Uh , uh ,
B: but the third one is a children 's dog .
A: Oh .
B: And there are distinct breeds in Europe .
B: Now what happened over here was is that people saw the , the first , um , which would actually have been a Skutzhund which is what Rin Tin Tin was .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And everybody wanted Rin Tin Tin .
B: And it was known as a German shepherd here .
B: So they created a breed standard . The American Kennel Club did .
A: Oh .
B: That said anything that is a Skutzhund , a , a Tervurien and , uh , Alsatian that 's the other one . Alsatian , any inner breeding of that can be called a German shepherd here .
A: Huh .
B: And what happened is , is that people wanted this shepherd to shepherd and protect .
B: And they bred a dog that I it 's called a , an animal 's critical span which basically translates to how much shit will it take before it bites you .
B: That German shepherd , the American German Shepherd here was a , a , a such an unreliable animal that the American Seeing Eye Institute refused to use them , because they would turn on on their handlers .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And even , um , uh , police corps which started , you know , finding other breeds to use because this thing , this , this thing known as a German shepherd here , its personality and its dependability and its reliability was just terrible .
B: So about fifteen years ago the German Shepherd Club of America decided amongst themselves that they were going to change this .
B: So they went back to Europe and brought back some good examples of each of the three breeds and bred to a standard what they wanted an American German shepherd to be . Which is a very heavily now Skutzhund and Alsatian ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's the Alsatian that 's the kid 's dog .
B: It 's just ,
B: you see them in Europe
B: and they 're just lovely .
A: Huh .
B: But you 'll see ,
B: I mean , if you ever start looking in papers now and you start seeing these ads for German Shepherds , they will say on them , bred for disposition , A K C conforming which means that their advertising that this is no longer an indiscriminate dog .
A: Huh .
B: This is bred for ,
B: and they had to go through and destroy a , for a while there , about seventy-five percent of their puppies that they bred .
A: Wow .
B: Because they were looking for this disposition .
B: And nowadays you , you 'll get , you 'll get a dog trainer to recommend a specific , you know , breeder handler .
B: They will recommend their shepherds as a children 's dog .
A: Huh .
B: But ...
A: Okay ,
A: well , I 'll start off being controversial .
A: I 'm in favor of it .
B: That does n't necessarily mean you 're controversial .
A: Well , it seems to be in the current situations
A: but , uh , I still feel that it could be a deterrent to crime . Particularly with the increase of serious crime that 's going on now .
B: Well , I think that those crimes which are punishable by the death sentence , need to be reevaluated .
A: Okay .
B: I think there are other crimes that could easily draw the death penalty and not make me feel bad at all .
A: Yeah ,
A: I think , uh ,
B: Crimes against children is one of them .
A: Oh , definitely .
A: Any , any crimes against person , uh , I feel , uh , there should be more than a slap on the hand , and being sent to prison and being released in , uh , two or three years .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Actually , I would like to see the system revert a lot back to some of the forms of punishment that exist in Middle Eastern countries .
B: If you steal , you lose a hand .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: That 's a ,
B: You know , uh , if you kill , you lose your life .
B: What 's wrong with that ?
A: I don't see a thing wrong with that .
B: Yeah .
A: I believe that , uh , Well , it 's just an , an example .
B: Uh ,
A: I think there 's , uh , someone that 's on trial right now here in the Dallas area ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they were interviewing the , the ,
A: a young lady was killed sometime back , a young girl .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , how do you feel about this ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: and they want the person punished and punished , properly .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh
B: Deciding what that proper punishment is , is one thing .
B: I think that there should be no way , I , I realize that innocent people could go to , uh , what is it , lethal injection now .
A: Yes .
B: Innocent people could do that ,
B: but for every innocent person who would be executed , hopefully there would be ten guilty .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I feel like the , the cost of someone who 's quoting figures made the cost , at like thirty thousand dollars , a year to keep someone in prison .
B: Uh , Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: To maintain a prison
B: that 's right .
B: That 's stupid .
A: And , well , the problem there is they 're not keeping the right ones in prison in many cases .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There are more , and more instances being on the news ,
B: Sure .
B: Uh-huh .
A: or this individual was out on the streets , on probation or parole and killed someone else . Or , seriously injured someone .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sure .
B: Sure .
B: Well , I don't have solutions to the problems ,
B: but you know you have these ,
B: this would be nice if
B: and there 's probably thousands of holes in that theory , blinded her .
A: Yeah .
B: I think then that a life sentence to restitution is appropriate .
A: Yes .
B: I think he should spend the rest of his life working to support that individual or the family of an individual . Uh , who has been harmed you , you , you know .
A: Yes ,
A: indeed .
A: Yeah .
B: People who kill policemen . And I
A: Yeah .
A: No .
A: Here again , anytime anyone goes out with a gun in their hand and crime on their mind uh , the opportunity exists for someone to get killed .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's right .
A: Now I 'm not in favor of gun control to the degree or anything because , uh , there are uses for guns which are noncriminal
B: Uh-huh .
A: but it seems that the criminal element are the ones that are using them . Uh , aside from domestic disputes , husbands shooting wives or vice versa .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But these individuals , if they have a gun with them , I think that the , the sentence should be even longer than if they don't .
B: I don't , I don't agree with the length , of the sentence though .
A: Well , Well , but here again , uh , if a matter of expediency , part of these costs like the people on Death Row is that their appeals can take years and years .
B: I think expediency is the answer .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's right .
A: There should be some , uh ,
A: I know there 's a law , I believe , that it 's automatic appeal if it 's a death sentence .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I think that automatic appeal ought to take place , uh , within a reasonable length of time , say six months .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And a decision be made and not drag out in the courts for years , because of misplaced commas or whatever technicalities , there might be .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's right ,
B: technical ,
B: I think that there should be a statute of limitations on appeals .
A: Right ,
A: there 's got to be a , there 's got to be a time limit .
B: you can appeal it once .
B: I think if it is appealed one time and the appeal is turned down or the sentence stands , then you might be allowed one more appeal if it is , if , if it is , contradictory .
A: A , a legit , legitimate appeal , not a technicality , of , uh , if , and they 're not arguing that the guy or woman committed the crime .
B: Yeah .
B: That 's right .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They 're arguing over , well , were his civil rights violated because , uh someone did n't file the proper paper at the proper time .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: Those are the things that have caused them to drag out I think .
B: That 's right .
B: Well , one of the sad things is that so many of these never actually come to trial because of , of the process in which the criminals were apprehended .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , uh , you know the guy is guilty .
B: You know he 's done what he 's done .
B: You , you may have stood there and seen it .
B: But because he was n't read his rights whenever he was arrested , you know , he , he goes free .
A: He did n't see his , lawyer as quickly as he should have , or some , some Mickey Mouse type thing like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: Right ,
B: and I realize that that is designed to protect the innocent .
B: It 's also designed to line the pockets of lawyers .
A: Oh , yes
B: And , uh , I , I just don't think that ,
B: I think we could get along a lot better in our criminal justice system if we had some statute of limitations on lawyers
A: Yes .
B: I hope you 're not a lawyer
A: No ,
A: I 'm not a lawyer
A: I ,
A: I 'm an accountant
A: and I agree .
B: Yeah .
A: We practice law ourselves because it 's too expensive to hire lawyers , to a degree .
B: Absolutely .
B: That 's why you check books out from the library .
A: There you go .
B: But I really believe that our justice system is , is the best around
B: but it 's not perfect ,
B: and that does n't mean that you leave it in tact . * in tact intact
A: Well , it 's , it 's a case that we have a , a legal system which the criminals have found a way to use and a way to benefit them rather than the public itself .
B: That 's right .
A: So that 's how we get caught in this , uh sort of a catch twenty-two .
B: That 's right .
B: Uh-huh .
B: That 's right .
A: But you have to continue , uh , to protect the innocent you 're giving an open door to the guilty .
B: That 's right .
B: And , and , it ,
B: I don't know there just seems to be so many clever ways to avoid the real intent of the law by following the letter .
A: Yeah .
B: And that just ,
B: that really does ruffle my feathers , at times .
A: Yes It does , most people .
B: I mean I can just get so , aggravated about it .
B: But , you know , it 's , it 's going to take smarter people than me to solve the problem
B: And I hope , not lawyers
A: Again one of our one of our problems is that , uh , our legislature and the state and our national congress , the majority of the members thereof are lawyers .
A: Well , uh , if you had to pick a , a type of music that you like , would you be able to ? * functions as a qw
B: Well , I could pick country music . * answered as if to a qw
A: Country music ?
A: I ,
B: As I 've gotten older , I 've started listening more to the words of music and to the softer melodies .
B: Not originally .
A: Not originally .
A: Where you from ?
B: Georgia .
A: Georgia .
A: Okay , well , see
A: I 'm , I 'm from Chicago ,
A: so uh , I 'm kind of in a different category here . Uh ,
B: If you had to pick one , what would you choose ?
A: Uh , I would probably go with ,
A: it 's tough , uh , I think I would just stick with the classics . Only because , uh , I like music just for music 's sake
A: and uh , you know , I 'm from the era where , you know , we had all the rock and roll .
A: I 'm forty
A: so I 'm , you know , part of that whole deal
A: and , uh , that was a real interesting time
A: and , you know , the music sort of made the whole time very rich with sound .
A: Uh , but I think I 'd stick back with my Beethoven and my Bach and my Mozart
A: I mean because it 's just ,
A: it will always be there .
A: It 's classic
A: and I don't have to worry about , you know , what 's current and what 's not because I have n't been current with music for a long time .
A: But , you know , same , uh ,
A: and , as far as country music is , I 've never really , uh , listened to it .
A: I mean because that 's just ,
A: it was ,
A: it was n't part of what I knew ,
A: so , there you go
B: Well , I understand what you 're saying .
B: I think if you would listen to it a little , you would discover that it has a lot of roots from the , both from the classics and from some of the rock and roll of the era that , that we both lived through .
A: Right ,
A: yeah .
B: Uh
A: I ,
A: it 's , it 's a different perspective on everything , too .
A: I , I know , well , whenever they talk about , uh , country music , it 's about , it seems sad to me .
A: It 's always about some guy losing some girl and then , you know , playing the guitar and singing about it .
B: Well , there 's some joy in it also .
B: But , mostly it , it just tells a story about life .
A: Yeah .
A: Well , I must say , though , uh , I listen to Amy Grant .
A: Do you consider her country ?
B: I don't know .
B: I 'm not all that familiar with her work .
A: Uh , uh , let 's see . Well , name some people that are country that I should listen to
A: That would be good .
B: Well , I kind of like , uh , I like groups like the Statler Brothers . And the Judds , certainly .
A: Okay .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: I , I must admit that 's , yeah , they 're fantastic ,
A: so , uh , uh ,
B: Reba McIntire is a little too country for me .
A: She 's something , though .
A: She 's got so much energy
B: That 's true .
A: Well , I guess I , I have listened in on some of the stuff and not really realized it that I do like some of that .
A: Uh , Dolly Parton , she 's kind of ,
A: is she kind of country ?
B: Oh , yes .
A: Kind of
B: That 's certainly where her roots are .
A: Right down there .
A: Uh , uh , how about the Oak Ridge Boys .
B: Very much so .
A: Very much .
A: Okay ,
A: well , I like them , too .
A: So I guess I 've had a smattering
A: and I just , uh , you know , picked ,
A: I 've picked up a little bit along the way that I probably would n't have if I 'd stayed up north , you know .
B: That 's true .
A: You know , so , well , I think there 's music all around anyway .
A: I mean , I think life is just music ,
A: so , you know , you can hear it wherever you want
A: and , uh , and I 've , I 've kind of shied away from some of the new stuff because I just don't understand it .
A: But maybe twenty years from now they 'll look at it as classic rock and roll which I really like
A: so ,
B: Well , it 's just difficult for me to believe that anybody 's ever going to make a , a record of the rap songs of the eighties .
A: Yeah ,
A: the greatest hits ,
A: right ,
B: Yeah
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: so , I mean , it , it , it 'll , if it stands the test of time , we 'll see .
B: That 's true .
A: And , uh , then it 'll ,
A: if it survives , then it 'll just probably be one or two songs that sort of , hey listen what we listened to
B: Yeah
A: Can you believe this sort of thing ,
A: but , uh , you know , I , I think of ,
A: I get real tickled when I listen to some of these old Beatle , uh , music , you know , the orchestration of it and that it 's so popular still
A: and , and , uh , you know , all these rocks , rock stations call it classic soft rock , you know
B: Right .
A: But we used to listen to it full blast
B: Of course .
A: Yeah .
A: So , it 's kind of funny the way we listened to the stuff ,
A: but , I don't know .
A: Well , you got any more ?
B: Well , the big key is that , I think you 've already stated , that all music is rooted in the classics
B: and it has grown from there . this short .
A: Well , that 's ,
A: Okeydoke ,
A: well , it was great .
A: Yeah .
A: And we 'll , uh , listen to some more music
A: and , uh , I 'll look at some country .
B: You bet .
A: Okay .
A: Bye-bye
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay ,
A: we can start .
B: Okay .
B: Hi .
A: Hi .
B: How many children do you have ?
A: I have four .
B: Oh , four ,
B: okay ,
B: okay .
A: How many do you have ?
B: Well , I have two children and , uh , two stepdaughters .
A: Okay .
B: So we have four altogether , too .
A: Okay .
B: Yeah .
B: Are you , are you running ragged these days ?
A: Well , no ,
A: because mine are all grown
B: Oh , they are .
B: Oh
A: So the topic for me ,
A: I , I can only relate now to my grandchildren .
B: Oh , well good .
A: I do keep my ,
B: Impart me some wisdom , Catherine
A: Uh , I do take care of my youngest granddaughter , uh , most every Saturday .
A: Uh , my daughter and her husband work Saturdays .
A: My daughter is , uh , uh , doing a schedule of , uh , twenty-four hours on the weekend ,
A: but she gets paid for forty .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And Dave is , uh , in supervisory work
A: and he has to work almost every Saturday
A: so ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh ,
B: How old is your granddaughter ?
A: She 's three .
B: Oh , so she 's a little one .
A: Yes .
B: Yeah .
A: She 's , she 's little
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: She 's says how are you doing grandma today .
B: Oh
A: Whoa
B: Are you surviving .
B: Is she your oldest child ?
A: Oh , no ,
A: no ,
A: no .
A: No ,
A: she 's my baby .
B: Oh .
A: She 's my baby ,
A: yeah .
B: Oh .
A: She was a miracle baby .
B: Was she ?
A: Yeah ,
A: she really was .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , that 's nice .
B: Now do your other grandchildren live in the Dallas area ?
A: Yes ,
A: they do ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Do you get to see them ?
A: They really do ,
A: uh-huh .
B: How nice .
B: What a treat .
B: You know , being from Plano , you know , I know so very few people who have extended family in town .
B: I 'm real jealous when I hear that somebody has a grandma around because we don't ,
A: Oh
A: yeah ,
A: that 's really ,
B: and ,
A: that 's really wonderful .
B: It is ,
B: it is .
A: Yeah .
B: And , you know , just so that they get to know their grandparents , but also for help
A: Yeah .
B: We don't , we don't have that luxury .
B: But , we have lots of friends ,
B: and , and everybody tends to be in the same boat .
B: So we , we trade off a whole lot with friends and , you know , run here and run there .
B: We 're right smack dab in the middle of baseball season right now .
B: And we have three playing baseball .
A: Oh , that 's marvelous .
B: So
A: Well they keep you hopping , I 'm sure .
B: They definitely do .
A: Well , I know , uh , that , uh , one of the ladies I know , they are very involved with their little girl
A: and , and I think it 's excellent because she 's getting qualified quality time for , uh , her musical , uh , talents her sports abilities
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , I think because she is , uh , the only child that they concentrate , uh , they would like to have more ,
A: but that has n't been , uh , possible .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: And , uh , she 's tried many , uh , avenues
B: Yeah .
A: and , and so now it 's just , you know , that she 's kind of resolved herself that , yes , this is going to be the only one
B: Yeah ,
B: and she devotes ,
B: yeah .
A: And they 're focusing on all of her , uh , welfare .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , our kids , you know ,
B: uh , my daughter uh , sings with Younger Generation , I don't know if you 've ever heard of them .
B: There they 're a singing group here in Plano .
A: Oh , okay .
B: And they 're part of the uh , Plano Children 's Civics , Civic Chorus .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they 're going to Washington , D. C. next December Uh , to sing for President Bush at the White House at Christmas time .
A: Oh , how wonderful .
B: Is n't that neat ?
B: Yeah ,
B: so , So we have been really up to our eye balls in fund raising and trying to get , uh ,
A: That 's wonderful .
A: Well , that 's wonderful .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
B: It is .
B: So , you know , and then she plays softball
B: and my son plays baseball
B: and my stepdaughter plays softball
B: so we , we tend to do a lot of running .
B: Things are very different nowadays than when I grew up
A: Oh , they are .
B: and I 'm sure when your children grew up you did n't , you know ,
B: I don't remember doing all these things .
A: No .
B: I certainly don't remember my parents running me here and there and supporting me in all these things ,
B: but we had more , I guess family time alone where we did nothing . Which was good .
A: Yeah ,
A: you 're ,
A: Now I think everything is doing , doing , doing , out of the house . Which can be very hectic .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: It can be
B: and , and sometimes I , you know , I kind of long for the good old days when we did n't do all these running .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was n't so
B: But on the other hand , we just love watching the kids play and getting to know the other parents
B: and we 've had a lot of fun with that , too .
A: Uh-huh .
A: You have to look on that , on the , uh , positive side of that .
B: It 's just different .
A: Yes ,
A: it is .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's just a different lifestyle .
B: It 's just very different .
A: Yes .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: My , uh , second grandson is in A Cappella
A: and I know what you 're talking about when he 's involved , you know , the children are involved in that ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and he 's been ,
A: he has traveled
A: and they have won awards ,
A: so I
B: Oh , really .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And , I know where you 're coming from
B: Yeah .
A: and it 's , it 's very nice .
B: It is very nice .
A: I think , uh , uh , those type of children , uh , that are involved in things like that , their , uh , goals are going to be set higher than the average child that are not participating in things .
B: Well , I think so ,
B: and , and I think they 've learned a whole lot about being part of a team , whether the team is your singing group , your band , your your sports team you know , you all have to pull together .
A: Right .
A: Going to ,
A: Yeah .
B: And , uh ,
A: A , a , a team effort ,
A: yes .
B: Yeah ,
B: and so I 've been real pleased with that , too .
B: I think they 've learned some real good life skills . Uh , you know , being involved in all those things .
A: That , That 's wonderful .
B: And , uh ,
A: That 's really is nice to have in your background , that , you know , then you can , you 're , you can be very flexible .
B: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , there 's less , uh , friction involved in relationships when you add that skill of teamwork .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , I mean a lot of people that are adults are having to go back and learn those basics when our children are already learning that .
B: Yes ,
B: yes .
A: And I think it 's a step , a , a giant step of progress , I really do .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: So , uh , I ,
B: Give me some wonderful advice Catherine .
B: What is the best advice of mothering that you know ?
A: The best of , Well , uh , Cathy , I think if you look to the Word of God and , uh , think on the things that are pure and lovely
B: Besides don't sweat the small stuff
B: Uh-huh .
B: Oh , that 's good , that 's real good advice .
A: and , uh , keep your mind off of negative things .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And keep your mind on positive things
A: and , and stress that to your children .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , even if they 're , even if they 're discouraged , tell them that that 's just a passing moment and to dwell on those things that are , uh , not negative and that are positive things in their life
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , I think you 'll see a lot of growth in , uh , in their ability to , uh , control their thought pattern
A: and , and when you employ the Word of God there 's nothing as powerful as the Word of God .
B: Absolutely .
B: Well , I would agree with that .
B: We 're also real active in our church
B: and my kids do an awful lot with that .
B: Allyson sings in the choir .
B: I told her that 's a gift from God
B: and you need to return that back .
A: Oh , absolutely .
A: That 's right .
B: And you owe , you owe that back to God because he 's given you that ability and that talent
A: Uh-huh
B: and and that 's real nice .
A: Right .
B: I 'm real proud of her .
B: I 'm equally proud of her when I see her in church as I am when I see her performing .
B: You know , that 's , that 's real neat .
A: Well , if she looks , if she looks at it as you suggest that , that that 's , that she can give her , her talent back to the Lord for His glory and she can look at it that way and , and , uh , that 's ...
B: Uh-huh .
A: Okay ,
A: uh , do you work outside the home ?
B: No ,
B: I do not .
A: Okay ,
A: wow
B: Do you ?
A: Have you ?
B: Have I ?
A: Yes ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Uh , no ,
B: not actually
A: Okay ,
A: well , yes I do .
B: Okay .
A: In fact , I am at work right now .
A: Uh , and so let me take the lead , uh , Angela .
A: Uh , I think what is really important , uh ,
A: of course , salary is very important , because that 's why you are working for your , for the money , but , job satisfaction to me is also , uh , very important in having a job .
A: And , uh , one of the things that , uh , she asked us to discuss was benefits .
A: Uh , I 'm assuming that you are married and have a husband that supports you .
B: Right .
A: Okay .
A: And so we could , we could talk about , uh , that path , you know , how important you think his benefits are . And , and , and , uh , how important you think they are and if , what would you like to see increased in his benefits .
B: Okay .
A: Like , uh , perhaps , uh , he has , uh , the benefit of having eyeglasses for the family , uh , uh , and how much coverage , uh , it provides and also , your hospital coverage , and , uh , um , probably dental .
A: How important you think that would be .
B: Right .
B: I , I think that job wise benefits are just as important as salary is .
A: Because they , of course , if you did not have them , you would be pulling from your salary , of course .
B: Exactly ,
A: Right ,
B: exactly .
A: right .
B: Especially when you have a family , with children , and you are always going to the doctor for ,
A: And they always have surprises for you .
B: Exactly ,
A: With children ,
B: they always do .
A: You know , and so , it 's , it is , uh ,
A: we could not do without the benefit package from , from any company that we worked for , whether they be a conglomerate or just a small , uh , uh , business .
B: Yeah ,
B: I think any , any , even if your insurance policy is not the greatest .
A: You would still have something .
B: Exactly .
B: You you would not be pulling it out of your account all of the time just by yourself .
A: Right .
B: Also , for working women uh , I think a lot of the companies should start providing for day-care in the , in the , in the building .
A: Yes .
A: Uh-huh .
A: They are getting a handle on that , in fact , uh , my oldest daughter is , uh , is uh , a nurse
A: and she just received her masters degree
A: and she is now into consulting
A: and that 's one of the areas that she is working on . To have , uh , uh , a day care center for the the children of the , of the nurses that are staffing the facility .
B: Right .
A: And that is true in many , many areas of , you know , uh , job titles and professions .
B: Yeah .
B: Like in may case , I have three children * spelling : 'may ' should be 'my ' from ages nine to two . And , it 's just unfeasible for me to try to get a job because all the money that I would , be making would be going to day care .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Sure .
A: Would ,
A: it would , It would be just futile .
B: And it would be just ,
A: And they would not have the quality ,
B: basically be me working to pay for them to be at a day care , center .
A: And they , would be deprived of their mother .
B: Exactly .
A: Yeah .
A: No ,
A: I understand that totally
B: Besides which , it would be easier , uh , there 's a lot of single mothers out there now , from divorces and a lot of , women are starting to have babies without a partner .
A: Oh , I hear ,
A: Yes ,
A: that 's true .
B: And to go to work , you are worried about your child , besides which you have to get up earlier to take the child to day care .
A: Right .
B: And if they were in the same building then you are going to the same place ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and you could go for your lunch hour down and visit with your child , or , you know , and take your breaks with your children , or something .
A: Yes .
A: Do you , Do you think that you should fund that if they have that as a benefit , if you would fund that somewhat from your salary that you are getting ?
A: Do you think that would be , acceptable ?
B: I think
B: I , think it would be fair .
A: I do too .
B: I think if , if the company could not provide it all on their own , for the , for the people that would be using it , you know , a certain amount of their salary would go to it .
A: Right ,
A: that you ,
A: Right .
A: That 's right .
B: But it would still probably be cheaper with the company helping , our if everybody , you know , pulled their own weight in it .
A: With the company than , than having to go ,
A: That 's ,
A: that 's right .
A: Yes ,
A: I , agree with that .
B: I think it would be really . really great .
A: That would be fair .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: I do .
A: Uh , and how , how do you feel about , uh , let 's see , eye care ?
B: Eye care is good .
B: I do not ,
B: I am not
B: I do not think we have that on our policy .
A: Okay .
B: But , uh , we ,
A: Vision , I guess it 's called , vision care .
B: Yeah .
B: It would be great , I mean , uh , the glasses that ,
B: the exams themselves are not expensive , it 's the glasses .
A: It depends on who examines your eyes .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true .
A: If you have an , an optometrist or an ophthalmologist , there 's a vast difference in those two , uh , professionals .
B: Right ,
B: now like my ...
B: Right .
B: Well , like my mother , she has to go for testing cause she has got ,
A: Glaucoma .
B: Well , she does not have it ,
B: but , she is like , on the verge of it or , something .
A: Oh .
A: Oh , okay ,
A: so ,
B: Her eyes are changing ,
A: Yes .
B: and she has to be tested periodically .
B: And , and those are expensive tests .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes ,
A: they are .
B: Now , I think your insurance covers her on that ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: but you know , for something like that , that 's just as bad as a medical , you know ,
B: that 's ,
A: Right ,
A: that 's critical , because she 's in need of it so often .
B: Right .
A: Yes ,
A: and , you know , we have , uh , needs in our life that are unique to us
A: and , uh , you know , people have needs in their life that unique to us , to them .
B: Right .
A: I mean , we are all different
A: so ,
B: Now , I would like to see better dental insurance to me .
B: Was that our beep ?
A: Well , no
A: that 's my other phone .
B: Oh .
B: Huh .
A: So , that 's it
A: that 's okay ,
A: my ,
A: that phone is ringing to an empty desk
A: and she 's on vacation ,
B: Okay .
A: so , it 's okay .
B: But , with the three children um , orthopedic care , um , not orthopedic , orthodontic care ,
A: Uh-huh .
A: That 's very expensive .
B: because on , on a lot of the dental insurance , they do not cover that well .
B: For the , the orthodontia stuff .
A: Yes ,
A: that 's true .
A: Orthodontic work is terribly expensive .
B: Yes ,
B: it is .
A: Especially when you have a lot of problems with the children teeth , and , and you have to really get them when they are young , in order to have , uh , not , uh , a decent smile when they are fifteen , sixteen years old .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: I know , two of my daughters had to have that
A: and they started having extractions at age eight , uh , because they just had too many teeth for their size mouth .
B: Yeah .
A: And we footed the bill , because there was not any such thing and when they were young .
B: Right .
B: My middle child needs to have , uh , orthodontic , he 's because his , his pallet is squared , not rounded .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: And it affects his speech a little bit , not , not anything , you know ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: major .
B: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But just enough that his bite is off a little bit
B: and it 's like four hundred dollars ,
B: and my insurance is only going to cover like fifty of it .
A: Well , I tell you I , I just read an article in the paper about what they are doing , I think it was an ad in , in our publication at Texas Instruments , where they are breaking the jaw and , and lining the jaw up with the teeth .
B: Oh .
A: It 's , it 's less painful and less expensive .
B: Really .
A: Yeah .
B: That sounds like it would hurt more .
A: I , I know ,
A: but it , it 's , it 's , uh , easier on the patient in the long run , which amazed me .
B: Oh , gosh .
B: I , I would much rather that , do that , to myself than make my five year old go in and do it .
B: That would kill me .
A: Do you have any personal feelings on , on uh , the subject ?
B: Well , uh , capital punishment is a hard thing ,
B: but , uh , there 's been several ,
B: there have been several things that have happened where I felt like if I had been involved in it I would have had to , to go along with , with that being the punishment given to , to the people .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: There have been some things , you know ,
B: there 's things done that are just
A: So outrageous .
A: I know ,
A: I know .
B: Yeah ,
B: that I do not know how ,
B: I do not really there 's any other way to deal with it .
A: Right .
A: Well I , I guess my concern is what we are reading , especially in Texas right now with them letting out the people out of jail as soon as they are out of prison when they do and having them go right back the day they get out , back in crime . And especially when they are assaulting , people and then killing people , I mean , the man who , killed those three sheriffs deputies , he is out free , walking the street .
B: Yeah .
B: I think that that , that , that 's a really ,
A: I have a real problem , with that .
B: Yeah ,
B: if it 's a , if it 's a clear and present danger , I mean it ,
A: I think so .
B: But , it 's something that 's really hard to deal with , the way that our justice system is right now , is basically set up in lawyers
B: and , and anybody , will tell you that , uh , it is set up right now , all the laws protect the criminal .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: They are the ones with the rights .
B: They have the right to , uh , you know ,
B: I think I watched something last week , uh , , I am sorry , the accused has the right to a speedy trial .
B: But , the victim does not have the right , does not have the same does not have the same , the same emphasis on those things , as far as they are concerned ,
B: so , now the accused can , can ask for delays and extensions
B: and , what do they call ,
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: whatever they call them , you know .
A: And meanwhile , the witnesses , move and die
A: and and they ,
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh ,
B: exactly .
B: Continuance ,
A: and there 's no one to face them .
B: They can get continuances on for years , before the thing ever comes to trial
B: and that makes the victim suffer , more .
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Well , they can not get any , if the judge is going to have any award to the victim , it just puts off their collecting it . * probably should be can not
B: The ,
B: Yeah ,
B: that too .
A: It 's , it 's really bad ,
B: Um ,
A: it ,
A: I ,
B: I think that , uh , you know , that there needs to be a way that , you know , once someone has gone through , you know , a trial , I do not know how to fix it .
B: I mean , it just seems like there , there should be a limit on how many appeals can be made .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: You know , when someone has been ,
A: A time limit too .
B: Yeah ,
B: when someone
B: Well , even when someone has been convicted
B: and , I mean , it 's just so , so abundantly clear that they did it .
A: Right .
B: But appealing , you know , and continuing to appeal , like four or five or six times .
B: To have convictions overturned
B: and then they have to be retried and all that .
B: It 's such a waste of time and energy and money .
B: And it , it just ,
B: that 's what keeps ,
B: that 's what is keeping all the , the , you know , the criminals in a position of being able to be released all the time , like this .
A: Right .
A: Do you feel like there 's any certain type of crime that this should be the results , they should be consequences of capital punishment ,
A: or , or , are there some murders committed that you think leniency should be shown .
B: Oh .
B: Well , I guess there 's extenuating circumstances to anything like that . Uh , you know ,
B: like I , I could see , uh , a first time offender being , you know , maybe , in a , in a robbery situation , trying to hold up a store and getting scared and , you know , firing a gun and accidently killing someone .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Okay , I could see that that might be the situation where , uh , the person could be rehabilitated .
B: But , I think just out and out murder , and I am talking about , uh , cutting people up you know , where there 's shown to be pathological tendencies where this person has done it over and over again , in a serial fashion or whatever That those , kinds of things and any , any kind of violent assault , rape included , needs to addressed in , in , in that context
A: Okay .
A: Right .
A: Uh-huh .
A: And how do you feel about murders of law officers or fire people or something that are , because they have had them , they have had them killed when they have ,
B: Well , what bothers me ,
B: that bothers me a great deal ,
B: I had a friend who was a police officer , who was killed in the line of duty .
A: Um , um , um .
B: And the thing that was the worst about it is that these , that , uh , two of these individuals were , well all of the individuals involved were very young .
B: One was technically a minor ,
B: and they had told their teachers that I mean ,
B: repeatedly during high school , they had told their teachers that they were going to be , that they were going to graduate from high school and kill cops
B: That was what they had told their , teachers ,
A: Oh .
B: and so that 's what they did
B: And , uh , they were , they were given , I think ,
A: That would be premeditated
B: Oh , absolutely .
B: He stopped them for routine traffic violation
B: and they uh ,
B: several , several things happened that night
B: but they , they beat him up and took his gun and shot him with it .
A: Uh , uh , uh .
B: And it was , it was really terrible .
B: I mean , uh , I had seen him like three or days before that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: He ,
B: we had gone out , uh , with he and his wife
B: and that was really , really disturbing you know , that that happened .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And these people , you know , in the , in the course of the trial , you know , came up with , with all these , you know , things about well , you know , they were disadvantaged and all this stuff .
B: Well , nobody is that disadvantaged
A: No .
A: Well , that 's right ,
A: there 's no reason , for murder .
B: And there 's just no I mean ,
B: No .
A: I do not care if you are poor or if you are rich or if you are , ugly or what there , that , that 's just beyond , the ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I think so too .
B: And that 's , uh ,
B: so , I , I do feel strongly about .
A: and the , all these kids , they have got an excuse for everything .
B: Yeah .
A: And I can see it continuing on when they are adults .
A: I just ,
B: Yeah .
A: It 's , it 's , uh ,
A: I , I sometimes think if I were on a jury and had to make the decision could I .
A: And I like to think I could , like you ,
A: if , if especially violent crime , where serial type killer or maybe a child has been deliberately killed .
B: Uh-huh .
B: The thing that even though juries sometimes make the decision
B: and still the people , nothing ever happens to them .
A: Right .
B: You know , they stay in jail , they get off time for good behavior and all that stuff , and they get released
A: Uh-huh .
B: And they go right back and do it again .
A: Okay .
A: Do you work ?
B: Yes ,
B: I do .
A: I think that 's the main change .
A: What do you think ?
B: Well , I think that 's a big part of it
B: and I , I think it maybe started because women wanted outside of the home
B: and , I almost think with our society and , and inflation and the cost of things it 's anymore it 's almost couples have to work outside the home .
A: Right .
A: That 's right .
B: But , but yeah , I think that 's a big change
B: I 'd like to not work .
B: What about you ?
A: Well , I 've worked all the time up until just about a year ago .
B: Yeah .
A: And I just ,
A: physically I was n't able to
A: and I mean , I love my job .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I have four children ,
A: and that 's real hard .
A: You have children ?
A: I assume so .
B: Yes .
B: I have two
B: and that 's been a big deciding factor because I mean I never wanted to be a career woman ,
A: Right .
B: but as long as I you know , was going to work I was going to do as , as much as I could , as well as I could et cetera .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: And I , I wanted to stay home when I had kids .
B: Well , I have two .
B: I have a four year old and a three year old .
A: Oh .
B: And we would like two more
B: but I ,
B: it 's like , we talked . Uh , I don't want two more unless I can quit and stay home and take care , of them which is , something right now financially it takes both people to work .
A: Right .
A: Oh .
A: It 's real hard .
B: Yeah .
A: It 's real hard .
A: I mean even I ,
B: It 's full time work .
A: Yeah .
A: It was so hard for me to work full time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Of course , my kids are , are a little older
A: but then you , then you give up the money .
B: Yeah .
A: You know ?
B: You do there 's
B: of course , you know , everything you give up something
B: but I just ,
B: I ,
B: the kids are so wonderful
A: Yeah .
A: .
B: But I do think that 's one of the major changes . You know ,
B: my mama I remember her being home uh , you know , she made breakfast in the morning for us .
A: Yep .
A: Fine .
A: Yep .
A: I know .
B: And if she worked it was part time
B: and it was work that was done while we were maybe at school ,
B: and she was there when we got home .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , and ,
A: Well , I 've decided now in fact , I 'm just , I 'm substitute teachers aid which is a , afar cry from my travel agent career , which I loved .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But I 'm , I 'm there in the same school as my children , my two littler ones .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I 'm home when they are home .
A: In fact , I 've had an offer to just work the Christmas season at a local jewelry store ,
A: and I 'm just really hesitating , because I 've , I enjoyed my , the first summer home ever , so like seventeen years with my kids .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh .
B: Oh .
A: I mean , well , I did n't have babies or day care or working as a travel agent
A: and it was wonderful .
B: Yeah .
A: My kids and I , we just had a ball .
B: See ,
B: and I think ,
A: Of course , their , their ages , they are almost seventeen well , sixteen , fourteen , eleven , and nine
B: Oh .
B: Oh .
A: and we are just running every direction
A: and ,
B: But see , it 's such an important time to be home . You know .
A: It is .
B: And that , was important to me enough ,
A: It is .
B: you know , my husband was raised , uh ,
B: his , his parents were divorced when he was young so his mom always worked ,
A: Always worked .
B: and he 's like well , you know , what 's the big deal about being home , for your kids .
A: What , yeah .
B: Well , as our kids are getting older , you know , he sees it more .
B: I said , Russ , you don't understand what it was like to have her home or to if you needed , Mom at school , you know , she was there to help
A: Right .
B: or , she was there to take you ,
A: Right .
B: and , and I want to be able to do those things
B: so .
A: I think that , you know , it 's good .
A: You know , sometimes I 'll have the cookies ready when they , come home
B: Yeah .
A: and , and a lot of my boys , uh , my older boys ' junior high friends will come over .
A: In fact , everyday , I 've got boys hanging around ,
A: and it 's wonderful
A: I 'm real close to the schools
A: and , you know , we are just
A: I , I 'm very happy to be staying home .
B: I think that 's wonderful .
A: But again I miss , the .
B: So , where do you see , us changing in the future ?
A: I don't .
B: Well , see that was one of the things the , the question I think is , you know , what changes do we see
A: I keep on working .
A: Right .
B: and I 'm , I 'm not sure I , I see it go anywhere .
B: I think they are still going to have to work .
A: That we are because it 's so expensive .
A: If we want , uh , extra clothes , the extra car , the extra ,
B: Right .
A: The thing is , when a woman does work , then there is the clothes to buy ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then there is the gas ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and then there is the lunches and then the day care .
B: The day care eats , me alive .
A: You must pay for ,
A: day care .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , I pay four hundred fifty to five hundred fifty , a month for two kids
A: Oh my gosh .
A: Yeah ,
A: for two .
B: They would eat you , alive .
A: It 's almost hardly worth it for you , to work until they get in school .
B: I know .
A: Then you work summers unless you are a teacher .
A: Are you a teacher ?
B: No ,
B: I 'm not ,
B: and I would love ,
B: you , you , you talked about having the summers off
B: and I thought , oh , that would be so wonderful .
B: And I love the little preschool they are in .
B: It 's wonderful .
A: Uh-huh .
B: You know , so I feel good about them being there
B: but it 's still not the same .
A: No .
A: It 's not the same .
B: It 's just not .
A: I , I don't see things changing really ,
A: and , and it 's terrible for divorced women you know , who are forced to work who maybe don't have a college education .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Thank goodness I have mine ,
A: and I could get a real good paying job , if I wanted to , you know , in fact , I still have offers , you know , please come back ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Please come back to work .
A: and we 'll pay you this .
B: Sure .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: And it 's been a real tough decision
A: but I 'm very happy to be here with my kids .
A: My kids , we 've seen a remarkable difference in , now that I 'm home .
B: That 's wonderful .
B: That 's wonderful .
A: Yeah .
A: I 'm real ,
A: and I 'm ,
A: but I 've been doing a lot of volunteering at the schools and playing lots of tennis
B: I like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I know .
B: Well , we 're working on it .
B: I 'm hoping in about three to five years I 'll be able to stay home
B: and my kids , of course , will be in school then
B: but I 'll , be there mornings , I 'll be there noons , I 'll be there afternoons and all .
A: Right .
A: Yeah .
B: I feel like , that 's good
A: Well ,
B: and I can work part days in my husband 's business , you know , so that , he can afford for us to do that , you know .
A: Oh , that would be great .
A: Right .
A: I think the , the other thing that , that has changed for woman because we are working is we are having less children .
B: So , Utah .
A: Yes .
B: That , that 's , that 's the state that got , was famous when they executed somebody .
A: Gary Gilmore .
B: Gary Gilmore .
A: Yeah .
B: By firing squad , as I recall .
A: That 's right ,
A: and we still have a death penalty .
B: Uh-huh
A: Some ,
A: a gentleman , uh , that was one of the hi-fi murderers just had his conviction overturned , well , appealed again .
A: I guess we have the longest , uh , running inmates for death row too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And then we had another guy , uh , Ronald Lafferty , that thought God told him to kill his sister-in-law .
B: Yeah .
A: He just got a , a new trial because , the judge felt that he was incompetent .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , how do you feel about the death penalty ?
B: Well , I , you know ,
B: until recently I 've been sort of ,
B: could go either way , you know ,
B: it , it , sort of does n't much , you know ,
B: it did n't ,
B: it was n't a strong issue , um , I guess it still is n't a strong issue .
B: But I must say , I find it very silly , the way politicians are running around creating more and more capital crimes , um instead of dealing with you know , the real problems that , you know , that they 're , they 're getting votes presumably by , um ,
A: Oh .
B: I assume they 're doing it for that reason
A: Well , I 'm sure that 's .
B: By , by by saying well , this , doing this particular crime in this particular way is a capital crime now .
A: Well , I kind of agree with terrorism .
A: I think those guys should be done away with .
A: That 's one of the worst , crimes in my book
A: and , uh , drug dealing , um , that 's close
A: but , uh , terrorism definitely . And uh , selling out your country .
B: Uh-huh .
B: It 's not , it 's not enough just to lock them up forever .
A: Uh , no ,
A: it 's got to be something that is going to cost them , because we never lock anybody up forever .
B: Not often .
A: Not very often at all .
A: We 've got these guys in New York that , uh , I 'm sure you heard about , the ones that killed , uh , the gentleman that came from Utah to watch the tennis people .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah
A: And I guess they got convicted , the four , of uh , murder .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
A: So you 've come to a definite opinion on it now ?
B: Well , I ,
B: I 've
B: it , it seems like it 's gone , gotten carried away ,
B: um , and I , I do find it hard to know where to draw a line ,
B: and so if I had to draw a line , I 'd say just no capital punishment .
B: I mean , I don't , I don't , I don't see that it accomplishes a whole lot , whereas I do think that convicting people and , and incarcerating them for a long time , if that could be improved upon , that would have more impact , I think .
A: Yeah .
A: You kind of hate to ,
B: No ,
B: what about the argument where , where somebody who is committing one capital crime chooses to commit a , a more serious capital crime ?
B: I mean , murder , um , because that one at least , you might escape from because his victim , you know , his witnesses will be gone
B: Does n't this , does n't this encourage , Uh , More .
A: You mean uh , violence ?
B: Does n't this , yeah , I mean , does n't this encourage murder , in order to wipe out the the witnesses ?
A: The witnesses ?
A: Well , maybe it would .
A: Uh , I kind of have a problem with our legal system at the moment , uh , as it is .
A: I think that people who , uh , infringe on other people 's rights , uh , and screw up their whole lives with rape , uh , child molesting , uh , terrorism , just uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: There 's just like five things that I think they ought to be snuffed for ,
A: but I 'm , I 'm for it for certain reasons .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I think that things like rape , uh , you ca n't get over , uh , it takes a lifetime .
B: I see ,
B: so , so if , if William Kennedy Smith had been found guilty , you believe he should have been , uh , executed ?
A: Uh , if it was , Yeah .
B: A six person jury could have decided either way , of course
A: If it was , it would probably have to be a pattern .
A: You know , we have plenty of convicted guys that go into jail and come back out , do the same thing and go back ,
A: and , uh , if they 're habitual , like three times caught for rape or child molesting then snuff them .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well , the problem is that they 've just been let out of jail .
A: Pardon ?
B: The problem there is that they 've been let out jail .
B: If they 've been thrice convicted , they should have been kept in longer .
A: Yeah ,
A: but we don't seem to keep them long enough ,
A: and then they learn such bad things in jail .
A: That is n't a place of rehabilitation .
B: Yeah ,
B: well .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's , that 's for sure .
A: Yeah ,
A: it 's a tough question , is n't it , on whether , at what point do they become so detrimental to society that society ca n't afford to keep them around to keep giving them chances .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , let 's see ,
A: so the other question that they wanted was whether the place that we live in , uh , compares to how we feel
A: What 's the laws there in D C ?
A: Uh , it seems like an unusual subject this time of the year
A: but , uh , it 's , it 's camping .
B: Really .
B: When was the last time you went ?
A: The last time I went camping was about , uh , in the middle of October ,
A: and we went up to Lake Bonham and really enjoyed it .
A: Had a real good time with the family .
A: We do an awful lot of camping .
A: How about yourself ?
B: Well , I have n't been in probably about three years .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the last time we went was in , um , well , I guess it was , it was like hunting season ,
B: and we went down to like a hunting ground and a lake Lake Sam Rayburn which is in East Texas .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yes , oh ,
A: Very good .
A: I bet it 's pretty over there .
B: It is real pretty .
B: Um , let 's see .
A: What do you think , what kind of camping , uh , are you talking about ?
B: Do you do a lot of fishing ?
A: Do you go out ,
A: and is camping for you in a motor home , or a trailer ,
A: or do you actually put up a tent
A: or ,
B: One of the ones that you pull along
A: Oh , okay ,
A: so you have ,
B: and then is it pop-up ?
A: Yeah .
B: Pop-up .
A: A pop-up trailer , huh .
B: Yeah .
B: What do you have ?
A: We have a tent .
B: A tent ?
A: Yes
A: So I guess we really rough it .
B: Really .
A: And we really enjoy that .
A: Uh , one thing , uh , I 've done all sorts of camping .
A: I 've , I 've camped , uh , in the snow on a glacier .
A: I 've camped , uh , basically almost anywhere , even to the point where we 've had to backpack in and everything you carried in was what you had to use to sustain you for that , that camping trip and had to pack it back out .
B: So you 're a serious camper .
A: Well , we enjoy it , yeah .
A: But since I 've been married and with a family , uh , we have to go where there 's restrooms And playgrounds , and so forth ,
B: Well , that makes sense .
A: so , we really enjoy it .
A: But also while I was growing up , we did have a trailer ,
A: and , uh , I camped in that trailer and in a tent and in , in log cabins and so forth too .
A: So a lot of different things .
A: And yes ,
A: I ,
A: to answer your questions earlier , yes , I , we do enjoy fishing ,
A: and I do go fishing .
A: Have n't done a whole lot down here .
A: We recently moved from the Rocky Mountain area up in , uh , northern Utah down to here because of work , and , uh , have n't been able to enjoy fishing like I used to up there , which is , uh , clear water fishing and streams and , and rivers .
B: But when you all went camping is that what you normally , I mean ,
B: what did you normally do ?
A: We normally , yeah ,
A: we did , we did a lot of the fishing ,
A: but mainly what we did was we did a lot of hiking and exploring and , and just going out and seeing what there was to see , uh , in the area .
B: I guess probably just wherever you live at has a lot to do with where , what you 're going to do when you go ,
B: and you do actually camp .
A: Oh , yes .
A: That 's true ,
A: that 's true .
B: Did you ever like travel around to what 's that , the little K O , K O A camps whenever
A: we never did that .
B: ever done that ?
A: They
A: although I 've stayed in K O A campgrounds , uh , we 've never done that just to go around and camp .
A: Um , personally , I , when I , when we were growing up and when we were going camping , I thought that was a little too structured of a camp ground .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , you know , that was mainly for people in motor homes or , or had trailers or , and so on and so forth , where , you know , we really wanted to go camping in a tent
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , uh , K O A is , is geared for the people that have a hookup .
B: That actually travel , what , city to city , state to state .
A: Right ,
A: exactly ,
A: and , uh , I started out basically camping when I was , when I was in Boy Scouts ,
A: and we did an awful lot of that as , as a Boy Scout group .
A: As I mentioned earlier , we went into wilderness areas
A: and we camped in the snow , and in , uh , snow caves ,
A: and , and , uh ,
B: That 's probably where I first started , was in Girl Scouts .
A: All right .
A: And you got a lot of that in , huh ?
B: Yeah
A: What do you like to do when you go camping ?
B: Um , well , let 's see . I just , I mean , I just like to go
B: and , normally I go with a whole group of friends
A: Uh-huh .
B: and we just kind of go and hang out and just do fun stuff .
A: Enjoy it , huh
B: Roast marshmallows .
A: Tell scary , or scary stories around the fire
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: or , um , take a deck of cards if we can actually see and , um , play cards and stuff .
A: Oh , yeah .
A: You know , lots , a lot of people I 've talked to have said , well , is n't camping boring ?
A: don't you get , don't you , uh , get bored and not have anything to do ,
A: but I 've found out that actually we , we really enjoy getting away from the television , the telephone
B: Yeah ,
B: it 's relaxing .
A: and , yes .
A: Exactly .
A: Get out ,
A: getting out and enjoying nature and each other as company when we 're out camping .
B: Plus , you , um ,
B: kind of makes you appreciate some , a lot of the things you take for granted .
A: Yeah
B: Running water
A: Running water
B: your hair dryer
A: and a private bathroom .
B: curling iron .
A: Yes
B: What about your family .
B: Do your kids and everything like to ?
A: Yes ,
A: they really do , they have a great time ,
A: and like I mentioned , uh , the , we , we 've been camping a couple of times this year
A: and the last time was in October
A: and we went up to Lake Bonham ,
A: and there was a playground for them
A: so they had swings ,
B: Hi .
A: like child 's Hi ,
A: I 'm Carol ,
A: and I 'm calling from Garland , Texas .
B: Yeah ,
B: this is
B: I 'm in Dallas .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Because yesterday I talked to someone upstate , I 'm not even sure where ,
A: and my husband talked to the people in Utah ,
A: so . Um , anyway , let me press one .
B: Okay
A: Okay , um ,
A: let me see , I think we 've only planned one family reunion in our life ,
A: so we don't do this too often .
B: I .
A: Um , most of my family 's in California ,
A: but my husband 's is in San Antonio ,
A: and so we did this in San Antonio ,
A: and , um , it was an experience that I , I wo n't do again
B: How big a family do you have ?
A: Um , well , it was n't that big of a family ,
A: but , um , it just got out of hand ,
A: and , um , so many people were coming that we were trying to figure out how much food we were going to need and , and , um , how much , um , beverages we were going to need and this and that ,
A: and oh , it just grew and grew and grew ,
A: and , um , when the time came , only about half that amount of people came .
A: So , it was n't , you know ,
A: you have to really just get an accurate amount ,
A: and ,
A: but overall we all had a good time .
A: We saw people we had n't see in a while
A: so ,
B: Did you have people coming from far away ?
A: No .
A: It was all in the San Antonio area
B: Well sometimes .
A: But it , it just kept growing and growing and growing and growing ,
A: and we 're going , Oh , my gosh .
A: So .
B: Well you have , you have
B: the family lives too close together , they see each other too often they don't take that kind of thing seriously .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: basically .
A: Yeah .
B: And if , uh uh , they come from far away , it 's , uh , it , it , they take it more seriously
A: Yeah .
B: and ,
A: Uh-huh ,
A: I think you 're right .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: My family 's not very big
B: but , uh , we 're kind of .
A: Your family 's from where ?
B: Well , I have a , a , a brother lives in Indianapolis , a sister lives in Chicago , and my folks live back in Buffalo , New York .
A: Oh , no .
B: Uh , I guess we have reunions about once a year or so .
A: Uh-huh .
B: We got together over Christmas .
B: My wife 's family , they 're , they 're all in ,
B: most of them are in upstate New York .
B: They have regular , uh , regular family reunions every summer .
A: Oh , those are nice .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
A: And I 'm , I 'm sure they 're a lot more organized too , because they 've done it before .
B: Yeah ,
B: and it 's , it 's just something that they , they plan on doing every summer .
B: They just have a weekend picnic ,
A: That 's great .
B: and every year everyone asks when is it happening and where is it happening
A: Oh .
A: Yeah .
B: and they just plan on being here .
A: That makes a big difference , too .
A: I know everybody 's real eager to participate .
A: Yeah ,
A: well that 's great .
B: Yeah ,
B: they , they had a family reunion for , uh , well , for my mother-in-law at her seventy-fifth birthday ,
B: and they managed to get just about everybody , everybody into town , uh , last November including a number of people from out in California .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh .
B: So it was a , it was good , it , uh it worked out very well .
A: Uh-huh .
B: One interesting thing that they did at the time is they , um , they videotaped the , the whole shebang which , it made a nice remembrance of , of the entire party .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: more people want to come back again .
B: Yeah ,
B: they want to come back .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's good .
B: So , so that , that works pretty well that way .
A: My , uh , my grandmother in California is , um ,
A: this is my dad 's part , side of the family is planning a reunion , um , this spring ,
A: but we wo n't be going because , um , I don't know how they thought of this , it 's going to be on a cruise ,
A: and , um , it seems like most of the family is , uh , going , you know , all the nieces and all the grandchildren and all that are , most of them are going ,
A: but it 's too costly for us .
A: But anyway , they 're going to go on a cruise ,
A: and , um , it sounds really neat , it really does .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I can go for that .
B: What ,
B: what do ,
B: I guess interesting if you had a , a , a very extended family that , that kind of involved a lot of people that cousins and things that you don't really know , that you 've never met , it 'd be interesting to meet a lot of those people .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , I don't know how you would go about , uh , getting them together ,
B: but that , that would be , uh .
A: And a friend of mine , um , she plans her family reunion , um , every year ,
A: and they go camping ,
A: and she says they have the greatest time ,
A: and she says , usually everybody shows up in exception to maybe one person ,
A: but she said they all go camping ,
A: and they have a really good for the whole weekend .
A: So , that 's .
B: Yeah ,
B: I kind of wonder what , what kind of tradition we 're going to establish for our family .
B: I had hoped that our , our kids get together at least regularly .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: Right now we only have two children
A: so I ,
A: What are your favorite T V shows ?
B: Uh , I guess one of my favorite ones is CHEERS .
A: Yeah .
B: I always liked that one .
B: They 're always so funny .
B: And I also like the COSBY SHOW
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Those are probably my two favorites .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I , I rather enjoy the COSBY SHOW .
A: My wife and I both like COMMISH .
B: You know , I 've watched that one time
B: and it was really good ,
B: but now that 's on , what , Saturday night ?
A: Uh ,
B: Is it Saturday night ?
A: It 's either Friday night ,
A: it 's either tonight or tomorrow night .
A: Uh , around here at least .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I guess it depends on what channel you 're getting . You know , what system you 're getting it through .
B: I ca n't ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: I ,
B: yeah ,
B: I saw it one time
B: and I really liked it ,
B: but I just have n't , uh , seen it , you know , watched it since .
A: Uh , we , we always enjoyed it .
A: It , it seems to be kind of halfway between , uh , something like ALL IN THE FAMILY and , uh , HILL STREET BLUES .
B: Yeah
A: it 's a good show .
B: Yeah ,
B: the episode that I watched , uh , I liked him because even though he 's a law enforcement officer , you know , sometimes the laws are kind of ridiculous
A: You
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: And he seems to do that sometimes
A: he 's tender hearted fellow .
B: Yeah
A: Yeah .
A: I think that 's what first drew us to him , the , uh , the , the relationship between he and his wife kind of looks a lot like ours .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: I thought it was a pretty good show .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , Yeah ,
B: I always like ,
B: I , I like to watch like SIXTY MINUTES and TWENTY TWENTY .
A: uh , I know we , uh , we watch COMMISH any chance we get .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , used to be a big fan of STAR TREK ,
A: but that 's kind of ,
A: it 's gotten more and more to where they are so totally against , uh , anything spiritual .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , anyway ,
B: I 've never gotten into the STAR TREK era
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I used to be a , used to be a real big fan of STAR TREK .
B: Used to be a Trekie , huh
A: Uh , pretty much , yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: I always enjoyed the show anyway
B: Yeah .
A: And STAR TREK 's in a or the , uh , STAR WARS set
B: Uh-huh .
A: uh , one of the first STAR WARS movie ?
B: Yeah .
A: I think I watched it like nineteen times .
B: Oh , my goodness .
B: You must have some of their lines memorized
A: Uh , I did at one time
A: Anyway , Oh , I I was a pretty big fan of that sort of thing .
B: Wow
B: Yeah .
A: Used to , used to read a , read a lot of science fiction work , too .
B: Uh-huh . going to say , I hear a baby in the background * B.66 and slash units ?
A: But , uh , no ,
A: it , uh ,
A: we don't do a whole lot of T V watching ,
A: but that , uh , I don't know if you heard them or not , I got a twelve year old , twelve week old baby .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: that ,
A: between that and school it 's not ,
B: I imagine that keeps you busy .
A: Between him and school , there 's not much time left for watching much T V .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , we 're , we 're expecting our first in about three months ,
B: so I know we wo n't be watching as much as we do now
A: Yeah ,
A: this one here is our first .
A: And we 're both full time students
A: so ,
B: Oh , wow .
A: Yeah .
B: That must be tough .
A: What are you hoping for , a boy or a girl ?
B: It does n't matter , just a healthy baby .
B: Well , we had a sonogram ,
B: but we told him not to tell us ,
B: so it 's going to be a surprise
A: Yeah .
A: That 's the best way .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , it 's like finding out somewhere in July what you 're going to get for Christmas .
A: I mean , you know , It 's not as much fun .
B: Yeah
B: It 's , it 's not quite the same .
A: Oh .
B: Yeah
A: Anyway ,
B: I agree
B: I 'm sure we 'll be watching more , uh , children oriented television shows .
A: Oh , I 'm about half kid at heart anyway .
B: Oh , I am , too .
A: I , I ,
B: I still watch cartoons sometimes , every once in a while when my sister comes to visit
B: so ,
A: The new cartoons don't seem to be worth much ,
A: but the , uh ,
A: well , a couple of the , uh , ones Disney 's doing are n't too bad
A: but ,
B: Well , you know , it seems like a lot of them are a lot more violent than they used to be .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: You know , I remember , like , the FLINTSTONES and the JETSONS
B: and those were just kind of good old cartoons .
A: Yeah .
A: The , the , the worst of the violence in the FLINTSTONES was when somebody gave Fred a poke in the snoot .
B: Yeah
A: But , oh , shoot , I mean , blowing up galaxies and and putting a curse on the whole planet , or , or , or you know , or on all the , you know , everything of this species , you know , just all kinds of crud
B: Yep .
B: Yeah ,
B: and they wonder why kids turn out the way they do nowadays
A: Yeah ,
A: everything 's mutations and , and and killing
B: Yeah .
A: and , Gone are the days of those things they
B: Uh-huh .
A: what was it I , uh , T N , Turner Broadcasting Network used to , used to , uh , do the Saturday morning and Sunday morning cartoons , the old cartoons . They used to put between the first and second feature at the theatre .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Those old little ten minute jobs where , uh , the real ballooned looking art work , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: and ,
A: Oh , so what would be the , your favorite meal to cook ?
B: None to cook .
B: I don't like to cook
A: don't like to cook , huh ?
B: Spaghetti , I guess , though .
B: I make a mean spaghetti .
A: Make a mean spaghetti , huh ?
B: Yeah
A: Uh , got kids ?
B: No .
A: married ?
B: Huh-uh . * According to the following utterance , this is an AFFIRMATIVE answer , so should be `` Uh-huh ''
B: Just my husband and I and the two dogs .
A: Yeah .
B: So what about yours ?
A: Well , my wife and I and we 've got a thirteen week old baby
A: so don't do much cooking for him yet .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh ,
B: So I guess it 's supposed to be dinner party , is that what they said ?
A: Uh , yeah
A: what kind of menu would you plan for a dinner party
A: and , uh , what kind of dishes you might have for it , or some sort of thing like that .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Huh ,
B: we don't ,
A: Let 's see , a good dinner party menu .
B: Think you ,
A: I suppose it would just about depend on who was coming , I guess .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
A: You know , uh , something light and easy .
A: If it was pretty informal about anything .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Sometimes we 'll have , uh , we 'll have a bunch of people over and cook deer .
A: Breast of chicken
A: Oh , gosh ,
A: yeah .
A: How do you usually cook your deer ?
B: Huh ?
A: How do you usually cook your deer ?
B: How do we usually ?
A: Yeah .
B: On the grill , we 'll take the back strap and soak it in Italian dressing for a couple of hours and throw it on the grill
A: Yeah .
B: and it is good .
A: I imagine .
B: Real good .
A: I would imagine it is .
B: Either that or hamburgers , we really don't have dinner parties .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I understand .
A: We just had , uh , deer stew sort of uh , it was deer steak stew . Uh , well about a day , day and a half in the crock pot , uh uh , some deer steaks in kind of a mushroom gravy .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Ooh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , some veggies in it .
B: Did you kill the deer ?
A: No .
B: No .
A: No ,
A: the times I 've been out deer hunting , I , I can go out in the woods unarmed and deer will be tripping over me and vice versa .
B: Uh-huh
A: I mean , I get close to the woods with anything resembling a weapon
A: and suddenly there is n't a deer within fifty miles .
A: So , no ,
A: this was given to us by some friends .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , guy was in a , uh , in a hunting club
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , you know ,
A: but the whole group goes out hunting
A: and then at the end of the day , they split it
B: Uh-huh .
A: and whoever brought it down gets the lion 's share
A: and the rest of it is split with the rest , with everybody in the group .
B: Oh , well , that 's nice .
A: Well , he
A: they , they went out last year and almost everybody got it , the limit
B: Uh-huh .
A: so there 's , everybody had deer coming out their ears .
A: So ,
B: Yeah ,
B: we still got some from last year .
A: Yeah ,
A: they , they gave us some deer
A: and some of it 's still in the freezer
A: and they ,
A: about eight months ago they gave it to us .
B: Yeah .
A: We , we either crock pot deer
A: or we 'll , uh , you know , put it out on the grill so that , uh the bulk of the tallow will dribble off of it .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
B: We
B: we usually have most of it made into , uh , hamburger meat , though . And cook , you know , spaghetti with it .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Chili .
A: That is good .
B: So ,
A: Deer spaghetti is real good .
B: Uh-huh
A: Anyway , uh , no ,
A: I think if I was going to have a dinner party , I 'd probably have , uh , sandwiches or something along those lines and then , uh , uh , you know , just something light finger food sort of something or , Or maybe have something roasting out on the fire .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Oh , well , anyway . Uh , we don't do much in the way of entertaining .
B: Um .
A: Usually it 's , one other couple come over for a dinner .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Let 's see , what did we have the last time we had guests over .
A: Ah , yeah ,
A: we had a , uh , a turkey loaf .
B: Oh .
A: Which , uh , kind of taco turkey loaf .
A: It was good .
A: Uh , scalloped potatoes .
B: Oh .
A: No ,
A: mashed potatoes .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Mashed potatoes with , uh , cheese melted over the top of them .
A: A couple things like that .
A: It was pretty good little dinner .
A: Yeah ,
A: usually it 's
B: This is n't a good topic for me right now .
B: I 'm on a diet
A: Oh , don't you hate that ?
A: I 've got a , I got a few pounds to lose myself .
A: That 's okay .
B: Um .
A: I 've been fighting my weight since I was about ten years old .
B: Yeah ,
B: I have , too .
B: I was real skinny till I was ten .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah ,
A: I was , left the fourth grade weighing about a hundred pounds and started the seventh grade , grade at two ,
B: I guess we 're ready to talk .
A: How you doing , Howard ?
A: This is a , a subject that I 'm not real well versed on ,
A: but .
B: Well , let 's talk about air pollution .
A: Okay .
B: What do you think causes air pollution in Dallas ?
B: Or where are you from ?
A: No .
B: Maybe you 're not in Dallas .
A: Okay ,
A: I 'm from the , uh ,
A: I 'm from Dallas .
A: I 'm in Richardson .
B: Okay . Uh ,
A: What do you think as far as air pollution in the Dallas area ?
B: Well , I have some small experience in this area .
B: The brown haze that you see if you look down Central towards downtown a lot of that is , uh , tied up with the oxides or nitrogen although some of the kind of bluish gray stuff we see sometimes is tied up with particulates .
A: Right .
B: But , uh , the , one of the major problems that Dallas has is oxides and nitrogen .
B: That 's because of all the equipment that 's being operated . But at the same time , uh , because we don't have , we don't burn a lot of coal and solid materials we , don't get a lot of particulates .
B: Now particulates would come from trash burning or incineration or something like that here in Dallas .
A: Right .
B: Uh , power plants since ,
B: many of our local power plants , uh , are natural gas most of the time , uh , the things that come off of those plants are carbon dioxide , and N O X .
B: There 's no particulates in natural gas , of course .
B: And we pick up a little bit of sulphur off some of these products .
B: We 're burning fuel oil and a few other things ,
B: but gasoline , of course , now the lead 's out , at least theoretically , uh , I guess you could say we 're picking up some sulphur because a lot of the fuels does have sulphur .
B: That 's why we get that rotten egg smell sometime off the catalytic converter the sulphur , yes .
A: Oh , really ?
B: And that 's , uh , course hydrogen sulfide , which is when you burn gasoline , you also produce some water vapor and that goes back in with your sulphur
A: Sure .
B: and under the right condition you get H two S .
B: But , anyway , uh ,
A: Well , you are , you are well versed on the subject , I tell you .
B: Well , I don't know .
A: This is not one of my better ones .
A: I guess , I guess I notice it the most just , uh , in driving around Dallas with all the , the highway equipment that 's working on the on , six thirty-five and seventy-five , just the cars in general .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That 's where I see most of it .
B: uh , Ron a lot of this is caused by the fact that cars sitting in traffic tend to run rich because the way the pollution is .
A: Right .
B: And when they run rich they , they spit out a lot of hydrocarbons ,
B: and that 's another part of the problem .
B: The gas is not being burned completely .
B: But , uh , hopefully , if we ever get our road system fixed up , this will get a lot better .
A: Oh , I don't know , I 've lived here since seventy-four , Howard ,
A: and , I I think , I think they been working on the highways around here since I 've been here ,
A: and I think , I think they 'll be working on them long after my wife and I are gone .
B: Well , I guess , I , not trying to top you , but I grew up in Dallas county and I can remember when they built the north part of North Central which was built after the south part of Central
A: Right
B: and , uh , I can remember coming over the hill down there long about , uh , I don't know , little bit north of Mockingbird on up in , over those hills
B: and I said I wonder if they 'll ever need this road .
B: Course , it was designed for most of us to go about forty-five miles an hour because the short on ramps and are , off ramps ,
B: but , gosh ,
B: seems like , uh , those ramps might kill us yet .
B: I ,
B: hopefully the new ones will be a lot better .
A: I understand .
A: I sure hope so , I tell you .
A: You know , you get out on the , uh , interstate highways versus ,
A: I travel quite a bit
A: and traveling from , like , Dallas to Austin to San Antonio it 's the same thing as far as the pollution created by the automobiles in the , in the stalled traffic and the busy highways , you , you , you 're at your best
A: and , I guess when you 're out on the interstate , heading north or south and you 're just cruising right along and there 's no build up of cars
A: and ,
B: Yeah ,
B: Ron , have you noticed when you 're driving south on thirty-five , I guess towards Waxahachie , Hillsborough on down to Austin , you hit a point down there about , I think where they call Bear Creek exit on just this side of the county line
A: Yes .
B: Right along in there somewhere , suddenly the air feels cleaner .
B: Have you noticed that ?
A: I tell you what , I , I don't think I really have ,
A: but I 'm going that way Tuesday
A: and I 'm going to make it a point to .
B: Well , sometimes it depends on which way the winds blowing
A: Sure .
B: but , uh , I also travel a little bit
B: and , uh , I don't know , it just seems like there 's a certain point down there where you can breathe easier .
B: It may be all in my mind .
A: Oh , I know .
A: I know going to , uh , uh ,
A: I detest going to Houston because it 's such a ,
A: Mike , I 'm calling from Dallas , from Richardson .
B: Oh , okay , great .
B: I 'm in Addison here .
A: Okay ,
A: well , good .
A: You know , our subject is on boating and sailing
B: Right .
A: and , quite honestly , with the exception of being involved in a part ownership of a little bass boat , I have never really got into sailing or boating .
B: I do , uh , quite a bit of sailing .
B: I own a sailboat that I keep it parked up on the scout lot of my scout troop
A: Oh , do you , well , great .
B: and we take it out
B: and we do some teaching of sailing with the scouts ,
B: but I have n't really been taking it out , recreationally too much lately
A: Well , that 's neat .
B: It 's just I don't have a trailer hitch on my car anymore
A: Right .
B: so it 's hard for me to get it somewhere
B: but ,
A: I 've seen some nice , nice sailboats .
A: The guy that used to live next to us in Richardson before we moved twelve years ago , or whatever , he had a sailboat , used to park it right in the , uh , driveway
A: and it seemed , uh ,
A: I think it held probably , uh ,
A: it must have slept four people anyway .
B: Yeah ,
B: this one is not that big .
B: It 's a day sailer .
B: It does have a little kind of cabin thing that you can store things in
A: Right .
B: but you could n't really sleep in there unless you sort of stuck your body out the hole , back into the main part of the sailboat .
A: I I understand .
B: But , but it 's ,
B: they 're ,
B: they can be black holes to throw money into
A: I tell you , Oh , they are ,
B: Boats are kind of expensive to maintain .
A: and , you know , we have a swimming pool at our house
A: and I think of all the time , now that my kids are gone and away and married and going to college or whatever , that I put in there , I just could not imagine a boat because I know it 's a lot of maintenance .
B: Especially a bigger one .
A: Oh , gosh
B: The bigger they are , if you get a big cabin cruiser or or a big ski boat , power boat , then there 's always , uh , stuff to go wrong with it .
A: yeah .
A: You bet .
B: A sailboat at least does n't have an engine to mess up ,
B: but you still have to worry with the hull and the condition of the sails and spars and rigging , uh , everything that 's in it .
A: Sure .
B: It takes a , a pretty good amount of maintenance to keep one up it 's a lot of fun , I think uh , just from the standpoint of getting away from the dodge here ,
A: You bet .
A: I know , my wife and I were first married here
A: aunt and uncle ,
A: aunt and uncle up in New York , they kept a boat on Jamaica Bay
A: and we used to go out with them and back then they had bought an older Chris Craft
A: and we were involved every weekend in just , uh ,
A: as we visited , we were involved every weekend in just helping them redo this and refinish that .
A: We just worked all the time .
A: But their boat slept about four people plus had a little kitchen .
A: It was sort of neat .
A: We ,
A: but I think that was the last time we were really involved ,
A: and that was twenty years ago , or twenty-five years ago .
A: It is a lot of fun .
B: and when you work hard and you 're under pressure and everything all week long , a boat can be a lot of relaxation , uh , to especially with a group of friends and cook out or camp out or whatever , uh , or a cabin or something , depending on how much you like to rough it .
A: You bet .
B: But , but it 's , uh
A: I visited my cousin a couple of years ago , my wife and I
A: and our daughter and he had a place on Lake of the Ozarks
A: and he had a boat
A: and , uh , the I never seen so many boats in all my life .
A: People actually park their car when they get to their place they 're staying , townhouse or condominium , whatever they own
A: and they , they go boat .
B: Use the boat for transportation .
A: I mean they go ,
A: if they want to go to the lounge to have a cocktail , they use the boat .
B: They just go across the boat and get a , and tie it up and go in , huh
A: And that was sort of neat .
A: That , that , that 's true , that 's exactly how they do it .
A: They go to dinner that way , go to all the restaurants
A: and that was sort of a neat setup .
A: I enjoyed that .
A: We spent a week with them .
A: I enjoyed that .
A: I 'm envious , I 'm envious of people that have the big boats
B: That would be fun .
A: and , uh ,
B: I 've just never
B: I 've never moved up to a really big class of sailboat .
B: Uh , once I get my son into and through with college , he 's going to be starting , uh , Rice next year
B: so he 's going off ,
B: but uh , once I get to that stage where I 'm not paying for something else and , uh , I don't have to worry about a lot of other scheduling things , where I 've actually got the time to go out and enjoy it , uh , I might do something differently .
A: You bet .
B: I might just donate my little one to the scout troop and let them , keep it and maybe consider getting a , a better one for me . Uh ,
A: Think ,
A: you think you 'd really enjoy it ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I think I would .
B: Uh , the sailing part of it I like because it 's so quiet .
A: Yeah .
B: And if you get a big enough one , then you 've got a little motor on it also , where if it 's light wind , you can still putt around a little bit and have fun .
A: Oh I ,
B: Or if , or if the wind dies , you 're not stuck in the , middle of the lake .
B: I 've ,
B: with my little one , I 've been out there many times on a calm summer day , where all of a sudden the wind stops
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's great .
B: and you 're just stranded out there trying to pick up what little gusts you can to work your way back in
B: and and that gets hot and , and wearisome , doing that .
A: Oh , I know .
B: And if you if you 're a big enough boat to have the little auxiliary motor on there , at least you can kind of drop the sails and putt on back in
A: And putt putt .
A: Sure .
A: Well , that 's neat .
B: But it 's fun .
A: Where do you work ?
A: Who are you with ?
B: I own an insurance agency , a managing general , a wholesaler of insurance , uh out in Addison
A: Well , good .
B: and , uh , I 'm a scout leader , though ,
B: so I 'm , I 'm out with ,
A: Um ,
B: So you have a son ?
A: I have an older son ,
A: yeah .
A: He does n't have any children yet though .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , he 's thirty-seven
A: and I don't know if he 's ever going to have any or not ,
A: but I do have some neighbor kids , lots of little neighbor kids .
B: Uh-huh .
A: That ,
A: I go out and , uh , I play ball with them .
A: You know , it 's , because like this one that lives right next door , her mother does some work at home on computers
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: and it just seems like she does n't have any time for her . Which is kind of sad , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: So the kids are kind of hungry for someone to play with them .
A: So I will go out and play catch with them or you know , we let the dogs outside
A: and they will roll around on the ground and play with the dogs
A: but , uh , actually I do think that the parents should have , you know , a little bit more time to spend with their kids .
B: I would think so .
B: When you ,
B: when , when your son was at home did you , uh , working ?
B: Did you work
B: or were you able to stay at home with him ?
A: No ,
A: when my son was at home , I , I did work
A: and then he went to a baby sitter that this lady had about five other kids that she baby sat , you know
B: Uh-huh .
A: but we always had our days off together
A: and we went camping on vacations .
A: So we had a lot of time together that way you know .
B: Yeah .
B: Well when my mom , uh ,
B: when I was growing up my mom worked too ,
B: but she worked nights and , uh , as a nurse
A: Uh-huh .
B: and so she was always home for us
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I always , I really appreciated that . Having her there when I was , you know , when I came home from school and when I worked ,
B: but now when I look back at it , it must have been a really difficult thing that she did for us .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh yeah .
A: Well I am sure it was , you know .
A: But , uh , I don't know what the families are going to come to now days because they , there just does n't seem like they do have time for their kids .
A: Because most , most of them , the father and mother both work , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: So , it 's really rough .
A: Uh , I have one neighbor that 's , uh , the father is a fireman
A: and he works like four days on
A: and it seems like he is suppose to come home for like three or four days ,
A: but he ca n't make enough as a fireman to support his family , you know .
A: So , he 's got a second job .
B: Um .
A: So he 's , you know he 's not home very often .
B: Yeah .
A: And that 's , you know ,
A: the kids I know miss that .
B: They really do .
A: You know .
B: Uh , a family without a father , it 's , it 's , uh a really hard thing .
A: Yeah , you know
A: and I don't know ,
A: I , I suppose they are trying to get through to them that well daddy is not home because , you know , he is out working trying to make some money for , you know , we can buy you this bike and that toy and so forth , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh ,
B: Kids , I think would much rather have dad there than the toy anyway .
A: Oh , I am sure they would you know .
A: So , are you planning on , to having any children
A: or ,
B: Oh yeah .
B: Oh yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
B: But we are ,
B: we just got married like , like December ,
B: so we are going to wait a year .
A: Um . Yeah .
B: And , Then we will try .
A: Well that 's good .
A: That 's what my uh , daughter-in-law told me . That they were going to have kids probably after two years of marriage .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they will be married nine years this year .
A: So , I don't know .
A: She 's a nurse , you know
A: and , uh , she has brothers and sisters that has got lots of little kids ,
A: so maybe they just decided that , uh , if they wanted to have kids around the house they would just you know call one of their sisters or brothers up and tell them to send the kids over for the night .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's a possibility .
A: You know .
A: But , uh ,
B: Well , We really want to have a family .
B: We feel like that , that couple you know , you are not giving enough of yourself
B: and you should , you should be sharing your family . And giving your values , you know , making something better of the world by raising up good kids and letting them know they 're loved and stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: so ,
A: Right .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: Give them , give them an edge ,
B: but , we feel like , like the first year needs to be devoted to , uh , making the family , the couple strong and secure in their love for each other .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right .
A: Right .
B: But then , a family is , is definitely a high priority .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh , do you plan on staying home after you have your children
A: or do you , do you work or what ?
B: Well , well I , uh , I am in , I am in a different situation .
B: I am a missionary
A: Uh-huh .
B: and I am home on furlough .
B: It called , like
B: I have worked for four years in Africa
B: and I come home for a year .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And then we go back for four years .
B: But my husband and I will do the same job
B: and we will be living in , in Africa
B: and we will be working together .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , uh , we will , we will share the job of raising the family .
B: I mean as a mother I will have certain responsibilities that he might not necessarily have
B: but , still we will share that job .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But we have ,
B: then we have decisions that we have to make that are hard about schooling , like do you want to home school your kids on a computer program you know , that kind of thing
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: or do you send them away to boarding school
B: and if you do that when do you do it
B: and that 's a ,
A: Do you play ?
B: Yeah ,
B: I , uh , consider myself a hacker .
B: How about you ?
A: Well , I 'm into it . Uh ,
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , I 'm not as good as I 'd like to be
B: but it 's a ,
A: Is anybody ?
B: No
B: I don't think so .
B: Uh , I 'd started playing when I was in elementary school actually .
B: We lived really close to a par three golf course .
A: Really ?
B: And I 'd go up there with friends after school a couple of times every week
B: and then for , uh , for years , I don't know , after elementary school , all through junior high and stuff , I did n't play cause I think I just got so frustrated when I was little I 'd , my body was n't , you know physically developed and all that kind of stuff
A: Oh , wow .
A: Right .
B: and then I 'd started picking it up again a couple of years back
B: and I 've really been enjoying it .
A: Super .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's kind of the way I did it too actually .
A: I , I played , uh , just a tiny bit when I was real young
A: and then , uh , I I got on to a team in high school but was n't very good still . But , and then quit for awhile
B: Uh-huh .
A: and recently I picked it up , like you say , about a couple of years ago
A: and , uh , I 've been playing , you know , off and on when I can .
B: Right .
A: Up in Minneapolis it 's not too easy to play in the winter of course
B: Uh-huh .
A: but I actually live in Florida
A: so , uh uh , I 'll be going back down there in May and hopefully be picking it up a little more regularly .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Right .
B: the one factor that really bothers me is the expense of playing golf .
A: I was going to say
B: I mean it 's a great game
B: but I mean to play a really nice course , you 've got to have a really big wallet I mean .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's , that 's true , all too many times .
B: Yeah .
A: Fortunately , uh , down where I live in Florida , there 's some golf courses that are pretty reasonable if you know where to look .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , one of them is the University of Florida golf course which is open to the public
B: Right .
A: and that 's pretty , pretty good .
B: Yeah .
B: I , uh , attend the Indiana University
B: and it 's the same way here .
B: They have a really nice championship style course that is fairly reasonable to play on .
A: Yeah .
A: Can you get like a , a student discount type of thing
A: or ,
B: Uh , a little bit but not a whole lot .
B: I mean I , you 'd think you would
B: but , uh , you don't
B: so . I ,
A: Yeah .
A: What , what , what are green fees run there ?
B: Uh , well they range anywhere from about five bucks for your basic city type course up to fifty , sixty dollars for a really , really nice course .
A: Okay .
A: That 's ,
A: yeah ,
A: that 's about the same I guess as it is in Florida .
A: But ,
B: Uh-huh .
B: My dad is a member of a golf club over in my home town
B: and I can play for free there
B: and it 's a pretty nice course .
A: Really .
A: Oh , that 's super .
B: Yeah .
B: And I guess , well it 's free for me
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Somebody 's paying
B: but not me .
A: Well , that 's the way to do it though .
B: Yeah
A: That 's the way to get in some good practice without having to pay for it all the time
B: Yeah ,
B: definitely .
B: As far as watching golf , I mean , I can watch it on T V
B: but it 's kind of boring .
A: Yeah .
B: It 's nice to see those who , guys .
B: They have such good style that , uh it 's , uh , it 's pretty fun to watch .
A: Yeah .
A: They need to get a new photography method .
A: Because once the guy hits the ball and they got to try to follow the ball that 's , that 's a little difficult .
B: Right .
B: Yeah .
A: I mean , it , they do , they do a generally okay job
A: but like you said , it 's , it 's kind of boring actually .
B: Uh-huh .
B: What I really ,
B: I , uh , had a chance ,
B: they had the P G A tournament up in Indianapolis last year
A: Oh , yeah ?
B: and I was able to go and see one of the rounds of that
B: and that was really fun .
B: I mean you knew it
A: Yeah .
A: I bet that would be .
B: I never really thought it was , would be that much fun to go to a big golf tournament and watch
B: but , man , it was , it was something else just to follow those guys around and actually watch them play .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've never been to a tournament .
A: Uh , you know , looking at it on T V , you 're thinking , man , what a boring thing , you know .
B: Right .
A: But , uh , that 's , that 's wild though .
A: I 'll have to see if I ca n't get a chance to go ,
B: You got
B: I mean it 's , uh , it 's a lot more exciting than actually than watching it on T V .
B: And if you pick a group of golfers and follow them around , I mean , it 's just , watching them the whole time instead of like on T V , you get to see them make a tee shot
A: Right .
B: and then they go off to some other hole
B: and they come back when they 're putting ,
B: but , you know , it 's really something else .
A: Yeah ,
A: I can imagine .
A: What do you do for a living ?
B: Uh , I 'm a student right now .
A: Oh , you are ?
B: Yeah .
A: Which , uh , which university ?
B: At , uh , Indiana University .
A: Okay .
A: All right , great .
A: What are you going into ?
B: Uh , I don't really know .
B: I 'm a math computer science major right now .
A: Okay .
A: Definitely not golf , right
B: No
B: I
B: it 'd be nice to be a pro golfer .
B: I mean , it seems like that , that would be an okay life just to hang out
B: and ,
A: Yeah .
A: If you 're good , you can really rake in the bucks .
A: what was what was that movie that they had out ?
B: Yeah .
A: there was a movie about a professional golfer
A: and I , I ca n't remember .
B: Huh .
A: It was on network T V a couple of times .
B: Oh , yeah ?
A: Yeah .
B: Well , you know , it seems like , well you go to work every weekend . Play , maybe , one , two tournaments a month . You come in about tenth , you 'd still be doing pretty well .
A: That 's right . .
B: So .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's a good thing .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , yeah .
A: I guess when I get back , I 'm going to school in Florida actually .
A: Uh , and , fortunately , I 've been able to , to play some golf on a student budget which is real helpful , you know .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , it , it 's unfortunate , you know .
A: You hear about Japan . I guess , you know , it 's , it 's like two hundred fifty dollar minimum or three hundred dollar minimum just to , like to practice even .
B: Right
B: Yeah .
B: And those fees to join a club .
B: Like a million dollars or whatever is just
A: Yeah .
B: that is out of control .
B: I mean you 'd really want to really be liking your golf .
A: Yeah .
A: I guess they have those , uh , driving ranges that are actually stacked one on top of the other .
B: Yeah
B: I saw one of those on T V .
B: That is pretty wild .
A: . Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I , I played , uh , uh , eighteen holes with some Japanese guys in , in Gainesville , as a matter of fact .
A: And it was really wild .
A: They were into it .
B: Yeah .
A: You know , they kicked our butt all the way to ,
B: Hi
A: Okay .
A: Do you work with a company that , uh , gives drug testing
B: Sort of .
B: I 'm a , I 'm a student
B: but , uh , I 'm in the National Guard
B: and they do a little bit of drug testing .
A: Oh , they do ?
B: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh .
A: What , uh ,
A: did they do that before you went in or what ?
B: Uh , they , they do it before you go in
B: and , occasionally they 'll have a , a random urinalysis .
A: Oh , they will , huh ?
B: Yeah .
B: So you ca n't be smoking marijuana in , in the military anymore
A: Oh .
A: Okay .
A: Well , I 've ,
A: I worked ,
A: I don't work right now because my company I worked for , P I E , went bankrupt
B: Oh .
A: but , uh , they was getting a program set up , that for all new hires they was going drug , uh , give them drug tests .
B: Oh .
A: But , uh , they did n't hire very many new hires because all the people that usually work there , you know , just stayed there because it was , they had been there for a long , long time .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , actually , I think they should do it .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I believe they should too .
A: You know , uh , I don't think anybody needs anybody that 's , to be working for them that 's on drugs of any kind you know .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah ,
B: definitely .
A: But , uh , I don't know whether I believe that they should just randomly do it .
A: I think they should kind of warn them , like , you know , well we 're going to do that or maybe tell them before they do get hired , you know that this is what is going to happen .
B: Oh .
A: And then if you don't like it , why then , you know , you 'll have to go look for a job someplace else .
B: Uh ,
B: But after you ,
B: you have , to do randomly otherwise people will cheat .
A: Well , I suppose you are right there too , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , personally I ,
B: They ,
B: I know when I was doing my , uh , basic training in A I T there was guys who would fool around
A: Uh-huh .
B: and then when that urinalysis came around they would be all scared .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh .
B: The only problem is , you know , if you have done drugs but you 've stopped and , uh , you do get caught , it is kind of , kind of harsh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: Well , I suppose they fire you and everything right then , huh ?
A: Or what do they do with you guys if , that you guys get ,
B: Uh , we get counseling
B: and , uh , I think part of our pay is docked if we 're first time offenders .
A: Oh I , Oh , I see .
B: I really don't ,
B: I , I have n't ,
B: I don't do any drugs
B: so I don't know .
A: Yeah ,
A: well I don't either .
A: I would n't even think about it
A: I think anybody that does them are dumb , you know .
B: Crazy .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah
A: , really .
A: You 're so stupid , God
A: and you just watch it on T V and see how it just burns your brain completely up , you know .
A: You don't ,
B: Yeah ,
B: wastes your future .
A: Yeah ,
A: really dumb , huh .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , Let 's see , what else was I going to say here .
B: Uh , what do you think about our , uh , like , uh , other government agencies testing ?
B: Do you think our government agencies should test ?
A: Yeah ,
A: I think so .
A: I think they all should test really you know .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , it just seems like there is so much more of it going on anymore that , I don't know what 's wrong with the people , uh ,
B: Yeah .
A: but I think that the , the government should do something about stopping it completely .
A: About it coming into our country .
A: You know , they just slap somebody 's little hand ,
A: and , you know , well , don't do that again
A: and and then you know , they 'll get out
B: Oh , I know ,
B: yeah .
B: They are n't .
A: and they 're right back at it again .
B: Yeah .
B: Right now it is , it 's too lucrative for the drug dealers
B: so the risks are worth it for them .
A: Yeah .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , other than that , why , I don't know .
A: Like I say , maybe one of these days I 'll get a job because I am looking still for a part-time job , you know , since my company went bankrupt
A: and I 'll see what they do , you know .
B: Yeah .
A: But , like I say , I , I would n't care because I , I don't , I don't even smoke
A: so they can test me all I want .
B: Yeah .
A: I wonder what if you take medicine if that would effect it .
B: Oh see , that 's ,
B: it is a problem .
B: Sometimes some medicines will give off a , a false positive .
A: Yeah ,
A: see now that that would be really unfair then , huh ?
B: I 've heard of , I 've heard of that ,
B: yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: You know .
B: I believe you should have the testing
B: but they should be , like , if you get , if you get a positive , they should double check you and still give you the benefit of a doubt .
A: Yeah .
A: Find out what , you know , if you have been taking some kind of medication and , you know , if that would effect it and everything .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah .
A: But , uh , well I guess that 's about all we can talk about .
A: I think our five minutes is about up anyhow .
B: Well , it was nice talking to you Rose .
A: Okay , Lewis ,
A: and maybe I 'll talk to you again .
B: Okay
A: Alrighty .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Bye
A: Okay . Uh ,
A: we keep a monthly budget .
A: I just recently stopped working so I can be home with my kids
A: so we keep a monthly budget
A: and we try to stick to it
B: are kitchen noises I know .
B: It , it 's really difficult here . All because there 's always something breaking .
B: Car needs tires or you know , something .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's the kind of things that throw you off .
B: Uh , uh , we do ours more monthly than long range .
B: Uh , we , uh ,
B: my husband gets paid once a month
A: Uh-huh .
B: and when he gets paid , I pay all the bills .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And out of his check they take a savings
B: and out of my check , they take savings and retirement both , out of both checks .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: So , as far as extra savings , we really don't have that much extra to save .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , his check , once a month , pays all the bills .
B: My check , weekly , buys groceries and gas and you know , that kind of thing
A: Oh , how nice .
A: Yeah .
B: and it works out real well that way .
B: We don't run into a lot of problems
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: but budgets are horrible .
A: Well , I know .
A: We do ,
A: my husband gets paid twice a week
A: and so we pay all of the little bills , uh , one paycheck and then like the mortgage and the electric bill , you know , those big bills the second second pay
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: and then , again , he does have a savings that comes out , you know , for Christmas and stuff , that kind of thing .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: When the car insurance is due and you call the credit union and tell them , well send me some money
A: Yeah ,
A: that kind of thing .
B: Yeah .
B: it , uh , it would be nice if we did n't have to touch the money he has taken out and put in savings
B: but we do .
A: But it 's nice that it 's there , you know .
B: Yeah ,
B: it ,
B: I 'm just glad that it is there for car insurance , medical bills , whatever happens .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: But , uh ,
A: Yeah .
A: It 's nice that it 's there .
B: I know .
B: But I ,
B: you ,
B: it 's just really is difficult .
B: Uh , neither one of us has had a raise in a couple of years .
A: Yeah .
B: And , of course , the cost of living keeps going up so much .
A: Yeah .
B: Groceries are outrageous
B: and I keep saying my check does less and less
B: but ,
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's kind of how I felt when I was working because it seemed like we spent more .
B: Uh-huh .
A: We bought more things
A: and it seemed like we spent more .
A: Then a lot of it was going to , uh , daycare and that kind of thing .
B: Yeah .
A: So it just seems like with me staying home , we had that big cut
A: but we save more
A: I don't know how
A: and I don't know why
A: but we
B: Well I , uh , I know that since I do work , I buy a lot of quicker cuts of meat and , uh well the frozen things for the microwave and things like that .
A: it seems like we do .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: you kind of try and buy bigger quantities .
B: And I 'll stop by the deli and pick up , uh , chicken or whatever . Where if I did not work , I 'm sure that the grocery bill could be managed a lot , a lot , uh , better .
A: Yeah .
A: That 's how I felt too .
A: It just ,
A: you could take a little longer . And just watch a little bit more I guess .
B: Yeah .
B: Well ,
A: I guess that 's kind of like the way we do .
A: We ,
A: I , I don't , I don't know how it comes out .
A: It just seems like we save a little bit more whereas , where I was working ,
B: Well , I 'm sure you do .
B: Uh , I do not , well I do not have to pay child care during the winter .
B: My son 's old enough that he likes to come home uh , from school .
A: Oh .
B: But in the summer he 's still young enough that I can not leave him by himself .
A: Yeah .
B: So in the summer I have that extra
B: and ours is seventy dollars a week plus all activities
A: Yeah .
B: and that 's usually movies one day , skating one day
A: Yeah .
B: Swimming one day
A: It adds up .
B: Yes .
B: So you usually end up paying close to eighty dollars a week
B: and that 's a lot of money .
A: Yeah ,
A: it is
A: It is ,
A: yeah .
B: But you know , if they 're going to be in daycare then they need to have some activities other than just being there .
A: Uh-huh .
B: do you have two children ?
A: I have two .
A: One is four and a half
A: and the other one 's two and a half ,
A: so .
B: Well they 're expensive too . Uh , just the outgrowing of their clothes
A: Yes
B: so I 'm sure the budget ,
A: Yeah ,
A: that ,
A: yeah .
A: I just came back to find jeans for the little one
A: and it does add up .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh ,
B: And medical bill .
A: Yeah .
B: Although the insurance we had was good , uh , when Thomas was younger . A lot of the stuff had to be paid up front
B: and then you were reimbursed .
B: So it was nice when you 'd get a couple of hundred dollar check from the , insurance ,
B: but in the meantime you had to put out the money first .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: But ,
A: Well , that , that 's , that 's hard .
B: Yeah ,
B: it is .
A: But I 'm enjoying my stay home for the little time that I can
B: Oh , I would too .
A: For the ,
B: I would , I would advise anyone that could possibly do it to , to ,
A: I know it 's not forever
A: and that 's what 's so sad
A: but ,
B: Well , you probably would n't want to do it forever .
B: I don't know though
A: Okay , uh ,
A: well , we just got our income tax return
A: and I 'm perfectly happy .
A: What about you
B: Well , let 's see .
B: I have n't got mine yet because my parents are getting all that stuff at , uh , at home in the Bay area .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So , I 'm not sure how much I 'm getting back
B: but I 'm pretty sure I should get back a little bit since student ,
B: so
A: Yeah .
B: It 's not too much .
A: Yeah .
B: Not too bad though
A: But as far as writing checks out and paying taxes , I think it 's pretty high .
A: But I , I 'm , you know ,
B: Yeah .
B: It , it 's one of those necessities of life that we all have to , you know , pay taxes but , although it is kind of a pain sometimes though .
A: How high are the taxes going to be when my children are my age ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: You know , that , that 's , that 's scary too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Because it 's not anything like the way it was when I was young and small and a child .
A: So , you know , that , that 's a scary part too , that you have to think about .
B: Yeah .
B: And , and like , as time goes on , you know , things get more expensive
B: and because we were increasingly complex society that day by day things get more , uh , things get more expensive as well as more complex .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah .
B: And , you know , taxes are one of the ways to help pay for a lot of the things that are needed in this society .
A: Yeah .
B: I mean , everything from , you know , from medicare to , uh , to social security to , uh , to feeding the to , uh , to , you know , feeding the homeless , to maintaining prisons , to maintaining polices or fire departments and things like that .
B: And it 's ,
B: now there 's more and more things that need attending to and that sort of thing .
B: And , you know it 's , it 's becoming a larger responsibility
A: Uh-huh
B: but someone has to pay for it
B: and that 's us .
A: Yeah
A: and then you find out about all these things about are your taxes , you know , taxpayers , are , is your money going to where you want it to go
A: and . There 's going to a special this week .
A: I , I ca n't , I ca n't if it 's TWENTY TWENTY or one of those things where ,
A: uh , I think it 's one of the local news .
A: I think they 're having a documentary . Something about that .
A: About their trying to catch some people that not spending your tax monies right and fraud and that kind of thing , you know
A: and that 's kind of scary too
B: Uh-huh
A: And , uh , so that would be interesting to see
A: I wanted to see that program .
B: Yeah .
B: And , and , even , even today it 's like the amount of taxes that , you know , we 're paying for .
B: But you 'd think that we 're still in , that
B: we 're still not able to pay off things just because the budget 's not big enough as it is .
A: Oh , I know
A: Yeah .
B: And , makes you wonder when there 's , you know , countries out there that have , you know , tax rates of like close to fifty percent or higher .
B: You know , it 's like fifty percent of everything you make is already gone before you even get it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And that , that 's kind of a scary thought .
B: I hope it does n't come down to that .
A: Yeah
B: But , on the other hand , they also , while those countries that have high taxes , also have things like , uh , socialized medicine , things like that too , which are nice fringe benefits of it .
B: So everyone has , everyone has the access to medical facilities as well as the doctors . That sort of thing .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's good
B: but it 's , it 's the price they pay
A: Yeah .
B: I mean it can be argued one way or another whether economically it 's actually good for the country or good for any given country to have that because those countries tend to be , uh , as far as cash flow , a lot , uh , have be , tend to have a much slower cash flow and don't generate a larger a , a large amount of revenue because there 's so little , uh , currency flow through out the economic system
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh .
A: Well you sure do know a a lot
B: Well , just keeping up with the times , that 's all .
A: Yeah
A: yeah .
B: As , as it turns out , you know , it 's one of those , one of those interests , you know , I kind of like to keep up on .
B: Because , well it 's nice to know that when I 'm actually , you know , I do start working that , I like to know where my tax dollars are going too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: work hard to get , you know .
B: I like to know where it 's going to .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: That 's true .
B: Uh-huh .
A: What do you think about these items that are going to be , uh , taxed even more . Like , uh , tobacco and that kind of thing
B: I think in a , in a way it 's good , in a way it 's not .
B: Uh , but I think in general it 's probably good .
B: I mean , a lot of things like tobacco and alcohol and things like that have been , have been , in the past , uh , have been not taxed because there 's been such a large lobby against them , against the taxes for them . Sponsored by the alcohol and tobacco companies .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's things like tobacco are , uh , they 're , they 're a proven health hazard to smokers as well as nonsmokers
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: And it 's ,
B: as far as the safety thing , in , like in San Luis Obispo , for example , there 's an ordnance which states that , uh , there 's no smoking in any public areas . * typo ordinance
B: And so if you walk into any restaurant or any hotel there 's no smoking allowed anywhere .
A: Oh , really
A: Okay
A: Uh , I just currently quit my job
A: and so I really don't receive any benefits right now
B: Right
A: But my husband does
A: and , uh , I think one of the , uh , my ,
A: first of all , always salary and
A: the second thing is , uh , because we have children ,
A: so it would be , uh , health benefits and medical benefits
A: and and , uh , right now we have probably some excellent benefits right now .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Definitely .
A: We have with Aetna
A: and , uh , I don't know if you 're familiar with them
A: but we 're real happy with them .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've had a variety of different jobs with a various types , uh , in the computer field .
B: And so I 've seen a variety of types of benefits .
B: Uh , I 've worked for , for for awhile
B: and they are , you know , a really academic type of place .
B: And then I 've worked with regular , you know , industry type places . And then with others that are kind of half way between and stuff .
B: So I 've seen a wide range of both , you know , nonsalary type benefits and other stuff , you know , like health care that 's either fully or partially paid
B: and , you know , some have like bonuses
B: and others have had lots of vacation time but not much other types of benefits
B: and so , yeah , I would
A: Uh-huh .
B: I 'd say health care is way up there , especially anybody with kids .
B: Uh and that 's one of the big things that we always look at , you know . When we , when I think about changing jobs is , you know , you know , what kind of health care they have
A: Yeah .
B: and does the company pay for it . You know , all or partially
B: or how does that work .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , also , uh , vacation time too is a , is a big one for me . Uh , and I guess support for whatever , whatever other , you know , kinds of professional activities you have at , you know , work .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , cause I 've been at places which offer a lot of support and others that don't offer any and some that , sometimes that 's coincided with a place that offers more vacation time though ,
A: Huh .
A: Right .
B: so that 's not so bad , you know .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , it 's kind of a give and take kind of thing , I think .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , I say that health care is probably definitely number one though .
B: want to just , you know , all your salary ca n't even begin to pay for what you can wind up losing , you know in a major illness or something . Uh .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Uh , and , and , and another good thing is with the health benefits when they give you more than two choices on who to go with .
B: Yeah .
A: And that really helped us out a great deal .
A: So .
A: But my husband does get vacation
A: and it 's worked out really good for us too .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So
A: But .
B: Yeah .
B: Flexible hours are , are pretty important to me as well .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , cause that makes a big difference .
B: My wife works part-time .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And she works , uh , as a assistant manager in a fabric store .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And so she works a lot of evenings and weekends
B: and so two days a week , I , uh , manage to get home early enough to meet the kids on the bus
B: So she you know , goes in early those days and works like , you know , noon til close .
B: Uh , so we have
A: Well , that 's great that you all can work that out .
A: That 's really good .
B: Yeah ,
B: and being on a , you know , rigid schedule would n't , there would n't be anyway to do that at all .
A: Right .
B: And I think it 's kind of neat to be able to spend the afternoons with the kids occasionally too .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I mean usually , you know , you go to work before they 're awake or as they 're getting , up for school
B: and you get home
B: and it 's already dark unless it 's summer time , you know .
B: And even in summer time , sometimes you get home so late that there 's , you know , you ca n't do anything with them .
A: Yeah .
B: And especially in the winter . I mean , you get up in the dark and come home in the dark you know .
B: It 's like , it 's like a vampire sometimes
A: Yeah .
A: It 's the same with my husband cause he 's got pretty flexible hours if , as long as he puts in the hours he needs to do .
A: Worked out really well for us too .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh . Well is there anything else that you look for
A: or ,
B: Uh , a lot of I guess is .
A: You 've hit pretty ,
A: you 've put a lot of the main points in .
B: Yeah .
B: I think some of , is how the , uh , you know ,
B: I guess it 's not really a direct benefit but how your , uh , performance is rated and stuff like that at work .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Cause I 've been , uh ,
B: especially in large corporations . You can really , you know , wind up getting , having , you know , real problems I 've found out .
B: I 've worked for a few , you know , several thousand plus , you know , type companies . And it , and especially if you 're doing like professional work . Where you know , it 's kind of ethereal as to what you 're doing you know .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: If you 're ,
B: like I 've ,
B: I work with , uh , computer systems a lot .
B: So it 's kind of hard to say , you know .
B: If you 're , you know , a brick layer , somebody can look and see , you know , well , yeah , you laid , you know , fifteen thousand bricks today
B: and they were all straight
B: and your building did n't fall down , you know
B: Yeah ,
B: you did a great job .
B: But if you build computer systems , like , well , you know , what does that computer program really do , you know . Or , especially if you write like papers , you know . Or do design studies or something .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's real hard to rate something like that .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's like get a painter , you know , or something , a artist .
B: It 's like well you , how do you really rate , you know , Michelangelo , you know
B: How would you tell if he was , you know , really good or so-so or whatever
A: Yeah .
A: And that does make a a person want to stay
A: an interesting topic .
B: Yes .
B: The , uh , type of cars that I was , uh , I would be most interested in if I was going to buy another car now would probably be something like a , uh , Mazda Miata .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Uh , the , uh ,
B: I 'm very much a , a fan of sports cars .
A: Ah .
A: Boy , you and my husband would have a whole lot in common
B: The ,
B: The , uh ,
B: uh , uh , though , actually , in
B: actually if I
B: I have
B: I 've avoided buying a new car for quite some time .
B: I 'd rather put my money into , uh , restoring my old cars .
B: I have a old Triumph T R Six .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , uh , so , uh ,
B: but if I was to buy one , probably something like a Miata .
B: It 's certainly ,
B: I would n't have to worry about it breaking down all the time
A: Oh , really .
B: Yeah
A: What 's the ,
A: how old is your car ?
B: Uh , well I have a , I have a nineteen eighty , uh , eighty-five C R X .
A: Oh .
B: Uh , which is , you know , it 's ,
B: it still works fine
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: But it 's , it 's actually , it 's kind of annoying cause I 've got no reason to replace it
A: Oh .
B: But , uh , Oh , those are ,
A: Yeah .
A: So what do the Miatas run ?
B: they 're about , uh , uh , thirteen to fourteen thousand dollars and , you know , a bit more if you add some some options and so on
B: but the ,
A: Well , that 's not too bad .
B: uh , yeah ,
B: that 's a pretty good price
B: and they 're , they 're , they 're , they 're so nice to drive .
A: Yeah .
A: Really ?
A: I 've never driven one .
B: Uh , uh , it 's , it 's , it 's nice .
B: They 're ,
B: I 've been down to a dealer and driven them .
B: And I 've also driven one at a , something Mazda put on where , uh , they went to , uh , autocross events across the country . Uh , which is where you race in , uh , you race on , in a parking lot or something like that with a bunch of , uh , cones to see who can get through the fastest .
A: Huh ?
B: Uh , you know , about a minute or so . And , uh , very twisty stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And oh , it handles so nicely .
A: And so you 've done this ?
B: Yeah .
A: Oh .
A: Okay .
B: Yeah .
A: Oh
B: It was just ,
B: it , it 's just so smooth
B: and .
A: Really ?
A: Yeah
B: Yeah .
B: Nice car .
B: What are you interested in ?
A: Whatever my husband buys
B: Yeah .
B: You you don't get involved in , uh , car decisions ?
A: Oh , not too much .
A: No .
A: We , uh , we just got rid of a full conversion van that , that I , I , that was n't me .
A: That was my husband .
A: He wanted a van
A: and he wanted to drive that van and travel and wanted everything in there . T V , you know , the whole bit .
A: But I never drove it
A: so it just , it was n't me , you know .
B: Yeah .
B: I can understand .
A: And then , Oh , I 'd want a minivan
B: yeah .
B: They 're nice .
A: Because I 'm with the kids all the time .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: That 's perfect for that .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: And ,
B: It 's not ,
B: it , it 's small enough that it 's easy to drive .
A: Yeah .
A: You pick up I pick up my little one from preschool
B: Holds a lot .
A: and the whole parking lot 's full of minivans .
B: Yeah .
A: But , you know , I , I drive a little Subaru .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , we , I love that .
A: I ,
A: we were going to trade that in for the van
A: but I just wanted to hold on to it cause I just really enjoy that .
B: Right .
A: And , uh , that 's really all I needed was for something just to go here and there and back .
B: Yeah .
B: Minivans are nice .
B: I have a friend who has a minivan .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , I 've driven it a few times
B: and , uh , it 's nice ,
B: it 's nice .
B: Of course , you know , my my family has always had cars like that . Uh , in that , you know , my father 's had a , had a , always had a V W bus every since , uh nine , about nineteen sixty or so .
A: Oh , really
A: Oh , really .
B: Uh , uh ,
B: they , well ,
B: he , he used it ,
B: he often has to transport plants or , uh , things like that cause he 's , he goes to orchid shows and , and , you know , fills the car with plants . And so on
A: Yeah .
B: or .
A: Yeah .
A: It 's amazing what a minivan can do .
A: We went camping this past weekend with some friends that had a minivan . And pulled the , uh , the little trailer behind .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The pop-up trailer ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , it 's ,
A: so it 's really amazing how much a minivan you know , what it can do .
B: Yeah .
B: And they 're not that expensive .
A: No ,
A: they 're not .
B: Yeah .
A: They 're probably .
B: Mainly because everyone makes them , you know
A: Yeah .
B: You can take your choice of how expensive you want it to be .
A: Yeah .
A: And we , we do a lot of , uh , driving .
A: We do a lot of traveling . By car .
B: Uh-huh
A: And so that 's the only time that the , that the , uh , conversion van came in handy .
A: But it really did n't cause our , our kids are still little .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So , uh , that was the only time we really needed it .
A: Other than that , it got terrible mileage
A: and .
B: Yeah
B: Yeah .
B: Minivans do pretty well . You know , twenty , twenty , twenty-five miles per gallon or more .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Some of them probably even do thirty .
A: Yeah .
B: The , uh ,
B: yeah .
B: There , there 's some other cars I 'd like
B: but I , I would never be willing to send quite that much money for , uh , like , uh , uh ,
B: I 'll drool over them .
B: Okay .
B: Uh , mandatory service . Yeah . I don't think it 's a good idea , uh ,
B: because we 'd have to change the constitution to , to , uh , allow , uh , involuntary servitude , uh , in service to the government .
B: And I 'm not sure that we could , do that in such a way that we could avoid winding up a slave state .
A: Uh-huh .
B: It 's ,
B: I like the , idea .
A: And ,
A: In what way are you talking about .
B: Well , I like the idea of volunteer , voluntary support .
A: Right .
B: I mean they might be able to , ah , say that anyone who does that , uh , gets certain benefits that would not be available to someone who did n't do it .
B: But to use force , uh , really sets us a , a , essentially says that your body , there 's a title to your body and that title belongs to the government .
A: .
B: And you are not a free American citizen .
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
B: The idea itself of service is good
B: and when someone is say , out of high school and not sure about college or out of college and not ready to go into a career and they 're not committed to huge amounts of debt , that 's the best time to be able to do work that does n't pay very well .
A: See , I ,
A: yeah .
A: And I also thought that , uh , that would interfere with , with college work .
B: Yeah .
B: Unless it were tied directly .
A: And they did n't ,
A: Yeah .
B: You know , if someone were studying something , take something obscure . Somebody was studying economics , the State Department could offer to send them to the Soviet Union for two years to teach them how to run their country .
A: Yeah .
B: As an extreme example , right ?
B: But , in reality , I think what you would wind up with is a political football where they would see all these body counts that they can use to , for their own will
B: and I just don't think it would work .
A: When do they assume this is going to be proposed or mandatory ?
A: Or when ,
A: when ,
A: what , what year are they looking at ?
B: Well , they 're not .
B: It 's been suggested .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And it 's sort of a topic of debate .
B: Every time it comes up it gets voted down .
B: The people who are promilitary oppose because they don't want people to have the right to opt out of the military into something else .
A: Yeah .
B: And the people who are proconstitution oppose it on the grounds that the government should n't even have the right to enforce you to join the military unless the United States is actually under attack
A: Yeah .
A: Right .
A: Right
B: So , mostly , it 's just kind of one of those things that goes away .
A: Yeah .
B: Ah ! They 've got a noisy line .
A: I thought that was your line
B: Yeah .
B: Well , it 's somewhere between here and there .
A: Uh , what age group are , are they looking at ?
B: Uh , oh eighteen .
B: The draft age .
A: Eighteen .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: that seems ,
A: normally that would interfere with college , I would think .
B: Wait a ,
B: yeah .
B: Let me see if I can get on a cleaner line .
B: If it 's my line , uh .
A: I moved .
A: Maybe that is , that 's part of it .
B: Yeah
B: it is my line .
B: I was on a radio phone .
A: Oh .
B: All right .
B: That 's better
B: Yeah ,
B: now their ,
B: they , they figure that they can draft you at eighteen .
B: They usually do draft you at nineteen .
B: And that 's the , age they 're looking at .
A: Oh . Um .
B: And , of course , they 're , this one the women would be equally grabbed
B: and they 're almost on the verge of saying that you , if you 're going to draft men , you 're going to have to draft women .
B: And you 're going to have to put them in front of the guns just the same .
A: Right .
B: So , uh , if you 're near that age or you know somebody who is uh , you know , be aware of that .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah
A: Well , that 's kind of scary
B: Yeah .
A: I 'm not near that age
A: I 'm way over it
A: but I do have children to think about , you know .
B: Oh , okay .
B: Yep .
B: And you don't want them sent off to the Middle East to help defend Bush from Saddam after Bush gets done arming him .
A: That 's kind of scary .
A: Right .
B: You know , we only find out about that a year after the fact .
A: Yeah .
B: So , it 's another thing .
B: When in doubt , don't trust the government at all
B: It 's really reached that point .
A: Oh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Huh .
B: Hey , you 're in Perot country .
B: I 'm really thinking that this guy might be good for us .
A: I do too
B: I 've been ,
B: it seemed dangerous .
B: I thought is the guy a closet fascist ?
B: And then I find out that he helped rid the United States of the gablers .
A: He 's , he 's helped out in a lot of ways .
A: Yeah ,
A: he 's , he 's from Dallas .
A: Or he 's in the Dallas area .
B: Yeah .
A: And , uh , he 's very well known around here .
A: So .
B: Okay .
B: Well , I 'm in the computer biz too
B: so I know he 's well known in the industry .
A: Uh-huh .
B: They , uh ,
B: I , I have high hopes for him .
B: And I think that you know , if he could get people interested and encouraged and to believe that the government was actually for us , then I 'm for him .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I .
B: I mean in the Democratic primary , I 'm going to vote for Brown just because I kind of like Brown and his attitude .
B: But when , uh , when it really comes down in the fall , I think I know where it 's going to go .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: I , I think he 's got a very good chance .
A: So , there 's a lot of people here pulling for him .
B: Uh-huh .
A: So . I don't know
B: Yeah
A: We 'll just see .
A: How
B: You know ,
A: did you , uh , you work in the , uh , computer business , is that what you said ?
B: Yeah .
B: I 'm an end user .
B: I teach people how to use MacIntoshes and how to buy equipment and desktop publishing magazine production and things related to that .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Uh , my husband works for , uh , Texas Instruments .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , so , uh , that 's how we found out about the Switchboard .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Oh , that 's their project too , is n't it ?
B: I found about it on the network .
A: Okay
B: Okay Carol .
B: So , air quality .
A: Yeah .
A: Is it , like water running and she is doing
A: I know in here , uh , downtown Dallas , it 's , you , I mean you drive by and you can just , you can see it .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , then again I originally was from California
A: and , uh , there is a big difference between Texas and California .
A: And , uh they 'd have their smog alerts and where you 'd have to stay indoors for so many hours with an air conditioner .
B: Surely .
A: And , of course , they don't have that here in Texas
A: so , there 's ...
B: You mean they don't have the , uh , the smog alerts ?
A: No ,
A: not in , not in well not in Dallas , that is .
B: Right .
B: I , I , yeah , I spent a summer in Tyler so I know , just east of Dallas there .
A: Yeah .
A: We 're going there tomorrow .
B: Oh , really
A: Uh-huh
A: We 're packing and getting ready to go to .
B: Yeah .
B: Actually , I 'm a California born person .
A: Uh-huh .
B: I was born in L A
B: so I know what you 're talking about .
B: In L A , it 's pretty bad .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , okay .
A: Yeah ,
A: you do then .
B: Uh , the worst city in the , in the world is actually , uh , Mexico City .
A: Is it really ?
B: Yes .
A: I would not imagine that .
B: The worst one for smog is Mexico City .
A: Huh .
B: The most polluted city in the world
A: Huh .
A: You learn something every day .
B: .
B: Yeah .
B: I know that they 've , they 're looking at , uh , uh , you know , uh , you know , better running automobiles .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: I 've seen that .
B: Uh , some things they do , one of them is they 're using corn in fuel .
A: Huh .
B: You ever heard of that ?
A: Huh-uh .
B: Yeah .
B: Methanol ?
A: Huh .
A: No
B: Yeah .
B: Well that 's big up here because of the , they grow a lot of corn
A: Oh , yeah
A: Yeah .
B: Uh , that 's one thing that they do .
B: At that , it 's pretty easy to do .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And the , uh ,
B: unfortunately , it still contributes to global warming cause , you have to , you know , wipe out forests to grow corn and things like that .
A: Yeah ,
A: that 's true .
B: It does n't make sense .
B: Uh , but it 's , you know ,
B: one of the most , uh , productive crop in the world is corn .
A: Right .
A: Huh .
A: And , of course , I doubt if there 's any ,
A: you can buy regular anymore .
A: You buy unleaded .
A: Right ?
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Huh .
B: Drive cars with catalytic converters , and all that .
B: It 's interesting .
B: They 're , they 're looking at ,
B: there 's some work being done on , uh , automobiles that are electrical powered
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , uh , they 're looking at where you have a battery operated car basically ,
B: but it has a , a engine in the back that charges it .
A: Uh-huh .
B: So the engine kicks on when the batteries need power
B: and it turns off .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Interesting thing about gas is when , I mean , about battery powered cars is when you 're at a stop light , you 're not using any any energy
A: Huh
A: That is good .
B: Unlike a car where it 's running .
A: Yeah .
B: A electric car it 's on demand .
B: I mean it 's either on or off .
A: Yeah .
B: Basically .
A: Huh .
B: You don't have to shift
B: So you ,
B: cars become very simple all of a sudden too .
A: Oh .
B: Very interesting .
A: That would be nice .
A: I think I saw that on T V one time .
A: They ,
A: maybe it was C N N where they were demonstrating that . Or something similar to that .
B: Yeah .
B: There 's , there 's a race in Australia with solar powered cars .
A: Huh .
B: And Ford and General Motors and all those compete .
A: But what ,
A: I think that was a , a , a setback .
A: That they ,
A: I don't know ,
A: they went , I don't know , how many miles an hour .
A: I think like
B: Right .
B: Yeah
A: I don't know . Huh . * See note above
B: G M , uh , Chrysler announced that they 're going to , they 're ,
B: well they actually have an electric minivan .
B: Yeah .
B: Their , their Caravan .
B: But it costs , uh , fifty thousand dollars right now .
A: Yeah ,
A: and they 're , they 're very expensive too . .
B: To operate , yeah .
B: But , you know , people are buying them .
B: You know whose buying them ? * '' whose '' = who 's ''
B: The power company .
B: Free , you know , free for them .
A: Well , yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Kind of interesting so see .
A: Well , it does n't make sense .
A: Because if they want people to convert , you know . They should make it worthwhile .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah
B: It 's top speed is something like eighty miles an hour .
B: So it 's a good , good vehicle .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
A: Um . Well I 'll tell you . Sometimes it 's , it 's pretty bad here .
A: Like today I think it was pretty bad .
A: I don't know if it was , if it 's just , uh , the allergies or what
A: but some days it 's very nice here downtown
B: Uh-huh
A: and other days it 's just really bad ,
A: so , I don't know .
A: So what , what kinds of things did you experience in L A when you were there ?
A: Or can you remember ?
A: Were you there at a ?
B: Oh , I was n't there too long ago . Uh .
A: Cause I have n't been there probably ...
B: Well , you know , going over the hills , you know , coming into the valley ?
A: Yeah .
B: You can see that horrible , horrible brown haze .
A: Well , we were there when they had a
A: Uh , do you have a pet Randy ?
B: Uh , yeah ,
B: currently we have a poodle .
A: A poodle , miniature or , uh , full size ?
B: Yeah ,
B: uh , it 's , uh miniature .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Yeah .
A: I read somewhere that , the poodles is one of the , the most intelligent dogs , uh , around .
B: Well , um , I would n't , uh , I definitely would n't dispute that ,
B: it , it 's actually my wife 's dog , uh , I , I became part owner six months ago when we got married ,
B: but , uh , it , uh , definitely responds to , uh , to authority
B: and , I 've had dogs in the past
B: and , uh , it seems , it seems to , uh , respond real well ,
B: it , it
B: she 's , she 's picked up a lot of things , uh , just , just by , uh , teaching by force , I guess is what I 'd like to say .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: So , you , you 've only known the dog , how long did you say .
B: Well , about a year I guess .
A: Oh , well , uh , is it ,
A: uh , uh , how old is the dog ?
B: It just turned two , I believe .
A: Oh , it 's still just a pup .
B: Pretty much ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I have a , uh , well a mutt , myself .
A: I call it a , uh , uh , Chowperd .
B: Okay .
A: It 's , uh , part Chow and part Shepherd
A: and it ,
A: as I understand it , uh , both sides of the , were thoroughbreds .
A: So , she 's a genuine Chowperd .
B: Oh , that sounds interesting .
A: She has the , the color and the black tongue of a Chow ,
A: but , uh , she has the the shape of the , uh , uh , Shepherd .
B: Oh , that 's , that 's neat .
B: How , about how big then ?
A: Oh , she weighs in at about fifty pounds ,
A: so she 's a medium size .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
B: Most definitely .
B: Yeah .
A: and right from day one , she was teaching me .
B: Oh , I would n't doubt it ,
B: yeah .
A: She 's the most intelligent dog I 've ever seen .
A: Course , I 'm a little prejudiced , of course .
B: Well that 's understandable ,
B: yeah ,
B: it 's , uh ,
A: You know , the first time I brought her home , she was only , uh , was it six weeks old .
A: And I spread the newspapers out in the kitchen area .
B: Uh-huh .
A: But , uh , next morning , she let me know in no uncertain terms that she wanted to use the bathroom .
B: Okay .
A: So , on next night , I spread the newspaper in the bathroom
A: and she used them there .
B: Oh .
A: But it was n't too long until she , uh , found out she could wait until I let her out in the morning .
B: Yeah .
A: And since then , I , I live alone ,
B: Okay .
A: and , uh , I live in motor home ,
A: by the way , I 'm , uh , an R V , full time R V
A: and it 's , it 's such a pleasure to come home at night
A: and you can see her smiling from ear to ear , she 's so happy to see me .
B: Yeah ,
B: definitely .
A: And , uh , I don't know if you get that kind of greeting or not .
B: Yeah ,
B: I can honestly say we do , uh , we , uh , just recently put a security system in our house
B: and so now , uh , in order to , uh , to accommodate the motion detectors we have to keep her , uh , uh , locked up in the , the master bedroom during the day
B: and then she 's got the , the bedroom and the bathroom to , for free run during the day
B: but , we 've always got , uh , got a nose and tongue pressed up against the window when we come walking up to the front door .
A: Uh-huh .
B: She 's definitely ready to get out and run around .
B: Really .
A: Uh , she 'd rather sleep outside on the , the cold ground at night .
B: Oh wow .
A: But , uh , I do make her come in .
B: Yeah .
A: And I feed her indoors , that 's to lure her in ,
A: but during the day I have her on a , uh , on a leash , which is , uh , on sort of a run .
B: Okay .
A: I have a , a thirty foot cable , running from one stake to another ,
B: Okay .
A: and then attached to that is a , uh , twelve foot leash ,
B: Okay .
A: so she can cover quite an area .
B: Most definitely .
A: And , uh , she 's the best , uh , burglar alarm going .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah
B: that 's , uh , definite security involved in , uh , in a dog like that .
A: Oh , yeah ,
A: she , uh ,
A: it 's the strangest thing , though , uh , children , no matter how strange they are , or how new they might be can walk , uh , right up to her ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: but adults , if they 're strange to her , or , or they look suspicious or something , boy she acts like she wants to chew their leg off .
B: Wow .
A: And I have not discovered yet where the , the line is between children and adults .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's interesting .
A: But , uh , she is a great comfort to me .
B: Yeah ,
B: I know our dog has had , uh , some different reactions ,
B: she 's never really been around children
B: and , uh , if , if the child is , is pretty straight forward , um , she 's fine .
B: If , if a child is a little intimidated , she 'll jump around and , and yip and bark quite a bit ,
B: and if the child gets scared , uh , she 's still trying to play , but she does n't completely understand what 's going on
B: and we 've had a little confusion with , with , uh , with younger kids .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh , you know , that 's ,
B: it 's a matter of exposure really .
B: Um , we , uh , took her home to , uh , my family 's place in South Dakota ,
B: and she was the one that was intimidated then .
B: There was about seven kids ranging from about , uh , three years to ten years running around the house all at one time , you know come to visit Grandpa and Grandma
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: and , the dog kind of , kind of felt out of place then because she was , she was being fed , and everything else from all directions .
B: She really did n't know how to handle herself .
A: You mean she did n't appreciate all that attention .
B: She really did ,
B: she just , uh ,
B: she , she was she was just inundated with , with all the attention .
B: Uh , she , she kind of , she kind of sat and it all in for a little while
B: and then she 'd go get back in and try to play and , and what not ,
B: but , uh , it was , it was just such a , such a new experience for her .
B: She 's only been around one and , and sometimes two people at the most
B: so , uh .
A: Uh-huh .
A: What 's her name by the way ?
B: Uh , pardon ?
A: What , what do you call the dog ?
B: Oh , it 's , uh , Mitzi .
A: Mitzi .
B: Yeah .
A: Mine is Gin .
B: Oh , okay .
A: As in , uh , martini .
B: Yeah .
A: Actually , it 's Gin two .
B: I , I see .
A: Because , uh , when I was a teenager , in high school , I had Gin one ,
A: but then when I went out in the world , I could n't take her with me .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: I had , uh , a similar , uh , experience .
B: I , I grew up on a farm
B: so I always had , uh , outdoor pets
B: and , uh , the dog I had when I moved to Dallas about five years ago was a , uh , Springer Spaniel , black Lab cross .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And he was a real , a real lovable type , but , uh , definitely not an apartment type animal
A: Oh yeah .
B: so he , uh , he had to stay home .
A: Oh , what a shame .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: it really was .
B: He , uh , apparently had a tough time with it for a little while
B: and then he , he got , he came to accept the fact that Mom and Dad were his company from then on ,
B: but , uh .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: oh well .
B: Yeah .
A: Well Randy , we 've just about used up our time here ,
B: Okay .
A: and I must say it was interesting .
B: Most definitely .
A: I enjoyed talking about pets with you .
B: Well that 's great .
A: Maybe we 'll get together again in the future .
B: That sounds real good .
A: Take care now .
B: You too .
A: Bye .
A: All right ,
A: Amy , how are you doing today ?
B: Fine ,
B: fine .
A: All right ,
A: I think we know what we 're going to speak about .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , I tell you what , I 'll start off .
A: How 's that ?
B: Okay ,
B: you go ahead .
A: Um , I personally think to set a mark with the judicial system and we 're talking about criminals , criminal cases that they should bring back hangings on weekends , in public places .
B: Uh-huh .
B: In public places .
A: There is one state that does that , by the way .
B: Really ?
B: What is that ?
A: I want to say Oklahoma ,
A: I saw something the other night about it .
B: Um .
A: They don't do them real often . Which is obviously the death penalty .
B: Yeah .
B: Yeah .
A: Um , but I think if we quit , uh , building , these Taj Mahals with the color T V and sixty sixty thousand a year to keep an inmate in there on a , on a , on a life sentence , we should start hanging them and get it over with
A: and let 's just screwing up the system .
B: Yeah .
B: Well , the sentences are so unbelievable .
B: I just saw on the news last night , that they said the average time a sentenced murderer , you know , is in jail is two years before he 's paroled , and a rapists is like six months , and a burglar is like two months .
A: That 's pathetic .
A: That 's pathetic .
B: Because they just say there 's either no room in the system , you know , in the jails for them
B: or , you know , it 's just that , it seems like the automatic sentences , if , if a judge has leeway , on what he 's going to , you know , sentence someone for between , you know , two months and fifty years and , you know , what 's his whim to decide it should be two months .
A: This is true ,
B: You know , it 's crazy .
A: an , and the way the law reads , uh , if they sentence you to life in prison , then he 's available for parole .
A: If it 's life and a day , then he 's not eligible for parole .
B: Yeah .
A: So , what , you know ,
A: let 's quit B S with the system .
B: Well even if it 's life , like you say , we end up spending sixty thousand dollars a year to keep some , you know , joker in there for life .
B: We could spend that money , you know , for children that are starving , or twelve million other things would be more useful than that .
A: Exactly .
B: So to me if somebody has life , you know , beyond a reasonable doubt they should , that should be it .
A: A life for a life .
B: You know particularly for some of these really , I mean ,
B: there are so many just major , major serial murders ,
B: it 's not just like one instance , or something , it 's just , uh , horrifying , some of the murders that go on .
A: The old Charles Manson case .
A: I mean the guy is really , just should n't be allowed to , to even , even live .
B: Yeah ,
B: an ,
B: yeah ,
B: there 's just everyday you hear on the news of another one like that .
B: Yeah .
A: Uh , about the issue about sentencing by the judge .
B: Uh-huh .
A: The , the judge presently has an opportunity to intervene , uh , when there 's a , my understanding , when there 's uh , a verdict
A: and it
A: for example there 's a hung jury here in Fort Worth , today , in eight to four
A: and bam , bam the guy got off .
A: Uh , he was , he was a veterinarian , and killed two , a father and a son , okay .
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: I heard about that on the news .
A: Uh , it kind of gets back to the second request ,
A: we 've been asked to look at , is most criminal cases requiring an unanimous verdict .
A: In a situation like that , I 'd say no ,
A: let 's just go like a regular vote .
A: Eight to four tells me that there were eight ,
A: there 's a certain percentage of the people there , with sixty percent of the people , uh , seventy percent of the people said , hey , they guys guilty .
B: Right .
B: Rather than have to retrial the whole , whole thing and spend all the money for people to , uh , you know , go back to court and all the lawyers
B: and , I mean it just winds up costing the taxpayers a , you know , a fortune to keep doing that .
A: Exactly .
B: And the victims , you know , the family of these people that have been murdered , they just have to have it dragged on for years and years before they ever get any resolution .
A: Exactly ,
A: because it 's not next day they have , the , start the trial , it 's X number of months and just prolongs the situation that much more .
B: Right ,
B: yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: I think that , that if it 's , if it 's not a split decision , go with the highest number
A: and let 's just get on with the program .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: But as far as the sentencing by the judge , I would have to vote against that since there is a jury , because that 's what the juries are for is to make the decision .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
A: Uh , what are your feelings ?
B: Well if I ,
B: I saw on one of the talk shows this woman judge , I believe from Florida ,
B: and she just has , just really stiff penalties
B: and I saw that in , in the hands of a judge that really was conscientious and really , you know , took the pains to give a sentence for what was deserved , it could , you could have a , a judge that would really make a good impact .
B: But likewise , you could have the flip side , and have some judge that was paid off or , you know , had a good old boy network
B: or for whatever reasons , you know , politics , just let all kinds of people through
B: so , he , he would have a heck , or she would have a heck of a lot of power , you know , if used wrongly .
B: So at least the jury system does something to prevent that , you know , or help it with it anyway .
B: I don't know if it prevents it ,
B: but , seems like the jury system does have it 's advantages .
B: But I also , I 've also heard on trials that sometimes they go through like three hundred jurors before they hand pick these jurors that they think are going to be the ones that are going to be the most lenient , you know ,
B: and I don't know how much they 're getting just a jury of their peers , at that point , they 're really getting a select group .
B: It 's not just random people .
A: Um .
B: It almost should be the first twelve people that they , you know , have on a list are the ones that are on the jury
B: and that 's it .
A: Yeah ,
A: I get back to Price 's comment when he , uh , was found guilty he said well he did n't have any blacks , uh , you know , from his neck of the woods .
A: Well give me a break , you know .
B: He 'd have to have his whole family up there for him to feel like he 's got his peers or something ,
B: yeah .
A: Exactly ,
A: yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: I mean you 're , you 're in Dallas
A: so everybody ,
A: I ca n't believe they can ,
A: uh , like in a murder situations , they look for juries who don't know anything about the system , well or know anything about the , the occurrence ,
A: you 'd have to be pretty dense ,
B: Yeah .
A: you 'd be , you 'd either have to be in a cave not to know what 's going on , or moving it to Lubbock , or somewhere , possibly is not the answer .
B: Yeah .
B: Oh , they 'd have to move it to Taiwan for people not to know about it practically .
A: This is true , so true .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah .
A: Well this has been an interesting conversation .
B: Well , really , this is , breaks up my afternoon from changing diapers and mopping floors , I mean ,
B: what can I say .
A: So , you 're at the house you 're not at the plant .
B: No ,
B: I 'm at home with two little preschoolers .
B: My husband works for T I .
A: Oh , that 's good ,
A: that 's good .
A: I thought I heard a holler there in the background ,
A: but I was n't sure .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: I 've got the dog and two kids waiting here ,
B: I 'm just locked up in the laundry room
A: Oh goodness ,
A: well , I 'll let you get ,
B: Okay ,
B: thanks a lot .
B: Bye-bye .
A: I enjoyed it .
A: Bye .
A: Okay ,
A: Ellen what kind of a car do you think you 're going to buy ? and background
B: Well , as a matter of fact , I was thinking about that the other day ,
B: and , uh , I really don't know the answer ,
B: uh , I would sort of like to , uh , think about something in the way of , uh , uh , sort of a sporty car but not any , not , you know , a luxury type sporty one .
A: Yeah .
B: But , um , something that still has a lots of amenities and , you know , gadgets and things .
A: Oh , you do want a lot of that stuff ?
B: Yeah ,
B: well , yeah
B: I like , I like some of those things .
B: They come in really handy sounds in
A: What kind of , uh , things are you going to consider ,
A: you know , what , uh , you said something about the , about the ,
A: well , what do you call them ,
A: you said amenities , that they have ,
B: Amenities .
A: but what about , um , their reputation of the company or the price .
B: Yeah ,
B: well , of course , I guess , uh , price is always the big consideration ,
B: but ,
A: It is for me ,
A: other people , don't seem to have the same problem
B: yeah .
B: Well , that 's , that 's a big one in my book ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , uh , um , I have preferences for , uh , for some , uh , makers over others , um ,
B: and I would sort of like to buy American ,
A: Yeah .
B: but , you know , I 'm not so totally hung up on that , that I would n't buy something else ,
B: how about you ?
A: Well , um , the last car we bought was American because of , because of that reason ,
A: but have not been entirely happy with , uh , several things about the car ,
A: it does n't seem like the quality is quite as high as I expected it to be .
B: Oh , really ?
A: Because several things , minor things sort of ,
A: but still they cost us money , um , that we did n't feel like we should have had to pay , on a car that , that was that new , you know ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: we bought the car new
A: and after ,
A: um , well , well , well under two years we had to replace the clutch .
B: Oh .
A: And , they just said , well , you know , clutches are disposable ,
A: and I said , since when ?
B: Yeah .
A: Brake pads are disposable , you know ,
B: Yeah .
A: we know that ,
A: but I never thought a clutch was disposable .
B: Yeah ,
B: I would n't have thought so either .
A: Yeah ,
A: so that was , that was kind of a shock
B: Oh .
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I guess there 's a lot to , to think about when you 're trying to make that decision .
A: Yeah ,
A: you know , the less actually , the less you spend on a car it seems like luxury cars ,
A: they 're called luxury cars even though they 're much more expensive like , like , uh , uh , a Mercedes Benz ,
A: they don't have the history of breaking down or things like that , that would go wrong would definitely not be considered disposable .
B: Right .
A: You would never think of having to replace the clutch in a Mercedes , especially not after two years .
B: No
B: but then ,
B: No ,
B: but on the other hand , I guess , too , uh , whenever you do have to have some major work done on one of those it costs a fortune .
A: Really ?
A: Oh I don't know .
B: Yeah ,
B: I 've , uh , worked with a couple of people who have owned , uh , various years , uh , Mercedes
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , even though they do a lot of the work themself then just buying the parts and everything is , is pretty expensive .
B: But for them it 's , it 's sort of a hobby , too , to own them .
A: Yeah .
A: What kind of ,
A: what brand of car are you thinking about buying
A: or like what things are you looking at ?
B: Well , I have n't really gotten that far with it , um ,
B: I 've always sort of liked General Motors , a little bit better than some of the others
A: Uh-huh .
B: but , uh , oh , I guess , I really don't know .
A: How come
A: I 've been kind of , um ,
A: I guess the commercials are getting to me , the Toyota commercials ,
B: Yeah .
A: and I know that a lot of people I 've , I 've known that have had Toyotas have been just extremely happy with them , that hardly had any problems at all .
B: Yeah ,
B: that ,
B: I think that 's ,
A: I think they have a really good , uh , quality .
B: Uh-huh .
B: My , uh , daughter has owned two different ones ,
B: and , uh , you know , we 've had some work done on them
B: but it 's not too bad ,
B: and the reason ,
B: one of the reasons we , um , bought the first one was because a friend of ours had a Toyota that he just really drove for years and years and years
B: and he lived way out in the country
B: so he put a lot of miles on it ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and , you knew it had , had been through a whole lot ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and yet , you know , it , it held up pretty doggone good ,
B: so , I thought they would
A: Yeah .
A: They seem to be really durable .
B: Yeah .
A: So , I don't know ,
A: I 'm , I 'm not ready to buy a new car yet ,
A: but I don't know , if , if the next time I 'm going to try to , to stay with buying something American or if I 'm going to go for a little more , what I would consider to be a long-term investment
B: Yeah .
B: Well ,
B: and I guess , you know , you always have to think about things like , your gas mileage and stuff like that , you know ,
B: you ...
A: Oh , it 's easy to get gas mileage in this car ,
B: Yeah
A: it gets excellent gas mileage .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's one of the big throwing cards for , some of the foreign ones like one music
A: Uh-huh .
B: Well , we talked long enough
A: I think so .
B: Okay ,
B: well , enjoyed it .
A: All righty ,
A: thanks and background
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
B: Okay ,
B: well , go ahead ,
B: I 'll let you start .
A: Uh , I was thinking about whether or not we should have people , uh , be required to do public service for a year or two .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And I was thinking that you needed to put some waivers in there for the handicapped and also for people that had to stay home and maybe be wage earners for their family ,
A: or they had somebody at home that was ill that they had to tend to .
A: I mean , you ca n't make it everybody .
B: Right ,
B: yeah .
A: But then you need to make it sure that the rich people ca n't buy somebody off and , and maybe send them in their places or get out of it some other way too .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: or it could be like the draft where , you know , before they draft you , they uh , you get a physical anyway .
B: So when they send you a draft notice and then they give you a physical
B: and if there 's nothing physically wrong with you , then you 're drafted .
B: It does n't matter how rich you are .
B: That would be good .
A: And then we could maybe give physicals to the rest of the family members ,
A: right .
B: What did you say ?
A: Give physicals to the rest of the family members
A: and they all had to pass .
B: Oh , yeah .
B: Uh .
A: Uh , I thought it a good idea too , though would be to extend this and make people that are accepting public welfare have to do something along this line before they got any money .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: that 's true .
A: And , uh , if they did this , maybe help them out in their college cost
A: and maybe they could pay people for doing this , at least something ,
A: so they could subsist .
B: Well that 's true .
B: America 's paying all this money to have other people give , uh , aid to other countries ,
B: so they could be paying their own people and training their own people at the same time .
A: Yeah .
B: Because , actually , when you , when you do , uh , service overseas you end up learning something , usually that 's , that 's really useful , plumbing , or farming , or , or something like that ,
B: so you 're really learning a skill
A: Yeah ,
A: and you know all these old people , they would get out of this right .
A: All the ones that are already retired .
A: So what we could do is take all the retired people that are going around in their big mobile homes and they could do public service all over the country .
B: What did you say ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: I 'm just teasing
B: Yeah ,
B: I , I , think , well that 's probably the idea ,
B: I don't know whether the idea is to be within the country , or outside the country .
A: Well I thought it would be a good idea if maybe you took some of the kids and had them go over to other countries
A: and children from their countries came over to ours too , a trade off .
B: Yeah ,
B: that would be neat ,
B: yeah
B: sort of like an exchange program .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And other than that , I ca n't think of any other ideas .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 'd be sort of neat .
B: I like the idea of , uh , being , uh , a mandatory thing for welfare .
B: Course that 's what , um ,
B: that 's sort of like what Truman had ,
B: or was it Roosevelt ,
B: I ca n't remember , um ,
B: with the big ,
A: Oh with W P A .
B: Yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Getting people , uh ,
B: the , the work program and all the , all the make work jobs .
B: That was sort of public service in a way all the highways they started building .
A: And we 're still using those things too .
B: What did you say ?
A: We 're still using those things .
B: Yeah ,
B: that 's true a lot of them are still out there .
B: Like all these wonderful highways in West Virginia and no one knows why .
A: They built lodges before too , like at Caddo Lake .
B: Lake what ?
A: Caddo Lake .
B: Caddo Lake .
A: It 's between Texas and Louisiana ,
A: it crosses into both of them .
B: No ,
B: I 've never heard of it .
A: Well , it 's real pretty ,
A: it 's like a swamp .
B: Oh
A: You know with all the Spanish moss on the trees , it 's really , it 's eerie .
B: Oh okay ,
B: real pretty , like a swamp ,
B: oh yeah .
A: Yeah .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: yeah ,
B: I been , uh ,
B: I got , uh , talked to someone else before that was a , uh , a Texan ,
B: but I guess that 's , uh , that 's what we 're going to have .
B: This is , uh , a T I experiment to see how talk ,
B: Texans talk to other people .
A: I don't know ,
A: where are you from ?
B: Uh , Virginia .
A: Virginia ,
A: oh , that 's neat ,
A: I talked to somebody from Ohio the other night .
B: Oh yeah ,
B: it is neat to get other people . Especially since you got other , uh , ideas about how people , uh , how people react to things and stuff . Especially when it comes to , um , social services .
B: Uh , uh , I 'm glad they have a lot of , uh , um , you know , topics on social services , because , like this thing , this is a pretty good idea .
B: I did n't even know if they were thinking about it .
B: I wonder if they thought about it themselves or whether someone , somewhere is really thinking , that , uh , it would be a good idea to have everybody spend some time in public service .
A: There is somebody
A: and I , , uh , I ca n't remember who it is
A: but there 's a really famous ,
A: of dang ,
A: I ca n't remember .
B: Politicians pushing it , or , uh or Mitch Snider . Or Mitch Snider .
A: That proposed it ,
A: I read something in PEOPLE about it .
A: Huh .
A: Mitch Snider , I don't know who Mitch Snider is .
B: Oh , okay ,
B: well see that 's a D C thing .
B: Mitch Snider is the , the advocate for the homeless that , uh , he , he 's said it out here in Washington
B: but he started the um , uh , the movement for creative nonviolence .
A: Yeah .
B: Yeah ,
B: he started that
B: and that , that was basically a , you know , donate time and money to , uh , help the homeless ,
B: but , uh . uh ,
A: What have your other topics been ?
B: the other topic was , like I said , uh , something about politicians .
B: I ca n't remember exactly what it was .
B: It was real general statement
A: I had one that I hated .
A: It was what meal would you cook for , uh , uh special dinner
B: Gee whiz
B: yeah .
A: How far can you go with that one ,
A: right .
B: Yeah .
A: Another one , though , that was good was , uh , what do you think about the social changes for the last ten , twenty and thirty years
A: and what do you think has caused some of the social problems .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: that would be neat .
B: I 'd have to basically say my birth . * humor
A: That 's probably the best one .
A: And we had to talk about air pollution too .
A: What do you think is causing it
A: and what should we do about it ?
B: Uh-huh .
B: Well that would be sort of interesting because then you get people from other countries , I mean other parts of the state , you know ,
B: of course Pittsburgh , would say , you know , oh , find the better cheaper ways of burning coal , you know .
A: Uh-huh ,
A: right .
B: Cleaner ways of burning coal
B: and people in the South would say don't burn coal , you know .
A: Because we don't have much coal .
B: Oh we have a lot of coal
A: In Virginia .
B: But , uh , it 's , uh , it 's a dirty fuel , that 's for sure .
A: Yeah ,
A: well how did you get into this program .
B: Excuse me . How did I get into it , oh ,
B: I 'm an electrical engineer here in Virginia .
A: For T I .
B: No .
A: No .
B: Uh , no ,
B: they ,
B: I 'm in a telecommunications company
B: and they , uh , sent it out in our bulk mail so that if any engineers wanted to participate , you know .
A: So does your company have something to do with T I .
B: Um , not really ,
B: I mean no more than any other company , you know ,
B: we buy their parts just as much as anybody else .
B: But , uh , no , no real association with T I other than being in the same industry , electronics industry .
A: Huh ,
A: uh-huh .
B: They just , uh , they just sent out a letter to everybody they do business with saying , that you know , if you 're interested we 're doing a study
B: and , and since ,
A: And do you know how much , how long this is supposed to go on .
B: I don't know ,
B: no
B: I don't .
A: I don't either .
A: I mean it says just keep on until
A: and they 'll notify you .
A: At first I was thinking it was just a week because that 's all it shows , you know , on the schedule
A: but then it seems like it might be longer than a week .
B: Right .
A: So what do you think we 're going to get ?
B: What do you think ,
B: what .
A: What do you think we 're going to get for this ?
B: Get .
A: Money ,
A: prizes .
B: Oh , I don't know .
A: Do you know anybody that 's ever done this ?
B: Get your own , you 're going to get you own T I seven thirty-two or something .
A: I know T I gets prizes .
B: Oh , I did n't hear about that .
B: Probably for T I employees .
A: I was led to believe that if you were n't T I that you get money .
A: I 'm not T I .
B: Oh , your not , * typo your you 're
B: you don't work for Texas Instruments .
A: Huh-uh .
B: Oh , okay .
A: Let 's see , one of my friends had a roommate that worked for T I
A: and she saw this on her computer and thought it might be neat ,
B: Oh .
A: so she ran off copies of the thing .
B: Oh .
A: And I just signed up for it .
B: Oh , oh , that 's a neat idea .
A: Yeah .
B: Uh-huh ,
B: yeah ,
B: well he 's gotten a good mix .
B: I was saying because I 've ,
B: like I said , I heard some other people talking that they 've talked to different people in different states and stuff .
A: Uh-huh .
B: That 's good , especially since you call that one eight hundred number
B: so , so probably knock T I profits margin way down .
A: And it should n't be too good right now anyway , because they 've been laying off so many people .
B: Yeah
B: right ,
B: this is probably some government study program .
A: Yeah
A: really ,
A: so we 're footing the bill on our taxes .
B: Okay .
B: Okay ,
B: well I enjoyed talking with you .
A: Okay ,
A: well thanks a bunch ,
A: we 'll talk to you later ,
A: bye .
B: I 'm going to save my two year old from the pile of grapes she 's diving into .
A: Well I 'm going to try to clean up the house after my two children for about an hour see if we can walk around .
B: Okay
B: we 'll I 'll talk to you .
A: Bye .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Okay .
B: All right .
B: Last thing I saw was , um , I think , uh , SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY with Julia Roberts .
A: Oh , I had n't seen that ,
A: but I 've heard that it 's real good .
B: My husband did n't like it that much .
B: I thought it was okay .
B: It was a little strange , you know ,
B: this woman supposedly is , um , being mentally abused by her husband , you know ,
B: he keeps her pretty much terrorized to stay in the house ,
B: and she figures out this way to , um , to leave him secretly .
B: You know , she fakes her death kind of thing
B: and he tracks her down
A: Uh-huh .
A: Oh
B: So , the , the end scenes are , are kind of suspenseful , you know , when she realizes he 's in the house , you know , after her ,
B: but , uh , kind of had the feeling along that , uh ,
B: why did n't she just tell him to straighten up .
A: Yeah .
B: You know , why did n't she just tell
B: Hey look bucko ,
B: you don't get away with this nonsense
A: Oh
B: But anyhow , um , what have you seen ?
A: Well , last week , as a matter of fact , my children was on Spring Break
B: Uh-huh .
A: and we went to two movies .
A: We went to see AWAKENINGS with Robin Williams .
B: Um .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And we went to see KINDERGARTEN COP .
B: Yeah .
A: And I really liked both of them .
A: I really did .
A: AWAKENING was , it was kind of sad to me .
A: It really was ,
A: and it would , it would be to anyone because , you know , they really don't know that much about it .
B: Uh-huh .
B: So this is where the people have been kind of
B: I don't a better word to say than like asleep or in a coma , for a long time .
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
B: And the drugs let them come back .
A: Uh-huh .
A: But the drugs did n't work for long ,
A: and they started having real bad side effects .
B: Oh
A: And this is about nineteen sixty-four , I believe , or something like that ,
A: and there still has n't been any , you know , new development in prescribed drugs that can help it .
B: Um .
A: But , yeah ,
A: there , you know ,
A: it , it was a big breakthrough ,
A: but in time , you know , the , all the side effects started showing .
B: Well , how bad were the side effects ?
A: Bad .
B: Oh .
A: Yeah ,
A: yeah .
A: They was actually went back like they were , you know ,
B: Oh
B: Um .
A: yeah .
A: All it was ,
A: they was n't mild , you know ,
A: they was just bad side effects .
B: Um .
A: But I really enjoyed it , though .
B: Um .
A: You know .
B: Well how about KINDERGARTEN COP ?
A: Oh , yeah
A: That 's strictly for entertainment
A: That was just
A: it was ,
B: You know , Arnold Schwarzenegger is getting to be , uh , a bit of a variety actor , you know .
B: At first he was just a big muscle man .
A: Yeah .
B: But he 's kind of branching out .
A: He sure is .
A: He is ,
A: as a matter of fact , um , Sylvester Stallone , is that his name ?
B: Uh-huh .
A: I really believe Schwarzenegger is really going to be a variety player more so than he is , because he really played the part good .
A: You know , he could be this rough , tough guy and then , you know , this substitute teacher .
B: Um .
A: It was really good .
B: Well , there was a movie out ,
B: it 's been on cable ,
B: I get cable ,
B: and there 's this thing with , uh , Danny De Vito called TWINS .
A: Oh , I 've seen that .
A: Yes .
B: I thought that was just great .
A: It is , it is ,
A: is n't it ?
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
B: I even like some , I mean , some of the original stuff ,
B: like I like THE TERMINATOR .
B: At first , you know , it was kind of strange ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I still like watching him in THE TERMINATOR . And , and some of the other things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: Um , TOTAL RECALL last year I thought was really good , last summer .
A: Oh , yeah .
B: Guess it did n't last too long at the box office ,
A: Yeah .
B: but I thought it was pretty good .
A: I did too ,
A: I really did .
B: And ,
A: I enjoy a lot of movies .
A: Now as far as , let 's say , heavy violence , I ca n't handle
B: Um .
A: I 'm not into that , you know ,
A: I
A: like RAMBO and all that .
B: Um .
A: I ,
A: that 's just something I just don't want to watch .
B: Yeah ,
B: yeah ,
B: and I , I have some ,
B: one person at work I know gets really into those goofy horror flicks
A: Oh .
B: and I just keep telling her , how can you do that ?
B: And I told her when she had her , her little girl .
B: I said , now you better get out of the habit of watching those .
B: You should n't be watching them with your little girl ,
B: and she says her little girl 's into it now .
A: Oh , my goodness .
B: And she she watches these really gross things you know , like , THE NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET , and , The , you know , that kind of , junk .
A: Yeah .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
A: Yeah ,
A: uh-huh .
A: Oh .
B: I don't go for that at all .
A: I guess I 'm a little too scary for that .
B: I remember when I was real little , I , we all went to some kind of scary movie ,
B: and it was like this big house had a basement ,
B: and there was all these weird things going on in the basement , you know ,
B: and I was scared to death of our house had a basement for years .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: You know ,
B: and I got a lot of really weird ideas , from that goofy movie .
A: Yes ,
A: yes .
A: Yes .
B: You know , they tell you that kids can , you know , be impressed by all that stuff ,
B: and it 's true .
A: It is ,
A: it really is ,
A: yes .
B: I , I had a lot of things that I , I ,
B: nobody told me that it was all fake .
B: I was just sitting there watching it , going a scared Oh , jeez
A: yeah .
A: Watching ,
A: yes , if a scared
A: oh , I don't want to go home ,
A: yes ,
A: yes
A: Oh , goodness .
B: But I think a lot of kids , it 's funny , get the same kind of fears , like there 's somebody under the bed .
A: Yes .
A: Oh .
B: Where do we get that from ?
A: Yes ,
A: I know , uh ,
A: I have two children .
A: I really try to watch what they watch ,
A: I really do , because my youngest one , he watches something , you might as well just plan on staying up all night , because you know He 'll come in ,
A: Mama , I think the ghost is in the house ,
A: Mama , I hear it ,
A: don't you ?
A: They 're eight and ten .
A: So they 're , you know ,
A: it 's just a movie , you know ,
A: I try to say , it 's just a movie ,
A: but no ,
A: Mama , I 've seen it
B: Oh ,
B: but I remember , I was with a friend of mine , had , uh , three kids ,
B: and the little boy must have been , oh , maybe about ten .
B: And we rented CHARLOTTE 'S WEB .
B: Okay .
A: Oh , uh-huh .
B: And he just bawled at the end and just a crying uh , she 's not going to die .
A: Oh ,
A: Oh .
B: And we were trying to say , Kenny , it 's okay ,
B: and he did n't want to listen to it .
A: Oh .
B: He just was beside himself , you know ,
B: this is supposed to be a nice children 's movie , CHARLOTTE 'S WEB .
B: He just could n't stand it that Charlotte was going to die at the end .
A: Die ,
A: oh
A: Oh
A: It 's funny how your little minds work ,
A: is n't it ?
B: Oh , yeah
B: a crying She 's so nice ,
B: she ca n't die
A: Oh
B: Oh , it was
A: Oh , I guess that 's why the actors and actresses make millions of dollars ,
A: people like us , you know
B: Oh ,
A: Oh , goodness .
A: Well , well I 've enjoyed talking to you .
B: You too .
A: And maybe we 'll run across each other again .
B: Yeah ,
B: this is kind of neat .
B: I have n't ever initiated a call .
B: I 've just been called , you know , by the switchboard ,
B: and , uh , well , the first week , I think , a lot more people were doing it .
B: But I normally get a call like every other day .
A: Do you ?
A: Well , as far as ,
A: we could not call in last week .
B: Um .
A: You know , from where I 'm at . We could n't call in .
B: Uh-huh .
A: They said it would be up Friday , the , March the fifteenth before it was prepared .
A: So I missed several days , because I was getting quite a few calls .
B: Um . How weird .
B: I don't know ,
B: and they , they do have a variety of topics .
B: My first one was the toughest ,
B: it was something like discuss pollution .
A: Oh , uh-huh ,
A: oh .
B: It was discuss air pollution , causes of it and cures .
A: Yes .
B: I was going , oh , well
A: Oh .
A: Well , my husband , sometimes , you know , he 'll receive a call
A: and he 's at work ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: and , if I , you know , if I know the topic I 'll go ahead and accept it as mine ,
A: but the other day I got one about fishing
A: and I thought , oh , my .
A: I don't know a thing about fishing ,
A: so I 'm not even going to try
A: Because when they listened to that tape they would have really had a good time ,
A: believe me .
B: Say , well , I know it takes a fishing pole and some bait , and some water
A: Yeah ,
A: but I 'm really not for sure , though , if
A: Well , I 'll let you go ,
A: and we 'll talk to you later .
B: All right .
B: Bye-bye .
A: Bye-bye .
A: Here we go .
B: Okay ,
B: um , have you ever been involved in any trials ?
A: I sure was .
A: Two years ago I spent some Fourth of July to Labor Day on a jury that was , uh , a change of venue from Columbus , Ohio for aggravated , uh , murder and kidnapping .
B: Wow .
A: Yeah ,
A: it was quite a session that disrupted my whole summer , of course , five days a week ,
B: Sounds like it .
A: but it was an absolutely fascinating experience .
B: Oh , it sounds like it .
B: I have n't had any actual real life experience
B: but , uh , my father-in-law 's been involved in , uh , several trials including , uh , a couple murders . And , uh , you know , talking to other people who have been there
B: and so I don't have any real experience with trials
B: but I do , you know ,
B: I , I 've , I took a little business law in , in college
B: and , and I 've , you know ,
B: try to keep abreast of things .
A: Uh-huh .
B: But , uh ,
B: I think that the , uh , trial by jury is , is a great idea at it 's inception back two hundred years ago .
B: Um , right now though it 's , it 's so difficult because there 's so few courts to , to get anything really done as you know you spent , you know , a whole summer on one trial ,
A: Uh-huh .
B: and it 's just that I think they 're just tieing up the , um , whole judicial process . * typo tying
B: Um , there 's a lot of things they could do to , uh , make things easier and , uh , you know , like , uh , the suggestion that , uh , maybe be , uh , a judge should be the one who decides on what the sentence should be rather than the jury .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Well , I think that there are many cases where , uh , the judges probably do make the decision rather than the jury .
A: Our situation was somewhat different , uh , in view of the fact that , uh , we have n't , we were a landmark case ,
A: it was the first time in the state of Ohio that , um , D N A testing was entered as evidence .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And they were being ,
A: the judge was being especially careful that everything was done correctly so there could n't be a , a mistrial of any kind .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , the , um , uh , the interesting thing was the tremendous selection of jury process , uh , that we experienced .
A: That took one full week , uh , to get forty-three people qualified to sit on the jury .
A: And then it was a matter of the selection of , uh , twelve people after that .
A: Actually it was fourteen because we had two alternates .
B: Jeez .
A: And the judge was extremely concerned for our welfare , if we were well , if we were comfortable , and , uh , things of that nature which made us feel good .
B: Uh-huh .
A: Uh , and we were sequestered
A: but the makeup of the jury , uh , was truly a cross section of , uh , you might say a cross section of a country .
B: Uh-huh .
A: There was one other person besides myself , we were the only ones that had ever been to college .
A: Um , one was a former student of mine a few years before who was out of work . Uh ,
B: Gee .
A: two others were ones who had never finished high school and were out looking for jobs ,
A: yet .
A: Um , a couple of them were housewives who had never worked ,
A: and then some are people who did work .
A: So , we had quite a cross section of black , white and women and men .
B: Uh-huh .
A: And , uh , it , uh , it was interesting just to listen to the rationale , uh , being proposed and the logic of some of the people , uh ,
A: it was also extremely difficult to stay awake sometimes because there was so many witnesses ,
A: and we were not allowed to take any notes of any kind .
A: Uh , and I thought that that was a failing because , uh , from the standpoint that it was difficult to try to remember everything ,
B: Yeah .
A: and , and yet the judge said , well , um , if you 're taking notes you 're missing something ,
A: and he was right , there also .
B: Yeah .
A: But , uh , I certainly , um , have that rather than trial by jury .
B: Uh-huh .
B: Yes ,
B: yes
B: I agree .
B: Uh , would surprise me that , uh ,
B: when I was in Texas I had the , uh , displeasure of getting a , uh , traffic ticket .
A: Uh-huh .
B: And , um , I went to court
B: and you can even get a trial by jury for a traffic ticket .
A: You 're kidding .
B: No .
B: And I thought , my God talk about tieing up things for , for , * typo tying
A: Yes ,
A: and money .
B: Yes ,
B: I mean that 's extremely expensive .
B: I mean , the first thing you had to do when you came before the judge was waive your right to a jury trial .
B: I 'm like God , this is ridiculous
A: Yeah .
A: Yeah ,
A: I do think that , that , uh ,
A: I do think the jury system works
A: but I 'd , I also feel , as you said , that the original concept of the jury as it was originally setup , uh , back , uh , in a hundred years ago was fine but that it needs to be more refined for today 's standard of living and the , the , uh , level of education of them , of so many people now , uh ,
B: Uh-huh .
A: by the same token we had , um , uh , some people who wanted had vacations planned
A: and one man in particular had reservations made , plane tickets made , everything ,
A: and the judge called and had it all canceled so he could get his money back
A: and then he was n't selected on the jury .
B: Oh , my God .
A: And then another young fellow had to meet with the judge and the prosecutor and the defense attorneys on three different occasions before he was finally excused from the jury because his wife was about to have twins .
A: And they had , he had to go through all of that if in three days to get excused from that jury , to be with his wife on the birth of the twins .
A: And , uh , you know , some of it just seemed rather extreme .
B: Yes .
B: I , I think they can probably come up with some ways to insure that , uh , you know , people would get a fair trial , and not have to go through this process .
A: Yes .
A: Right .
B: I mean , some things are just so cut and dry .
B: Um , in the , in , you know , the , the level of evidence that they come up with now , I mean , you know , when you start thinking about well , they 've got video tape and , and audio tapes
B: and they 've , they 've got , you know , they 've got ways to nail people to the point where they , they really should n't even be going to trial .
A: Uh-huh .
A: Right ,
A: well , I guess he 'd have to be careful whether , with entrapment or some of those things ,
B: Yes .
A: but , uh , I don't ,
A: I assume you have seen on television recently , as probably the whole country has , the beating of the man in Los Angeles .
B: Oh , that was horrible .
A: Is n't that terrible ?
A: And , uh , you know , and that certainly , uh , can not be said to be , uh , something that happens everywhere ,
B: That it ,
A: but the fact that it can happen , that it probably does happen in many places , it 's , it 's horrendous
A: and it 's just a stroke of luck , that someone was able to get it on tape and then , uh , to listen to the tape recording , uh , at the police station of the whole conversation afterwards .
B: Yeah .
B: Yes ,
B: I know .
B: I mean , I only heard portions of that
B: but it 's absolutely , terrible .
A: Yeah .
B: And , you know , if you beat a dog like that , they 'll put you , in jail , you know .
A: Absolutely .
A: Well , we get a few other case
